i-7e43566d258fe19a-9	Madam President, I would like Thomas Morell has asked me what measures the government intends to take to ensure that such an important function as road transport managers meets the requirements of the Road Transport Leaders Act. Order and security on our roads is a priority for the government. Road transport managers play an important role in maintaining road safety. It is the Police Authority that orders road transport managers to escort long, wide and heavy road transport. This is done according to special conditions in exemption decisions from the Swedish Transport Administration. However, the mission does not involve employment with the police. On the other hand, he or she is under the authority of the police region where he or she is on the escort mission and is obliged to comply with the instructions given by the police. According to the Act on Road Transport Managers, the Police Authority may only appoint a person as Road Transport Manager if the person has received special training and holds a driving licence with the qualification C or equivalent foreign driving licence valid in Sweden. In addition, it is necessary for an appointment to be notified that the person concerned is appropriate for the purposes of compliance with the law and other circumstances. The Government considers that this legislation is sufficient to appoint only suitable road transport managers. It is therefore the Police Authority that appoints the road transport managers, and I, as a minister, cannot have views on how our authorities apply the regulations.
i-7e43566d258fe19a-14	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Road transport managers have an extremely important function when long, heavy or very broad things are to be transported. They have the authority of police officers to regulate traffic. As a motorist, I have to follow the instructions of a road transport manager. That is why it is extremely important for the road transport leader to be able to communicate with those around him, i.e. those who are involved in the transport itself, because they have radio communications and other road users. I have received signals from those who carry out heavy, long and wide-ranging transport that there are road transport leaders who do not handle the language. I see an enormous risk if, as road transport managers with the responsibility they have – it is, of course, a matter of public authority – you cannot communicate with those involved in the transport itself or with other road users. That's why I wrote the interpellation. If it were just an isolated occasion, it would have been nothing to mention, but I have received calls from several quarters. The answer states, among other things, that one should look at how the law has been and at the other circumstances to see if the person in question is suitable for the mission. How do you know if it's a foreign citizen? You don't know what the person has done before and how well the person complies with the legislation. The Government also said that the Government considers that the legislation is sufficient to appoint only suitable road transport managers. From what do you do it? Has the government done any follow-up to see how this works? At the end, the Government said that he cannot have views on how authorities apply the regulations. No, you can't go in and pick individual cases. But if it is discovered that something is not working, that it is a system error, it would be strange if the government could not take any action to steer things up to order. What else are we going to do with a government if it just leans back and says you can't do anything? There have been signals that it is not working and that the most basic elements of the legislation that exists are not being met. It is about being able to read into laws and be able to communicate with those involved. We can look at what is stated in Section 1 of the Act 2014:738:中 This Act contains provisions on appointment as road transport manager and on the right of a road transport manager to give instructions for traffic. "Escard" in this Act means the participation of a person who has the right to give instructions for traffic on the road. ..................................................... In the exemptions granted by Trafikverket, it is clear that the road transport manager must be able to handle the Swedish language. It makes sense because you should study the county administration's documents before a transport. In addition, even though the road has been inspected in advance, transport may not arrive. Then you have to make a move. If the road transport manager is unable to deal with the situation, it will be very difficult, and accident risks may arise. A vehicle that is very long, wide or heavy deviates from the usual traffic pattern, and therefore other road users must be aware that the vehicle that will depart very much.
i-7e43566d258fe19a-22	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Thomas Morell, for the interpellation! This is, of course, an important issue because it is about road safety but also about how we guarantee order and order on the roads. This is about an important function in the heaviest and most complex transports made on Swedish roads. The function is there to increase safety. You are subject to the police, but you can also direct traffic if necessary for transport. What I say in the answer is that I do not perceive that the legislation needs to be amended. That is where the government needs to act. The authorities have to comply with the legislation. That is where the issue should be dealt with first and foremost. I have not carried out a formal investigation, but I have asked questions to the authorities: has this been noted? Have there been any comments on this? What I have found is that today there are, in total, about 500 people appointed as road transport managers. Some seventy of them live in another country. It is primarily about Finland and Denmark. Some live in Norway and Germany. This is the overall picture. I have asked the authorities whether they feel this is a problem. The Swedish Transport Agency has indeed received comments on a number of people. I don't know how many people it's about. There have been linguistic deficiencies among some road transport managers. In view of this, the trainers have been contacted to discuss this and to state that this is in the requirements profile. The trainers must ensure that the people in question can understand the language, but there must also be requirements in the next step for them to be able to communicate if they are to become road transport leaders. The authorities have a responsibility to make sure this works. However, neither the Finnish Transport Administration nor the Police Authority are aware of any problems that are so extensive that they cannot deal with them within the framework of current legislation. I trust that the authorities will take this note if there are comments that this has not worked in some places and that it will then be dealt with on its own. They have every opportunity to do that. I share the opinion of the interpellier here. It is clear and clear that with the requirements profile that apply in order to have this function you must master the Swedish language; otherwise you cannot fulfil your obligations within the framework of the assignment.
i-7e43566d258fe19a-28	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. It is nice that the Government has the same view as I do when it comes to being able to handle the Swedish language if you are to be a road transport leader. Where the human being lives somewhere is perhaps not very important, but if you are to undertake the task of being a road transport leader, you must necessarily deal with that situation. It's about the exercise of authority. That's the part you have. About the proficiency test in basic education, it says in, among other things, Section 5:
i-5B4k3gTcnp6aExeEraBWzm	5. the planning and execution of escorts. The test shall contain a theoretical and a practical part. The test referred to in paragraphs 4 and 5 shall be carried out in the fenced area. The sample referred to in paragraph 5 shall contain a theoretical and a practical part.
i-7e43566d258fe19a-32	Those are pretty tough demands. So for my life I cannot understand how these people have been able to slide through. These are, in themselves, the requirements of the person who will hold the basic education. On the other hand, it should not allow anyone who is unable to handle such a situation. It is an extremely important role when standing on the road and dealing with vehicles that may weigh up to 100 tonnes, as it can be with really large transport, or is very long. Then the transport must be carried on the bridge, so that the bridge can withstand the load. Such a situation must be managed. The instructions also say about being able to handle conflict on the way. It's not always the motorists accept a reprimand. Such a situation must also be managed. The provisions also state that a foreman of road transport managers should lead the work of escorting the transport by radio communication and indicate how participating road transport managers should give instructions for the traffic. All drivers and road transport managers shall have the possibility of radio communication with each other. This is where it broke. It has not been possible to speak, not in Swedish and not in English. There may be a situation where one has to stop or do some other maneuver quickly and needs to shout out on the radio that .............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. But if the others don't understand, what do you do? I sincerely hope and assume that there are some authorities who look at this, who take it very seriously and do not let people through who do not meet the basic requirements of education as stated in the 2010 Constitution:139. It is quite extensive and regulates fairly hard what requirements apply to road transport managers. An accident lurks behind the corner if you can't handle the situation. Everyone understands that if something happens to a long or heavy vehicle, the effects will be dramatic. I hope that the Government will raise this issue also in future discussions with authorities to ensure that those who become road transport managers are of high quality.
i-7e43566d258fe19a-38	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Thomas Morell, for further contributions to the debate. It makes it clear that in legislation, and not least in the requirements that lie in education, I believe, there are properly set requirements for what one should be able to and master in order to manage this function properly. There is a great responsibility for the education providers to follow it and to de facto reject students who do not meet the requirements. I understand that the Swedish Transport Agency contacted and had a dialogue with education providers after this came to light. One has failed students. If this is the case with the other person they have had contact with, they have asked how to implement the practical and theoretical steps to make it clear that there are trainings to be followed and that the requirements that apply should be met. I can see that the authorities take the signals seriously. That is why I believe that at this stage the government does not need to take legislative action. It is primarily on the authority to ensure that the existing regulatory framework is also complied with and maintained for safety and safety on the roads.
i-7e43566d258fe19a-41	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. I guess I'll have to say as it usually stands at the end of all the answers you get from the government: I follow the question carefully. As the Government certainly knows, road safety and order and order are something that engages me. No one should have to risk life and limb out on the road, but it should go well when you are in traffic. It is all the more important to be trained with heavy, long and wide vehicles, to be able to handle the situation and, above all, to be able to master the language in order to communicate with those involved in transport but also with the public out there. It is good that the issue has been raised at the level of the authorities. But I will follow it. We will see if there will be a new debate in the future.
i-7e43566d258fe19a-45	Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to thank Thomas Morell for raising the issue. The authorities had drawn attention to certain cases where there had been a problem, and measures had been taken and discussions had been made with those in charge of training. Although I am not allowed to go into individual cases, I expect the authorities to comply with the laws, regulations and regulations that apply. These are important activities which are ultimately about safety, not only for those involved in transport, but also for all other road users. This is an important issue, and I assume that the authorities take it very seriously.
i-7e43566d258fe19a-47	Madam President, I would like Thomas Morell has asked me whether I and the government intend to urgently provide the police with additional resources to strengthen controls on professional road traffic. Thomas Morell refers in the interpellation to a number of individual cases. The handling of or the circumstances of individual cases is not an issue on which I, as a minister of state, should judge or comment. Rather, it is a matter for the authorities. However, as far as the police work on checks on professional traffic is concerned, I would like to point out the following: I have received similar questions from Thomas Morell in the near future. As I have described before, I and the Council continue our stubborn work to create order on the roads and combat crime. This requires, among other things, an accessible police officer, a strong judicial system and effective legislation. Here the building of the Police Authority is a central part, and the government is carrying out a historic effort on the agency. Annual statistics for 2020 have never before had more employees, and the achievement of the target of 10,000 more police workers by 2024 continues with full force. By the turn of the year, the number of police employees had increased by more than 5,000 persons since 2016. Over the past five years, resources for the Police Authority have increased by nearly 8.6 billion, which corresponds to an increase of almost 40%. The allocation of resources within the Agency is a matter for the Police Authority to decide on. Police control of heavy commercial traffic is an important tool for maintaining good road safety, fair competition in the haulage industry and a good social situation for drivers. The controls are also an important component of the Politiska området's work to prevent, detect and investigate crimes. Controlling heavy commercial traffic requires specific skills, which some police officers possess, but all police officers can stop and control a vehicle in case of suspicion of a crime. The government has taken a series of measures to create order and order on the roads. For example, we have extended the time limit for how long a police officer or a customs officer can prevent a vehicle from continuing to travel by taking care of, for example, vehicle keys or locking the vehicle. It provides better opportunities to prevent continued infringements of CTA. The Government considers that there is reason to identify and analyse the current control activities in the field of professional transport and has therefore, as the interpeller mentions, had an investigator come up with proposals to this effect. The investigation into more effective checks on commercial road traffic has now been reported, and the case is being prepared within the Government Office. At the same time, the Political Authority's development work in the field of traffic is continuing. The public opinion unit has examined police efforts to improve road safety. The Head of the National Police decided at the beginning of the year that measures should be taken in accordance with the recommendations made. It is gratifying that the Police Authority has made many efforts and increased ambition in the area of road safety. Among other things, the authority will create uniform national procedures for monitoring road safety work. I will follow the ongoing development work closely. But let me be clear. Despite the additional resources and several ongoing initiatives, the Government's ambitions for the situation on the roads go further. V i has an ambitious interim target of halving the number of road fatalities by 2030, and work on fair competition in the haulage industry is constantly evolving.
i-7e43566d258fe19a-56	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. The control of professional traffic has been in constant decline in recent years, and there is no light in sight. The Government reports how much money has been given to the police, but it does not fall out on the asphalt, if you should put it that way. There are a few control groups that do an outstanding job and take those who manipulate tachographs, manipulate exhaust gas cleaning equipment, do not have cargo proof, have overloaded, do not have permits – we can stand here for hours and list what the errors are. But it does not lead to any action to talk about, because even if the officials do an excellent job out there, they are far too few and the activities are far too extensive. It builds up mobile workshops, mobile tyre workshops and mobile filling stations and smuggles fuel into Sweden, despite cabotage being a temporary domestic transport in a host Member State. A business has been created that is established and solid. Then you have to deploy resources on the part of the authorities. The police haven't done their job here. Surely, in all honesty, you have to say that. This has also been stated by researchers from Linköping University in a report. It says at the end of the summary: a political authority's inability in the area of road safety continues, our politicians should consider transferring tasks and resources to someone other than the Police Authority. That's a pretty tough conclusion, I have to say. It is also noted that the traffic police have consistently received reduced resources and have not been noticed for the job they are doing. I'm reacting to the interpellation response from the government. I'm a little disappointed because we've discussed this before. The government said: a police officer can stop and control a vehicle in case of suspicion of a crime. That's absolutely right. There you have support in the Police Act. It's nothing weird. Anyone can stop a vehicle. Hang on a uniform and a yellow vest and step out, and it stops! But the big job starts when the car stands still. What's in front of me? If there is a commercial traffic, there must be a permit. What kind of estate is that? Is it dangerous goods? What does it weigh? Is the trailer fitted to the trailer connected to it? Is it loadproof? What about the driver's driving and rest periods? These and a lot of other questions should be asked. This is where the problem arises. If you are standing at a fully loaded tourist bus, you should solve the task of both performing the check and explaining to the passengers what is going on. Sending a police officer out on the road and saying, now you're gonna have to stop some cars, is totally pointless if we're talking about the control of professional traffic. We've talked about this many times before. Special competence is required to carry out that task. A policeman cannot make those checks without special appointment. Then it is in the professional description of car inspectors to do this. This is where it has fallen. I will go into that in the next debate.
i-7e43566d258fe19a-64	Madam President, I would like This is a debate that we have had several times before. What Thomas Morell describes is quite correct. The police have not had sufficient resources in general. Not enough has been done to maintain the regulatory framework on the roads. In addition, we have had legislation that was weak and too liberal. It has not been thought that it is possible to create order in the regulatory framework and that a firm hand is needed to achieve this. Moreover, we have had too little work in Europe to ensure that European decisions in this area are sufficiently robust. In all these areas we have made efforts. I am not saying that we are where we should be involved either in road safety or in order and it is quite correct that a special mandate is required in order to control heavy professional traffic. But it is not uninteresting to stop professional and other traffic to find, for example, the effect of drugs or alcohol. It can also increase road safety and create more order and order in certain parts of the traffic flow that are also associated with other things. Thomas Morell described certain criminal activities. When working towards those involved in smuggling or other criminal activities, it is a good idea to involve other police officers as well. This also applies to professional transport, although special competence is required to carry out this task, as described by Thomas Morell. What I want to point out is that we, from the government's side, have now given the Police Authority the task of developing and improving the control of heavy commercial traffic. A great deal remains to be done there. However, as we have talked about in the past, despite the impact of covid-19, the number of days of control has increased. The number of people involved in the control of professional traffic has also increased somewhat – not much, but it is moving in the right direction. Cases concerning, for example, illegal cabotage have increased by nearly 450 per cent since 2016. It was terribly low levels in 2016, but what I mean is that in terms of numbers we have a movement that is moving in the right direction. However, I am not satisfied with the situation today. If we'd been happy, we wouldn't have given the police department the big resources. We wouldn't have said that the police department would grow with 10,000 more employees if we thought it was doing what it's supposed to do today. There must be more resources for the police authorities to grow. I understand the chief of police is saying that this is an area he wants to develop. We see the link to other criminal activities, but also a link to road safety work that the Police Authority takes very seriously. I believe that the Authority is paying attention to this issue, but there is still much to be done. In particular, the Government has set up the investigation into control activities, which has now made its proposals. We work with these in the Government Office and look forward to them soon going for a referral. Then everyone will have to think about whether the investigation has landed correctly in their proposals and about the way forward to further develop the business. I really take this issue seriously and have a strong focus on it. But it takes time, not least because these assignments are based on a great deal of knowledge and a long period of training. It is not possible quickly to build up this competence within the Police Authority.
i-7e43566d258fe19a-71	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. In the time I was employed by the Police Authority, I was also active in the trade union. At the time, I raised the discussion of further training but also of new recruits in order to be able to carry out the checks on the way. The answer I got from the director-- it was of course a beautiful title-- was: You shouldn't see things so black. I said I don't. But if you know when a person is born, you can tell with reasonable accuracy when the same person will retire. We had a very large number of traffic policemen who were born in the '40s. That's the majority of it. As their retirement age approached, there was no police strategy to replace them. This is what we see the effects of now. We're in a position where it's free. It's like they say out on the road-- it's become a wild west. There's no order anywhere. In the police, there has been a tragic approach to this. It is also stated in the report I mentioned, which is horribly critical of how the police have handled it: a number of people in the police's highest management tier have worked for a long time to create something that has sometimes been called "all police officers". This has meant that specialist units have been cut down or completely abolished. Traffic police activities are a clear example of this. ..................................................... We have had this discussion many times, and we will certainly have discussions on this in the future too. Those who engage in criminal activities use the road. Heavy traffic is important for the control of logistics flows by criminal networks. Then why? Well, then you can bring in drugs, weapons, and explosives — and people. We should not forget that people are smuggled in too. Many young girls, who are then exploited in prostitution, are smuggled into rubber wheels, and in the opposite direction they have stolen goods coming out. Insurance companies say that more than 2 billion dollars a year are spent in insurance value across national borders. It is a huge problem, and it has been released for a long time. I've been nagging about the fact that there's got to be a change for over ten years since I left the traffic department. I have also done so in this House several times. I have had many discussions both with Minister Damberg but also with his colleague Tomas Eneroth. Yesterday came what we had feared. Then came an acquiescence on client responsibility. The legal representative Tommy Pilarp's comment on this in the newspaper Proffs is:.This is a total rejection of the district court's reasoning and evidence, the Swedish Transport Agency's guidance and also rejects the infrastructural minister Tomas Eneroth's cross-confident statements about what he calls the strengthened client responsibility. ..................................................... We are in a position where the legislation does not get to those who put in a system to round what is supposed to protect serious business and those who are employed as drivers. You put in the system to step around all the time, and the authorities don't come up with counterfire. Here the current government, but also previous governments, has a great responsibility. I think you're late in the starting blocks to really get something. Now they're betting on the police. But it won't run through the system and get out on the asphalt for a long time. That's the problem. Now it's urgent.
i-7e43566d258fe19a-79	Madam President, I would like I have great respect for the fact that Thomas Morell has both knowledge of and has worked on these issues for a long time. Looking at these issues in a somewhat historical perspective, the question is: What time in history have we done more in the area of legislation? This applies at European and national level. It concerns police efforts, the discussion of booms, squeezing, studded tyres and driving and rest times. This applies to the new mobility package, where Sweden was one of the driving forces to force new EU rules in this area. I believe that this is a priority area for Sweden. We have gone from a situation where it was both the Wild West and also quite unregulated. We have step by step gone towards regulating the business and creating order and order. It is good for the employees who drive their trucks, for road safety and for the connection to the fairest conditions of competition between different companies. We have flagged large parts of the Swedish transport industry because we have not had an eye on how to comply with the regulations in Sweden or have had too weak a regulatory framework in Sweden. We in the government are trying to change this step by step. We have chosen a new course for politics. As Thomas Morell says, it is not possible very quickly to make all those changes. There are a lot of initiatives that we are working on in parallel. As far as the Police Authority is concerned, it is quite correct that it detects many shortcomings. Thomas Morell usually gives examples of what you see in traffic. Let me take the latest example from the last traffic week in February that the police had where professional traffic was controlled. Nearly 1,300 trucks were checked. The condition of the vehicles, driving and rest times, speed and cabotage were checked. The police discovered deficiencies at nearly 400 checks. Out of 1,300 trucks, 400 were flawed. It's a very large percentage. This means that we continue to have a problem with people not following rules. The efforts we have made to prosecute the crimes have not been sufficient. The police make such weekly bets several times a year. If they discover this for a week, it can be understood that if they did it more often, they would discover even more. It must be the ambition of a growing police organization.
i-7e43566d258fe19a-87	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. We're gonna back up a little bit and look at what's really happened. The Swedish Democrat Peter Lundgren was the one who raised the issue in the European Parliament. But he did not become rapporteur, but it was Jens Nilsson – he is today deceased – a party colleague of Damberg. Peter and Jens were the ones who pushed the issue hard down in the EU. Eventually it landed in the mobility package. Now it's called into question. I sincerely hope that it will really remain. But it won't help. Even if the mobility package remains, there is a need for someone to do the job at home and take action against those who are not doing well. Of course, the number of cabotage reports has increased by a few hundred percent. It's always possible to play with numbers, isn't it? I think the last one was a total of 239 reports. Of course, it may sound good that it increases so much. But 239 reports of all there is is a grain of sand in the Sahara. Much more resources are needed here. In addition, the government has contributed SEK 100 million to the Police Department. But the police authorities can only account for 2.6 of the 100 million intended for cabotage. There is much else to be desired. Here the government must be very clear on how the controls should be. I look forward to that clarity coming.
i-7e43566d258fe19a-93	Madam President, I would like We are only at the beginning of both the expansion of the police and our work for order and order on the roads. I am absolutely convinced that both me and Thomas Morell and Tomas Eneroth and Thomas Morell will have continued debates and discussions on these issues. They're important. The next big step is about the investigation that has now looked at these issues and how to work with smarter controls of professional traffic in Sweden. That proposal shall be submitted for consultation so that all may have their views on the proposals. The government can then come back with both its own initiatives and possible legislation in the future where necessary. It is a very important step that I look forward to continuing to discuss, even with Thomas Morell.
i-7e43566d258fe19a-96	Madam President, I would like Thomas Morell has asked me what measures I and the Government intend to take to ensure the competence of the Public Prosecutor's Office in the field of road transport, in particular with regard to legislation relating to professional traffic. I have received similar questions from Thomas Morell in the near future. The interpellation refers to individual cases. The handling of individual cases is a matter for the authorities. It is not something that I as a minister should judge or comment on. However, I would like to say the following: In the case of offences against commercial traffic legislation, the main rule is that the police authority is in charge of the preliminary investigation. Once a pre-trial investigation has been reported to a prosecutor, he or she is obliged to prosecute if he or she considers that the prosecution will lead to a conviction. This principle is well founded, and it is an obvious starting point that prosecution should be instituted when a conviction can be expected. This applies regardless of the state in which the suspect is a citizen. At the same time, as I have pointed out in previous replies to Thomas Morell, there must be scope for priorities to concentrate the resources of the judiciary on the tasks that are most urgent and most useful. Therefore, in certain exceptional cases, a preliminary investigation may be discontinued if specific conditions are met. For example, it can happen if the costs of further investigation are not proportionate to the importance of the matter and the criminal offence is not higher than imprisonment for three months. A prosecutor may also, in certain cases, give notice of a so-called prosecution failure, provided that no substantial public or private interest is set aside. But let me be clear. The threats to road safety should be taken seriously. The government is determined that there should be order on the roads and has taken a number of measures to this end. For example, we have made sure to extend the time limit for how long a police officer or a customs officer can prevent a vehicle from continuing to travel by taking care of vehicle keys or locking the vehicle. In addition, the Government has set up an investigation into more effective checks on road traffic by road, which has recently presented its proposals. The proposals are now being prepared within the Government Office. The law enforcement authorities are also further developing their work in this area. In order for the handling to be as effective as possible, the Prosecutor's Office has concentrated the handling of certain offences in the field of traffic to two specifically designated prosecutor's chambers. The prosecutors of these chambers have extensive experience of traffic offences. Over the past two years, about 90 percent of the suspicions of traffic offences that came to the Prosecution Office have led to prosecution in some form. It is a matter of priority for the government that law enforcement authorities have the right competence to prosecute crimes, including offences in professional traffic. I intend to follow this matter closely.
i-7e43566d258fe19a-105	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. We have had several interpellation debates, both in the near future and a little back in time. This is because there is a great deal to be picked up about this. I gave in the interpellation an example of an event that I understand very well that the Government cannot have any views on, but what I want to highlight is that there is a system error because, time and again, it does not stop even though it is quite clear that it is a violation of the law. There is a much greater concern here than discussing whether what the prosecutor did was right or wrong, and that is public confidence in our legal system. If it is quite clear that crime is committed but no action is taken by the authorities and that at the same time there is someone else, preferably a Swedish citizen or someone who is active in Sweden, who is reported for the same thing and receives quite a fine, a confidence gap arises. The legislation must, of course, apply equally to everyone. We talked in the previous interpellation debate about the importance of having more police officers on the road, but for this to work, we need prosecutors who understand how the legislation is constructed and to prosecute the perpetrators of crime. The case I raised in the interpellation was quite illustrative. It started with a suspected drug drunk. There was a test out there, which showed positive, but then when the sharp test was done he made it. It started there, and then there was suspected cabotage. The Adblue equipment had been manipulated. Adblue is part of the cleaning of the exhaust gas. One substance, urea, is added to remove particles and oxides of nitrogen from the exhaust gas. And the tachograph had been manipulated. The police seized the vehicle, but the prosecutor lifted the seizure and claimed that it was disproportionate to the crime. It all ended up being nothing of this, either for the manipulated tachograph or for the manipulation of the Adblue equipment. Nor was he reported for illegal cabotage, which he had also been guilty of. The fact that the reading of drugs was below the criminal threshold is not acceptable, but the other three parts would of course have been reported for. But the D.A. chose to shut down. The following week a Polish racer was stopped in Denmark. It found that the tachograph was tampered with. It is the same legislation that we receive both in Denmark and in Sweden, because it is an EU provision. There they ended up paying over $5,000 for tampering. So big is the difference, although there is only a little water between Sweden and Denmark. In Sweden it will be nothing, but in Denmark it will be 320 000. Do you have confidence in the judicial system in such a situation? No. It is quite clear that the prosecutors do not have enough knowledge. I have mentioned one example. If the President had given me more time, we would have been able to stand here until the evening, and I could have reported a lot of other cases as well. But it is not interesting, but what is interesting is that it does not lead to punishment when committing crimes. This is not acceptable because it does not create confidence in our legal system. The person who commits a crime shall be punished in accordance with the ordinary law. This is a duty of society to the ordinary honest citizen of society. This is very important, because if you start losing confidence, we're in trouble.
i-7e43566d258fe19a-114	Madam President, I would like This is an important interpellation, focusing on the knowledge and ability of prosecutors. What the Prosecutor's Office has done is to concentrate many of these crimes on the Prosecutor's office in Karlskrona and in Östersund. The prosecution authority's view of this is that it has produced good results that, in order to raise the level of competence and experience in this area, all fines are dealt with in these two places. It now also deals with certain traffic offences where prisons are included in the scale of penalties. It is therefore gradually building both ability and competence, and the picture from the Swedish Prosecution Authority is that it is good to concentrate matters on two chambers in order to get more exchange. There are also certain road traffic offences that have been committed professionally and where corporate fines may be considered. This too has worked well. When these two chambers have dealt with this, there has been a significant increase in the number of cases prosecuted by corporate fines. The corporate fine leads to more severe effects and sanctions, which is right. There are certainly differences in individual cases in the way things are going. Sometimes it is freed, sometimes it is closed down and sometimes there are severe sanctions. I can see that it cannot be so simple that Denmark does everything right, because then we would not have had these major problems in Sweden. Very many of the rubber wheels also come via Denmark to Sweden. These trucks would not have come to our country if Denmark or Germany had solved everything for us. I believe that many countries have problems with the fact that the rules on road transport do not work. We have a responsibility to correct this. I believe that a concentration of case management to two chambers within the Prosecutor's Office was the right way to go and that it seems to be producing good results. But there is potential for development. The question is whether this really lies primarily in the custody of the Prosecutor's Office or whether it is primarily the investigation work that we have major problems with. You can certainly think about this and reflect on it, but in general you can say that traffic offences have a decent high clearance percentage. It is not surprising because they are often decided on the spot.
i-7e43566d258fe19a-119	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. We take our starting point in the same legislation – if it is Denmark or Sweden, it does not matter. Many of the rubber wheels in Sweden never come to Denmark. They don't come to Norway either, but they're spinning in here all the time. This is where we have problems with unauthorized cabotage and all that is. There is a connection between the problems. You can look at what the EU Regulation 165/2014 says. I do not need to read out the full text of the law, but this is what Article 22:中 says, and in particular in such a way that no manipulation device can manipulate or alter registered data. ..................................................... Article 32(3) states that it is prohibited to falsify, conceal, conceal or destroy data on the record sheet or on the tachograph or on the driver card... The vehicle shall not have any device enabling the abovementioned manipulations to be carried out. ..................................................... Can it be written more clearly? Yet you let go of this. The Swedish legislation, which is regulated by the Swedish Constitutional Code, states in Decree 2004:865 § 8 that when roadside checks are carried out, you must check the function of the former printer plus some other things and possible misuse of the equipment. This is therefore the task of control officials. The point of them doing this is to prosecute those who do wrong. Otherwise, it is completely pointless to have such a wording. I cannot understand why you cannot see that you have all the tools in the legislation to punish those who round it. In 9th chapter. In 865 there are liability provisions. That's a lot. In the case of Adblue equipment, which is intended to ensure that exhaust emissions have as little impact as possible on people and the environment – what is commonly referred to as Euro 6 – it is stated in the legislation, i.e. in Article 11(2)(e) of Regulation (EU) No 595/ 2009: This shall include, for example, tampering with systems using consumable reagents. So it's Adblue. In addition, it is stated that driving a vehicle without a consumable reagent shall be regarded as an infringement on the part of the user which shall give rise to a sanction. Yet there was nothing! That's remarkable. The DA's defense was that it wasn't proportionate. Oh, please! What are you supposed to do? It is clear in the legislation on two cases: manipulation of the tachograph and manipulation of the Adblue equipment. And yet it's not going anywhere. And this isn't the first time. This has been the case on several occasions. These serious crimes end up in the archives only. That is not acceptable. I understand very well that the Government cannot go in and point to the Prosecution Authority, but the Government must nevertheless be able to give clear instructions on how to handle these things. It is quite clear that there are shortcomings in the way the prosecutors work. I sincerely hope that the Government is now taking a discussion with the Prosecution Authority so that this does not happen. We have a problem with confidence in our legal system when ordinary people are punished and those who commit crimes are released.
i-7e43566d258fe19a-128	Madam President, I would like When you look at the Swedish Public Prosecutor's Office and the principles that guide their work, it is very clear that the traffic units at the Swedish Public Prosecutor's Office have as their starting point that preliminary investigations against foreign actors should be conducted in exactly the same way as against Swedish actors. This means, among other things, requesting assistance from other states in cases where it is needed. If help from another state is needed, the investigation may be more resource-intensive and time-consuming, but the starting point is to treat everyone equally. The penalty determines very much whether it is proportionate. If we have too low penalties for certain types of offences and offences, it becomes more difficult to deal with such a situation. In the EU, it is somewhat easier. If the company, suspect person or employer is from an EU country, a European Investigation Order must be issued. It takes some time, and then you get in touch and then you get back ground. It's going reasonably smoothly. If it is a non-EU country, you have to apply for legal assistance, which is usually a more complicated process and takes longer. This is the reality of the investigation of the prosecutors. They must go through such a process. But then again we are back to what principle applies. When should a preliminary investigation be carried out? The obligation to conduct preliminary investigations entails an obligation to investigate the offences committed. Then there is an opt-out if this is disproportionate to the amount of work and the cost involved. That assessment is carried out by the Authority. It is very difficult for me to think that these principles that I have described are bad. I think Thomas Morell and I are quite in agreement with them. Then you might consider: Is the penalty high enough for all these types of crimes? Is it smooth enough? Do we have sufficient investigative material to make it easy to proceed with the crimes? That's the kind of question you have to ask yourself. I understand that the Prosecution Authority through the concentration of cases has gained the competence and long-termness of the work. International contacts have also become more flexible. In this way, it is more likely to get to the bottom of the questions and lead them all the way. But it is no secret that not all of these questions are investigated at the bottom and that some preliminary investigations are closed because it is estimated that the cost is disproportionate to the penalties that can be imposed.
i-7e43566d258fe19a-134	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. We have legislation that is clear about what you are allowed to do and what you are not allowed to do. Then it can't be that just because you're from another state – we're talking about Member States of the European Union, because these are the examples I have – it's free to not comply with the regulations and to do in principle what you want without it becoming something, while we constantly fine Swedish hauliers and Swedish drivers. Then we'll have a rift that's not acceptable. Of course, the legislation must be the same, whether you come from Poland, as in this case, or whether you come from Sweden. It must be the same thing. The law must meet with the person who commits a crime. The newspapers have paid attention to this. This is what the newspaper Proffs says.The well-behaved and serious owner of the truck goes for the forehead. A skier who called me up shortly afterwards was really abandoned and wondered if he lived in Sweden. The country that should be the best in everything, as he put it. ..................................................... There are prosecutors who have taken hold of this and made it lead to convictions. They've clearly read and understood what's in the law and run errands, while others go the easy way-- or, as we said when I was working in the police force, lifts at the easy end. It won't hold. One of the absolute sharpest in this has unfortunately ended but was otherwise in the prosecutor's office up in Östersund – an extremely driven prosecutor. This person would have been a role model when training prosecutors. If the D.A. had several of that caliber, that would be good.
i-7e43566d258fe19a-140	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Thomas Morell, for lifting up a prosecutor in Östersund! After all, it is one of the chambers that directs the work and concentrates on these kinds of matters. This is done both in Karlskrona and in Östersund. This is because working with this type of case often goes further. It makes it more efficient to investigate them and go all the way to goal. Then there may be individual cases where one feels that the costs and time for doing so are disproportionate to the penalty to be imposed. That is a difficult balance. However, I believe that the prosecutors who are now specialised in this type of crime have more opportunities to go to trial than prosecutors who are not usually working on this. I think it was right for the Prosecution Authority to professionalise and specialise these chambers in order to give even more priority to offences in the field of traffic. I hope that Thomas Morell, because he raised Östersund, also thinks that it seems a wise way to go. I will not have views on the work of individual prosecutors or how they deal with individual cases, but I note nevertheless that the Prosecutor's Office has taken steps to bring up the level and competence of this type of issue. At the same time, a lot of work remains to be done to ensure that all road hauliers who violate the law in Sweden are subject to both sanctions and penalties and to ensure that we get order on Swedish roads.
i-KJuvbFC42rq2S32MYCtQyz	I would like to welcome the ministers. Questions are answered today by Minister for the Environment and Climate Change Per Bolund, Minister Anders Ygeman, Minister Jennie Nilsson and Minister Anna Hallberg. An issue shall be of a horizontal and general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties. Minister for Environmental Affairs and Climate Change Per Bolund answers both general policy questions and questions within his own area of responsibility.
i-7e43566d258fe19a-144	Madam President, I would like Recently, President Biden held a climate summit. Among the invited were countries that have shown leadership in the climate issue and countries in our vicinity, such as Denmark and Norway, but unfortunately not Sweden. Finally, Sweden managed to get an invitation to a round table in the margin of the meeting, which was then tried to picture as that it was the very centre of the meeting. The worst thing about the government's circus around the climate summit is not really that you exaggerate your own role and importance, but that you reduce climate policy to a pr-jippo. Because once Prime Minister Bolund spoke at the meeting, he did not say a word about the concrete tools that need to be put in place to stem the world's emissions. Maybe next time Sweden can get an invitation for real if we actually have an agenda for the international climate work. Why is the government not pushing for more countries to put a price on their emissions?
i-7e43566d258fe19a-148	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jessica Rosencrantz, for raising a very important and gratifying question about Sweden's important position in terms of international climate work! It is well known – Jessica Rosencrantz can probably ask anyone around the world – that Sweden is an example that many countries look after and follow. This also applies to the United States, which is obvious because we were invited to take part in the round table which actually started the second day of the Joe Biden Leader Summit. It is valuable to be able to participate in these contexts and bring forward Sweden's voice. One example of our leadership is that the United States, in connection with the climate summit, decided to support the international industrial cooperation that Sweden and India have initiated, Leadit. It shows how much it means that we make a difference and that we are now making big investments in Sweden for a fossil-free industry. Then other countries, such as the United States, want to follow. Until you have been at a summit with John Kerry, I think perhaps you should have a slightly lower attitude on the issue.
i-7e43566d258fe19a-152	Madam President, I would like As I said, I hope that Sweden will be able to receive a real invitation next time to the room where the large countries sit and discuss the crucial decisions. My question remains: what is the government's agenda for the UN climate negotiations this autumn? Is it a price of emissions, which we know would make a difference? Is it putting in place a framework for international climate investment where rich countries can help poorer ones? Per Bolund did not say a word about this at the round table meeting that took place. What are the government's priorities? Do you have any of those?
i-7e43566d258fe19a-154	Madam President, I would like I emphasised at the meeting – and I do so in other contexts – that Sweden has several roles. It is a question of reducing our emissions in our country, and we are doing so, among other things, through historically large industrial efforts that previous governments have not been close to, and also to be involved in financing the journey of poorer countries. These are precisely the issues that are at stake for the Glasgow Summit. It requires that the countries, including Sweden, now show that we want to push ahead. We want to do even more both in helping and making our own efforts. I hope that Parliament will also support this.
i-7e43566d258fe19a-157	Madam President, I would like Per Bolund and I certainly both admit that men's violence against women has long been a problem in Sweden. What makes us different is that I also recognise that one factor in this is an imported problem – this because there are great differences between Swedish standards and certain norms in mainly Africa and the Middle East. Swedish norms mean a pressure from the collective to treat women well; otherwise they become socially outcasts. Other standards may mean that there is collective pressure to beat one's wife or daughter to uphold any claimed honor; otherwise one becomes socially outcast. So that's the whole reverse. Collective acceptance of men's violence against women is not a Swedish norm. But this is the case in parts of cultures that we import to Sweden. Does Per Bolund acknowledge this?
i-7e43566d258fe19a-160	Madam President, I would like Men's violence against women is an extremely serious social problem. I am very pleased that the issue has finally come up as high on the agenda as it really deserves. It is a social problem that we will never, ever, ever accept. It is also a social problem that we must tackle regardless of who is responsible for violence. You can look at the statistics and say with very strong justification that what unites those who commit much of the violence in our society is that they are men. It is an issue that we need to address, that is to say that it is not enough just to tackle those who have committed violent crimes and ensure that they receive the punishment they deserve. We also need to be able to work preventively. We do this in many different ways, not least by highlighting the importance of discussing male norms and also tackling the problems of honour violence in our society. But there it is important for us to tackle these problems and these roots regardless of who carries out the violence.
i-7e43566d258fe19a-163	Madam President, I would like The government acknowledges that honorary culture exists in Sweden and that honorary culture is a widespread problem. Some measures have been taken in this area. Everyone understands, however, that honorary culture has not arisen here in Sweden by some Swedes having been given the opportunity to try it. It's been imported here. If the government recognises the culture of honour, they must also recognise that it has been imported, and thus also some of the violence of men against women.
i-7e43566d258fe19a-165	Madam President, I would like I am really deeply concerned about the attitude of the Swedish democrats on this issue. I think it is turning a blind eye to the reality that everyone knows – at least we who are prepared to look both forward and backward in history – is something that Sweden has had for a long time. And a lot of the violence against women committed by Swedes but also by people with immigrant backgrounds is about some kind of culture of honour, that is, it is a lot about control – controlling a partner and constantly putting pressure on the partner in relations with other people. We're going to fight it no matter who's the offender.
i-7e43566d258fe19a-166	Madam President, I would like 87-year-old Gerd Eriksson was found chilled by his son. It was not possible to call for an ambulance because the telephone network was disconnected without viable alternatives. I am standing here with a letter from Anne-Anne-Christine and Stig Engdahl in Uddalen, Dalsland, testifying to the deterioration of postal services and vulnerability when you cannot communicate with the outside world. How does Minister Ygeman feel that those living in rural areas are becoming increasingly difficult to live a full life in the same way as people in the larger cities? Without a fixed telephone network, many will not be able to contact their relatives or call 112. At the same time, broadband development is lagging behind, which means that people in rural areas will live without either coverage or telephony. Similarly, the service of letters and mail is deteriorating. How does the Government defend what now appears to be a phase-out of rural areas? What does he say to those who need to work at a distance, to school pupils who need to take part in distance learning or to those who need to get in touch with healthcare digitally?
i-7e43566d258fe19a-171	Madam President, I would like My message is very simple, Annika Qarlsson. You should have access to good communications and digital infrastructure wherever you are in the country and wherever you live. It actually goes in the right direction, even if it doesn't sound like that on Annika Qarlsson's description. 95% of Swedes today have access to fast connectivity in their immediate vicinity. It is three times as fast to expand broadband in rural areas as it does in our big cities. And every year more and more Swedes have a mobile connection. But we don't settle until every Swede, no matter where he lives, has access to a fast connection – mobile or via broadband. This is also the background to the fact that we, together with the Center Party, seven times the support for broadband expansion in the latest budget.
i-7e43566d258fe19a-173	Madam President, I would like These are very fine words, and they are words that go in the right direction. I can only agree with that. But that's not enough. So fine words are not enough in this case. The son's experience when ambulances are not available and when he realizes that his mother is about to leave him or lack of opportunity to actually have contact with the health care or the Tax Agency – although you may not have as much desire for it – makes it impossible to actually live and live in the whole country.
i-7e43566d258fe19a-175	Madam President, I would like I am not aware of the precise events in this particular case. I can only say that this mobile mast's backup capacity did not meet the standards and legal requirements that we have in Sweden. If it had, it would have been possible to call 911. It is, of course, the case that all mobile operators must ensure that they comply with the legal requirements that we have in this country. Otherwise, you can't be a mobile operator.
i-7e43566d258fe19a-176	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Minister of the Environment Per Bolund. Our forests are becoming increasingly impoverished in terms of biodiversity. The Swedish Forest Agency recently concluded in an evaluation that our environmental objective on living forests is developing negatively – not positively. One of the reasons for this is the increasingly intensive forestry in Sweden. There are several examples of how protected forests are harvested in Sweden. In the forest investigation prepared by the Government, there are no concrete proposals to strengthen environmental concerns in Swedish forestry. Madam President, I would like In view of this, I would like to ask Minister for the Environment Per Bolund: What is the government doing to strengthen environmental considerations in Swedish forestry?
i-7e43566d258fe19a-180	Madam President, I would like I thank Jens Holm for an extremely important issue. Unfortunately, there are still too many people who do not know that we are in several parallel very serious crises. It is a climate crisis that most people have noticed, but also a natural crisis with an enormous rate of extinction of the animals and plants with which we share this planet. There we must all do more, not least when we have a global summit in China this autumn to determine precisely the future of biodiversity policy at global level. Therefore, the government has also made unique efforts. We have invested more than any previous government – so far SEK 6 billion – in protecting valuable land. We have increased the protection of marine areas very significantly compared to before. But we have also said very clearly that the state should be a forerunner when it comes to sustainable forestry. It's a job we're in the middle of. It will also be part of the discussions that will now lead to a new forestry policy. I am also pleased that State-owned Sveaskog recently came with a new focus that says that you should try other forestry methods and see how you can environmentally adapt your forestry.
i-7e43566d258fe19a-183	Madam President, I would like Now my question was not about increased protection of the forest, but about how we can get more sustainable forestry in Sweden. Then the government has developed a forest investigation that is unilaterally focused on strengthening ownership, or can the Minister for the Environment point to concrete proposals from the Forest investigation aimed at strengthening environmental concerns in Swedish forestry? I did not hear any concrete proposal from the Minister for the Environment on how to strengthen environmental concerns in Swedish forestry.
i-7e43566d258fe19a-184	Madam President, I would like If Jens Holm had read the whole point in the January agreement concerning the forest, it would have been very clear to him that there are points about how we can protect valuable nature, which is an important factor in terms of biodiversity, but also how we make sure to adapt forestry so that it becomes more environmentally oriented and not least that the state should be a forerunner in this area. There, of course, we are pushing forward through the dialogue with the authorities that we have, by directing our authorities. But we also see that, for example, new forestry methods are beginning to emerge, which Sveaskog has also said they will use.
i-7e43566d258fe19a-185	Madam President, I would like I would like to address the Swedish Minister for Energy Anders Ygeman. We all know in this House that energy consumption will increase. Electricity consumption will rise drastically over the next ten years. It is worrying that yesterday a message came from the state-owned company Vattenfall, where they reported to Nord Pool that if the government does not take a decision by 31 August on the final disposal, nuclear power should be shut down in Forsmark. Then I wonder how the Government, which is responsible for this matter, sees the distress signal that is now coming from Vattenfall. How are you really going to act on this important issue of energy supply for Sweden?
i-7e43566d258fe19a-189	Madam President, I would like For the sake of order and cause, I shall say that it is Per Bolund who is dealing with the matter in the government. If you want to ask questions about the final disposal of nuclear fuel, it is to him that you should address the question. It is clear that the government is acting in order that the permit applications that come to the government are also answered and handled in the way that is to be done. As far as I understand it, the issue of intermediate and final stocks will be dealt with in such a way that nuclear power will be able to continue.
i-7e43566d258fe19a-192	Madam President, I would like The serious thing is that it is said that the first nuclear power plant will have to be shut down in two and a half years' time. We had a debate in this House on 21 April. In fact, then, Minister Laila Nagari said that she has no confidence in Per Bolund's actions on this issue. The question then is: is this an attitude of the Social Democrats as a party to Bolund's actions on this issue?
i-7e43566d258fe19a-194	Madam President, I would like I think my party colleague is called Laila Naraghi, for the sake of order. I can assure Mikael Oscarsson that I have full confidence in Per Bolunds and the government's handling of the matter.
i-7e43566d258fe19a-197	Madam President, I would like I would like to ask my question to Minister Anna Hallberg. Many of us look forward to the reopening of the borders between our Nordic countries. It has been a difficult time with the restrictions during the pandemic. Nordic cooperation is incredibly important to us. We look forward to being able to overcome the damaged confidence that actually exists among many in the Nordic countries and to work further so that you feel confidence so that you can take that job in Norway, go to your summer house in Finland or meet your loved ones who live on the other side of the border and who have always lived close but now feel far away. I know that you continue to work closely together and have set up an investigation. I would like to hear what are the most difficult challenges we now have and what this investigation can lead to.
i-7e43566d258fe19a-201	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Eva Lindh, for a question about something that Sweden has really been active in over the past year and during the pandemic! Nordic cooperation has been tried hard this year, but we have also learned a lot. Sweden and the Swedish Government have been the driving force to find solutions for the future. We will look at a completely new model of cooperation between the Nordic governments, because ultimate responsibility lies there after all. I, too, and the other Nordic co-operation ministers, need to find a new model for managing our co-operation in crises as well. I have, as Swedish Minister for the Nordic Region, for a long period of time proposed that we develop a new model for this. I am very pleased that the Finnish Presidency has taken advantage of this. On 29 April, we had an extraordinary Council meeting and decided to set up an investigation to find a way forward for the cooperation of the Nordic governments even in crisis. I have great hopes for this study, which will be delivered in November or December for the Nordic Council session this year.
i-7e43566d258fe19a-205	Madam President, I would like It feels very promising, because I believe that we in the Nordic countries benefit greatly from each other in our cooperation. After all, we are several small countries, and we are getting stronger together. I want to raise a question that I think is very important. It's about the children's perspective. There are many children who have not been able to meet both their parents because one parent is on the other side of the border. Do you just want to say something about this, Anna Hallberg? What do you have, and how can we work on this in the future?
i-7e43566d258fe19a-208	Madam President, I would like This is certainly one of the most central issues. How can families living on both sides of a border that depend on the open borders work? The children have been squeezed, not least with regard to Norway. That is still the case, because the weekly commute has not opened. Last week I had a dialogue with the Norwegian Government on this very subject. The children's parents are stuck in Norway and do not dare to go home, because then they will not get a salary. That is one question. The second question is that Norway demands that children who commute between divorced parents on a weekly basis should start testing. It's very hard for the kids to handle this. We've lifted this up. We are trying to solve it, and we in Sweden are taking responsibility for this.
i-7e43566d258fe19a-213	Madam President, I would like One of the greatest challenges of our time is climate change. We don't have long to turn the trend around. It's urgent. The Government's Fossil-Free Sweden initiative, together with industries in recent years, has presented 22 roadmaps for how these industries can adapt. Today, Fossil-free Sweden has presented its report Fossil-free recovery. Fossil-free Sweden believes that this autumn's budget is the great opportunity for Sweden to use the window of opportunity, as it is called, which now exists. It is about simultaneously starting the economy after the coronapandemine and accelerating the development towards becoming the world's first fossil-free welfare country. My question to Minister Per Bolund is whether the Government and Government agree on Fossil-free Sweden's conclusion that it is now we have the opportunity to really accelerate development to become the world's first fossil-free welfare country.
i-7e43566d258fe19a-216	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Emma Hult, for an incredibly important issue, not least given that this is an emergency – we need to act now. What Emma Hult talks about is a success story for Sweden where we show how together – business, state and the public sector – we can make the closest miracle happen. We are changing a technology to make steel that we have had with us for 1,000 years to start making steel with hydrogen. We move from the old internal combustion engine to start using electric cars. Many accident ravens have crept – not least in this House – that an active climate and environmental policy would be a disadvantage for Sweden and drive jobs abroad. Now we see the result: Because we are forerunners, investments come to Sweden. This is where green jobs are created by a new industrialisation. We should be happy and proud of this, but we must never settle down. We have to sharpen ourselves all the time and do more. This autumn's budget is a great opportunity to make a green recovery where we start the economy after the pandemic with green signs and build the world's first fossil-free welfare country.
i-7e43566d258fe19a-220	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for a happy answer. Another part of managing this transition is about competence. We have a great lack of skills in many of the sectors that are now going to change. My question to the Government is: How does the government work to overcome the skills gap that exists in terms of both upper secondary education, higher education and further education?
i-7e43566d258fe19a-222	Madam President, I would like This is a challenge that is also a great opportunity. We have too much unemployment in our country, not least after the pandemic. Here industry is now screaming for labour; there are tens of thousands of jobs that need to be filled. The government has already started with a skills boost where we have received many tens of thousands of places in the education system. Now we need to do even more. We need to switch up and make sure that we also further train those who may be trained in combustion technology but now need to learn electric car technology. Here we have a huge opportunity.
i-7e43566d258fe19a-224	Madam President, I would like My question is a general political question about forests, and I was going to ask it to Per Bolund. However, it is very close to Jennie Nilsson's remit, so the ministers will have to decide for themselves who is best placed to respond to it. Since 1 January 2020, the Government has accepted that the Swedish Transport Administration will charge a fee to grant permission to lay up timber strips along public roads. The fee is SEK 2,900. This fee did not exist before, and on 22 April 2020 the Riksdag decided that a return would take place and that a fee would no longer be charged for permits for timber warehouses along our roads. After all, it is important in a democracy that the government follows decisions made by the Riksdag in democratic order. It has now been just over a year since the parliamentary decision, but the government has still not removed the fee for permits for timber strips. My question to the Minister is: why has the fee not been removed and when will it be removed?
i-7e43566d258fe19a-227	Madam President, I would like It is important to put Sten Bergheden's question in a perspective where we also see that Swedish forestry has great success and that the products produced are highly sought after both on the Swedish market and on the international market, not least when we are now looking for climate-smart solutions. Swedish forestry has a good future. This is an issue that is perhaps primarily addressed to the Minister for Infrastructure, but it is obviously a starting point for the Swedish Government to listen to and respond to the wishes of the Riksdag. All questions, even when Parliament takes the initiative, must be prepared within the Government Office, and I assume that this will also happen in this matter. Let us not be fooled by the fact that this would be a threat to Swedish forestry – on the contrary, we see that both the agricultural sector and Swedish forestry are doing well and will continue to do so when the world seeks more climate-smart solutions.
i-7e43566d258fe19a-230	Madam President, I would like I address my question to the Minister for the Environment and Climate Action. The Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate released a report on e-commerce supervision. Through various digital marketplaces, products were purchased and tested, including products aimed at children. More than half of the products in the Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate's tests purchased from outside the EU contained banned and hazardous substances that are toxic both to the environment and to man – substances that are reproducible or carcinogenic or that affect our nervous system and children's learning capacity. Despite the fact that the Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate has contacted these marketplaces and pointed out the problems, several of them have continued to sell the products. That is why I would like to ask the Minister: how will the government stop the introduction of all these harmful products into Sweden? And what can be done to raise consumer awareness so that they can make safe and sustainable purchases?
i-7e43566d258fe19a-233	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Yasmine Eriksson, for an incredibly important question! We know that the chemicals used that are environmentally and health-disrupting have a huge impact on us and on our biology but also on our nature. That is why we have a great responsibility to reduce the use of dangerous chemicals. The government has done a lot. We've introduced a chemical tax. We have also acted actively within the EU to ban the most dangerous chemicals. Much has happened, but much remains to be done. We have also commissioned the Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate to do this study. It is very valuable to get that information, and on that basis we can also move forward. The Swedish Consumer Agency is working to inform consumers about, among other things, these risks. But we also need to strengthen customs' ability to work. Not least, we need to work together within the EU to ensure that we do not bring into the internal market products that are actually dangerous to our consumers. The government is also working further on a global chemicals agreement so that we can ban the most dangerous chemicals at global level, and that is important in a globalised world.
i-7e43566d258fe19a-240	Madam President, I would like I would have liked to have asked questions to all the ministers present, but my question is addressed to Minister for the Environment Per Bolund. Through the EU Water Directive, Sweden is committed to ensuring that we have good environmental status in our bodies of water, both groundwater and surface water. The environmental status is also affected by old environmental sins in old industrial sites, old industrial pollution, ports, marinas and boat yards. When it comes to the examples of ports and moorings, we know that more than half of them in Sweden are not even surveyed. Even less has it begun to tackle and remedy any shortcomings that may exist. There is now growing concern around the country that one will not be able to inventory and correct the old environmental sins. In this case, the Center Party, as the Government knows, has pushed for us to spend more money from the state to clean up to help solve these problems. But what, in addition to this, does the Government see that it can and will do to help the local actors to remedy the shortcomings and avoid the periodic penalty payments?
i-7e43566d258fe19a-244	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Magnus Ek, for an incredibly important question! It concerns the chemicals and the threat they pose to our health and the health of the planet. Here we have worked very actively. Not least with regard to water work, this government has put in an extra gear compared to all previous governments. We have also provided historically large resources in the area of clean-up, and that will have an effect. The last time we counted it was 2,700 old sites of dumped chemicals, which pose a health risk, which had been managed to fix. But we need to do even more. We need to continue to set aside the funds needed to catch up and deliver on the environmental objective of a non-toxic society. We also need to work with skills provision and help municipalities and local representatives with the necessary knowledge about how best to take care of different types of toxins, how to proceed, how to put the shovel on the slopes and get rid of these problems once and for all. It will require resources but also knowledge and competence.
i-7e43566d258fe19a-247	Madam President, I would like Ministers can decide who will answer my question. In recent days, many have been murdered and thousands arrested, tortured and raped in Colombia. In addition, many social leaders have been systematically murdered over the years, and I am still waiting for condemnation of this from the government. At the same time, the Swedish Government has signed the ATT Arms Trade Treaty. Given that the Colombian Government has repeatedly bombed villages in Colombia, it would not be surprising if it happened again. I wonder if the government will refrain from arms trafficking with Colombia. I am also thinking, for example, of the Jas planes that are being prepared.
i-T9EUajgXGUNuyyGak1vUSJ	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lorena Delgado Varas, for a very important and topical question! I would like to begin by saying that the export control legislation for armaments adopted by the Swedish Parliament is among the most stringent in the world. We have an authority, the Strategic Product Inspection, ISP, which is the responsible licensing and supervisory authority. ISP independently makes its decisions based on an overall assessment. There, too, human rights are an incredibly important and central part of the decision-making process. It is true that the issue of fighter aircraft has been discussed between Swedish and Colombian government representatives. But as a minister, I can't go into specific business. As I said, it is an authority decision that lies at the bottom. It should also be remembered that the Colombian Armed Forces play a crucial role in the implementation of the peace agreement that is now on the table. It is therefore important that Sweden has a close dialogue with the Colombian Government on this matter.
i-7e43566d258fe19a-255	Madam President, I would like The pandemic has really weakened Nordic cooperation. Rather, the border between Sweden and Norway has never been sharper in modern times than it is now. Swedes – it may be self-employed working in Norway – have been offered vaccines right now and are happy to look forward to receiving that syringe in the arm, but they are weekly commuters. They cannot go home to Sweden and get their vaccine, because then they will be stopped from re-entry. After all, the vaccine is the solution forward, that as many people as possible are offered and actually taking the vaccine, but the Swedes as weekly commutes or self-employed people are effectively stopped from this possibility. It is imperative that we in Sweden do what we can, so my question to Minister Hallberg is: What does the government do to ensure that Swedes who are going to take the vaccine get that chance?
i-7e43566d258fe19a-259	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Acko Ankarberg Johansson, for a question that I as Minister of the Nordic Countries are constantly working on now! We have an ongoing dialogue with the Norwegian Government, and it is intense. It is about getting both self-employed and weekly commuters to cross the border and, of course, also using the possibility now opened up with the vaccine. The dialogue is also about being able to deal pragmatically with vaccinations on both sides of the border and that we have a Nordic community in this. I have also proposed that our authorities should work much more closely on this, so that the issue of vaccination can become more of a Nordic issue. Then we also need to discuss the issue of vaccination passports in a Nordic context. There are other ministers here who are also dealing with this issue. It is incredibly important that we get the dialogue to move on to a concrete solution in the near future. We are working on it right now, but Norway, of course, must also be involved in the solution. We are running this on the Swedish side. I hope for a solution in the near future.
i-7e43566d258fe19a-265	Madam President, I would like The EU Directive UTP, on unfair trading practices in the food chain, wants to ban a number of commercial practices that often occur in the food industry, partly due to the oligopoly-like concentration of the grocery trade. We Social Democrats want to ensure that Swedish food producers can no longer be exploited by the dominant food chains in Sweden. In a legislative referral, the Government proposes to prevent unethical practices in the food chain. This would give individual food producers stronger protection against the dominant chains. It also improves the conditions for achieving the food strategy's goal of increasing Swedish food production.
i-n9eWZnBSTewHAfVgR65F2	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Anna Vikström, for an important question! As Anna Vikström says, there is now a proposal on Parliament's table that is about implementing the UTP directive in Sweden. The government's starting point, when we have prepared the issue, has been that it should harmonise with the food strategy that we have jointly developed in this House. One of its most important tasks is to strengthen the profitability of primary production and of the entire chain. The single most important way of doing this is to ensure that in primary production or as a small actor in the food chain, you can get a reasonable payment for the many times extra high quality that we have on goods produced in Sweden. Then this proposal is very important. The LRF and the Food Companies have also expressed their wish for Sweden to implement the UTP Directive in accordance with the Government's proposal.
i-7e43566d258fe19a-272	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Minister of the Environment Per Bolund. Last Sunday evening, Agenda raised the problem of the establishment of wind power in the country and that many neighbours and local residents are disturbed by it. The municipalities now have a veto over whether they want wind power or not, and the Minister for the Environment said that there will soon be a bill from the government to remove the municipal veto. Municipalities should only be allowed to take a position at the beginning of the process of establishing wind power. During the process, however, there may be a change of power in the municipality from red green to blue.
i-7e43566d258fe19a-276	Madam President, I would like The answer to that question is an unequivocal no. The government will not weaken municipal self-government. It is an important principle that we have worked on and will work on. On the other hand, we have set up an investigation to look at how the decision-making process for wind power establishments is done because there has been a unique regulation linked to wind power in the work of the municipalities. This has led to a lot of challenges, not least a difficult predictability for both those who want to build wind power and the population about what the decision will ultimately land in. Is that a yes or a no? Sometimes decisions can come very late in the process, which creates a great deal of uncertainty. The study looks at how to preserve local self-government and the municipality's self-determination over exploitation and investment while at the same time finding another method of local authority decision-making that also allows us to make large investments. So far we have invested 100 billion in Swedish wind power, and we would like to see even greater investments in the future.
i-7e43566d258fe19a-281	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Anders Ygeman. The core network, or copper network as it is sometimes called and on which many still depend, is proposed to be completely gone by 2026. In this context, there is widespread concern, particularly in rural areas, that there will be no adequate alternative in place before then. The expansion has been particularly lagging behind in sparsely populated places, and, as I said, many are still dependent on the core network of basic communication. There is a risk that some will end up in digital exclusion if not enough is done.
i-VxpvdjU37vZjLvtbUzanK	Madam President, I would like Thank you, David Perez, for the question! The answer is to ensure that there is good mobile coverage throughout the country and that all Swedes have access to a fast connection of good quality regardless of where they operate. These are two parliamentary targets. The mobile target will be reached by 2023 and the broadband target, i.e. that everyone should have access to a fast connection, will be reached by 2025. According to Telia, their goal is to decommission the copper network until 2026, three years after all Swedes have access to good mobile coverage and one year after everyone has access to a good broadband connection. It is gratifying that broadband connectivity in rural areas is now increasing three times faster than in urban areas. Last year, 95 percent of Swedes had access to a fast connection in their immediate vicinity.
i-7e43566d258fe19a-289	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister for Foreign Trade Anna Hallberg. The US is our third largest trading partner and since the 1950s has been an important strategic partner in the development of Swedish industry and, by extension, Swedish welfare. In recent years, the relationship between Sweden and the US, as well as the EU and the US, has experienced challenges in the form of tariffs, tariffs and cooperative dialogue. Now the US has a new administration that reopens responsible free trade where sustainable economic growth for both parties is the focus. A few weeks ago, the Foreign Trade Minister met with the new US Trade Representative Katherine Tai. My question is therefore: does the Minister for Foreign Trade have an update after this meeting?
i-7e43566d258fe19a-294	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Solange Olame Bayibsa, for a welcome question, I would like to say, because the trade situation is undoubtedly different now. As I said, I had a meeting on 15 April with Katherine Tai, the new USTR, the Trade Representative of the United States. There is now a great difference in terms of constructiveness and the desire to find a solution to the transatlantic relationship in the area of trade policy. We have a whole new situation. We also have a completely new opportunity with our Swedish values in terms of environment, gender equality, human rights and so on to influence together with the USA. As President Biden has said, there is not a new, large trade agreement ahead of us in the near future, but there is a constructive will to resolve the current, old conflicts between the EU and the US, such as the steel and aluminium tariffs and the Airbus – Boeing conflict. I think we can solve them in relative proximity and look ahead. We're going to interact with each other instead of countering each other, so now we're hooking arm with the United States in a whole new way. I have great hopes for the new administration of trade policy.
i-7e43566d258fe19a-299	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Jennie Nilsson. The Swedish model is a construction that has created good conditions for building and developing the country strongly. It spans all parts of society and creates security and stability, and the peoples' movements have made a great contribution here. But now everything that has built the country is being strongly challenged, and those who dismantle it are leading the government with the Social Democrats. They started by selling out labour law to Brussels, and now they want to give power over the Swedish game administration to anti-hunting organisations as a mere concession to their partner, the extremely anti-hunting Green Party. Since 1938, the Swedish Hunter Association has led and organized hunting and game conservation, which was financed through the hunters' own money, the state hunting card fee. This system has worked beyond expectation and made many countries jealous of the Swedish game management and the all-moge hunt. My question to the Government is: Why does the government want to break up a system that has worked perfectly for decades and where hundreds of thousands of people feel involved in the work?
i-7e43566d258fe19a-304	Madam President, I would like I am pleased that Magnus Persson thinks the Swedish model is good. It is a result of the fact that the Social Democracy has built a society of equal value and that everyone should have equal opportunities to live and work throughout our country. As far as the general mandate is concerned, the honourable Member is wrong in substance, but one minute is not enough to go through the whole proposal in detail. There has been a sniper against the general mission for a long time, and what we have done now is to remove the sharp ammunition by ensuring that the general mission is protected. The hunters' association receives a multi-annual organisational grant, and we make it clear that funds from the fund can be used for activities in accordance with the intent of the hunting law. This is also in line with the decisions previously taken by the Swedish Parliament.
i-7e43566d258fe19a-308	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Anders Ygeman. We were many who followed the party leader debate last Sunday and heard Liberal Party leader Nyamko Sabuni compare the municipality of Täby outside Stockholm with Burundi because an Ica store could not open due to electricity shortages. During the week, the moderate municipal councillor has denied this. He believes that there were some electricity problems but that they were not about electricity shortages but that the trader failed to send in certain papers.
i-5rfxwPDRricRvN9QCxHJ5w	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Teres Lindberg, for the question. Ica shops are quite rare in Burundi. Equally rare is the shortage of electricity in Täby. Already last winter, the Ica trader who was alleged not to receive electricity was informed that he would be connected to electricity when all the papers were sent in the correct order. So there have been many weeks and months for it to check this task. I have also noted the situation several times in Parliament's Chamber. So Nyamko Sabuni can soon happily go to the soon expanded Ica Maxi in Täby and shop. But I think she'll have to wait a little longer for Ica to extend her net to Burundi.
i-7e43566d258fe19a-316	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of Digitalization Anders Ygeman and concerns once again the tech giants Facebook, Twitter and Google and their tendency to limit opinion formation that they do not seem to like. It's happened again. Youtube, owned by Google, only the other week took the liberty of shutting down the Web TV channel exactly 24. They did so without even specifying to users why. Exactly 24 is a relatively recent, small media house. After all, however, it receives media support from the public sector. So that's how established you are. Furthermore, the famous leftist debater Lisa Bjurwald has been suspended from Twitter for two weeks, even on very unclear grounds. How long will this be allowed to continue before the Minister for Digitalization even admits that it is a democratic problem?
i-J1ikNenozePQ1K4uKT1TMz	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Fransson, for the question. I think Josef Fransson drifts a little away from the truth when he claims they're off Twitter. There is probably potential for improvement in Josef Fransson's argumentation. However, the Swedish line is that the private practitioner who, in accordance with the terms of use, is suspended or otherwise restricted may have it examined by an independent review body. The use of this possibility should also be able to justify why. In this way, it is ensured that it is not done arbitrarily or in breach of the terms of use established. It is important that we make tougher demands on the net giants. And the bigger they are, the tougher the demands should be.
i-7e43566d258fe19a-325	Madam President, I would like Few have missed the situation in Belarus and peaceful demonstrators are brutally beaten down by the current regime. Few have missed reading about the chlorine gas attacks on political prisoners taking place in Belarus. At the same time, the Export Credit Board has chosen to sign a billion-dollar agreement with state companies in that country. As you know, the situation is not new. But now they have backed off from this in the light of what they call new circumstances, new data on the situation. But the situation is by no means new. It may be clearer than before, but it's not new. In view of this, I would like to ask Minister Hallberg what new tasks have emerged and which make a different decision. How can you justify doing billions of dollars business with this regime?
i-4mxWtnRRXo4cxoTRWWF7wP	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Markus Wiechel, for a highly topical issue! However, I have to correct a little. In August, a few weeks after the elections in Belarus, the Export Credit Board decided on a conditional offer for export credit guarantees. It was conditional because we first needed to carry out an analysis and see if we could find answers to the incredibly strict demands that we, the government, have made on the human rights authority, not least, workers' rights, the environment and so on. Those answers have still not been given. I cannot comment on the individual matter. But I still want to talk about what the process looks like. With regard to the situation in Belarus, I hope that there is no doubt anywhere, including in this House, that the government has been extremely critical of and concerned about the fraudulent elections, repressions and lack of respect for human rights. That's where we're crystal clear. At the same time, we have very high demands on our authorities if we are to contribute to doing business with civil products.
i-7e43566d258fe19a-331	Madam President, I would like I just want to go back to life and make sure it never happened. I'm still very angry, and I'll never forget my mother and what he's done to my mother. I pray for her every day. What if there were steps up to heaven and I could have seen her? But there is nothing we can do about it, because what has happened has happened. Jonathan's painful words are taken from Aftonbladet's review. Today, there is nothing we can do about Jonathan's grief. We've already let him down. Today, however, we must do everything for all the children, girls and women who are subjected daily to men's violence, boys' violence and honour-related violence. Our task now is to move from words to concrete action.
i-7e43566d258fe19a-333	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by thanking the Liberals for requesting this important debate. In particular, I would like to thank Juno Blom for the cooperation we have had in recent years to strengthen legislation against honour repression and violence against children, among other things. That cooperation has been very valuable and continues. This government has had two criminal policy priorities since we took office. One has been gang crime, and it is well known. There we have presented an ambitious 34-point programme which we are now rolling out. The second priority is precisely men's violence against women. Unfortunately, this issue has often come into the shadow of the public debate in recent years – until now, I would say. Now men's violence against women is once again at the heart of the criminal debate, and I certainly welcome that, because that is where that issue belongs. Men's violence against women is and remains a major social problem. In recent years, on average, one woman every three weeks has been killed by a man she had or had had a relationship with. This is just the tip of the iceberg. For every death, we have thousands upon thousands of women threatened and harassed by their husbands day after day and year after year. That is totally unacceptable. Sweden should be the world's best country for girls, women and mothers to live in. We can never have a lower ambition. We have done important and sometimes internationally ground-breaking reforms that we should be proud of. The legislation on women's rights, which we introduced more than 20 years ago, brought up the scale of penalties considerably. The Sex Purchase Act was our first in the world. We introduced human trafficking legislation in order to be able to deal more effectively with trafficking. In recent years these reforms have continued. We introduced the consent law, which is the strictest sexual crime law Sweden has ever had. We've made it easier to put a anklet on persecuting men. We have greatly increased support to women's shelters, from SEK 25 million when we took over to SEK 150 million last year. We sent resources to the police so that 350 new investigators could be recruited with a special focus on violence in close relationships, and more action will come. In the summer comes the child's peace crime, which further sharpens the view of the violent men. In the near future, we will be able to go to the Swedish Law Council with proposals on, among other things, the enforcement of penalties for gross female poverty and increased opportunities to expel a violent man from the common home. Because that's it. It's the violent man who's going to be forced to move. It's his mobility that should be limited, not the woman's. Having said that, we are currently also working on further measures. It is a list of measures that I want to be at least as ambitious as the 34-point programme that we have against gang crime. We will present it shortly. One item on that list will be a review of the rules on custody and relations with children. Here I can say that I have a pretty hard vision. I mean, if a man behaves really badly, he can cross a line where he's lost his chance of spending time with the kids. My attitude is that a child should not have to see his perpetrator. Then this perpetrator can be a father as much as he wants. It is the best interests of the child that should always apply. My firm opinion is that a man who beats his wife is not just a bad husband. He's a bad dad, too. That may seem obvious. Yet, there are plenty of examples where the mother is so threatened that she must have protected living and secret personal data but where the husband still has the right to associate with the children. It doesn't make sense. Here we need to make a review in which the risk to the father of losing the right of association if he is violent is even more evident in the legislation. That should be the direction, and I promise we will.
i-7e43566d258fe19a-344	Madam President, I would like I would also like to express my thanks to the Liberals who have initiated this important debate. As everyone knows, violence in close relationships is a major social problem and one that affects women in particular. According to the Crime Prevention Council, deadly violence against women in close relationships has decreased by nearly 20% since the early 2000s. At the same time, however, it can be seen that about 15 women a year have been killed in Sweden by a former or current partner in recent years. For men, the corresponding figure was just under three cases a year. Every figure above zero is a failure. Not infrequently, violence takes place in what is supposed to be the safest place in a person's life, namely his own home. There are no excuses or excuses whatsoever. Violence against women must stop. It is important to look at this with open eyes. This is a problem that exists in all parts of our society. Anyone who believes that in principle it is only people with a certain origin or background will go wrong. Equally important is to say the following: Part of the relationship violence is linked to abominable culture of honour, which is a major social problem that must be combated in itself. For several years, we Moderates have been pointing to a long series of changes that have to happen. Firstly, let us start with legislation. The penalty for gross women's freedom and gross peace-reduction needs to be tightened up. The scale of penalties today does not correspond to the seriousness of the crimes. Secondly, we need reforms to tighten up the rules on restraining orders. Electronic monitoring, so-called anklet, should be used in more cases than today. Today, in principle, a person is required to violate a restraining order in order for it to be subjected to a footstrap. But then it may already be too late. We Moderates want to see a system of individual risk assessments where people with a restraining order can be forced to wear anklets directly. Thirdly, the threshold for compulsory detention needs to be lowered. Let me also say that the country's women's shelters are doing an amazing job. We Moderates want to strengthen the financial support to them by SEK 80 million annually. It is resources that would make a difference not only here and now but in the long term to provide more vulnerable women with the support they deserve and need. Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, many of our proposals have been voted down year after year in this House. That is regrettable. This means that legislation against violence in close relationships is not at all as sharp today as it should have been and as it could have been. We hope that there will be greater support now not only to talk about the problems but to take concrete action against them. Ultimately, Madam President, this is the only way we change Sweden.
i-7e43566d258fe19a-354	Madam President, I would like Men's violence against women does not originate in an individual country or region. It's always been everywhere ever since. There will always be a need for continuous work to reduce it and to protect women against violence and oppression. Violence should be combated by marking against individual perpetrators and wherever there is a social or cultural acceptance of men's violence against women. In response to the woman who has been abused by her husband, say, "I'm sorry to the man who beats you" and "You'll never, ever, ever think that you'll go to the police." The conversation is from a hidden recording that two women, wearing niqab, have with an imam in a mosque in Malmö. The same advice was given in six of the ten largest mosques in our country. If women had not been journalists from the Mission, these councils would probably never have reached the open debate. Madam President, I would like Men's violence against women is everywhere. I am optimistic that we can make a big difference when women feel a great social acceptance for reporting to the police and that they are also being asked by their environment to report. But how are we to reach violent women in culturally segregated residential areas where social consequences are expected from police reporting their husbands and where they are urged by local religious authorities to apologize to their husbands when they have been abused, and never, never, never to contact the police? I fear that the debate on men's violence against women will not cover certain problems. When it comes to men's violence against women, I want to see all the problems and that it is socially and culturally unacceptable. It is above all about seeing and talking about the vulnerability that exists and where there is a social and cultural acceptance of men's violence against women. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats want the rule of law to be able to jeopardise the freedom of violent men entirely if it is necessary to fully restore the freedom of violent women. We stand ready to impose a penalty that we call a storage sentence. This means that some men who, for example, relapse into crimes such as gross female freedom should be able to be kept locked up indefinitely. We also want to increase the minimum penalty for serious female poverty to two years in prison, to ensure that the prohibition of contact can always be combined with electronic surveillance and much more. Not least, we must be able to talk about culture and values and the different conditions that violent women experience in our country depending on whether or not they live in a culturally segregated area.
i-7e43566d258fe19a-362	Madam President, I would like Men's violence against women has been going on throughout the world. Year after year, women are harassed, threatened, beaten, raped and murdered. In news, statistics, and personal testimony, we are told over and over again that the most dangerous place for a woman is home. The most dangerous person in a woman's life is the man she has or has had a relationship with. For almost seven years, the government has had the ultimate responsibility to ensure that the right measures are put in place and implemented. Men's violence against women deserves political action in the form of legislative proposals, reforms and budget allocations that tackle the wide-ranging societal problem that this is. It is about the whole chain from prevention to action against post-violence. This is an issue that concerns all of us. The battles must be stopped, the words and the torture with which thousands of women live on a daily basis must be stopped, and we must give the vulnerable women the support and protection to which they are entitled. Men's violence against women is also not a women's issue, but a threat to our democratic society that requires the same attention and commitment as it to gang crime and killings. Above all, we need to go to joint action, to make a workshop out of the fine words, to put an end to the suffering and fear of women and to protect the victims of crime. The Center Party has worked systematically over the years against men's violence against women, made many changes and put many suggestions on the table to help women out of the living hell that is their everyday life, from prevention to harsher punishments for the perpetrator, to robust criminal investigations for more convictions and to decisive efforts for a life and a daily life in freedom and security. At last, things are happening. There are now great opportunities for broad consensus. Let's take that opportunity. These are stricter penalties for more crimes, both honour crimes and women's defamation, anklet as well as an early and effective measure and secured long-term funding of women's shelters. We need to give the police the right tools. Social services must work more actively to protect women. We need to criminalise controlling behaviour and ensure that vulnerable women are given priority to permanent housing, just to take a few examples. These are measures that can make women dare to leave their husbands and give her and the children the support they need. But men's violence against women does not arise in a vacuum. As long as we have a society based on patriarchal structures and as long as we do not talk to our children and young people early about norms, values and attitudes, violence will continue, generation after generation. Violence against women is about the perpetrator's power and need for control. Stopping men's violence against women is an important work for an equal Sweden.
i-7e43566d258fe19a-369	Madam President, I would like Five men have killed five women in Sweden for a short time. Every year, more people are murdered. It takes place in residential areas and in the rental streets. It's unbelievable. It's a social failure. And that's unprecedented. How could this happen? How can we allow this to continue? We must roll up our sleeves and stop turning a blind eye to violence and violations. In the popular reality show Paradise Hotel, the production company has documented abuse, seemingly without noticing it. Violence is so normalized that no one sees it, although it is there in front of them. In a review conducted by P3 News, 11 out of 20 previously polled participants say that they have been involved in seeing abuse during the recordings. It's on film, but nobody acted. Metoo opened our eyes. More people realized that men who beat are in all classes of society. It could be the big shot in the film industry, the football dad or even his own friend. Let me be clear: I am not saying this in order for all men to feel guilty. I say this because it is important that we all react and act as soon as we see something happening. 95% of women who are victims of crime do not report the abuse. Disappearing few of those who actually report will see that it leads to a conviction. The fact that society is turning its eyes away is the basis for this. I am proud to lead the party that pushed through legal action against men's violence during the time when other parties hardly acknowledged that this was a problem. We, if any, know that it will punish itself. Substantial changes in all parts of society are needed so that it means something when we say a woman doesn't. I don't want our daughters getting their hands dirty at school. We must act against derogatory attitudes, not to point fingers and mash, but because grumpy attitudes restrict girls and, by extension, can lead to death. My friend was only nine years old when her mother was murdered by her partner. This is what Isabell writes today: I can't give up the idea of what the headline on the running note looked like when my mother was murdered. Although I was only nine years old when it happened, I have the image clearly etched on the retina: Swedish authorities should be able to see, meet and protect violent women. That is not the case today. It is about resources for social services, that health care has time to face up to and that the whole legal chain – the police, prosecutors and judges – gets the necessary skills and that demands are made to prioritise the crimes. My little girl back home is about to grow up in another community that's better than what we have today. That's how it has to be.
i-7e43566d258fe19a-377	Madam President, I would like Men's violence against women has once again become the focus, now from the very tragic background that five women have been murdered for three weeks by men with whom they have had a relationship. The attention of several political representatives and the media is, of course, good, but it is telling that such media attention was needed before the government acted. Of course, it was good that the Minister for Gender Equality invited the party leaders to joint talks, but what is really needed is concrete action. And it's needed now. We must move from words to deeds. We have heard the words, but are we prepared to act and to negotiate? The Christian Democrats have many political proposals and demands. We announced in Parliament to the government three years ago that we wanted to see a anklet in connection with a ban on contact, and we propose that a ban on contact should be used in far more cases and that the penalty for violations should be increased sharply. KD wants to strengthen support for victims and women's shelters and increase compensation, and we want compensation to be paid automatically from the state. The penalty needs to be tightened up and the penalty rebates cleared out. During these weeks it has been lifted up that you must be able to keep two thoughts in your head at the same time. Of course it is. Crime prevention is central, and here it is extremely important to emphasise the importance of standards and values. Professor PerPer-Olof Wikström followed, in a now award-winning study, 700 English youths growing up. He wondered why some people commit crimes but not others. The conclusion was that some youths are almost immune to committing crimes because they have strong morals and great self - control. It's connected to growing up and schooling. ..................................................... It must start early, Madam President, even when the children are small and through school. The Christian Democrats have a whole battery of proposals in our family policy that supports parents. We require smaller groups of children in preschool so that educators have time for their important work to see the children, provide care but also set limits. That is why we want the school not only to convey knowledge but also good values – the difference between right and wrong. The standards and values that we uphold must be upheld by a framework, and there must be consequences to violate them. Criminal penalties for serious crimes shall be fair and proportionate to the offences committed. We must have good capacity in prisons so that not more than 2 000, as is currently the case, are in line and go free while waiting to serve sentences imposed. Strengthened penalties also have a preventive effect. Prisons work, and so the punishments for gross women's freedom must be tightened up. It is time to move from words to deeds.
i-7e43566d258fe19a-384	Madam President, I would like It is the Liberals who have called today's debate, and that is no coincidence. Liberalism is about freedom. There is no greater restriction of freedom than being subjected to violation, control and abuse in one's own home, by a boyfriend, husband or parent, or by an entire collective. It is a total crushing of freedom for thousands of people every day, and they must get freedom back. We have to work on three fronts at the same time. It's about making visible and confronting the sick values that justify men's and boys' violence. It is a question of sustainable prevention. And when the crimes are committed after all, the perpetrators will receive clear punishment and the victims will receive the wholehearted support of society in order to move forward. A systematic preventive approach must start early in preschool and continue throughout school life. To counteract all forms of violence, honor-related violence and oppression, young guys' violence against girls and violence in same-sex relationships must be included. Too early to discover, we must systematically dare to ask about violence. But for that to happen, every teacher, counselor, school nurse, social worker and doctor must know what to do with the answer. Cooperation must be strengthened. Preventing violence against girls and women is an important work on gender equality. However, once the violence has taken place, it is serious crime and must be vigorously dealt with by the judiciary. The laws must be tightened up, including the prohibition of contact and the reduction of women's rights. However, it will not help unless the staff of public authorities are better informed and unless targeted resources are given priority in each budget at all levels. Support for victims of violence must be better and more long-term. Today, there is too often impunity when we fail to judge the perpetrators. Violent young girls and women must flee to be protected, to live hidden and, as they put it, unfree and forgotten. A change of perspective is required. Violence against children, young people, girls and women is a serious social problem. Authorities must work together and together form a wall of protection against the perpetrators so that each victim gets his or her freedom and security back. The striker shall be judged and served his sentence. In the event of a restraining order, the perpetrator must be forced to leave the home with reverse municipal arrest and wear a anklet. It is the abuser who will have his freedom limited; the one who gets beaten will get his freedom back. The home should be a safe place, not a crime scene.
i-7e43566d258fe19a-392	Madam President, I would like I wish there was a staircase to heaven so I could see my mother sometimes. Yes, 11 - year - old Jonathan's words have stuck in the hearts of many — the words after his mother was beaten to death by his father. Each year about 15 women are murdered by men who have been close to them. We stand here today because five more women have been murdered in the space of just a few weeks. Men's deadly violence against women is a global pandemic that must end. Contact bans must protect better. Fotboja needs to be used more. In case of suspicion of gross female poverty, it is the man who is to be locked up, not the woman and children who are to be forced to hide. Police and prosecutors must investigate these crimes with the highest priority, and the penalties for men's violence against women must be tightened. But society cannot wait until the crimes are a fact. Of the women who are murdered, we know that many had sought the support of society. We are going to tear down the walls that prevent the authorities from sounding the alarm on suspicion of a serious crime. Madam President, I would like We also need to vaccinate our children and stop explaining away boys' violence against girls with boys being boys. Love doesn't start fighting. In every room where sexual harassment takes place, a brotherhood and a sisterhood are needed to speak up. Silence cultures shall be replaced by a roar.
i-7e43566d258fe19a-398	Madam President, I would like Thank you for a good debate so far! I would like to start by saying that all of what you are proposing we have either already implemented or are about to implement. We have tightened the penalties, we have increased the police resources, we have greatly increased the support for women's shelters and we are now preparing even more measures. So what you are raising is in the vast majority of cases that we will be able to present to a greater extent in a time when we are finished with the list of measures that we are now preparing. But I would also like to broaden the debate a little. As Annie Lööf said, it is not only about punishment and police, but also about structural issues. What kind of structures are we building? What kind of ideology is behind some proposals here? Prevention must be strengthened. If men's violence against women is to stop, it is men who must change. Then we must also have the courage to have a discussion about that. But not only that; we also need to see the economic structures behind it. There is a strong connection between physical oppression and economic oppression. This goes hand in hand, and we must also be prepared to see that. There are some parties here that are running proposals that would go completely against increased equality. The most concrete proposal I am referring to is the proposal by the Swedish Democrats and the Christian Democrats to establish a custody allowance. What is the most important thing for a woman who wants to leave her husband? What is the most important thing she thinks about? Yes, it is: Do I have my own livelihood? Will I be able to do this? If she doesn't have her own livelihood, she risks being locked up in a destructive relationship year after year. Now we have proposals on the table from the Christian Democrats and from the Swedish Democrats to reintroduce a child care allowance of SEK 6 000 per month. No one can make a living on that. If you go forward with a custody allowance, this means that the woman becomes completely dependent on a male provider. My question to the Christian Democrats and Swedish Democrats who are now pushing this – it is on the table – is: do you not understand the link between physical repression and economic repression? Do you not understand that if you put forward these proposals and pursue this, you will lock women who would have to enter the labour market in this oppression? They will find it much harder to actually get out of it. Yes, I am happy to talk about police officers, penalties, bans on contact, more money for women's shelters, increased support in all possible ways and prevention. But do not forget that, if we are to overcome this, it is also a question of ensuring that those women who need to get out of this relationship also have the economic opportunities. And don't roll back gender equality decades with this kind of proposal!
i-7e43566d258fe19a-407	Madam President, I would like I was going to return the debate to the responsibility of the Minister of Justice. Unfortunately, it is not uncommon for the same people to commit repeated crimes in close relationships. Often that's what the pattern looks like in relationship violence. Unfortunately, it is very often a systematic offensive, systematic practice over a long period of time. When these crimes are committed, it is extremely central that we have penalties that relate both to the seriousness of the crimes and to the fact that they have been committed for a long time. There the question of the so-called quantity rebate comes into play, that is, the full penalty is imposed only for the most serious of the acts. In reality, many crimes, which can be very serious, may have no effect on the punishment. In this situation, a stricter view of multiple crime would have a major effect. As far as the Moderates are concerned, we have proposed replacing the current system. Is the Minister of Justice prepared to support us in this and change today's rules?
i-7e43566d258fe19a-411	Madam President, I would like Yes, I think we should tighten the penalties for those who relapse into crime. Anders Perklev, who holds the investigation that looks at gang crime, looks at this issue, among other things. The starting point is then the gang crime, but it will hit broad so that even men who relapse in this type of crime will thus be able to be punished harder. I will have his report shortly after the summer. When it comes to criminal law and police, I think we agree on most things, but when I still have Johan Forssell in front of me, I can't help but ask a few questions and let him think about the broader discussion: Does Johan Forssell understand how important it is to also go forward with preventive measures? Does Johan Forssell understand what he would do if he were to again push through a custody allowance that involves locking women in and keeping them away from the labour market to be at home and to look after children? Does he understand what it would mean to reverse gender equality in this area when it comes to men's violence against women?
i-7e43566d258fe19a-413	Madam President, I would like Today we have a situation of violence in close relationships where in reality 15 women are murdered by their husbands every year, and the Minister of Justice is standing on a regular basis and highlighting the custody allowance. We are all setting our priorities in this debate. I would like to remind the Minister of Justice of one thing, and that is that here there is a very broad majority in the Swedish Parliament. It is actually the case that all parties except the Social Democrats, the Green Party and the Left Party have repeatedly addressed announcements to Morgan Johansson, who has actually been Minister of Justice since 2014. The first announcement came already in 2015. It's been over six years. This should have changed already. The legislation should already have been in place. We should not have to stand in this Chamber and hear that various investigations are now being set up. It's a very dizzy awakening that may have finally arrived. What if Morgan Johansson had listened to these announcements long before? Then we would have been in a much better situation.
i-7e43566d258fe19a-416	Madam President, I would like I note that almost all the major reforms in this area have been carried through either by Social Democratic or Red-Green governments. I am talking about women's peace legislation, the Sex Purchase Act, human trafficking legislation and consent law, and now we are pushing through the child peace crime. Can Johan Forssell come up with one major reform that a moderate-led government has pushed through in this area? I can't, and I'm still quite interested in politics. I do not believe that a moderate government has pushed through a single reform in this area. We're the ones who've stood for it. When one highlights the connection between physical oppression and economic oppression, one always encounters this attitude of the Moderates. You sneeze and mock a little, it doesn't belong here, does it? Well, Madam President, I say it belongs here. If women who are victims of this oppression are to have an opportunity to leave their destructive relations, they must have an economic opportunity to do so. Then you have to be able to support yourself, and it is the carpet that Johan Forssell is now moving away from through the proposals regarding custody allowance.
i-7e43566d258fe19a-420	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by saying that I appreciate the open entry that many parties have in this debate when it comes to the harsher grips of men who abuse women. The open attitude has not always prevailed in Parliament and especially in the Committee on Justice, where these issues have been dealt with. Since 2013, when the law on gross women's freedom was last regulated, all parties except the Swedish Democrats have been satisfied with the outcome of the criminal regulation that provides a minimum sentence of nine months in prison. Now there is an open attitude. In fact, the broad debate calls for prison for two years at its lowest – from police officers working with violence in close relationships, criminologists working on these issues, women's shelters, etc. My question to the Minister of Justice is whether he is prepared to raise the sentence to at least two years in prison for gross female defamation.
i-7e43566d258fe19a-423	Madam President, I would like We are now working on a piece of legislation with regard to the serious crime against women's peace. First of all, let me remind you that it was a Social Democratic government that introduced this from the outset more than 20 years ago. Then we got the penalty scales up considerably in relation to what it had been like in the 90s. The bill currently in place is a penalty increase to one year in prison. However, I look forward to a discussion on how we can increase the possibilities for further detention of these men, because there are a few different ways to go. The counter-argument put forward by the investigator who looked at this was that, if one were to go too high, the courts would instead start to judge by the individual crimes and, if so, to lower penalties. That was the counter-argument in that part. Let us look at the possibilities ahead how we can increase detention and possibly also detention opportunities for these men. I have no objection to that at all, quite the opposite.
i-7e43566d258fe19a-427	Madam President, I would like I very much appreciate the legislation that came into place in 1998 on the very serious violation of women's rights, and which lays down a stricter penalty value for a wider context that is in itself more serious than the individual crimes that have taken place. I can also note that with the minimum prison sentence for nine months, which may be proposed to be one year, there are still a lot of problems when it comes to arrest. Although it is possible to arrest these persons immediately if they are in danger of influencing the investigation or committing new crimes and so on, it is said that there is a risk and that the prosecutor is required to do the job and interpret correctly. This possibility already exists today, but with two years of imprisonment as a minimum penalty, there will be compulsory detention, which means that women will not only have a longer period of freedom and will get away from men, which is well deserved in itself, but also a compulsory detention. I therefore look forward to more parties perhaps considering precisely two years of imprisonment as a minimum penalty.
i-7e43566d258fe19a-431	Madam President, I would like At least we need to consider how we can further detain these men. Now, perhaps, as Adam Marttinen has said, it should be remembered that in the vast majority of cases these men are detained because there is a risk that they will repeat the crime and also a risk that they will destroy the judicial process itself. There are already rules in place that allow for detention. That is the kind of question we are looking at. I also want Adam Marttinen to take on board the counter-argument. After all, it was the Prosecutor General Petra Lundh who did the investigation – I have it here – and she did not propose a penalty. She wanted to stay for nine months with the argument that there is otherwise a risk that the courts will start to judge for the individual crimes, to lower penalties. This makes it counterproductive. Nevertheless, I think that this argument should be taken into account. But let us see if there is any other way of perhaps further increasing the possibilities for the detention of these men. I think we should definitely do that.
i-7e43566d258fe19a-434	Madam President, I would like The National Centre for Women's Peace, NCK in Uppsala, lost its national knowledge mission in 2018 because the government needed to fill the newly established Gender Equality Agency with content. NCK operates the national vital support line Kvinnofridslinjen. They represent important training activities for a great many occupational categories. In addition, they have a unique connection to research and also to clinical activities, where they receive violent women. This cannot be recreated in an authority. From the Center Party we believe that NCK should regain the national knowledge mission, and they deserve secure basic funding so that their vital activities can once again be carried out in full scale. Is the government, as part of getting strong measures in place to stop men's violence against women, prepared to reconsider the decision and thereby reproduce the important national knowledge mission and also raise and permanent their basic funding?
i-7e43566d258fe19a-438	Madam President, I would like That is one of the issues we are working on now. We'll see where we end up in the end. We are three ministers– Märta Stenevi, myself and Mikael Damberg – who have the Prime Minister's mission to develop a list of measures that will be at least as ambitious as the 34-point programme against gang crime. I hope that we will be ready to present it shortly, in a few weeks' time. This is one of the questions. We're working wide. Not only will we look at criminal law, police, restraining orders, sexual offences and everything else that we already have going on, but we are also trying to find further measures to prevent these crimes and strengthen the structures around them. The activities of the NCK are discussed and included in the discussions we are currently conducting. Then Annie Lööf knows that there are processes internally in the Government Office where one must also take into account some other departments. But we'll get back to that when we're done.
i-7e43566d258fe19a-442	Madam President, I would like That sounds promising, but I know how budget negotiations are done. In fact, it is the Center Party that has made sure that there have been reinforcements to the country's women's shelters with more millions to NCK's important activities in recent years. We have really pushed both externally and internally to give the NCK the national knowledge mission. NCK conducts research, clinical activities and the national support telephone, which is vital. Action against men's violence against women must be linked to research and tried and tested methods. The National Centre for Women's Peace plays a crucial role here. But the Centre lost the mission in 2018, and the work is at risk of being lost. It would be a great loss for Sweden and Sweden to stop men's violence against women. I assume that if a list is presented, the government will give a knowledge assignment and a basic funding to NCK. Otherwise, the work will not be credible.
i-7e43566d258fe19a-444	Madam President, I would like We will present a wide range of measures. NCK is included in the talks we conduct with other departments. I'll do what I can to make sure we land right and right. The Centre Centres have been important in the last budget negotiations, but we actually made a huge effort on the women's shelters already in the last parliamentary term. When we took over 2014 the total support for the non-profit organisations and women's shelters was SEK 25 million. Last year it was SEK 150 million. In fact, the large increase occurred during the last parliamentary term. The budgetary issues are things that we can also continue to deal with in the framework of the January cooperation. The issue is one of the action plans we are now discussing.
i-7e43566d258fe19a-447	Madam President, I would like Morgan Johansson maintains for a long time that economic opportunities are also required to leave a man, which I fully agree with, of course. Last year, the Makalösa Parents Association produced an investigation that showed that a large proportion of the single parents – that's what happens if you leave a man – were worried if they could afford the food if the schools were to close. That is the situation. Part of the violence is about the man taking control of the economy. Morgan Johansson is part of a government that now intends to introduce shock-high rents, and the housing issue is very important here. If you're going to be able to leave your husband, you need a place to leave. How will market rents make it easier for women to leave a violent man? We also know that they need to leave the sheltered accommodations to move to an apartment.
i-7e43566d258fe19a-449	Madam President, I would like No, we are not going to introduce market rents. What we have made up, within the framework of the January cooperation, is free renting for new production. For newly produced dwellings you should initially be able to have a free rent. After some time, they should enter either a tariff or a negotiated rent. We have never agreed to any market rents for the existing stock, nor will we agree. That is where the previous principles will remain. We agree that in order for women to have a real opportunity to leave destructive conditions, they must have good basic conditions and good economic conditions. That is what this government will continue to work to achieve. This can be done through housing allowance, child benefit or other transfers. It is obvious to us that our equality policy is based on the possibility of self-sufficiency.
i-7e43566d258fe19a-451	Madam President, I would like The victim of violence is also exposed to the labour market. It is too many difficult to maintain a job, and the man has usually taken control of the account. 34 social workers wrote in Aftonbladet this week: 中 Both me and Morgan Johansson know that free renting is the same as market rents. Today we are negotiating rents, and that is why we can control rent development. This government wants to take that away. I think this is a hard blow to women. Even if you come to a sheltered accommodation, you also need to be able to leave the accommodation. Otherwise it will be difficult for other women to get into the shelter. There are stopping effects, and we are completely closing the housing market for these women. Why is Morgan Johansson hitting the door in the face of these women?
i-7e43566d258fe19a-454	Madam President, I would like What Nooshi Dadgostar claims is wrong. We do not impose market rents. What we are saying is that in the case of new dwellings, what is being built, which represents approximately 1% of the total housing stock each year, free renting should be possible. However, it does not affect the existing stock. We have agreed to set free rent for the new homes. It's wrong when she claims it affects that way. If we are going to talk about housing policy, I can say that during our government period we have almost doubled housing construction, not least rental apartments. More rental apartments are being built now than has been built in nearly 30 years. It has been an effect of the investment aid that we have put in place for the production of housing. The investment aid means that the rents can be squeezed down on the newly produced apartments. It's wrong when Nooshi Dadgostar claims we're setting up market rents. We don't. On the contrary, investment aid leads to more housing being built than for a very long time.
i-7e43566d258fe19a-457	Madam President, I would like It is a good thing that Morgan Johansson wants to raise the minimum penalty for gross female poverty. We Christian Democrats have been exercising on it for years. We exercised about it last year, but the motion was voted down in Parliament's chambers, among other things, by the Social Democrats. The reason for this was that the committee noted that the increase in the penalties imposed in 2013 has led to an increase in the length of sentences for serious women's poverty and serious violations of peace. Against this background, the committee was not prepared to support the motion for a resolution on further punitive measures. A year ago, the Social Democrats were opposed, but after five tragic murders in three weeks, the government is moving quickly. Why did you wait so long to act, Morgan Johansson?
i-7e43566d258fe19a-459	Madam President, I would like Andreas Carlson has employees who should reasonably be able to find the documents that show how the process has been done. The investigation I'm holding here in my hand, I received last fall. There was a basis for proposing a tightening up of the penalty for gross women's freedom. It was District Attorney Petra Lundh who was behind the investigation. Why was the investigation carried out? Well, it was because I set up the investigation two years ago. Not only did I set up the investigation, but I told them in the investigation that they were going to propose a penalty for gross women's freedom. Andreas Carlson should know this. Yet he tries the cheap spin, which means that the government has probably been against tightening up the penalty for gross women's freedom, but now we have turned in just two weeks. It's completely wrong. I set up this investigation two years ago. The report was submitted last autumn. It is in the light of this report that we can now move to the Legislative Council with proposals for a penalty. Don't try, Andreas Carlson!
i-7e43566d258fe19a-463	Madam President, I would like I think that Morgan Johansson knows much more about this than I do, not least in the light of previous contributions here in the debate. Yes, I have associates, absolutely. But Morgan Johansson also has fellow party members, and his fellow party members wrote exactly what I read out in the proposal that the Social Democrats voted for in the vote here, when they rejected the tightening of the penalty. It was argued that the punishment that took place in 2013 has led to an increase in the length of sentences for gross female poverty and gross peace reduction, and against that background it was not prepared to support our proposal to tighten the penalty. Yeah, maybe they were wrong. But don't tell me I'm wrong, Morgan Johansson, when I quote your own party friends! They justified why the Social Democrats, when we voted here a year ago, were not in favour of tightening up the penalties for gross discrimination against women. Or do you not know what you are doing in the Social Democrats?
i-7e43566d258fe19a-466	Madam President, I would like Yes, but Andreas Carlson knows that we set up this investigation two years ago. Hopefully, he also knows that I said in the investigation: now put forward proposals for tightening up gross women's freedom! That's why the proposal came. When it came, it turned out that the investigator did not want to propose a punitive tightening up of the treatment of women, but did so anyway because the directives looked that way. It is against the background of what we have a basis to work with at all. Then there are many different reasons for rejecting motions in Parliament. One reason that is usually stated is that there are ongoing investigations. Of course, I cannot answer how the reports are written in Parliament, but perhaps one should have had a sentence referring to the ongoing investigation. However, that does not make Andreas Carlson's spin any better, because he is trying to get the picture out that what I proposed two years ago and drove two years ago has not existed at all, and that is wrong.
i-7e43566d258fe19a-470	Madam President, I would like We're talking about a restraining order and a anklet. There is another problem there, and it is about the size of the area. We know that it is about women's freedom, that it must be broadened, but also about women's security. In sparsely populated areas, for example, reports indicate that it may be difficult to make it when the alarm goes off. I think that is an important question. Morgan Johansson! Can you imagine expanding so that it becomes an entire municipality or a larger area? The next question is when a guardian is convicted of the murder of the other guardian. We are looking at it now, but is it possible to take another step and ensure that it is the norm that the guardian who is convicted of murder loses custody of his child?
i-7e43566d258fe19a-473	Madam President, I would like As far as the geographical area is concerned, it must be looked at on a case-by-case basis. According to our assessment, there are already the possibilities that Juno Blom is asking for. A mission could be given to some authority to see how it is applied. But the legal possibilities already exist, at least as I have been described to me. When it comes to guardians, we now propose – there is a bill at Parliament's table – the possibility of temporary guardians just in case of murder. There's the foundation, and I definitely think it should be, that if you kill your partner, of course, you shouldn't have custody. It's kind of the starting point. But there may be special cases. One is if the woman kills the man after having been the victim of violence herself, perhaps for many years. Does this mean that in the individual case it would not be possible for her to retain custody of the children? Therefore, such a valve or possibility is needed – in order to take these cases into account.
i-7e43566d258fe19a-477	Madam President, I would like Then I think it's important to bear in mind that if you're convicted of murder, it's not about self-defense or causing someone else's death. It is in those cases where we are convicted of murder that we wish for this, and in those cases you raise it will not be so. With regard to the extension of the ban on contact, I have spoken to many prosecutors who themselves say that it is unclear in the preparatory work. We are not really looking at the safety risk, but at the principle of proportionality, which causes difficulties to arise, so I believe that there is a need to look at it more closely. Another thing I'm thinking about is individual death investigations. We know they're made today. I have been involved in such things myself, so I know how they are done, and I really think they need to be tightened up. We have much to learn to prevent this from happening.
i-7e43566d258fe19a-480	Madam President, I would like As far as the issue of geography is concerned, I am happy to look at its application. In fact, I had the question raised with my officials as late as today, and we discussed what is really going on. Is it possible to extend this in such a way that safety is effectively maintained? The assessment that has been made, at least so far, is that it is possible. Then, of course, we know that there is sometimes a fear in some practitioners to test the rules. We might wish that sometimes to be done to see where the legal possibilities are. But we would be happy to look further at the application. As far as murder and self-defense are concerned, it may be a situation in which a woman who has been the victim of this violence for a long time and finally kills her partner is still convicted of murder. In those special cases, I think there should be room for her to keep custody of the children. That's the background to the writing. ( THIRD VICE TALMANN: I would like to remind you, in all humility, of the speech in this House. According to the Swedish parliamentary practice, the speech in this House is so that we address ourselves to the President and thus indirectly to the Members of this House, including the one with which we have a change of line. We do not use you or you in the debate. )
i-7e43566d258fe19a-485	Madam President, I would like In my previous speech, I highlighted several of the things that we Moderates have been pushing in this House in recent years. It's about sharper penalties. It is about the increased use of the anklet for those who misbehave. This is about increased funding for the country's women's shelters. In many of these areas, concrete results are still lacking. Talking about social problems can certainly be important, but it cannot replace concrete reforms or clear legislation. It is important to emphasise that all crimes in Sweden should be combated. We should be extremely clear in our view of the freedom of every human being. We do not accept when people's freedom is violated. If that happens, we will use the power of our rule of law to investigate the crimes, to prosecute those who are guilty and to give the victims redress. By showing that there is a clear consequence, we also mark how seriously we view these crimes. At the same time as we should be relentless in combating crime, we should remember another perspective: We do not have collective debt in Sweden, be it gender, background or origin. Every human being is ultimately responsible for his own actions. That does not mean, Madam President, that Sweden is free from either structures or standards – quite the contrary, indeed. Basically, though, we should remember that a very small number of individuals are involved in this crime. Far from all men beat women. The vast majority of people would never think of it, and they'd be horribly upset when they take part in different legal cases-- so, in fact, I myself. Much time has been wasted unnecessarily in this important area of society. A lot of things should have been in place already years ago. We can do it again, but now is the time to move from words to deeds and to ensure that with a completely different force we prosecute the people who commit these crimes, restore these women and protect more from this terrible violence.
i-7e43566d258fe19a-491	Madam President, I would like Sweden has one of the best laws in the world. It's about women's peace, sexual crimes and violence against children. This is not a coincidence, because we have had a very strong women's shelter movement that has borne the voices of women and children and helped to enforce good legislation. It certainly needs to be looked at, but it has not in fact been private and municipal actors who have most strongly driven these issues. We now see in many municipalities that women's shelters and their shelters are procured and privatised and placed in the hands of private venture capital companies. We last saw in a municipality how a criminal suspect ran a shelter. They usually have no knowledge of how to do this, and the knowledge and experience of the whole women's shelter movement disappears in this work.
i-7e43566d258fe19a-494	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Nooshi Dadgostar, for the question! Let me once again inculcate what I said in my first speech: the country's women's shelters are doing an extremely important job in support of a great many women who are in great need. We, the Moderates, have added to our budget the already increased funding for the country's women's shelters. A frequently recurring question is that there is a tremendous twitch in the appropriations. Different increases are made with a year's horizon. This, of course, makes it more difficult to have a good business over time. That is why we on the Moderate side have expressed that there should be a longer planning horizon. Then I differ from the Left Party in that I don't think the most important thing is who runs a women's shelter, or really any business. The most important thing is quality. I know several examples where quality is high, which has been highlighted, despite the fact that it is not carried out in public. I would have liked us to have looked more at the quality and funding and perhaps cared a little less about who is doing the work.
i-7e43566d258fe19a-497	Madam President, I would like It is therefore not private companies or venture capital companies that run women's shelters – it is a non-profit business. This is about sheltered accommodations, houses that you set up. The municipality often requires different things that you don't know much about. On the other hand, it has the large women's shelter movement. It has been around for years and built up a great deal of knowledge, which we barely have in our educations today. The problem is that this whole knowledge will disappear if we instead put the entire shelter in the hands of commercial companies. They do not have this knowledge. I talk to a lot of women's shelters who say that the women call from the commercial residents and call for help, because there is no knowledge. We have rather poor control over who controls these accommodations. Is it troubling to the Moderates that it looks like this? It is, of course, the municipal funding of sheltered housing that is the big one for women's shelters.
i-7e43566d258fe19a-500	Madam President, I would like It is a problem if the quality is not high enough. But to say, as the Left Party, that this is a matter of operation – for the Left Party, it is always wrong with private initiatives, and things should always happen in the public domain – I think is to simplify a lot. I know several examples that many are pleased that this is not done in public. In fact, I think you should have a mix and perhaps allow yourself a greater diversity than the Left Party wants. Then I would like to return to the basic issue, which I raised first. This is also about funding and, as we Moderates have pointed out, both providing increased funding and doing so over a longer period of time. But to think that it would be a miracle solution not to have other alternatives other than those publicly driven, I think, could lead to a great deal of error and actually affect many women who are in a very vulnerable situation.
i-7e43566d258fe19a-503	Madam President, I would like As I said in my change of line with the Minister for Justice, I very much appreciate the open mind with which the representatives of many parties enter this debate. But it is worth recalling that this has not always been the case. I mentioned the example of gross female poverty, where there was criminalisation in 2013 when the minimum sentence was raised from six to nine months in prison. At that time it was only in this House that the Swedish Democrats called for the minimum penalty to be increased more than that. Since then, the Swedish Democrats have been exercising every year to raise the minimum penalty for gross female poverty. Most parties have called for rejection on the grounds that they are satisfied with the outcome of the penalisation that took place in 2013. These parties include the Center Party, the Left Party and, above all, the Government Parties. So that is why we have the situation we have today, where the penalties imposed for gross women's poverty are, on average, 12 to 13 months in prison. It is clear that many vulnerable women value and take a stand on whether this prison time of 12 – 13 months is worth the effort to process a trial for perhaps more than a year before you get a conviction. In addition, add the two-thirds release that many parties here want these men to be entitled to as long as they undergo treatment. The result of the treatment is insignificant. So there is much to do in the future. I take note of all the words of this debate. As an opposition politician, I will call for the new insights to be translated into action by more parties.
i-7e43566d258fe19a-508	Madam President, I would like For the Swedish Democrats, men's violence against women is a so-called imported problem. That is exactly how it sounds when you cannot see outside your own xenophobic bubble or your own racist mind figures. But the truth is that men's violence against women has been a social problem generation after generation. Anyone who is prepared to take responsibility seriously does not get caught up in the name or background of the perpetrator and does not mention, as in Adam Marttinen's main speech, only examples of women in niqab. Instead, one looks at what is to be done to change the situation for all women, through both stricter penalties and preventive measures. Part of this is to change norms and structures early, and here preschools and schools have a very important work on gender and gender patterns. It is important that we do a great deal of work to change attitudes at a young age. What do the Swedish Democrats think? And why do you think it is so wrong to learn about equality early in life and to increase respect and understanding between girls and boys and between men and women? These are Swedish values, but the Swedish Democrats are against this in school and preschool.
i-7e43566d258fe19a-512	Madam President, I would like This is a little bit of a problem when you bring a written script to a debate that is alive. In fact, I began my introductory speech by saying that men's violence against women does not originate in an individual country or region, but is everywhere. On the other hand, there is one aspect to be taken into account in this debate, namely that it is very difficult for some women to gain acceptance for making police reports when they are exposed to men's violence in relations. I mentioned an example that reflects this particular problem. Imams around, who have a very strong influence on local communities, urge women who have been beaten to apologize to the men who have abused them and never to contact the police. It is clear that this is a cultural context that is alien to a great many people in our country but that we must take very seriously if we really want equality to prevail on every square inch of our country. With the entrance that Annie Lööf has, I doubt that's her ambition as well.
i-7e43566d258fe19a-515	Madam President, I would like Men's violence against women is a social problem. Whether you are Ali, Bengt or Martin, you should be judged harshly for the crimes you commit. In fact, just a few days ago your own party leader called the violence of men against women an imported problem. He also said that it was about to eradicate the phenomenon of men's violence against women but that it has changed over the last decade. It is for this reason that I am now asking the question of norms, values and attitudes in preschool and school – gender pedagogy, which the Swedish Democrats are so against. Why are the Swedish Democrats opposed to actively working with attitudes, norms and gender in preschools and schools? It is of course a very important part in early in the ages teaching boys and younger men how to behave in society.
i-7e43566d258fe19a-518	Madam President, I would like J ag thinks it is widely known and many times has been pointed out in this Assembly that Swedish gender equality stands out very well internationally. That is to say, we have come a very long way in our work of having equal conditions between women and men. This is not to say that there are no very serious problems left, not least with regard to the penalties that Annie Lööf has voted against since 2013 regarding violence against women in close relationship, gross female poverty. The Center Party has been satisfied with the penalties that have existed. There have been justified refusals on which I can show minutes. To mark against attitudes and norms I have absolutely no problem with. I think it is important that we teach young people to show respect for each other and make clear where the limit is. But we must also be able to see the problems that have established themselves in our society through immigration to Sweden and segregation. There is the Swedish gender equality far away. Unfortunately, segregation and inequality have been cultivated.
i-7e43566d258fe19a-521	Madam President, I would like In Sunday's party leader debate, Adam Marttinen's party leader said that men's violence against women is an imported problem and that the problems in Sweden are almost eradicated. It's spitting exposed women in the face and denying what they've been through. Or maybe it's saying that what happened in the Paradise Hotel was okay. Madam President, I would like I would like to ask Adam Marttinen whether he stands by his party's policy of inequality, the policy which would increase the income gap between men and women. Does he stand by the housewife's allowance, which would lead, in particular, to women with immigrant backgrounds and low education, who are far from the labour market, to a higher risk of becoming housewives and, in addition, to a higher risk of honour-related violence and oppression?
i-7e43566d258fe19a-523	Madam President, I would like What came out in the debate last Sunday was that there was an important parameter – the very word out of which was repeated by my party leader Jimmie Åkesson – and there are problems related to the immigration we have had in recent decades. I gave a fairly clear example of this in my main speech. There are women who live in huge cultural segregation and feel that they cannot contact the police if they are abused. They are advised to apologize to their husband when they have been abused. It is a kind of problem that I think we should take more seriously instead of trying to polarise false images of what our respective parties think. Then there are very serious problems with men who abuse women in our country, Swedes as foreigners. There, the Swedish Democrats have suggested that men, regardless of their origins, who abuse women should leave society and go to prison. Several parties, including the Green Party, have voted against this.
i-7e43566d258fe19a-525	Madam President, I would like Adam Marttinen does not answer any of my questions, but it is good that he rejects the statements made by his party leader in the party leader debate on Sunday. My questions are about the policy pursued by Adam Marttinen, which puts more women at risk of honour-related violence and oppression. Research studies show that women who do not have their own work and livelihoods in an honorary context are at risk of becoming more vulnerable, and that when women are provided, honor-related violence and oppression are reduced. But Adam Marttinen's custody allowance or, as I like to call it, housewife's allowance, is counterproductive, counteracts gender equality and increases vulnerability to violence, especially when it comes to women with a different background than Swedish.
i-7e43566d258fe19a-527	Madam President, I would like Nevertheless, I would like to stress the importance of individual responsibility for their own actions. I don't think a custody allowance would automatically result in the man starting to abuse his woman. This is about criminal activities that we want to combat. Men's violence against women is about crime. When it comes to crime, we have far-reaching proposals on how we can separate women from the violent men, including by increasing the minimum penalty for serious women's freedom, which the Green Party has opposed. We have also opened up to understand that some men will never be able to be rehabilitated, and then it is important that those men who repeatedly relapse into crime and receive fixed-term punishments, come out and abuse women again have to remain in prison as long as they pose a risk to women. This is also something the Green Party is opposed to. I would say that there is quite a considerable difference in approach to most things. But when it comes to protecting women who are victims of crime, the Green Party stands very weak.
i-7e43566d258fe19a-531	Madam President, I would like I can inform you that the Swedish Democrats were so proud that they called it an imported problem that they printed their own signs and sent out in social media. Men's violence against women is a social problem that holds more human fate than can be counted. It is women who have paid with their lives because society and we politicians have not had the ability to take responsibility. It's the neighbor, the colleague or the brother. What happens behind closed doors. These are looks that choose not to see, neighbors who dare not knock and who may try hard not to understand. We must do everything, both as fellow citizens and as politicians. It's in the homes the violence is happening. It's the most dangerous place for a woman to be. During the pandemic, more and more people have had to isolate themselves together with their violators. We have to act. It is about security, freedom and the future. Firstly, we need to strengthen law enforcement efforts in order to have more convictions. Specialist expertise in violence in close relationships and sexual crimes must be available throughout the country, and the skills of those who, in their professional role, come into contact with the victims need to be increased. Secondly, legislation needs to be tightened up and penalties increased. Automatic restraining order should be imposed in the event of a conviction, and electronic anklet must be used in many more cases of restraining order. We also want to criminalise controlling behaviour. And thirdly, knowledge needs to be raised, and we need to maximise prevention. The evaluation work in preschool and school is particularly important. These are measures that have been implemented over the years but have not been sufficient, far from it. We all have to take responsibility. We need to show momentum, be able to come to an agreement and make changes in order to protect all women and children who are at risk of having their lives destroyed. Let us not miss the opportunity!
i-7e43566d258fe19a-539	Madam President, I would like If a man is reported for violence, he usually strikes again. Violence is escalating. The moment a woman leaves is the most dangerous time. Then the authorities must not fail. We must stop it taking time, give ear to something while the woman is alive, so try whoever commits the crimes and do everything in our power to prevent these crimes from happening. I am therefore concerned that the government, in its proposal on child custody, does not see what role this plays, that the ocial service is drained on the resources of both bourgeois municipal politicians and through the government's tax cuts, that there has not been a thorough training of the whole legal chain and, most importantly, that ensuring long-term funding of women's shelters is not at the top of the agenda. My friend Isabell writes: I can't help but remember how my mother called the police when her then common-law, later murderer, threatened to shoot herself with her hunting rifle when she wanted to leave him. After that, she and I lived a few days at the women's shelter for protection. After that, she left him. So she did everything right. But those who have knowledge of the mechanisms behind men's violence also know that the time when women want to leave or leave a violent relationship is the most dangerous. But the police didn't realize the threat. She was only 38 years old. I'm almost 32. She never saw my children, her grandchildren. She never got free from the violent man, even though she tried. Don't ever let it happen again! The Left Party is prepared to do all it takes.
i-7e43566d258fe19a-543	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking the Liberals, who initiated this very urgent debate. There have been many words in the debate. I note that there are still a number of points where there is consensus. I think it is time to take action. The Christian Democrats have asked for the party leader talks that took place a while ago to be followed up with concrete negotiations so that we can move forward and actually take real action. We can review the work of the government over the last seven years, but the most important thing is to look forward and seriously move from words to action. We are about to put a line on this debate. But the issue will continue to work on until we have reached zero women murdered by men. It is time to move from words to deeds.
i-7e43566d258fe19a-546	Madam President, I would like The last point concerns negotiations. We considered it, of course. But the problem is that it is hardly worthwhile starting negotiations with the Christian Democrats and the Moderates these days. You always leave the negotiations anyway. And if things are agreed with you, it often takes only 15 minutes or six months or something like that before you leave the outcome of the negotiations. In fact, it is a problem that you find it difficult to stand for this. But the question I'm going to ask Andreas Carlson is about the financial repression and custody allowance. Our entry, the entry of Social Democracy, into gender equality policy has always been to have one's own livelihood. Everyone should be able to have their own livelihood. It is extremely important for freedom and for security. You are now proposing a custody allowance that will lock many women into an addiction to their husbands. Then my question to Andreas Carlson is: How will a woman who goes on custody allowance be able to leave her violent husband?
i-7e43566d258fe19a-548	Madam President, I would like I understand that Morgan Johansson is looking for straws in this debate to get into the issue of self-sufficiency and at the same time try to avoid the fact that the government he represents promised Europe's lowest unemployment but that we are sinking like a stone and heading towards Europe's highest unemployment. Who, then, are most affected? Yes, those who are farthest from the labour market. Outsidership deepens. It is often women who do not enter and who are many years away from the labour market because the government has failed miserably with its labour market policy. That could be debated. However, the government chooses to raise a small amount of care support for children when they are at their very least and pretend that this is the big problem in terms of both integration and men's violence against women. Come with something better, Morgan Johansson!
i-7e43566d258fe19a-550	Madam President, I would like Last time I looked at the Christian Democrats' budget motion, you had set aside 1.2 billion to do this. Andreas Carlson says: Sweden has the highest female employment rate in the EU. There is no country in Europe that has a higher proportion of working women than Sweden. And that's not a coincidence. It is a wide range of reforms that have enabled this to happen – the expansion of childcare facilities, special taxation, modern parental insurance and much more. These are reforms that the Christian Democrats have not rarely opposed as soon as they have had the opportunity. Now, as I said, they're proposing a custody allowance. The Christian Democrats must therefore pay women for not working and for their children not to be allowed to attend preschool, childcare. That is the concrete meaning. Then I say, no one can survive on a custody allowance. If you lock women in this way, they'll have a lot more difficulty taking the step out of a destructive relationship. That is what I want Andreas Carlson to relate to.
i-7e43566d258fe19a-553	Madam President, I would like I understand very well that Morgan Johansson wants me to take this into account while trying to duck the question of the total failure of labour market policy. We are discussing such a serious issue as the issue of men's violence against women – five women have been murdered in three weeks. Then he pretends that it's about support for parents so that they can stay home a little longer with their children if they think it suits their children better. Many children do not enjoy pre-school settings too early, but feel good from getting a little better connections and staying home for a few months longer. He means that if we get rid of this, we have solved the problem of both integration and unemployment, as well as men's violence against women. It befits a Minister of Justice to keep a little higher in a debate that deals with such a serious subject as the one we are debating today. That is my firm opinion.
i-KTa1BPGWLpYAh1wAc16KTM	Madam President, I would like In their report on gender equality, the Christian Democrats have proposed pepper spray and self-defence course in combination with police and judicial action as measures to protect women and girls from violence. Jointly with the proposals in the report, they aim to counter the consequences of men's violence when it is already too late. It is a package of measures without preventive and proactive measures, which dismiss gender education as something that takes the focus from the real gender equality challenges. Why are Christian Democrats intimidated by young boys and men learning more about gender equality and more about gender patterns and about the conditions and respect for boys and girls early in life? To me, it sounds like the Christian Democrats are putting responsibility for our unequal society on the knees of the girls and women. Is that the new feminism of the Christian Democrats?
i-7e43566d258fe19a-558	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Annie Lööf, for the question! No, it's not. I would have liked us not to have put forward proposals on pepper spray and support for women, for example. But we note that reality looks like it does. We have preventive measures. We've got bets on the police. We have investments in the entire judicial system. But we also see that, because of the government's failure in this area, support measures are justified for those women who are worried about going out at night. Every third woman is worried about being out by herself at night. The risk of sexual crime has tripled over the last six seven years. When it comes to preschool, we firmly believe that preschool educators need more time with the children. We want a maximum ceiling for the size of the children's groups. And we believe that the care, support and love that preschool's fantastic educators can provide is perfect to provide a safe foundation in life and a foundation for gender equality as well.
i-7e43566d258fe19a-561	Madam President, I would like I subscribe to many of the actions of the Christian Democrats. We also want to tighten the penalties and give women and children exposed to men's violence the protection and support they need. We have also put forward a wide range of proposals in these areas. But it is also a question of understanding the underlying problem, that we live in a society with patriarchal structures. We must fight them early and work on attitudes and standards. I hear the Christian Democrats ralliing over gender pedagogy as a symbolic measure and so on. That is why I wonder: Why are Christian Democrats against gender education in preschool and school? And how exactly does feminism benefit from denying young men a greater knowledge of gender structures and the different conditions and conditions that exist for girls and boys?
i-7e43566d258fe19a-564	Madam President, I would like No, we are not denying anyone these opportunities. But we think it is wrong to give priority, for example, to pre-school educators – who I think it was designed in one of the proposals we were opposed – to challenge young children, one to two-year-olds, to make sex stereotyping choices. I do not think that is where the key lies to a more equal society and to combating men's violence against women. Children need to be seen, cared for, and receive love and encouragement. But of course they also need to know where the limits are, and that is much, much better achieved by having more educators on fewer children. Then they get as safe a start as it only goes early in life. We also trust that preschool educators, who do an extremely important job, can do this without pointers from the state to challenge young children not to choose a truck or dock. That can be done in a different way, we mean.
i-7e43566d258fe19a-567	Madam President, I would like Genusflum – that expression coined the Christian Democrats when they talked about the preschool curriculum. Preschool curriculum they called point sticks. Preschool is the first place where society takes responsibility for children. And when society is responsible, we must ensure that both boys and girls develop fully. We must combat destructive masculinity standards right from the start. 'Cause no boy's gonna grow up thinking it's okay to hit. No boy should hear that love starts with trouble. And no girl is going to hear that she's going to put up with being pulled by her hair. The Christian Democrats do not understand how the norms that society conveys to boys and girls affect their development. Nor do they understand how violence escalates.
i-7e43566d258fe19a-570	Madam President, I would like I would like to ask Annika Hirvonen a simple question: At which preschool in Sweden are boys told that it is okay to beat girls even without this supplement in the curriculum? Which preschool teacher, as it is today, thinks it's okay? Unauthorising pre-school educators in the way that the Green Party and some others do is unworthy. They're doing an amazing job. They're working. They don't need these touchsticks. I would like to ask the question again: at which preschool in Sweden are boys told today that it is okay to beat girls?
i-7e43566d258fe19a-573	Madam President, I would like It is not about me or anyone else thinking that someone actively encourages this. It's about how to treat children when they fight, because children do. We believe that gender education is central to Swedish preschools. I have another question for the Christian Democrats. Why did you cut down 100 million in the work against honour-related violence and oppression in this year's budget?
i-7e43566d258fe19a-575	Madam President, I would like I think it was very good that Annika Hirvonen corrected her post from the first round. I hope that the preschool educators I guess feel trampled on their toes and incorrectly treated by describing reality in the way that Annika Hirvonen did in her first post also heard this. It was good that she partially corrected it. No, we did not reduce the funds, we moved them to other investments. We invest a lot in our budget to combat honour violence and culture, but we also do so with the proposals we have put forward in the Swedish Parliament.
i-7e43566d258fe19a-577	Madam President, I would like Five men kill five women during a three-week period in one of the world's most equal countries. In two of these cases, it's about young girls. Report after report shows that young girls are extremely vulnerable. According to Brå, almost one in four young girls between 16 and 24 years of age have been victims of crime in their relationship. For many of these young girls, it is the first relationship, and in it they are subjected to violence. The fact that society has done no more to protect these girls' freedom is both irresponsible and a betrayal. Here it is important to also highlight children and young people who are exposed to honour-related violence and oppression. It is an especially vulnerable group when it comes to violence in young people's partner relationships, as girls are not allowed to have relationships at all. If they are then subjected to violence in the relationship, they cannot tell anyone close to them because it involves the risk of continued violence from the relatives. The young violent guy often knows about this and can use it as a means of exerting pressure. In order to stop men's violence against women and honour-related violence, it is absolutely crucial that we start by counteracting young guys' violence against young girls. Targeted initiatives are needed for schools, youth clinics, social services, health care and the judiciary regarding support, protection and measures for children and young people who have both been victims of and practice this type of violence. This is my last speech in the debate, and I thank you for having had a good debate. You were convinced that you were sitting and making points, that you had a list of things you wanted to do and that you had a short time. I share the view that we should in some way really raise our eyes and ensure that the reality that prevails at the moment will cease. It is not worthy of Sweden.
i-7e43566d258fe19a-582	Madam President, I would like To overcome the gross and deadly violence against women in close relationships, we need to work on several levels. We need to work preventively to ensure that the first battle is never awarded, we need to strengthen protection so that women feel safe to leave a relationship where they are subjected to violence and we need to punish perpetrators – and that already at an earlier stage than when the violence has escalated into a murder. Knowledge of how we prevent violence must be strengthened as well as knowledge of how we treat those who have been exposed. That is why more research is needed. The work against men's violence against women has been central to my commitment and an important priority for the Green Party. I was there when we took a ten-year job for a consent law in case. The exercise on sexuality, consent and relationships in school that I have written is now becoming a reality. We have made a number of efforts to combat honour-related violence and oppression. And more is coming. It is very important that we have this debate today to show our positions against men's violence against women and for action. But words are not enough. I have high expectations of the government's planned action plan against men's violence against women. I also have high expectations of all parties participating here today. I want you to give priority to the work on gender equality and against men's violence against women also on the day we vote on the budget and on the day we decide on housing policy so that no woman has to choose between homelessness and continued violence. The efforts of some parties seem to focus unilaterally on punishing when the crimes have already been committed. But our goal is that the first battle should never be dealt.
i-7e43566d258fe19a-587	Madam President, I would like Annika Hirvonen says that it is important to prioritise these issues. So do I. I would like to dwell a little on the extent to which the Green Party has given priority to these issues or not. It's one thing to talk about changes. But what really counts is concrete action and how to press the button when things come up for vote in this House. The Green Party has not only voted once and again against a number of important punitive measures in order for men who beat and abuse women to be met with a stricter view from the rule of law. It is a question of more stringent penalties in the event of severe female defamation. It's about more men who violate the restraining order being forced to wear a anklet. It is a question of abolishing the quantity rebate which means that you can commit a great many crimes in these relationships but still only be sentenced to the full penalty for the most serious of them. How does this vote reconcile with Annika Hirvonen's rhetoric?
i-7e43566d258fe19a-590	Madam President, I would like What we have voted against is not a sharp change of law, but a letter to the government telling the government to make a change, the same government in which we are sitting and which has just been working on the change that Johan Forssell is talking about. These include, for example, better opportunities for a anklet in the event of a ban on contact at the time of the first decision and more stringent penalties for severe women's poverty. I am pleased that Johan Forssell also wants to tighten up the penalty for gross women's freedom, even if he does not want to go as far as we in the Green Party. But it is good that there are proposals in the area of penalties. I wonder what the Moderates want to do so that the first battle will never be dealt.
i-7e43566d258fe19a-593	Madam President, I would like Annika Hirvonen should be a little more careful with her description here because it is not really true. As far as several of these things are concerned, we are still waiting for feedback from the government. For example, if we take the issue of the quantity rebate, people who systematically abuse women receive very generous penalty rebates. These people actually receive the full penalty only for the most serious crime. We made an announcement on this already six years ago. The investigation referred to earlier here concerns gang crime. It is not quite applicable in this area to that extent. It is not comparable to the abolition of the quantity discount. Since the Green Party is a government party, which was underlined here, the answer is still guilty. It is one thing to stand here and speak and call on other parties to give priority to this. But how credible is the Green Party if it has not actually voted in favour of a stricter view of men who beat women in concrete action in this House at the time of the vote?
i-7e43566d258fe19a-597	Madam President, I would like The Minister of Justice showed, among other things, the investigation that the government has ordered about increased punishment for women's peace crimes and increased opportunities to use a anklet. There are also more stringent penalties for honour crimes in the same investigation. It is a work that started a long time earlier and that takes a little longer than it does to write a simple sentence in a motion in Parliament and which is not actually a sharp bill. I regret that Johan Forssell did not now give an example of some preventive measure that the Moderates want to take to ensure that the first battle is never dealt. It is important to have proportionate penalties when crimes have been committed. But it is even more important that we do not get victims from the outset.
i-7e43566d258fe19a-599	Madam President, I would like Between 2018 and 2019 it was decided on a ban on contact with a anklet in six cases. During the same period, a decision was taken to extend the ban on contact without electronic monitoring in 34 cases. At the same time, about 15 women are killed each year by their partner, and 9 000 women reported violence in a close relationship last year. The lack of support of society cannot be more obvious than that. There are now many of us who see the need to introduce an automatic restraining order in the event of a conviction and an electronic ankle in the event of a restraining order. But here the Green Party and also their government partner the Social Democrats seem to find it difficult to fight hard. Annika Hirvonen said here earlier that words are not enough. The statistics speak clearly. That is why I now ask: why does the Green Party not want to increase the protection of women by giving more people an electronic anklet already in the case of an ordinary ban on contact?
i-7e43566d258fe19a-602	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by thanking Annie Lööf for her commitment to these issues and, not least, for being clear about speaking out and demanding political action when she wrote her speech on Facebook. Words are very important, and action is even more important. Therefore, our parties in the government have collected proposals, not only from other parties but also from non-profit organisations that work against men's violence against women. One of the proposals that we are pushing is that one should be able to wear a anklet in case of more contact bans. We did a piece of legislation that would make this possible a few years ago. It is clear that this does not happen in practice. Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, it is often the case in the area of equality policy that there is too little use of the opportunities available. That is why we need to tighten the regulatory framework in order for more people to get a anklet in the event of a restraining order.
i-7e43566d258fe19a-605	Madam President, I would like Words are not enough, as Annika Hirvonen said, but it is concrete action that applies. Among other things, it is about what I raised with Morgan Johansson about giving NCK a national knowledge mission back. The Green Party took it away. It is also a question of more women living in vulnerable situations not having to face their perpetrator because this person does not wear an electronic anklet. The ban on contact must be strengthened. Words are not enough, but women must be able to feel safe. Is the Green Party prepared to go as far as is necessary to protect vulnerable women and to stand by its word that no woman should be murdered by her partner and thus open up to give more electronic anklet even in the case of an ordinary ban on contact?
i-7e43566d258fe19a-607	Madam President, I would like We are prepared to go as far as necessary to protect women from the deadly violence inflicted on them by their partners or former partners. It is an important part of giving anklets in the event of a restraining order. Another part that we drive and want to get through is that you should be arrested already on suspicion of gross female defamation. Should we do as the Green Party proposes and increase the penalty value to at least two years, i.e. the corresponding penalty for rape, the perpetrator would be arrested directly. Then women wouldn't have to live in sheltered accommodations. There would be no question of going free even with a anklet. In addition, the crimes would be prioritised with the highest priority of prosecutors and police. That's what happens when someone's in custody during a police investigation.
i-7e43566d258fe19a-609	Madam President, I would like The Environmental Party is responsible for issues related to men's violence against women, honour violence and violence in same-sex relationships. Many of us have talked about women's shelters and their importance. I am all because there are other groups – human trafficking, prostitution and honour violence – who are also in need of efforts. However, in the regulations relating to the SEK 100 million that go out to the women's shelter movement, it is clear that the organisations in their role as voice carriers, opinion-formers and donors of complementary service but not in core business to offer shelter, although we know that it is precisely at the break-up that the greatest risk exists. There is a conflict here. The government believes that it is the responsibility of the municipalities, and SKR says something else. This has not been sorted out, nor has it been ensured that women's shelters are guaranteed that they receive money for what is needed.
i-7e43566d258fe19a-611	Madam President, I would like Today, it is the municipalities that are responsible for the cost of sheltered housing. I am open to discussing other solutions to this, but as the division of responsibilities is today that is the case. The state is going in with a lot more money for the women's shelters than it did before we entered the government. The women's shelters are doing an incredibly important job. It is not only the work they do in the municipalities with sheltered housing that is important, but it is also important that they exist as an opinion-forming force in society. Their knowledge of the encounter with victims of violence is often one of the earliest warning bells that we politicians get when things happen linked to men's violence against women– look for example at the issue of pornography's connection to how girls are exposed to sexual violence in young relationships. It is the women's shelters that have been the first to alert here.
i-7e43566d258fe19a-613	Madam President, I would like Nevertheless, it is the women's shelters themselves who say that this initiative does not meet their needs. It is not I who say this, but it is they who operate in it every day. You say, Annika Hirvonen, that it is the responsibility of the municipalities, but this responsibility is not clear. As things stand, it would be as strange as giving pots and curtains to the homeless, even though it has nowhere to live. It is about being able to guarantee core business. You should always, without money, try to deal with this – I myself have been very involved in the movement – and then seek money to get funds. It'll be a reverse order. I am convinced that taxpayers out there see this as an important priority. They very much know what important work women's shelters do. But I also believe that they really want the money to be used to protect the women who have to flee.
i-7e43566d258fe19a-616	Madam President, I would like That is, of course, the most important thing, and this responsibility now rests with the municipalities. If the municipalities lack that responsibility, it is important that we are open to discussing whether it should be moved or whether to resolve it in any other way. But to think that the money earmarked for other support activities, opinion formation and more could cover if the municipalities do not assume their very large basic responsibilities is probably not realistic. This would require quite a shift in the financial burden between the municipalities and the state. This can be discussed at all costs, but I believe that the important thing is to ensure that each actor takes on its responsibilities. It is when these responsible shortcomings women are at risk of being murdered. It is when society fails to protect them in sensitive situations, such as in the event of a breakup, that women risk dying.
i-7e43566d258fe19a-618	Madam President, I would like I will start by thanking you for the debate and taking some balls that have been up to the discussion. We had a replica shift that was about a relapse in crime and what the gang investigation is really looking at. The gang investigation mainly looks at gang criminality, but on this issue there is a broad view of relapses in crime. This means that legislation in this area, particularly in the area of relapse, will also have an impact on those perpetrators who relapse in terms of men's violence against women. I want this said. We've been pushing for punishment. We've had 350 more investigators. We are moving forward with much more on the issue of a ban on contact and will continue in that direction. But we must also understand that this is a broader problem. Of course, not all men strike, but if men's violence against women is to stop, it is men who must change. Then we must also be able to have a slightly broader discussion on how to prevent and how to get other attitudes in place early on with early intervention aimed at children and young people. I think it is extremely important to mention this in this debate.
