i-9b6d97ba62803092-6	Madam President, I would like The report by the Committee on Culture is called Culture for All, and there is currently a feeling that more culture is really needed for everyone. There is a lack of culture for everyone during the pandemic. It has posed enormous changes and problems for the whole of cultural life and for us individuals who love to take part in culture. The report deals with a wide range of motions in which Members of Parliament are considering how more people are to be reached by culture, and this is an important report from many points of view. In the time of the pandemic, we have been reminded of how important and important culture is in our everyday lives. It has become clear to culturalists and cultural operators that the pandemic is a steel bath and is a very tough time. At the same time, Swedish cultural life had already faced major challenges before the pandemic. Many areas of culture have been constant and chronically underfunded. Access to culture has been socially biased. Parents' consumption of culture also affects how children share in culture. Before the pandemic, the Liberals said that there were major questions that needed answers, and we now need to take a new and broader approach to cultural policy. It has now been over ten years since the last major cultural investigation was carried out. It was clear before the pandemic, and it is even clearer now, that a new investigation is needed to review objectives, funds, funding and much more in cultural policy. We have seen how digitalisation and the large global online giants have changed the conditions for large parts of cultural life. We have seen how the social heritage still leaves a deep mark on how children share in culture. We see the need to promote reading and deepening and increase curiosity for the other. And there are many other needs that culture can contribute to in society and for the individual. We need to think more about how the power of the story can both give strength and be abused at a time when many want to govern, divide and divide. This requires a broader review of the objectives, means and funding of cultural policy, i.e. a substantial renewal of cultural policy. Liberals have therefore come to the conclusion that the government should set up a new broad cultural inquiry. One of the crucial cultural policy issues in the next few years in Sweden and the rest of the world is about how we guarantee artistic freedom. We see how artistic freedom is challenged around the world. In more and more countries we see examples of how politicians and other forces try to restrict artists' freedom, and we see it unfortunately also in Sweden. Several measures are needed to strengthen the freedom of artists. Some are about politics, about law, about security and security, and some are also about the way financial support is designed. Economic freedom also needs to be increased. Public funding must be provided in a way that guarantees the independence of cultural life. For example, it is better with broad and long-term support than short and targeted, and it is better with long scholarships of 5 to 10 years to artists than short and targeted ones. We also need social security for freelance cultural creators. We have seen how this particular group has been hit particularly hard in the pandemic, but we already knew that they had difficulties in the past. We have also known that the general social system has not been adapted to this. I welcome the fact that the government has submitted a letter on the conditions for artists, but concrete measures are also needed. Madam President, I would like In order to increase freedom, there is also a need for a multiplicity of funding opportunities. Public support should continue to be ambitious, as it is now, but we also need to think about how we can get more financiers who want, can and are well placed to contribute. There is a great freedom in not being dependent on a single financier. If someone says that this is not a project that they want to support by one or the other reason, you can go to another, or to ten others, who are in a position to provide help. This is why it is so important to have a diversity of funding. There must be state aid, municipal aid, regional aid and private opportunities in the form of individuals, foundations, funds and others who can help. Deduction opportunities, grant opportunities or good conditions for foundations that can broaden the funding of culture are an important form of freedom. There is a need for strategic thinking on the financing of culture in the long term, and that is why this issue should be included in the cultural inquiry that I have talked about in the past. Madam President, I would like The fact that we Liberals are so committed to cultural policy and culture is because they are such a central part of our ideology. I usually say that culture is an important part of society's intellectual infrastructure. In the different forms of culture, people have the opportunity to understand themselves, to question themselves, to question others, to question society and also to influence society. We liberals defend the importance of culture for each individual to explore himself and realize his personality. The idea of seeing man for what he is and also for what he can become is a central part of liberalism. In order to make that journey, you have to face it differently, have a chance to form, get to reflect in others and learn from others. Culture means inspiration, creativity and a challenge for the idea, which means that people can grow as individuals. All of this we need more of, not less. It is therefore so important to draw the right conclusions from the pandemic. I think we will see some economic challenges after the pandemic for culture and some new ideas. As long as the pandemic lasts, we must continue with the emergency response, but we must also recognise that much of what has been done has had its shortcomings, which must be addressed in the future. We must see that the challenge has been great and hard, and there is a great risk of being lost if we do not manage the challenge properly. Even if we were to handle everything right, we would still see that much has been lost. Madam President, I would like There is a need for a creative re-launch of Sweden. Much is about giving culture and culture makers really good conditions. I request the approval of Amendment No 4 from the Liberals.
i-9b6d97ba62803092-20	Madam President, I would like The cultural sector is under great pressure in the pandemic. Restrictions that have been implemented to reduce the spread of infection have meant that a large part of Swedish cultural life has had to cancel or significantly reduce the scope of its activities. Many parts of the industry have been torn apart or risk being torn apart. Now that we are in the midst of the third wave of the ravages of this terrible disease, we are even more strongly reminded of how important and absolutely essential it is to meet in real life and how much we all, like this one year into this strange time, do not share in culture of all sorts. Concerts, performances, festivals, exhibitions, cinema visits – it has been said many times in the past months, but we long for such activities! It is therefore gratifying that yesterday, at the initiative of the Moderates, the Riksdag decided to grant a guarantee of SEK 3 1⁄2 billion to cultural and sporting events, which will enable organizers to plan and prepare their activities in a secure manner, in spite of these uncertain times, that the state will cover a large part of the costs – more precisely 70 per cent – if the arrangement due to the pandemic has to be cancelled. It is an important and hopeful message for a industry that needs the backing of policy in order to survive the pandemic. Madam President, I would like The vaccine is the light in the tunnel, but it's too slow. A slow reactive government needs to do more. The ongoing investigation into a re-launch of culture, whose conclusions the government originally planned to present only in the middle of the summer, has now been extended to 30 September – more than six months away. It is oceans of painful times for an industry that stands and stammers and needs planning conditions and hopefulness. It's just not good enough. Madam President, I would like However, we must already be able to prepare for the post-pandemic period. We Moderates have the proposals for this in the report that we have to debate and discuss here today. Sweden needs a new and updated cultural policy, a policy for the 2020s. The 2009 Culture Time Bill was adopted more than a decade ago. A new cultural inquiry is therefore needed. For us Moderates, it is obvious that the distance of arm's length should exist between the practitioners of culture and politics. It is a fundamental part that art should be free. It should be protected from political infinity, and therefore the principle of arm's length must also be a reality. The state should not go in and condition – i.e. govern – the art and the free institutions, however legitimate its ambitions may be. These trends must be curbed. The cultural area is different from other policy areas. It is characterised by special conditions in the form of many small authorities and a variety of forms of activity. In addition to government agencies, there are economic associations, non-profit associations, foundations and state-owned companies. In addition, the cultural area is highly autonomous in order to safeguard the fundamental principles of democracy, which are based on freedom of expression. Swedish cultural policy is about creating the best possible conditions for artistic creation through the arm's length principle. The content and quality of art, on the other hand, must be handed over to the profession. We want to reinforce this fundamental principle. We also want to develop a cross-sectoral approach to cultural policy and, in a first step, to review the administrative structures in the cultural sector in order to increase efficiency. A future cultural policy also needs to embrace digitalisation and its opportunities. Madam President, I would like Culture exists and is financed in the public, private and non-profit sectors. A modern cultural policy includes all of these and works to enable them to develop individually and together. But Sweden needs to renew and broaden its view on the funding of culture in order to enable a greater variety of financiers in the field of culture. More people want and can participate in providing tomorrow's culture and cultural creators with capital, but unfortunately we have not built our Swedish systems and tax rules for this. In many other countries there are interesting tax deduction models. For example, under Danish tax law, natural persons or organisations can deduct from the taxable income of ongoing donations to associations, foundations and religious communities, among other things. In addition, deductions from taxable income may be made specifically for gifts to cultural institutions. However, there are important reservations, such as the fact that the gift must not be associated with any promise of compensation. There are therefore interesting and successful methods and models in our neighbouring countries for increasing cultural funding. Here Sweden has a lot to learn and be inspired by. We Moderates wish to emphasise the importance of free resources and pluralism in the financing of culture. Cultural policy must not be reduced to a competition for the award of public funding, and that is why perspectives must be broadened. Madam President, I would like Making culture accessible is for us Moderates an important part of our overall work against the growing exclusion of society. Much of our focus is on children's and young people's right to culture. A new cultural policy must have as its main focus to reach children and young people from groups who are less aware of different cultural expressions. It is often at a young age that people's interest in culture and artistic creation can best be exploited and stimulated. We Moderates want to enable more education and class trips for our children and young people. Madam President, I would like The Culture Committee's report No 4 is very broad and contains many questions and proposals. We Moderates also have motion requests to develop the model of cultural cooperation, an alliance reform that needs to be nurtured and reformed for the future. We highlight the importance of art in public space through architecture and residential construction, where we must learn from the demolition wave in the second half of the 20th century so that we do not make such mistakes in the name of efficiency and functionality. We highlight the important issue of Sami culture, in which we believe that an investigation into the proposal to establish two more Sami language centres should be carried out, but also that there should be a review of how responsibility for Sami culture can be concentrated in the Sameting. There are also a number of requests from us Moderates which are dealt with in this report in a simplistic way, as it is called, but which deserve to be mentioned. We believe that there is a need for a parliamentary inquiry into film policy. We also think it is high time that the government came back with proposals on how to strengthen the conditions for film production in Sweden, for example through a production incentive in the form of a kind of root deduction for the film industry. I agree with all the moderate reservations and our specific opinion in the report, but for time-saving reasons I only ask for reservation number 1. Madam President, I would like The cultural industry is under great pressure. The government needs to act here and now in order for Sweden not to get out of the pandemic poorer than before with a cultural industry and an ecosystem that has been damaged more than can be restored. For this reason, I would like to reiterate in this House what Churchill so wisely said to all those who criticised that, in the midst of world wars, he wanted to protect culture: what else would we have to fight for?
i-9b6d97ba62803092-45	Madam President, I would like It is a palette of cultural policy issues in the current report that we are debating today – ranging from the focus of cultural policy, the effects of the Corona virus and the model of cultural cooperation to the design of the common environment, language issues and accessibility to cultural life. Exercise demands are 80 in number, and many have the Swedish Democrats as senders. As far as we are concerned, we have two reservations and two specific opinions in the report, and I would like to make a few specific comments on them. Initially, I would also like to endorse our reservation 14 under the heading Art in the Public Room. Culture for all – that is how this report is referred to. What is it that we all Swedes have in common? Yes, the language. It is our daily cultural communication, the key to integration and the foundation for singing, performing arts and storytelling. Just as important as it is for our physical ability to grow as humans that we learn to walk as children, as important is the development of language for our cultural understanding, our collective memory and our intellectual movement forward in the encounter with others. Swedish is somehow alpha and omega for Swedish culture and community. Language issues are of great importance, and we are running a palette of language policy proposals. In this report, many of them are under simplified preparation, but I would nevertheless like to stress the urgency of making the proposals a reality and practice. This would clarify the status of the Swedish language and its importance on the political agenda but also mean that, for example, the position of the Braille is strengthened in Swedish legislation. Our overall language policy would also strengthen the conditions for good communication and the cultural values of language in society. Madam President, I would like I look with concern at the increasingly frequent and bitter tone of the government against the opposition and how reform proposals that are time-tested and need-tested are painted with heavy brush strokes as threats to free cultural life and democracy. It's like we all understand blows in the air. Opposition policy is the very definition of democracy. However, what modern and thought-out social conservatism in the cultural field, as in other areas, threatens is the status quo and social democratic cultural policy since the functionalistic engineering of the 1970s. We must dare to think new and create the conditions for a more diversified and invulnerable funding of cultural life and a free cultural life without a norm-making identity policy or, for that matter, bureaucratic overcoats from the public sector, as we see today. Freedom under responsibility is an important motto. For example, the Swedish Democrats view the left-wing politicised micro-management of film policy as worrying and share the objections that some actors in the film industry have raised against it. Artistic freedom and Swedish film's ability to achieve success are also commercially hampered by parts of current goals and applications. The Riksdag needs to review how the Kannstöpt detailed management of support can be reduced. In order to achieve this, we are prepared to reform the objectives of film policy and other elements that are currently governing the policy area, if necessary. From our side, we are also alone in budgeting for production discounts. We believe that promoting freer incentives will benefit the film sector better than the level of subsidy we see today. We hope that more parties will follow. Madam President, I would like From what is portrayed on screen or canvas to what takes place in front of our own eyes in our physical environment. The Swedish Democrats attach great value to the fact that decision-makers, developers and housing companies are considerate towards the urban image and cultural environment, where the construction of the old age has laid the annual ring for the wedding ring and shaped our relationship to our history. It is important to examine which directives would be appropriate to introduce so that the 1% rule for artistic design can be better applied in practice. It must not become a rule which is all too often exempted, as is the case today, but also a mandatory rule, to which municipalities and regions find it difficult to relate. As a guideline, however, the rule can come more into its own, we believe. We want to investigate which directives can make the 1% rule for our public environments more aesthetically sustainable – how it can contribute to public environments being perceived over time as beautiful and appealing by the public. The point of the rule could thus become clearer. We propose that the investigation should also include a commission on how exploiters and developers on the commercial side can be encouraged to take greater cultural environmental consideration and be entrusted with increased responsibility for this. We believe that there is reason to review the possibilities of developing the 1% rule with a kind of cultural environmental clause, where both public and commercial actors are surrounded by a clearer benchmark for cultural historical considerations. The fact that the 1% rule can be developed and applied in practice is a matter of urgency. Madam President, I would like Something about the day-form of cultural life and the direction of national cultural policy and complacency. We cannot fail to touch upon the pandemic's blows to cultural life, and we also share the debate in this report, although it is an issue that is high on our agenda in the Committee on Culture on a daily basis. It is only to be regretted that the restart investigation was extended, but it is important that it is in place. Is there any lesson we should learn from this pandemic is that some of the cultural expressions we are debating today, but others too, are vulnerable? Future cultural policy requires a broad cultural investigation and more funding models than today, but it is also a matter of preparedness and perseverance, and of freedom. ( FIRST VICE TALMANN: I have to ask for clarification on the reservation. The honourable Member said reservation 14, which is therefore about the so-called centre and resource library for meänkieli. ) Sorry, it was the wrong reservation. That's reservation 13.
i-9b6d97ba62803092-62	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by supporting all the reservations expressed by the Centre Party in this report, but here I only want to ask for the approval of reservation 8. It was sad that the Swedish Democrats did not want to support our reservation 14, but we will have to do so this time. I would also like to draw attention to the specific opinion on sports requests, which is being simplified. Madam President, I would like The Coronapandemia has had a major impact on cultural life, which is likely to have long-term consequences. The situation has become very difficult for many of those working in the cultural sector. Of course, this also affects very much all of us people who during this time are missing out on all these cultural experiences. Culture has benefited from several support packages since last spring, and more are on the way. These subsidies are essential for the survival of culture and its activities, while at the same time providing better conditions for a broad and accessible cultural life throughout the country. There is therefore a need for a broad review of the effects of the coronapndemy, and also of what further measures may be needed to ensure a strong cultural life throughout the country in the future. When cultural life reopens under more normal forms following this pandemic, accessibility for all must be the focus. More roads need to be opened up to those who have not had the opportunity to take part in different forms of culture and have the chance to find something that can enrich them. This applies not least to children and young people. The commitment that thrives in cultural life, civil society and debate is a tick that connects society. Therefore, it is obvious for the Center Party that everyone, regardless of their place of residence, background, disability or life situation, should have the opportunity to participate in a cultural life that includes both professionally caged culture and amateur creation – culture that strengthens self-confidence and makes more people take advantage of freedom of expression, which in turn strengthens participation and democracy in our society. But then national cultural institutions must also spread their activities even more and make them available throughout the country. This can of course be done in many different ways. We have also seen, for example, the development of digital solutions, not least now during the pandemic. But also ways of disseminating the activities of state institutions other than digital ones need to be strengthened. One way can be to let a number of prominent regional scenes, such as Dalhalla, get the status of national scenes. Then, for example, the Royal Opera could have Dalhalla as its stage for some time each year. Such an arrangement would not only create more accessibility but also contribute to an increased interest in the Royal Opera's activities and attract new visitors, both within the country and internationally. Madam President, I would like Great commitment and creativity have been shown to reach out with culture despite the difficult conditions during the pandemic. This is because we human beings need cultural experiences and because those who work with culture, the creator, need to have an outlet for their creativity and creation. Culture has its own value but also contributes to much more, such as creativity. Increased interaction on cultural issues between politics, business and committed enthusiasts also creates increased conditions for jobs as well as for local and regional development, attractiveness and tourism, knowledge development and new export successes. This is what we in the Center Party believe should be taken into account when society needs to come back wide after the pandemic. Culture with both lace and breadth is important for attractive environments. It is beneficial to attract business start-ups and the recruitment of labour and the promotion of the tourism industry. Visitors who come to a locality to visit a cultural event also take part in the food culture, stay in hotels and take part of other things the locality has to offer. We note that it is of great importance to promote a broad cultural life, where new, digital cultural expressions and multiculturalism work side by side with traditional cultural forms and where cultural and creative industries are well placed to develop and grow. In order to enhance cultural life throughout the country, the Center Party also wants to strengthen and develop the cultural cooperation model. We want to review the model and, among other things, give the regions more space and, in conjunction with the national level, develop a national cultural plan, in which the regions' own conditions, objectives and strengths take a greater place. Another way to create both national and international interest in our cultural life is to establish a system for a national Capital of Culture year, where a Swedish city or municipality is proposed to receive the status of national Capital of Culture every two years and for one year the cultural spotlight is targeted at itself. Then smaller cities and municipalities can also get attention and a chance to showcase and especially develop their cultural life in collaboration with national and regional actors. Madam President, I would like From the Center Party, we would like to point out that one step in strengthening the position of the Toredal minority and supporting the Meänkieli-speaking would be to establish a Meänkieli centre in Övertorneå. The location of a language centre in the area where minority language is used is, in this case, a given starting point. Övertorneå is centrally located in Tornedalen, a traditional language area for meänkieli, although many meänkieli speakers today live in different parts of Sweden. I could list many examples showing that today there is already a well-developed infrastructure and a critical mass – a soil – in Övertorneå that makes the resort natural and obvious for the location of a language centre for meänkieli, but I am leaving this topic right now. I would just like to emphasise the need for a meänkieli centre and that it should be located in Övertorneå. Madam President, I would like The empowerment of national minorities, the tools and conditions given to shape their own future, has been a crucial foundation on which minority policy has been based since the introduction of minority policy. But it is important that this is also reflected in the concrete implementation of minority policy. Here I would like to highlight the importance of civil society in nurturing, protecting and developing national minorities and national minority languages. Had it not been for the efforts of some non-profit organisations, such as the Swedish Tornedalings Riksförbund's work with meänkieli, it is the question whether some of the national minority languages would even have survived. Furthermore, the question may be asked whether the work of revitalisation should have started in time and had the strength it has without these organisations. That is why, Madam President, it is also important for the idea-based organisations to have both economic and practical conditions for carrying out good activities so that minority policy can also be implemented in practice.
i-9b6d97ba62803092-80	Madam President, I would like In today's report, the Left Party has three motions. I would like to endorse our reservation 11. It cannot be acceptable that in 2021 it is still often difficult to live a normal working life in Sweden, with work or study, family and leisure time when you have a disability. The right to participation in both culture and sport for persons with disabilities is regulated, inter alia, in Article 30 of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. It means that people with disabilities should be able to be fully involved, not only as visitors and spectators, but also as practitioners of culture and sport. The Swedish Agency for Participation has mapped out opportunities to have active leisure time, and it shows that many people with disabilities want to do more activities in their spare time than they can or can do. The reason why they abstain is, for example, a lack of accessibility in society but also often a lack of information on accessibility. It can also involve a weak private economy or inaccessible transport. Many times the support needed for and in connection with activities is also lacking. The Authority points out that small changes and greater awareness of these barriers could allow more people to benefit from the general range of activities that already exist. In order to ensure accessibility for all, activities specifically targeted at persons with disabilities are also sometimes needed. Madam President, I would like Of course, this group is not entirely homogeneous. There are, of course, variations and great differences in how much adaptation you need, what economy you have and so on. As in the general population, women with disabilities have a worse economy than men. The survey also clearly shows that people with a neuropsychiatric impairment are less active than others, and this may be due to the fact that there is hardly any range of activities specifically targeted at that target group. We also know that the range of cultural and leisure activities varies greatly depending on where in the country you live. It is an aggravating circumstance with the long distances. Madam President, I would like The responsibility for an accessible cultural life lies at several levels. Cooperation between decision-makers at state, regional and municipal level is needed, and collaboration between property owners, developers and actors in the arts and culture must be stepped up. In order to increase knowledge of the obstacles for a person with disabilities to take part in culture, representatives from the disability movement must of course also be involved in the work. We in the Left Party see that there is also a need for action outside the scope of the Culture Committee, such as strengthening the right to personal assistance and travel services. We also propose that the state should take a greater hold and review the accessibility of culture. There is still often a lack of knowledge at local level and an awareness of what needs to be done. Sometimes the incentives are also lacking. It is rarely of ill will, but it is easy to forget if there are no special checklists, established routines or influence from the experts, i.e. the people with disabilities who will ultimately participate. In order to broaden the range of available culture and events, we believe that there should be a requirement for this perspective to be included when you get public funding. Adjustments may be needed in the contributions to make it possible, but we believe that it is a greater cost for the individual and for society if not all people have the opportunity to take part in culture. Madam President, I would like I would also like to touch briefly on a proposal from us that is prepared in a simplified way, namely to carry out a larger survey of the conditions of music life and investigate differences between support for different genres and let it form the basis for future improvements in Swedish music life. I think my colleagues in the committee recognize this. This is something that all parties in the last two electoral movements have promised to support. I just want to draw the attention of the audience to the fact that this year too will not happen. They had the chance to live up to the election promise. Now, after a year of the pandemic, there are even clearer reasons for such a survey. The mission the government has given about a more general review of the conditions of culture for the start-up is great, but it will not be able to go into depth within individual art types in the way that I think is needed. Last night, all of us gathered to talk about art music, the crisis of wind instruments and orchestras that are not able to recruit. Something needs to be done here soon if we are not to have a major crisis. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would also like to tell you about an exciting proposal from the Left Party contained in today's report. This involves an investigation into taking advantage of the exciting Swedish cultural heritage available at Svalbard. It is associated with Swedish expeditions there in the 1800s. There is a protected cultural memory in the form of the Swedish House there, and we suggest that you look at whether Sweden, in cooperation with other countries active at Svalbard, could create a cultural centre there.
i-9b6d97ba62803092-93	Madam President, I would like Now I've been sitting here for a while and listening. If you listen very carefully, you hear the cultural policy of the parties quite clearly, and I think that cultural policy is really the soul of the parties. It has been very interesting so far to listen, and there will be a few more speakers after I have expressed my thoughts. Let me give you some examples from the people of reality. Here's a quote from a musician:a year as a working musician has been a nightmare in several ways. Two examples: I had a contract with the Blister Symphony which was interrupted four months earlier. A big Christmas tour with 30 concerts that were also cancelled. Uncertainty is always a factor in my industry, but during the first phase of the pandemic most of it was scaled down with the 500 rule, the 300 rule 50 and now 8 where it is impossible to practice any kind of live music. At first it was mostly a shock to me that has more turned to days with a glimmer of hope but also days of great dissension and despair. You wonder if you can live on the music in the future? Support from the state has been good, but with far too slow decision-making. When it comes to persevering, I have been able to do it, simply because I still burn so much for the music itself. Loves to try to get better and develop. ..................................................... Another cultural worker from the people of reality, who owns a sound company and who usually travel around Sweden and serve when it comes to sound at really big events, calls me during late autumn and tells me that he hasn't invoiced anything since mid-March. It's a sinking ship with broken sails. Some cultural workers who own a firm and manage logistics in connection with major concerts around the country describe it as follows: 中 Formerly thriving companies bleed and die. After nine months, entrepreneurs with paid-up capital are also kneeling in an industry that normally accounts for billions of dollars. They are forced to take loans for taxes, houses and homes for survival. As a result, our skills, previously classified as one of the best in the world, are lost in redundancies and bankruptcies. Rejuvenation stops and industry is dismantled piece by piece. Extremely many companies sought support, in panic, as the pandemic's restrictions threatened to destroy life's work. The lack of clarity about what can or may be sought is remarkable. Especially since similar support has never been sought by us before. Support, which unfortunately does not cover up against survival. There is a great injustice here. Distorted subsidies are lost to those with real needs. We lived our dream, we did the right thing. We expect respect and someone who with accurate information is willing to stand on our side – for real! ..................................................... Madam President, I would like These were just a few examples. All of Kultursverige is bleeding. It is everything from non-profit museums to students at the School of Music who look with concern at the future. It is a feared brain drain from Kultursverige. People with talent who can compete internationally are looking for other jobs. Let me describe the crisis support that has come from the government and how we from the Christian Democrats have reacted. Throughout the spring and summer of 2020, we pushed the government to get in place a turnover support also for one-man entrepreneurs and holding companies. This is important not least for those active in the cultural sector, which often carries out its activities in this form. In the amending budget presented in September, the government had heeded this. This meant SEK 3 1⁄2 billion for 2020 and SEK 1 1⁄2 billion for 2021. Throughout the pandemic year, we have done everything we could to persuade the government to act on the conditions of the creators of culture. We also support the proposal for additional support for the cultural sector due to loss of revenue during the pandemic. In the Christian Democrats' motion of February this year on the occasion of the extraordinary amending budget for 2021, we welcome the strengthening of business support for individual traders and holding companies. However, we are concerned that some support is short-lived. This creates uncertainty on the part of the interested parties as to whether or not aid remains until the summer. Madam President, I would like This week we were cultural political spokespersons at the Royal College of Music here in Stockholm. We were in a hall where there is normally room for about 250 people. The restriction says 8 people. In Uppsala Cathedral, 8 people also apply. The church can accommodate 2,200 visitors – there are 900 seats. The archbishop says that with 10 square meters of surface area per person there could be 273 people there, but only 8 people can gather. At the same time, people are pouring into department stores and malls. I read an article by Bishop Fredrik Modéus in the DN the other day. In his referral to the Government on 26 February, the Swedish Public Health Agency describes gatherings where participants sit down as gatherings with a lower risk of contamination in comparison with gatherings where the participants stand up or are in motion. Yet the authority chooses to suggest greater relief for museums, where people move around the room, than for public gatherings where people sit in their place, such as in a large church. Why is that? Why is it more dangerous to celebrate worship than to visit a museum? ..................................................... In December 2020, the Government appointed a study on the re-launch of culture. This is about recovery and development after the coronapndemine. The study, which has a clear focus on the future, will analyse, among other things, the conditions for recovery in the cultural sector. The assignment shall be presented by 30 June of this year. I can promise that we, the Christian Democrats, will follow developments. We want to see, for example, a guarantee from the state for cultural events, sports races, children's camps and the kind of arrangements that are organised corona-safe. There's supposed to be a guarantee in the back. Madam President, I would like I agree with the Christian Democrats' reservation number 9, and naturally I support our specific opinion on the classic list.
i-9b6d97ba62803092-112	Madam President, I would like Government cultural policy was faced with major challenges even before the coronapandemy. The national objective, that everyone should have the opportunity to take part in a diversity of art and culture and a cultural offering that is perceived as relevant and that opportunities should not be limited by one's economic and social background or by where in the country they live, is not achieved. For almost a decade, the Swedish Agency for Cultural Analysis has pointed out how cultural habits and accessibility differ depending on socio-economic, geographical and demographic factors. There are, Madam President, reasons why it looks like this. I was going to start with the conditions for the arts and culture workers in our country. Before the coronapandemine, the cultural labour market was characterised by fixed-term and precarious employment. It is therefore common for cultural workers to combine project contracts, activities in their own companies and periods when they make a living on scholarships, which do not count as income in the social security systems. Art and culture creators have for several decades gone from being employed in institutions, i.e. theatres or concert halls, to running individual companies or limited companies. In fact, many times there is involuntaryness in this. According to the Swedish Arts Council, 240 professional actors within the theatre have a permanent position in Sweden. Then you should add that it is up to 3 000 actors who are active in the industry. All studies dealing with art and culture creators indicate that they work under economically worse conditions than other groups in society with corresponding demands for education and professional experience. The latest state-owned public investigation, Artist... no matter what the conditions? , also shows that artists have great difficulty in obtaining social insurance, parental allowance, housing allowance and subsistence support despite having a lower average income. State scholarships are not SGI-founding. Furthermore, artists have to a lesser extent a collective occupational pension. The Social Democratic Government created the Theater Alliance in 1999 to increase the social and economic security of freelance actors. In the Theatre Alliance, a number of qualified freelance actors receive an open-ended position. When you get a freelance assignment, you take leave of absence, and between freelance assignments you get access through the Theatre Alliance to skills development and income. The model has significantly increased the security of those who are adopted. Today there is also a dance alliance and a musical alliance. In view of the precariousness of the labour market, it is high time that more art and cultural practitioners found permanent jobs in the institutions, that we increase the number of seats in the performing alliances, strengthen the centres and broaden the alliance activities to more areas. Madam President, I would like This was one of the issues that we Social Democrats pursued in this autumn's budget negotiations, and I am pleased that last autumn the budget cooperation parties were able to present a permanent investment of SEK 80 million from this year to the conditions of art and culture creators. Grants and compensations for free art will increase by 43 million, the Culture Council's support for free groups and organisers will be strengthened by 16 million and free actors in the field of image and form will receive an additional 6 million. There's 5 million for the center, and 10 million for the performing alliances. In addition, we now buy Swedish contemporary art for up to 50 million to strengthen artists' conditions and conditions. Madam President, I would like Pandemin's blows to cultural life and the conditions for cultural workers are unprecedented. The ban on public gatherings and public events first under the Order Act and then under the Pandemic Act in order to reduce the spread of infection means that almost all public activities have been suspended for over a year. This affects theatres, concert halls, cinemas, arenas, festivals, meeting places and all employment related to them. The limited security of cultural workers has further weakened and the sector's recovery is in danger of becoming slow. The conditions that art and culture creators had before the pandemic also make the group even more vulnerable. Few know the economic conditions under which art and culture creators live, and perhaps this is precisely why national emergency aid has been difficult to adapt to these conditions. Klys, for example, describes in her referral to the culture re-launch investigation that most art and culture creators are self-employed with an individual firm, which is not covered by short-term leave support. Only companies with high fixed costs have had the opportunity to benefit from conversion aid, which is rarely the case for artists. Turnover aid has not been of benefit to artistically individual traders because they lack relatively regular income. Their income is adapted to productions, tours and special assignments. We budget cooperation parties have therefore established what is currently termed cultural crisis support and which is distributed by the Swedish Arts Council, the Swedish Arts Board, the Swedish Film Institute and the Swedish Writing Foundation. So far, we have allocated the most cultural support in relation to all other Nordic countries. Over time, the number of applications has also increased, while professional groups related to culture, precisely because of these quality requirements, may not have qualified for the aid. Madam President, I would like I believe it is important that, despite the ongoing pandemic, we learn lessons from what is going on. We will need to extend emergency aid and take decisive steps to restart it. Professional creators of art and culture need to be re-established, and new graduates of art and culture need to be given a chance to enter the labour market. As has been mentioned by several Members here, the government has set up a re-launch investigation into culture that has a clear focus on the future. I hope that the message to us political representatives will be that we do not return to the same cultural labour market of precarious employment, getting jobs, new public management systems in the institutions and a lack of social insurance and pensions without re-launching serious security ambitions. Policies will also need to promote more jobs. We Social Democrats want to see more investment in culture in schools, in working life and in health and social care in order to improve public health. With security, more culture is also created. Then it is the task of politics to review resources so that culture benefits everyone. Another area I would like to highlight, Madam President, is the educational journey of children and young people. Cultural habits are created in childhood. Therefore, the school has an important task to meet children and young people who do not have access to culture and education in their daily lives. Access to aesthetics, music, theatre, humanities, images and design shall not depend on one's parents' income or educational background. Nevertheless, over 38 000 children and young people in our country are waiting to attend cultural school, but they are not allowed to do so because of a lack of municipal resources. Worst is it in those municipalities where cuts in the field of culture are currently being carried out, not infrequently in bourgeois-governed municipalities. The down-priority of aesthetic subjects is also a bourgeois work that has now resulted in aesthetics being related to class. Children and young people with a clear class background must not take part in their schools. When we tried to reintroduce aesthetic subjects as mandatory at upper secondary school in 2018, it was a bourgeois parliamentary majority that held back. Another bourgeois reform called Creative School is found only in schools that have a culture-impaired principal or teacher who fights for children to experience art and culture of high quality. I think I can be of the opinion that all children should have access to high-quality art and culture in school. Therefore, it may be of interest to continue the discussion on how we can achieve this. If you are of the opinion that all children should have the right to an educational journey, the policy in this area needs to be reformulated. Madam President, I would like The pandemic is far from over, and I am actually proud of what the budgetary cooperation parties have managed to achieve in the form of crisis support for culture, sport, the media sector and civil society. However, culture will need continued crisis support and a robust re-opening plan. Against this background, we Social Democrats have asked the Public Health Authority to come to the Culture Committee for a discussion on re-opening opportunities, vaccination sessions and a differentiated pandemic law adapted to audience size. We also know that great efforts will be needed as the reopening takes place, but most importantly, I think that we Social Democrats want culture for everyone. It requires a different policy after the pandemic, a policy that promotes secure employment and increases cultural diversity throughout the country, a cultural policy that safeguards the right of all children and young people to a training trip regardless of their parents' income and educational background or where they live in the country. In view of the above, I support the committee's proposal in this report.
i-9b6d97ba62803092-137	Madam President, I would like The Social Democrats, at least in Stockholm, are now saying that they are committed to cultural policy. They want to take back the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Culture. What this does with the cooperation and climate between the government parties Environmental Party and the Social Democrats, I will leave it unsaid, but that is so interesting. However, I am concerned about what these social democratic ambitions may mean for culture when touchsticks and targets are to be set instead of allowing culture to be just free. It is not exactly the case that the Social Democrats have historically protected the diversity of culture. Technological hostility has been evident, and arguments against freedom of choice have often been based on thinking that politics and politicians know best and need to protect citizens. I think exactly the opposite: politics should stay as far away as possible and basically stimulate a free cultural industry that is made available primarily to children and young people through public efforts, not to well-off inner-city residents in Stockholm, for example. Of the proposals I have seen that Lawen Redar now wants to go to the S-Congress, there is a great deal of emphasis on increasing the public commitment, that is, more tax money being spent on culture. However, there are no proposals on how cultural funding could be broadened beyond public contributions and subsidies. My question is therefore: are increased possibilities for private funding of the kind that we Moderates put forward proposals for unthinkable to the Social Democrats and Lawen Redar?
i-9b6d97ba62803092-141	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Viktor Wärnick, for the question! I am so glad that it has attracted great attention that the Social Democracy in Stockholm has now decided on a number of motions for the Party Congress of the Social Democrats. It has been about economic, climate and cultural policy, which has been highlighted here. There are many issues that are highlighted because members are concerned about the class differences that exist in cultural policy. In particular, children's and young people's access to culture is something that you want to address politically. Here it needs to come up with a great many reform proposals. In the light of the 2009 cultural policy, which actually contributed to increased segregation and an increased class gap between children's and young people's access to culture and education, we are living with the repercussions today. The question was about the possibility of differentiated funding for culture. I am of the opinion that culture is part of welfare. It will be of benefit to everyone in our country. However, through the visit of the Committee on Culture to Denmark, we received incredibly interesting suggestions on how to increase the interest of business in the cultural field. In Denmark funds have been set up. I don't take a negative view of it at all. In Sweden, industry has primarily contributed to research through, for example, various forms of support. However, increasing economic incentives in the field of culture is something that I actually welcome, but not at the expense of public funding for culture. It is through cultural policy that we can promote that culture is something that benefits everyone.
i-9b6d97ba62803092-146	Madam President, I would like Nevertheless, I believe that the Social Democrats are experts in opposing themselves. But let us remember who is actually in government since 2014, and it is primarily the Social Democrats and the Green Party who are responsible for the situation. Nevertheless, these are positive signals that I hear from Lawen Redar and the Social Democrats. I hope for a continued good and objective debate on the funding of culture and how we look at it for the future. I think it is important because I think we must also realise that the state does not have unlimited resources. The state must then allow other actors to participate in funding the cultural policy of the future. It is clear that the Danish example is interesting. There are other examples. But I think it is important for us to continue working to ensure that other parts of society can also contribute to funding the cultural policy of the future.
i-9b6d97ba62803092-149	Madam President, I would like Viktor Wärnick does not now have the opportunity to respond to this. But when there is a bourgeois majority in the Swedish parliament and we present a proposal in May 2018 to reintroduce aesthetic subjects as mandatory in upper secondary school, it is quite difficult when we get a no from the bourgeois side of Parliament for such a proposal. It is also one of the reasons why we see a class base of which it is that has access to aesthetics today in the framework of upper secondary school. Another such reflection that I have concerns the handshake of cultural policy. It is a handshake between the state, regions and municipalities on funding. We have commissioned the Swedish Parliament's investigation service to look at how the municipal cuts in the field of culture look like. Before proposing other models of funding for culture, there may be a need to look at the active cuts made at municipal level, which are particularly affecting the cultural sector and the children and young people who are now applying to join, for example, cultural school activities. Let us therefore have a reasonable discussion about how culture is financed and what is actually being done in Sweden's various municipalities from moderate quarters.
i-9b6d97ba62803092-152	Madam President, I would like In fact, I agree with Mrs Redar on basically everything in her speech and her description of the problems that existed before the pandemic of precarious conditions, poorly adapted social security and the difficult situation that has prevailed over the past year. From the Left Party we have been on to make it easier for those with an individual firm, for example, to get support and better opportunities for those who have their company resting to update websites and keep in touch with clients to get new jobs. We have also highlighted proposals for better conditions for those who have been on parental leave and on sick leave in 2019 to be able to receive pandemic support. So we have tried to find solutions forward here. We have pushed the January parties ahead of us on the issue of guarantee support, as we heard earlier here, when the opposition has joined forces so that more people will dare to take the risk of now starting planning for events for the summer and autumn. However, a major issue still hanging in the air concerns the rules around the audience. This applies both outdoors and indoors. The idea of the new Pandemic Act was to find a more accurate system. There are many of us, both from a political point of view and from cultural actors and sport, of course, who do not think that has happened. In other parts they have been in and screwed but not in these public events, where there are great opportunities with large arenas and large theatres where you could have more than eight people. My question is what the government is waiting for with regard to that part.
i-9b6d97ba62803092-157	Madam President, I would like I thank Vasiliki Tsouplaki for this question. The only thing that actually stands in the way of taking action is the increased spread of infection. Nothing else can be said. It is incredibly important to say here that there is ambitious work going on to implement a differentiated pandemic legislation that takes into account, among other things, what is mentioned here with regard to the number of fixed chairs and how to reopen in a safe manner. Of course the whole sector is waiting. I have also spoken to a great many actors, not least in the last week, to listen to what measures have been taken. It is an impressive work that has been done by the entire cultural life in order to be able to carry out disease-proof arrangements. Last night I talked to Arbetsmuseet in Norrköping, which now reopens with some caution so that actors can book themselves, so you can see how it should be done. However, it is a costly issue and it must be dealt with in terms of the budget that many of these adjustments cost a great deal. On the specific issue, however, it is precisely the state of infection that stands in the way. Despite this, the government is now doing a great deal of work to achieve a differentiated pandemic law. And as soon as it is possible, in a different infection situation, you will of course proceed with this. I would also like to highlight the work of the Restart investigation. In addition to re-opening, considerable financial resources are also needed in order to be able to carry out a great deal of work in the field of culture in the coming years. It is a great talent that has been made during this year professionally on the labour market but also for the whole sector as such. We will therefore have to work intensively on these issues.
i-9b6d97ba62803092-162	Madam President, I would like I thank Mr Redar for his reply. Of course, we agree that there is a need for disease-proof arrangements. I am of the opinion that there has been a process going on for a very long time where various actors in dialogue forums together with the Ministry of Culture have sat down to discuss possible strategies and develop action plans. You've been very careful since the summer. We had a joint meeting at Tele2 Arena. Ever since then, it has worked intensively to produce various proposals. I do not think that the government has met up with this process when we see that other areas, such as trade, have been inside and looked over it. There has not been the same dialogue and preparation. But there it is much more open. This is sticking in people's eyes. Then there will also be calls for more support. So this is connected in a way, and there are many of us who want to do something about it. I sincerely hope it is as Lawen Redar says that there will soon be more accurate rules in place. It has been a year now, and both sport and culture are stomping and are prepared to take responsibility. They are used to dealing with large crowds in a way that other industries may not be, and they have done a good preparation job. All that is needed now is to listen in and take steps forward, as has been promised for so long, and to come back to us very soon in Parliament if there is a need for changes that we need to make decisions on here and to present a solution to this problem. There are press conferences every two days.
i-9b6d97ba62803092-166	Madam President, I would like I thank Vasiliki Tsouplaki for this. Now we Social Democrats have asked the Public Health Authority to come to the Committee on Culture so that we can all take part in a discussion on opportunities with solutions such as those we have seen in other countries, such as Israel and Denmark, looking at solutions with vaccination passports for cultural activities and public activities. It also gives us the opportunity to discuss what effects a differentiated pandemic law could have on the spread of infection, including from a holistic perspective. I think we really need to understand that we need the expertise to move forward; it's not about the government wanting to stop a Swedish cultural life, but of course it's about reducing the spread of infection in our country – which is, unfortunately, increasing right now. I remember that it was on 29 September that the government was able to announce an increase in the number of participants in public activities to a maximum of 300, which was a big message of joy for the whole sector. Two weeks later, however, we were in a second wave. This is therefore incredibly unpredictable, but I hope that we will have clarity on these issues on 15 April, when the Public Health Agency comes to the Committee on Culture.
i-9b6d97ba62803092-170	Madam President, I would like Culture is the mirror of the soul. It is mankind's kitt – the one that holds us together. It touches and seduces, pains and delights, provokes and reflects the life we live. Madam President, I would like Every person is born curious, without prejudice. That's why it's very important that culture is there throughout our country and our entire society – out in the capillaries – so that it can benefit everyone. Culture must also be there for children who grow up with parents who have not taken an interest in the beautiful sphere of culture. I have a very strong memory from when my daughter, now almost 16 years old, was three four years old and Cinderella was shown as an opera on TV. It was a long performance, over three hours. When she began to listen and look at this, she sat straight up on the couch and was then seated there – for three hours, completely engulfed. There her interest in the opera awoke. Madam President, I would like Now we all hunger to get out to the theaters, see inspiring performances and meet in the breaks, in the glories of all people who eat the culture. We long to sit and have a picnic at the Park Theatre in Stockholm, if we happen to be here – the Park Theatre, which reaches anyone who wants to, who does not cost anything to take part in and which causes many people's interest in culture to wake up. Madam President, I would like A year ago the pandemic came to Sweden. It felt completely unlikely that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs would advise against all trips to the whole world; I never thought I would see such a flash on my phone. SL had big posters where it said, "Don't travel with us." You didn't think you'd see that either. We did not know then that we would be standing here, a year later, in the same situation. I think maybe it was good that we didn't know it, so that we could keep our hope up. Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, cultural life has taken far too much of the disease management. It is for this reason that Sweden did not have the legal readiness we should have had to deal with cultural life in the same way that we have tried to deal with, for example, Ullared and other places, where we have not been able to restrict people's participation. At the Government Office and in the parties that have led this work, we have worked hard to come up with various laws to correct these mistakes. Now we have pandemic legislation-- temporary, I'll say. It is important to remember that after this legislation, which had to be worked out quite quickly and intensively because we needed it here and now, we will have to work out legislation covering civil crises of various kinds. It does not have to be a pandemic that strikes us next, although I think that unfortunately this is not the last time in the transnational world in which we live. Next time, however, we will be more prepared. Unfortunately, cultural life has had to bear too much, but now we are here with the temporary pandemic legislation and have completely different possibilities for making changes than we had with the Alcohol Act, the Disease Control Act and the Order Act. These changes are becoming more equal and do not hit the wrong way, as they have done so far. It creates opportunities to open up cultural life in a completely different way than we have been able to in the past. The cultural sphere has been fantastic when it comes to being innovative, changing and trying to make the best of the situation. Now it is time for all these actors and for all of us who hunger to take part in the beautiful culture to open up. But we should remember that the most important task we have, as government parties and as the Swedish Parliament, is to reduce the spread of infection and the death that sadly follows in its wake. So here we have to hold on and persevere but still work to make it more equal, and we really are doing that in government cooperation. Madam President, I would like The pandemic has flashed the cracks found in the systems, both internationally and nationally. I was in Sweden's delegation to the UN High-Level Conference on Sustainable Development this summer. It was striking that everyone was talking about social insurance systems. In all countries we saw: Wow, we need to put more work here – we lack social systems and safety nets that capture people in crisis. It's great that this is at the top of the agenda. I am absolutely convinced that all parties in the Swedish Parliament have clearly seen that we must correct the holes in our social security systems and that we must ensure that people do not fall through the meshes of the safety nets. Unfortunately, many cultural workers form a group that has fallen and falls through. It is a question of perhaps being self-employed, which means that you are personally responsible for your activities and do not have the same opportunities to take part in the health insurance system. We must change this. It should not be that you do not dare to have children when you are a cultural worker and go around on different project contracts. It shouldn't be that you can't be sick because you're a cultural worker and you're not a permanent employee. This is an important work that we have started and which is before us all. Madam President, I would like We have also seen many opportunities that have emerged in the pandemic. One of these is digitalisation. There are many different positive things about it. For example, you can meet without burdening the climate, since you do not have to travel all over the earth to attend a meeting. There is a possibility for older people who can't get out to watch a show on TV. It is possible for children to see an opera performance that they might not otherwise have seen. We shall of course use these possibilities, but we must not forget how important it is to meet physically. Nevertheless, the interhuman kitt consists of meetings. So somewhere we have to find the balance when we start up our societies again and when we start up culture. Madam President, I would like Democracy is not something you have. It is not an election every four years; it is something that we must fight for every day and every minute. Here, freedom of culture is an important temperature meter. Let's all stand up for it. In these words, Madam President, I support the proposal contained in the report.
i-9b6d97ba62803092-183	Madam President, I would like Thomas Morell has asked me what measures the government intends to take to minimise the number of vehicles with serious technical deficiencies on the country's roads, thereby ensuring road safety and reducing the number of overloaded vehicles on the country's roads. The government is determined that there should be order on the roads. We have tightened up the customer responsibility, made it possible to clapp vehicles and have been the leader in getting the EU's mobility package in place. In this way, unsound competition in the transport sector can be countered, something previously moderate-led governments have been completely uninterested in. The government's work has meant better order in the transport sector. For example, the Swedish Transport Agency's latest survey of professional traffic shows that more vehicles are in better condition now than before. The government has also added additional resources to the Police Authority to improve the control activities on the roads. In the last year, for example, there has been an increase in flying inspections. The Government has also set up an investigation to develop proposals for more effective checks on professional traffic and a comprehensive organisational form for control activities. It shall report on its work by 30 April at the latest. In addition, the Government has commissioned the Swedish Transport Agency and the Finnish Transport Agency to develop concrete proposals to improve checks on the weight of vehicles while driving, which means new possibilities to control overloads while driving. For me, it is crucial to create order in the transport sector.
i-7EQCgQrYt6WtP4UmYpgupN	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister Tomas, for your answer! This is an issue which engages me and which has done so for many years. I have my background out on the road and have been out checking. If you look at what it looks like out there, you don't really see the same picture that the Government describes, i.e. that it has improved. Just an hour ago, I was talking to a former colleague on the road. Overloads of 400 to 600 percent are quite dramatic. It's not a heavy vehicle that's so overladen, it's what you call light-duty vehicles– it's 3.5-toners. They are not designed to carry weights so that 400 percent can be loaded above what is permitted, or 600 percent for that matter. I think the record is 672%. Then you understand that the risk of an accident is imminent. It is clear that the suspension may not break at the first time you load so hard, but if the vehicle constantly goes with these weights something called metal fatigue occurs. Somewhere it takes a beating in the vehicle's suspensions, and eventually it breaks. When it breaks, the vehicle can go either way. At best, it goes to the right so that it lands on a fence. Worst case scenario, it goes to the left, towards an oncoming vehicle. The government is determined that there should be order on the roads, said the answer. I think that's great. Why, then, is there not a way to increase the number of officials who carry out checks on the road and can do something about those who are driving with such overloads? There will be an investigation to be presented on April 30th. That's good. I look forward to that investigation; it will be a lake to draw arguments from, I suppose. However, until the investigation leads to some kind of decision, it is still necessary to ensure that the activities you have function better. There are far too few officials out there who can do anything about those who manipulate tachographs, overload vehicles, drive around without having cargo proofs or ride around with bad brakes or bad links. This presents a danger to other road users. It is a danger to drivers who are driving in vehicles from serious hauliers. When two trucks collide, enormous forces are released. If we look at what they managed to do up in Västerås at the control week they had a while ago, we see that they controlled 35 trucks. Ten of them were prevented from going on, and four of them were trampled. It was an unauthorized cabotage – the seventh year. Three vehicles got technical driving bans. A technical driving ban means that something in the technical system of the vehicle is in such a bad condition that a driving ban is imposed on the spot. Then it is salvage from there or repair at the place that applies. So there were three vehicles that got this. One driver ran on the wrong driver's card, and one lost his driver's license. This is what a unit has achieved in a week. That's a lot. I do not understand why the government is so remarkably slow in expanding its activities. Even if there is now an investigation that shows how to organize in the future, one can of course expand the business today.
i-9VXy3C2jL51QJh2wWT6tMc	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Thomas Morell, for your commitment! It is precisely the example of Thomas Morell that shows that we are taking strong action. More checks and more flying inspections are now being carried out; only between 2019 and 2020 the number of flying checks went from 13 000 to 15 000. The number of control days has increased dramatically – since 2016, the increase is close to 450 per cent. This is because we take this type of phenomenon seriously. We are putting resources in place, giving clear directives and ensuring that the police are given tools in the form of new legislation. There was a difference between the time when we had a moderate government, or when Thomas Morell was active in the Moderate Coalition Party. Then you didn't want any checks. Then you thought it would be free movement, that there should be market principles and that there should not be rules on posting. Now we are fighting for foreign truck drivers in Sweden to have wages and conditions that are reasonable, so that there will be fair competition conditions. Only today have we stated that we are intervening when seven countries in Europe now choose to turn to the European Court of Justice to stop the mobility package. We make it completely unique that we intervene from the Swedish side, together with several other countries, and say: Stop here! Now we have negotiated a mobility package. This should now apply, so that there will be a level playing field and fair competition conditions. Together with this, we have introduced classing and ordering responsibility. The list of efforts we make is long. In addition, we have set up the study on more effective checks on professional traffic. In addition, we have, of course, earmarked resources to the police for more cabotage controls. Although I have no doubt at all about Thomas Morell's personal commitment, the Swedish Democrats still choose to say that they want to support a moderate-led government. Thomas Morell knows, with his background, that this is a party that does not want us to have controls, that thinks that freedom of movement is the most important and that also did not want to go into respecting the rules on posting, but actually actively opposed this in the Swedish parliament by reserving when we from the Swedish side set that position against the EU. I think road safety is incredibly important. This is one of the reasons why we systematically work with everything from children's and young people's cycling to professional traffic. We see that we have an embarrassing increase, as it were, in commercial traffic that drives faster – and sometimes careless – than is permitted on our roads. I dare to say that one of the reasons is precisely the tough competition on the market. You are sometimes pressured to violate driving and rest rules and to drive more than is allowed and reasonable, because it is so tough competition. That is why we want increased controls. This is why Sweden's Åkeri companies together with the Transport Workers' Association, the parties themselves, are so engaged in both Fair Transport and all other efforts that ensure a positive development in professional traffic. On the part of the government, this is a systematic work that has been going on since we had a change of government. The sad thing is that Tomas Morell is fighting hard together with his party leader Jimmie Åkesson to make it a change of government, that Ulf Kristersson will become Prime Minister and that we thereby get back the order that was before the turn of the government in 2014. At that time, there was no squeezing, ordering responsibility, police checks on cabotage or increased controls on professional traffic. I would like a message from the Swedish Democrats whether it is better or worse to have a social democratic-led government than with a moderate-led government?
i-9b6d97ba62803092-207	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. Wouldn't it be better for the government to discuss the policy of the Moderates with the representatives of the Moderates? Now we stand here, I am a Swedish Democrat and the Government, which represents the Social Democrats, and the Government knows very well where I stand on this matter of order and order. If you're going to go in and see what the government has done over the years, it's kind of like trying to start an old chamber diesel when it's ten degrees cold outside. You get to glow for a long time, and once you get it to pull around, it lights up on three cylinders and then stands and coughs for a good while before it turns on all fours. For a long time, we have had to move the positions of governments on these issues, because nothing has happened that has been driven by its own power, but we must keep pushing forward. It's pretty simple. We have legislation, the one that we handle in Sweden but also the one that is handled at EU level. Should it be so desperately difficult to comply with the legislation? After all, we must have a control function that reports those who violate the rules. The Government says in its reply that there has been better order. Then of course I ask myself the question: what is the government's basis on when that comment comes? I'm out in the business watching and talking to my former colleagues, and none of them can say that things have improved. They have problems literally up in their ears when they go out. There'd have to be a lot more control officers to get to the conscious cheating-- those who ride around with stuff that's barely connected-- because it's a danger to the rest of us when we're in traffic. They're driving on decks as worn as the table surface here. They're like cheeses on the winter road. The check to which I referred measured a pattern depth of one to two millimetres on the winter road of a heavy vehicle. And you don't have to be a scientist to understand what happens if a 40-ton sekipage has not been attached to the substrate. It is absolutely clear that there will be a folding knife effect. Then you do not know where the vehicle goes when 40 tons start living by their own power on the roadway. If you're lucky, it lands for itself out in the terrain. If you're unlucky, there's a serious accident. When 40 tons arrive at a speed of 70 - 80 kilometers on the run, I don't want to be d is, I can say that much. I would like to know what the Government is relying on when he says that there has been better order, because nothing out there indicates that. Just an hour ago, I was talking to a former colleague. They are busy and would have to be much more. I cannot understand why it is so difficult to put in funds to increase control activities. That there will then be an investigation, fine, I buy that. But you cannot allow the number of controllers to fall, because pension departures in the units are now larger than the flow in with new ones. This means that you finally come to a time when it is not possible to carry out an activity that is meaningful, because there is no one who can go out and do the job. In addition, we should be clear that control of heavy-duty vehicles requires a training period of four to five years before you are self-propelled. It's not just stepping out and stopping a car. It's when the car stands still that the job starts, and then you have to have knowledge.
i-9b6d97ba62803092-218	Madam President, I would like Thomas Morell asks what I am basing my claim on the fact that there has been better order. The Swedish Transport Agency's latest measurement of professional traffic shows that more vehicles were in better condition than in the previous year. There was an increase in the number of vehicles without any comments. It is also, as I said earlier, 450 percent increase in the number of control days since 2016. And the number of flying inspections has increased from 13,000 to 15,000. I believe that Thomas Morell too must be able to say that this is a positive development. In addition, more car inspectors are employed than before. Thomas Morell should still realise that it is efforts that matter. Thomas Morell avoids the basic question of whether it has gotten better or worse and says that I should have a debate with the Moderates. Since Thomas Morell is working with the Moderates and has a background in the party himself, I think he knows well that the Moderates have been opposed to making efforts to get things straight. If it is now the case that the Swedish Democrats think these are important questions to mark at a possible change of government, will you make demands on the Moderates? What's the list? What are the Swedish Democrats' demands to support a moderate-led government in terms of professional traffic? Are you making a deal? Are you making a list of more cabotage controls and more resources for police officers? Can Thomas Morell elaborate on what demands you will make? We have been working systematically since 2014 to create order in professional traffic. We have made sure that we now have classing, which did not exist before. We have customer responsibility. We have demands on winter tires. We have fines. We have negotiated a mobility package that we are now fighting for in Europe through intervention. We have earmarked resources for cabotage checks at the police. We have had an investigation and we are now hopefully coming up with a proposal for a professional road inspection. These are processes that are incredibly important and that Thomas Morell sometimes also praises. In particular, it concerns the investigation into more effective checks on professional traffic. The question then arises: If the accident were to occur and we have a change of government, how do the Swedish Democrats reason? Will you make demands of the Moderates to complete the work of securing order and order on our roads? I am very pleased that Sweden's Åkeri company together with the Transport Workers' Association is now working on Fair Transport. It shows how the industry takes precedence and creates good conditions for those who do well and how to give a good guide and guide to those who order transport in this way. Using a haulage company that is part of Fair Transport is something I recommend. Here I have stated that this is a positive development. There is certainly more to do, and I am passionate and eager to continue the reform work. But Thomas Morell is struggling with beaks and claws to get us another government. If Thomas Morell has this commitment, and I do not doubt it, how do you ensure that it will continue in a possible change of government? Will it be a list of demands, a deal? What's it look like? Tell me!
i-9b6d97ba62803092-225	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister Tomas Eneroth! There was a list here of what has happened since 2014 and about the increase in flying inspections. That increase was certainly nothing to write home about. Flying inspections were increased from 13 000 to 15 000. It was done in the first quarter when I was active. So we are talking about extremely low levels. 100 million went to cabotage controls. 2.6 of the 100 million has been reported by the police. Where did the rest go? With regard to the client responsibility, which was introduced in 2018, there are two judgments that are both appealed, so it has not led anywhere either. The problem is that it is very much said but no workshop. I can assure the Government that as long as I stand up and can breathe, I will pursue these issues. Who's the prime minister doesn't matter. There has to be a change. If we are to get some order in the haulage industry and be able to crack down on those involved in criminal activity, everyone in this House must understand that we must have controls and put forces in place to stop the criminal development. The criminals use the road as a workplace. They have penetrated the transport system and use our logistics systems to manage their internal transport. It's drug trafficking, weapons and explosives. Young girls come here to be prostitutes, and stolen goods go the other way. I will not fold an inch in this work.
i-9b6d97ba62803092-232	Madam President, I would like This is interesting. I don't think for a second that Thomas Morell would fold an inch, because I know about his commitment. However, Thomas Morell does not mention in one word that you will make this a requirement to support a moderate government. It doesn't matter if Thomas Morell himself is very involved in the issues if he gets a government that completely ignores making efforts. I asked a straight question about what the list looks like and what demands you will make, but I take it that you will not make any demands on Ulf Kristersson in terms of professional traffic, crime on our roads and resources for the traffic police. I think that's serious. This means that we really know that the only guarantor of ensuring order and order in our ways is to continue to have social democraticly led governments. The Swedish democrats cannot even give information if they want to make demands in such a fundamental question as order and order on our roads. This was an important message in today's debate.
i-9b6d97ba62803092-236	Madam President, I would like Robert Stenkvist has asked me whether I and the government still believe that river valley is a dialect and not a language of their own and whether the government intends to classify river valley as a national minority language to protect and develop the language for the future. I would like to start by thanking you for the question and underlining that I see the interest in preserving and developing the river valley as something very positive. As Robert Stenkvist explains, this is an issue that also engages outside the municipality of Älvdalen. There is great value in preserving the river valley as part of the common cultural heritage, and it is desirable that the river valley is passed on to new generations. The interest shown in the work of the municipality of Älvdalen among children and young people is therefore particularly pleasing. In 2017, the Institute for Languages and People's Memories considered that many measures to promote the river valley should be possible within the framework of existing legislation. I think, for example, that the work that is going on in Älvdalen municipality also shows this. The government has previously made the assessment that the river valley is a so-called popular destination, a kind of dialect, and there have been no new circumstances that give the government reason to change that view. The Council of Europe's assessment that the river valley meets the requirements of the European Charter of Regional and Minority Languages is, of course, something to which the government relates. However, the Council of Europe's assessment is largely based on previously known information, such as the classification developed by the SIL International organisation. There is therefore currently no work on the issue of additional national or minority languages in Sweden. Any change to the languages covered by Sweden's ratification of the Charter should be preceded by a thorough investigation. It is ultimately the Riksdag that has to decide on these issues.
i-9b6d97ba62803092-243	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. We all hope that the river valley will develop and remain. As I said, it is part of our historical heritage. I think there are two important issues here. One is whether the river valley is to be regarded as a language or a dialect of its own. It's a matter of fact. The second is whether the river valley should be classified as a national minority language. I don't agree with the government and most language experts and linguists around the world either. The Elf Valley is to be viewed as a language of its own, according to all facts, all science and all common sense. The Committee of Experts of the Council of Europe has repeatedly asked the government to investigate whether the river valley is a language of its own, which the government has not done. When there are a lot of arguments, you have to take them into account. The Älvdalska is linguistically further away than the Danish and Norwegian and is about the same distance from the Swedish as the Icelandic. Then it cannot be regarded as a dialect. Älvdalska has its own language system, its own inflections, a vocabulary that is completely different from the Swedish vocabulary and another syntax – yes, basically everything is different from the Swedish national. The Committee of Experts of the Council of Europe also writes in its report from 2020 that the river valley meets the requirements to be classified as its own language. The Committee of Experts does not give its opinion on any other issue, but only on this particular issue of its own language. The Government mentions SIL in its response. It is an international organisation that evaluates and categorizes all the languages of the world. They rejected the river valley as their own language the first time they tried it. But the second time, in 2016, they classed the river valley as language. Madam President, I would like The Government says that the Government has previously made the assessment that the river valley is a so-called popular destination, a kind of dialect. What did the government base this position on? I believe that the river valley should be classified as a national minority language. I understand that, in the long run, this could be a budget issue. If the river valley is classified as a language of its own, it should be given the status of a national minority language, and today we have five. However, I believe that this is a limited financial commitment. The river valleys themselves and the organisation representing this language, Ulum Dalska, do not require that the river valley can be used in government contacts. As a result, a huge piece of municipal and state commitment falls away, and it becomes easier to implement. The river valleys only want the river valley to develop in terms of education, culture and media.
i-2qo4TouNrMNbSKGi3r2T6x	Madam President, I would like Thank you again, Robert Stenkvist, for the question! I really want to underline what I said in my answer and that I really mean: I and the government think it is very positive that the river valley is developing and that there is a living commitment and interest in learning river valley among both parents and young people. If you look widely both in Sweden and around the world, you can see that there are a number of languages but also a variety of dialects and popular goals that are quite different from the official language of a country and that unfortunately, I would say, gradually die out. I myself have roots in Västerbotten, and it is clear that the peasant is also a very fascinating dialect that I can wish I had brought with me as a child. I think we should remember that whether we talk about languages, dialects or people's goals, there is a connection between language, culture and identity. This is important, and so I very much welcome the work that Älvdalen municipality is doing to spread the river valley. I have taken note of how you have worked on the basis of the support you have received from the General Heritage Fund, and that is an impressive job. I really wanted to say that. That being said, when the government adopted the five national minority languages, it was prompted by a committee work – a solid work. Within the framework of this work it was stated that the river valley is to be regarded as a popular destination and a dialect. Of course, this also applies to other popular goals and dialects. These issues have been raised repeatedly. I am aware of the commitment that exists to the issue among actors who speak elf valley. As I said, there is no work going on, and no new tasks have emerged. According to the Institute for Languages and People's Memories, which is the Government's Committee of Experts, there are still different opinions when it comes to how the river valley should be assessed and classified. The fact that SIL International made its assessment is not alone a new circumstance that prompts the government to change its position. We were also aware of this classification since the government took a position not to take the issue of the status of the river valley further. Isof referred in his report from 2017, when the issue was raised, to the complexity of the issue. There are many dialects in Sweden that are quite different from standard Swedish, including other goals in Dalarna and goals in Norrbotten. It's a complex issue. I would like to emphasise that it does not have to be a question of economics. The level raised for the river valley by the Council of Europe is not about it being included in an administrative area and the commitments involved. That is the question now. I would like to emphasise once again that this is an issue which I naturally follow, including language research. I think it is an issue in which it is interesting to see what the research concludes on an ongoing basis. And as I said, I am very positive about everything that is being done for the river valley in Älvdalen municipality.
i-T5itn7kSzyQU9wbRR9ZtgA	I would like to welcome the ministers. Questions are answered today by Minister of Education Anna Ekström, Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist, Minister of Labour Eva Nordmark and Minister of State Märta Stenevi. An issue shall be of a horizontal and general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties. The Minister for Education answers both general policy questions and questions within his own area of responsibility.
i-9b6d97ba62803092-264	Mr President, I would like to I would like to address my question to Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist. The Swedish Armed Forces submitted their budget base last week. It was clearly announced that we now need to come in with a supplementary budget base and also revise the investment plan set out by Parliament last autumn. The reason is simply that there have been cost increases in major equipment projects, and the money is not enough. The Moderates' line through all defence negotiations has been very clear: no more underfunded defence decisions. That is why we also put forward a budget option that was considerably stronger than the government to finance the defence decision, but unfortunately the government rejected it. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for Defence whether this autumn the government will provide more money to deal with the cost increases that have now arisen on the material side or whether it will cut back on the war organisation that Parliament recently decided on.
i-9b6d97ba62803092-267	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Armed Forces' budget base for 2022 shows that FMV provided the Swedish Armed Forces with information on a number of likely changes to the investment plan on 15 February. The Swedish Armed Forces' assessment is that the agency will need to return to the government with a revised investment plan, and this may entail adjustments to other proposals that are reflected in the Swedish Armed Forces' budget base. It has been informed of this in the past. The issue will come back again in the first half of 2021. I am not going to go ahead with this or say anything about it. I choose to speak on the matter when there is something to say. You can't jump to conclusions from what's there to tell you. I was in the Committee on Defence on 16 March and informed about this.
i-9b6d97ba62803092-269	Mr President, I would like to It is hardly that the ink has dried up on the defence decision that we have just made before we get information on cost increases. I remember the Minister for Defence standing in this Chamber saying that this defence decision is on a solid foundation. I would therefore like to ask whether it is still his assessment that the defence decision can be implemented using the funds allocated or whether new funds will have to be added.
i-9b6d97ba62803092-271	Mr President, I would like to I am not going to contribute to speculation or hasty conclusions in this context. I think it is better to wait until all the impact calculations are complete. This is a line that I've been trying to follow over the years, and I think it's a pretty successful way to behave. On the other hand, if you want to contribute to speculation for political reasons, you may contribute towards better knowledge and sometimes to confusion that would not have been necessary.
i-9b6d97ba62803092-274	Mr President, I would like to During my lifetime, the Swedish dictionary has received some rather strange additions. Words like balcony girls, upbringing trips and sharia policemen were completely unknown when I was a child, but today almost everyone knows what this is. I also think that almost everyone knows, if they are honest, why these phenomena have become more common in Sweden. That's because a lot of people have moved here from countries where things like these are cultural norm rather than exceptions. Of course, this does not apply to everyone who moves to Sweden, but some. I would like to ask Minister Stenevi if she shares the view that it is precisely this connection that has made these things more common in Sweden, i.e. that very many people have moved here from countries where this is the cultural norm. If she doesn't see this connection, I wonder if she has a theory of her own.
i-9b6d97ba62803092-276	Mr President, I would like to The phenomena pointed out by Ludvig Aspling are incredibly serious, and this is something that the government takes very seriously to counteract. These are phenomena that we can never accept in Sweden and Swedish society. It affects girls and women, but also boys and men in a way that we must oppose. Norms – destructive man standards – will need to be dealt with. In the government, we are doing a great deal of work to combat honour-related violence and repression. We will continue to work against this repression throughout the term of office and hopefully long after that. It's very important that we get to grips with this. Wherever it comes from, who does it or whom it is directed against, the repression and violence will be stopped.
i-9b6d97ba62803092-278	Mr President, I would like to Now the question was not what the government is doing, which I understand Märta Stenevi is happy to tell you about. Without the question whether she has a theory as to why this has become so much more common in my lifetime. I believe that Sweden has no chance at all to tackle these problems if we are not first and foremost honest about why the problems have emerged from the beginning. If you do not understand that these things have a direct connection to the reception of people from countries where this is cultural norm, you have your head deep into the sand.
i-9b6d97ba62803092-280	Mr President, I would like to I'm very impressed that we can help the girls and women affected by this violence. My absolute conviction is that we are not doing better by closing the border and allowing girls and women to grow up in camps in Lebanon. Rather, we are going to work on the problems that we see here and now and take a strong stance against the crime that is at stake and against the standards that drive this crime forward. I will devote a very large part of my waking time to that.
i-9b6d97ba62803092-282	Mr President, I would like to 212 of the country's 290 municipalities have housing shortages in some form. Lack of housing prevents municipalities from growing and people from moving. The public benefit of small municipalities cannot be built because their auditors require direct depreciation with reference to C3, which is a regulatory framework for annual and consolidated financial statements. Low property values mean that the companies' auditors require new housing to be depreciated directly. It has proved difficult to get around K3 because it is based on an EU directive. Many smaller municipalities feel tied by K3, low property values and a beach shelter that prohibits them from using their most valuable assets, such as scenic environments, to increase their attractiveness. What are Märta Stenevis tips to the municipal councillor in a municipality who wants to build for a population that is growing but hindered by rules that disadvantage rural areas? How will small municipalities be able to build the homes that are in demand?
i-9b6d97ba62803092-285	Mr President, I would like to A continued high level of housing construction is central to Swedish development, not least in small municipalities. The investment aid that we have introduced has meant that we have been able to maintain a high level of housing even in times of more pressure, as during the pandemic. We have not seen the decline expected in housing construction. I do not think that a relaxation of the beach protection in that situation is the answer. However, I believe that we need to continue to review the rules we can work with to make it easier for both small municipalities and private property owners to continue to build more housing with reasonable rents in our country. Investment support is one of the measures that has been very important in maintaining housing.
i-9b6d97ba62803092-287	Mr President, I would like to Beach protection rules are likely to be decided on here eventually when the investigation is referred. But I believe that the single most important factor is that the value of the property increases for every meter that you can build a property closer to a shoreline. This also increases the willingness to invest in those who would like to build such homes. With a higher valuation there are also less requirements for impairment according to K3. Investment support is likely to change in such a way that it makes better use of Sweden's rural areas.
i-9b6d97ba62803092-288	Mr President, I would like to What comes out of the Strandskyddsutvetenningen we will get back to later when this is ready. However, I am convinced that investment support will be very useful. It has already done much good where the needs are greatest. I hope that in good agreement we can continue to evaluate and develop investment support so that we can find the large number of homes with reasonable rents that we need in Sweden.
i-9b6d97ba62803092-290	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to the Secretary of Defense. In the defence decision of December last year, the Swedish Armed Forces were tasked with setting up a number of new regiments in the country. In some of these places it is not very difficult. There is already military activity, and a new sign is being put up more or less. However, in some other locations it is considerably more difficult to get the infrastructure and staff. This has been pointed out several times by the Swedish Armed Forces. It was also the criticism that led the Left Party to vote against more of these new regiments. In the days, there was a new report showing difficulties in starting new regiments in places where there is not much military activity today. How does the Minister of Defence view the recurring reports and objections to the new regiments?
i-9b6d97ba62803092-293	Mr President, I would like to The defense decision is to be implemented. The regiments shall be established in accordance with the instructions of the Riksdag and the Government. The Fortifications Agency is tasked with working on infrastructure issues together with the Swedish Armed Forces. The Swedish Armed Forces have to establish other activities in this context. My assessment is that it will be possible to complete what the Riksdag and the Government have ordered.
i-9b6d97ba62803092-294	Mr President, I would like to The decision is made, as the Secretary of Defense says. I am also convinced that the new regiments will be established in the places where we have decided. But I see great difficulties both with the construction and with the supply of personnel. For example, there is a risk of more weekly commuting, which makes the working environment and working conditions worse for many of the employees. How does the Secretary of Defense view these risks? How can they be handled so that costs don't drag away and there are other negative effects?
i-9b6d97ba62803092-295	Mr President, I would like to Parliament decisions and government directives are parliamentary decisions and government directives. Both the Swedish Armed Forces and the Swedish Fortifications Agency have to manage the operations based on it. Then there are risks and problems in everything. There is no one who can say that anything in the defence decision will actually be simple and easy, but we will have challenges to face all the time. But I am convinced that what Parliament has decided will be carried out.
i-9b6d97ba62803092-297	Mr President, I would like to For some, the veil hijab is a personal choice. For others, they are only a coercion and a part of an honorary oppression. In any case, the veil is an expression of a vision where women are expected to hide themselves to be considered decent. The veil places the responsibility for men's sexuality on the girls, which is also at the heart of the culture of honor. My question to Minister for Gender Equality Märta Stenevi is whether she and the government believe that it is right for little girls to be sent to preschool or school in a veil or whether she, like the Christian Democrats, is prepared to ban this.
i-9b6d97ba62803092-299	Mr President, I would like to We believe that little girls should have the right to dress as they like, whether they wear a veil or not. We also believe that it is absolutely crucial for equality in this country to look at the factors that are, above all, driving inequality, such as the large economic differences that exist between men and women and the differences in labour force participation that exist within certain groups, including foreign-born women. The latter is something that creates situations where mothers who do not establish themselves in the labour market and do not get in touch with Swedish society are isolated at home, sometimes together with their young children. It is not the government's or the Green Party's intention to snatch off the veil of little girls in kindergarten. It is our absolute intention, however, to ensure that every child in this country has the right to dress as it pleases – without coercion, without oppression and without threat of violence.
i-9b6d97ba62803092-301	Mr President, I would like to The culture of honour should of course be fought, and it is best done through proper efforts to counteract the oppression of honour. That is why, for example, the Christian Democrats are spending more money than the government on strengthening the judiciary, so that we can fight the crimes of honour. But we also believe that veils should be banned on small girls in preschool and school. We think it is important that children should be allowed to be children, and we hope that the government can also take note of this.
i-9b6d97ba62803092-302	Mr President, I would like to Children should be allowed to be children, and the way to deal with honorary oppression and violence is to break with the norms that drive out honour repression and violence. Bans and penalties may have their place, but not in the case of small children. Young children should be allowed to choose what they are wearing. This applies regardless of whether the Christian Democrats like the garments or not. Instead, what we need to work on all the time is to counteract the norms that drive the repression of honour and violence.
i-9b6d97ba62803092-304	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Minister Eva Nordmark. Politics needs to shorten the distances that need to be overcome in order for employees in the workplace to dare to speak out. Compared to Norway's corresponding authority, the Swedish Work Environment Authority 2016 received significantly fewer tips, 1,600 compared to 7,000. Of course, it is not a question of the health and safety problems being greater in Norway. Instead, it is about simplicity and security. For example, a notification can be submitted anonymously and there is no risk of personal sanctions. When a work environment problem or a work environment crime begins to be investigated, the consequences have usually already become critical. That is why the Liberals want it to be easier to sound the alarm about abuses in the workplace. My question to the Minister is what the government intends to do to minimise the culture of silence in the workplace and thus to safeguard the working environment.
i-9b6d97ba62803092-307	Mr President, I would like to I thank Mr Teimouri very much for the question. Silence culture is something very serious that we should not have in the Swedish labour market. That is why it is so incredibly important that we have an active safety organisation with safety representatives who can carry out their important work. That is also why it is very important for everyone to be able to alert about abuses in their workplaces. For this reason, the government will come up with a bill on how to strengthen the right to sound the alarm. So it is a question of whistleblowers being given enhanced protection. This is very important and central in order to ensure that taxpayers' money goes to the right things, but also to counteract and prevent the culture of silence that today has spread out in Swedish workplaces.
i-9b6d97ba62803092-308	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for his reply. But I think it takes a lot more than just strengthening protection. We in the Liberals believe that it must be much easier to report irregularities in the workplace. We would like to see an assignment given to the Swedish Work Environment Authority to investigate how complaints can be made in a simpler way; in this way, those who report irregularities at workplaces are secured.
i-9b6d97ba62803092-309	Mr President, I would like to I would very much like to welcome the commitment of the Liberals to this issue. I think there are still too few people who know about the tip phone that Arman Teimouri refers to. Of course, this is very important. I would also like to say that it is generally very important that our authority The Swedish Work Environment Authority has the resources and the capacity that is so important both to ensure that we have a good working environment in this country and to push back the work crime that is spreading. There are telephones and other tools of course very important.
i-9b6d97ba62803092-312	Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask Minister Anna Ekström a question. When schoolchildren appreciate their own health, six out of seven feel that they have a good health, but that is very different. On the other hand, girls feel worse than boys, and the older children feel worse than the younger children. Worst are children who have disabilities, which worries. Even though the children are satisfied, there is now an increase in anxiety. They get pain everywhere and just don't feel well. Life is stressful, and the pandemic is stressful us even more. Young people today experience being put on hold in their lives. They don't have the opportunity to do the fun things.
i-9b6d97ba62803092-316	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for a very urgent question! Many people in our country have been severely affected by the pandemic that is tearing up so much in our society. Young people and, not least, high school young people and young people studying at university, university of applied sciences and Komvux have really been hit very hard. They have been affected by remote learning, which risks making learning more difficult for them. They have also been affected by having to a large extent refrain from things that make life fun, especially in those ages. Today, the Swedish Public Health Agency has announced that it is raising the national recommendation on a mix of distance and distance education and local education in upper secondary school. It is now up to every school to make sure that teaching can be carried out in an infectious way. I welcome that. It increases the opportunities for students in areas where the infection is not so serious to come to school, which is very important for those students, Mr President.
i-9b6d97ba62803092-321	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much for your answer. In times of crisis that we are in now, there is a great deal of talk about money and investment in one and the other. But it is very rarely that we talk about investments in children and young people. I would therefore like to ask the Government how she sees what is investment in children and young people in the future.
i-9b6d97ba62803092-323	Mr President, I would like to Just these days, the school billion paid out by the government through the budget bill can be made available to the schools to deal with some of the problems that Gunilla Svantorp is talking about. We also have large state grants in the so-called equivalence grant that will go to, among other things, pupil health. A major investigation is currently looking at student health and making suggestions. I look forward to producing more proposals for the Riksdag that can strengthen the students' health. It's very important.
i-9b6d97ba62803092-327	Mr President, I would like to Everyone has the right to choose their love, be themselves and live their lives. Honourable repression and violence that restricts those rights must be stopped, and the standards behind it must be changed. The idea of virginity that can be controlled must be removed. All women must have the empowerment of work. Today, both Save the Children and the Environmental Party's Equality and Diversity Committee have presented reports on the work against honour-related violence and repression. I know that the government has given a great deal of priority to these issues and has, among other things, allocated SEK 180 million to the work against honour violence. What would be the consequences, Märta Stenevi, if the government had instead done as the Christian Democrats and taken away 100 million of that money to counter honour repression and violence?
i-9b6d97ba62803092-330	Mr President, I would like to As I have answered a few of the previous questions, it is an extremely important issue for the government to break with the honour-related violence and repression that restricts the freedom of children and young people and the ability to choose their lives and live their lives freely. Among other things, we have made new laws. We've tightened the penalties for honor crimes. We have introduced an exit ban to protect children from being taken abroad in order to enter into child marriage or to be genitally stymied. We have also strengthened prevention. The money we set aside for the prevention of honour-related violence and repression is crucial for us to gain the knowledge needed for the personnel surrounding the children to be able to catch the signals that can be seen and thus give children the opportunity and support to emerge from honour-related violence and oppression. It is also about working preventively with parents and relatives who practice violence and oppression. This is an extremely important initiative. I'm glad we have that money to work for the good of these children.
i-9b6d97ba62803092-334	Mr President, I would like to In the report that Save the Children presents, there are many important suggestions. This concerns, among other things, the issue of so-called virginity controls. It is a completely unscientific medical check-up that is to confirm whether a girl has or has not had sex. The same proposal to ban this type of unscientific control is presented in the Green Party. What proposal does Märta Stenevi think is most important in Save the Children's Report?
i-9b6d97ba62803092-335	Mr President, I would like to What Annika Hirvonen highlights is a very important dimension in the report. Some of the points I would like to highlight are to give priority to labour market measures aimed at women born abroad and women in vulnerable areas. When we strengthen the mother's self-determination, the mother's own contact with society and the mother's establishment in society, we have great opportunities to get whole families and families to leave honour-related violence and oppression and thus also help the children who are exposed.
i-9b6d97ba62803092-337	Mr President, I would like to I have a general political question, so it becomes Anna Ekström. In 2013, the Riksdag made a clear decision that we should have 170 to 270 wolves in Sweden. Since the S-government took over in 2014, the wolf population has increased strongly. Today we have an estimated 400 to 450 wolves in Sweden. This means that Parliament's decisions of 170 – 270 wolves are not followed by the government. In the world there are about 200,000 wolves. That means the wolf is not threatened. They also hunt wolves in Europe to keep the wolf tribe at a reasonable level. Sweden also wants to produce food. Then it is important that we keep the wolf tribe at a low level. Sweden must be able to produce more food. Then let's not produce any more wolves. My question to the Minister is: Why does the government not follow the Riksdag's decision from 2013 that Sweden should have a maximum of 170 – 270 wolves?
i-9b6d97ba62803092-340	Mr President, I would like to As Sten Bergheden said, this is a general policy issue that does not fall within my remit. I now end up in the trouble that you end up in from time to time. I turn to Sten Bergheden and say that I think it is an important issue. It is a question that deserves an answer that is substantiated, well thought out and based on the government's accumulated experience and accumulated work on the matter. I would therefore humbly ask Sten Bergheden to return to the Council of State, which is responsible for the question in a written question or in a Question Time where she is present. Once again, Mr President, I apologise for not being able to answer the specific question. But it's more honest to tell the truth than to talk around.
i-9b6d97ba62803092-344	Mr President, I would like to All you have to do is regret it. At the same time, I would like to send the Minister another question to prepare an answer to when a written question comes in. It's about the wolf rejuvenation. It also clearly states in the 2013 decision that it should not be done in reindeer husbandry areas. Why does the government not follow Parliament's decision as to where the wolf rejuvenation may take place? The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency is currently planning this in Jämtland. Bring that question along, too.
i-9b6d97ba62803092-346	Mr President, I would like to I thank Sten Bergheden for the supplementary question. I can assure you that to the extent that Sten Bergheden raises that question in writing or orally, there will be a better answer than I can deliver now. I apologise to the President for dealing with the matter in this way, and to all my colleagues I have to apologise for being unable to respond better than this.
i-9b6d97ba62803092-348	I don't know if the Minister for Education really needs to apologize. The definition of a general policy issue can be discussed. I think that this question was quite detailed. Nevertheless, I would question the fact that it was really a general policy issue. We look forward to written questions, interpellations and other things so it's lovely for the future.
i-9b6d97ba62803092-350	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to the Secretary of Defense. In the regulation on the Swedish Armed Forces' support for civilian activities, it is regulated that the Swedish Armed Forces may, upon request, provide support to authorities, municipalities and regions. It is also regulated that the Swedish Armed Forces should charge fees for support under this regulation. Full cost recovery shall then be achieved. The Government has decided on 28 January on a change in the regulatory letter that makes exceptions in this regulation. The decision states that support given by the Swedish Armed Forces in connection with covid-19 to municipalities and regions during the period 1 January to 30 June must be provided without any fee being charged. This decision is applied retroactively, and new directives provide for support during this period to be financed from the Swedish Armed Forces' grant line for unit operations and preparedness.
i-9b6d97ba62803092-354	Mr President, I would like to I have previously answered a similar question in connection with a committee meeting. Much has been done in connection with covid and corona management. The idea is now that there will be a regulation afterwards where the Swedish Armed Forces will receive cost recovery for the expenses that have been incurred in this context.
i-9b6d97ba62803092-356	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for his reply. It is gratifying that regulation will take place, but before the change in the regulatory letter, full cost recovery was guaranteed. I did not understand whether the Minister for Defence responded to whether full cost recovery should be guaranteed. Nor did I get any answer as to why the government made this change.
i-9b6d97ba62803092-358	Mr President, I would like to Perhaps in these times, which are rather cumbersome for all of us and even for the Government Offices, there may be some forbearance that I do not now specify a specified time. However, it is the case that there should be a reimbursement of expenses here. The idea was from the outset that this should happen, but because of the whole situation that Corona has led to in terms of social circumstances, there have been some changes in directives and other things. We'll get back to you.
i-9b6d97ba62803092-360	Mr President, I would like to The issue of web filters against unwanted content in public computers has been discussed for a long time, including in this House. In the school's digital equipment, violent scenes and pornographic scenes can be only one click away, which is both offensive and unsafe. Studies show that the time when children are exposed to porn creeps deep down in the ages. Of course, a web filter is not the only solution to the problem; nobody claims that. But a web filter is a reason to speak. A filter together with discussions about norms and values gives children a good basis to stand on. Apparently, many municipalities think so too, because three out of four municipalities have installed some kind of web filter. They have done this without any major guidance from SKR or the government. Quality, function and price are issues that could have been addressed jointly. My question to Anna Ekström is: What is the Minister's message to the municipalities seeking support to install web filters? And above all: in what way does the Minister want to ensure a secure digital environment without inappropriate and offensive content for our children?
i-9b6d97ba62803092-365	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Helena Vilhelmsson, for a very important question! Our children and young people and students attending school should not in school and in school computers face pornographic content or content that is in any way offensive or frightening. It is an important responsibility of the school's principals to ensure that schools are safe and secure also in terms of the use of different IT platforms and the like provided by the school. The responsibility lies with the school's principals, and I am glad that so many principals take this responsibility. I am, like Helena Vilhelmsson, anxious for all the principals to take it. In support of this, the principals are now given a new writing in the curriculum we have, where we write more clearly and thoroughly about these issues in the area of knowledge about sexuality, relations and consent. I look forward to ensuring that schools are given a proper tool to work on these important issues.
i-9b6d97ba62803092-369	Mr President, I would like to Then I very much hope that this wording of the curriculum will also provide support to the municipalities for precisely the technical equipment, because that is what we are witnessing has been lacking. SKR has talked about producing a guide. This has been done for two years, and nothing has happened. Perhaps I can also hope for the national plan for security and study to come. I hope it will come soon, and I hope it will include this. If it doesn't, and if you want a way forward also for technical support – is the Minister possibly interested in giving the National Agency for Education a mission on this issue?
i-9b6d97ba62803092-371	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Helena Vilhelmsson, for the stated support for the work we do – to a large extent jointly within the January Agreement – to strengthen the subject of sexuality, relations and consent! I would like to stress that in the new curriculum, we have also clearly indicated that there should be access to education for students dealing with pornography. I look forward to further work on this and will have to come back to it.
i-9b6d97ba62803092-374	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Minister of Education Anna Ekström. The other day, the Academy of Engineering Sciences presented an important report on young school students' attitudes to school, not least in terms of mathematics and natural orientation. There were several light points, namely that Swedish students generally enjoy schooling and that one sees that motivation is great, not least among young people with foreign backgrounds. It also turned out that their interest in natural knowledge and mathematics is higher compared to other student groups. But there were also some parts that worry and worry me, namely that you only read what you have to read. It also turns out that the desire to learn and to learn more is falling and that it has fallen so much that it is the lowest level in the 21st century. My question to the Minister for Education is how she views these results and what the government intends to do to reverse developments.
i-9b6d97ba62803092-379	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Roger Haddad, for paying attention to the important report from the Royal Swedish Academy of Engineering Sciences! The government has invested considerable resources in strengthening teaching in two subjects that are very important for the issues that Roger Haddad raises. I am thinking of the Mathematics Lift, an initiative that has meant that many of Sweden's mathematics teachers have received an updated and evidence based on research based competence development in how to teach mathematics to strengthen students' knowledge and desire to learn. But, Mr President, I am also thinking of the Reading Lift. The subject of Swedish and language comprehension and reading comprehension is important for the Swedish subject itself, but it is also important for all the subjects, such as mathematics, that require the development of a subject language. The government intends to continue these efforts and will do so in cooperation with Roger Haddad and his comrades in the January Agreement.
i-9b6d97ba62803092-384	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister of Education, for your answer. There are also in the shadow of the pandemic of quality deficiencies in school that I fear exacerbates this development, namely shortcomings in studies and increased percentage of unauthorized teachers. But it is also a question of having too little results if you look at the national tests, where too many students are at the lowest levels. I do not think that the focus should then be on changing the limits of approval or introducing a new failed grade step. More and more reforms are needed to boost quality.
i-9b6d97ba62803092-386	Mr President, I would like to Of course, the most important thing for teaching mathematics is that we have qualified mathematics teachers. To my delight, I saw today that the Swedish National Agency for Education announced that both the percentage and the number of teachers qualified in Swedish schools are actually increasing. Mr President, I would like to Let me also take this opportunity to offer my warm congratulations to Roger Haddad on his birthday. Although we are talking about mathematics, I am not telling you how many years the honourable Member's birthday is.
i-9b6d97ba62803092-389	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister for Employment Eva Nordmark. We are now entering the second year of a global pandemic that has had a huge impact on many areas of society, not least in the labour market. We now see how groups that already had difficulties in the labour market are hit even harder. One group that is both more vulnerable than others and that has been hit very hard are young people. We saw at the end of last year that some 60 000 young people, excluding full-time students, were unemployed. We also see that more young people are leaving the labour force at the same time as we are now moving towards the end of the semester and a group leaving high school.
i-9b6d97ba62803092-393	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Anna Johansson, for the very important question! We note that it is precisely those young people who have not completed their upper secondary education who are at risk of long-term exclusion from the labour market. It is therefore particularly important to put in place measures for that particular group so that young people can complete their upper secondary education. This is why, among other things, the government has expanded and continues to expand the number of training places throughout the country. That is a very important starting point. Two weeks ago, the government was also able to announce that we are allocating 200 million to jobs for young people. It will go to the young people who graduated from high school last year and this year, so that they can get a first line of their CV. These are examples of important efforts made by the government. I would also like to say to all young people that although it is tough right now, it is not over.
i-9b6d97ba62803092-397	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for Employment for his answer. Now we are in an emergency situation which, of course, requires exceptional measures. But we can also see that there is a risk of lingering effects when the pandemic eventually releases and we can begin to return to a more normal state. I would therefore like to add by asking the Minister what the government intends to do to reduce the risk of long-term unemployment in the long term and to restart the labour market, not least for young people.
i-9b6d97ba62803092-399	Mr President, I would like to This is very central: that, with the serious situation we have on the Swedish labour market, we really are rebooting the economy. The government has made strong investments in this year's budget, which is about strengthening welfare, strengthening competitiveness and also creating more green jobs. Of course, that is absolutely crucial. This is about 75 000 new jobs. I myself come from the northern parts of Sweden, Mr President, where huge investments are now being made which will also increase the number of job vacancies. We need to keep going.
i-9b6d97ba62803092-402	Mr President, I would like to We are currently going through a third wave of the coronapndemine. The government has promised that everyone over 18 years of age will be offered vaccines before midsummer, but it is going too slow. My own county of Gävleborg is particularly plagued by the spread of infection. We have experienced the highest mortality rate in covid-19 in terms of the number of inhabitants compared to the rest of Sweden. There is tremendous fatigue among the Gävleborgs in general and the county's healthcare professionals in particular. In the midst of this, the situation is escalating again. For example, Hudiksvalls and Bollnäs Hospital are now being prepared for increased pressure when Gävle Hospital needs to be relieved. Hopefulness is needed, but vaccine deliveries are malfunctioning and delaying. That's not good enough. My question to the Minister for Education Anna Ekström, the general political respondent at this Question Time, is therefore what new measures the Government intends to take that can speed up vaccination.
i-9b6d97ba62803092-406	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for a very important question! We are many now who put our hope in the spring and the heat but also to the vaccine, which will make sure we can get back to perhaps not a really ordinary everyday life but a much more normal everyday life. The delays that have taken place on the delivery side are very regrettable, but they are due precisely to delays. They are delays which have affected all the countries of the European Union. Within the EU, we are now working very hard to ensure that deliveries can get started, but also to ensure that international trade, which is a prerequisite for vaccine production to function around the world, can function as well as possible. The efforts we are making in the international field to secure access to vaccines may be the most important thing we can do right now, Mr President, to ensure that we get the vaccine into Sweden. Once we get the vaccine to Sweden, it is our regions that will ensure that the syringes come into the arms of people as soon as possible.
i-9b6d97ba62803092-409	Mr President, I would like to We agree on the problem picture, and we agree on the seriousness of the situation. However, my question was about new measures, if there is anyone else that the government might take. It's been a year. People are incredibly tired of the situation. The vaccine won't get through. In fact, other countries have vaccinated a larger proportion of their population than Sweden has. It can't go fast enough. SKR now warns that we will not reach the goal of having offered all vaccines until midsummer. My question remains: is it possible to do more, and if so, what does the government intend to do?
i-9b6d97ba62803092-412	Mr President, I would like to I maintain that the most important thing the government can do is to strengthen the work with the other EU countries to ensure that the vaccine can enter the trade chains that we have agreed on and around which there are sales agreements and the like. The government doesn't rest on the male. While we are standing here, Prime Minister Stefan Löfven is taking part in a major EU summit, which includes access to vaccines. Nothing is left undone that can be done to secure access and ensure that the syringes come to our old ones and then, in line with that, to the entire population.
i-9b6d97ba62803092-415	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister for Employment Eva Nordmark. At present, unemployment is running out. Most worrying are the long-term unemployed, who have moved further and further from the labour market – to date more than 180 000 people. These are figures that were alarming long before the pandemic and light years from the employment minister's and government's goal of Europe's lowest unemployment. The main reason for these figures is the political decisions that led to an extremely high level of immigration from 2015 onwards by groups lacking the skills to be employable in the Swedish labour market. Despite boom, high employment rates, 100% subsidised employment and billion-cost integration efforts, people did not get into work, while we had an extremely low level of unemployment among natives at this time. Mr President, I would like to My question to the Minister for Labour is: Is the Minister for Labour prepared to admit that it is largely the government's failed immigration policy that has led to the high unemployment figures that we can see now and that we could see before the pandemic struck?
i-XojCZnqqwdwWsUdSQBC8SE	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Magnus Persson, for your important question about long-term unemployment! I would like to begin by saying that throughout Stefan Lövven's time as Prime Minister, employment has increased, with the exception of the dip that we have now seen under the coronapndemin. We have also seen that the pace of establishment has accelerated. However, there is no doubt that we now have a very serious situation in the Swedish labour market. We also see an increase in the long-term unemployed. One important reason why many people are long-term unemployed is that they do not have the skills required for the jobs available on the labour market. It is therefore a question of strengthening the training of those furthest from the labour market. Upper secondary education is the admission ticket to the Swedish labour market today. It is a very important measure: to continue to expand the knowledge boost in the way we have begun. We should also be glad that we have done so and are well equipped today, because it allows more unemployed people to train today.
i-9b6d97ba62803092-422	Mr President, I would like to The government often uses Sweden's high employment rate to smooth over the debate on the high unemployment rates. The employment rate can be measured in many different ways, but it is enough to work one hour a week to be part of the statistics. Does the Minister not think that a country with such a high employment rate as Sweden should have a lower unemployment rate when it comes to regular jobs?
i-9b6d97ba62803092-423	Mr President, I would like to Of course, I am not satisfied that we have as high unemployment as we have in Sweden. That is why we are also acting with incredibly strong efforts – in this year's budget over 100 billion extra, in terms of labour market policy 9 billion. That is why we are taking such measures that we ensure that more people who are unemployed are now given the opportunity to study and educate themselves with continued pay. That is why we are making demands on the Public Employment Service to increase transitions to education. Much more needs to be done.
i-9b6d97ba62803092-425	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to the Secretary of Defense. Recently, the Conservative British Government announced its intention to increase the number of nuclear tippings. This is done by raising the so-called roof from today's 180 warheads to 260 warheads as the highest level. This is the case in the United Kingdom, despite the signature of the NPT, which provides for the disarmament of all countries, including the five nuclear weapons countries. The UK's actions can lead to an armament spiral and counteract Sweden's ambitions at the autumn follow-up conference for the NPT agreement. In the letter on international defence cooperation, the government describes Sweden's military cooperation with the UK. Sweden currently has a bilateral agreement since 2014. British soldiers participate in Swedish exercises, and Sweden has been part of the UK rapid reaction force JEF since 2017. I wonder whether Sweden's military relations with the United Kingdom will change now that the Conservative British Government is armsing and increasing the number of nuclear warheads.
i-9b6d97ba62803092-428	Mr President, I would like to The government has been very clear in its message about the view of nuclear weapons and also the latest action by the UK. On the other hand, the defence cooperation we have with the UK is extremely important for Sweden and for the stability of our part of Europe. I see it as very important to practice with the UK, participate in the Joint Expeditionary Force together with the UK and have the UK as part of the transatlantic link. We are also currently engaged in negotiations with the United Kingdom on the common conclusions to be drawn on the consequences of the Brexit vote and on how to coordinate our efforts in the future. The UK is an important partner and will continue to be so. Partnering with someone does not mean sharing all views or actions. But losing Britain in our part of Europe would be detrimental to overall security.
i-9b6d97ba62803092-431	Mr President, I would like to I find it sad that the Minister for Defence is approaching nuclear states such as the United States, France and the United Kingdom in this way and without seeing that they are legitimised. Sweden could pursue a line prohibiting the use of nuclear weapons in Sweden and the transport of nuclear weapons in Sweden. We could advocate nuclear-free zones in our neighbourhood, as in the Nordic countries, and we could leave the JEF operation together with the UK. I therefore wonder whether the Minister for Defence does not see a problem in his legitimizing the nuclear states by approaching them.
i-9b6d97ba62803092-433	Mr President, I would like to We don't legitimize nuclear weapons. We are working actively against nuclear weapons, and the Non-Proliferation Treaty is extremely important in that work. It is very important to be in an agreement where the nuclear powers are involved, and that is where we have the platform. Dismissing these cooperation would be devastating for stability and security in Europe. Then I do not think that we should forget the nuclear weapons on the Russian side which should also be dealt with in this context.
i-9b6d97ba62803092-436	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist. In a more troubled world, it is important to have good relations with countries that share our common democratic foundations. Since 2014, the Government has been working with a targeted and active approach to strengthening international cooperation and signing bilateral agreements. Our cooperation with, for example, Britain, the Baltic States and the United States is deeper than ever. Among our collaborations, the Finnish has come the longest. Negotiations are now under way to establish host country support agreements with Finland. The need for such an agreement follows with the fine, deep Swedish-Finnish defence cooperation. How are the negotiations going, and how far has the government come in the process of establishing a host country support agreement with Finland?
i-9b6d97ba62803092-440	Mr President, I would like to It is an important issue that is highlighted here. Our hope is that in the spring, in April – May, we will be able to complete this process and the negotiations with Finland. We hope that a decision will also be taken on the signing of this agreement. Then this also requires a parliamentary process in order for it to enter into force. We hope to be in a position where entry into force could take place in the summer of 2022.
i-9b6d97ba62803092-442	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for Defence, Peter Hultqvist, for his reply. It is gratifying that the work is in progress and has come this far. Who sees the Secretary of Defense as the greatest benefit once this agreement is in place?
i-9b6d97ba62803092-444	Mr President, I would like to We already have a host country support agreement with NATO. This is basically about regulating the conditions for foreign troops on Swedish territory and what applies to tax rules and what applies to different types of activities that come with this. It is the basic package in order for us to be able to receive the troops of other countries on Swedish soil, which is what this is all about, and then it is Finland in this case that is specifically about.
i-9b6d97ba62803092-446	Mr President, I would like to I was going to ask the Minister of State Märta Stenevi my question. We all know that racism is increasing throughout the world, not least in Sweden. We're seeing the progress. There is a noted case in Gothenburg where a 32-year-old man died of a brain hemorrhage, but the ambulance staff called it a cultural fainting and said that the man pretended to be unconscious. At the same time, we have a political discourse in Sweden where leaders and different types of debaters describe people as a burden and a cultural burden. People are lumped together and accused of social problems. My question is: what do you intend, Märta Stenevi, to do to counteract and counteract this type of development that we have today?
i-9b6d97ba62803092-450	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Leila Ali-Elmi, for this very important question! I shall begin by saying that it is extremely worrying that we are seeing, in the waves of the pandemic, how racism is increasing and that it is increasing sharply. Not least, it increases online where we see, for example, the spread of anti-Semitic tropes and mem in groups where they have not occurred before. We see the spread of aphrophobia, we see the spread of Islamophobia, and we now see only in recent days how racism against people of Asian origin has had fatal consequences in the United States. The Government has an action plan against racism that we will also continue to work on, but we have also given a mandate to the Crime Prevention Council to map this in order to gain more insight and knowledge about how these different forms of racism appear so that we can work more effectively and forcefully against all forms of racism in Sweden, because we must stop this evil.
i-9b6d97ba62803092-453	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Government for its answer. I do not have a supplementary question, but I would like to say that I think it is extremely important that we have an action plan in place today that is wrestling with these issues.
i-9b6d97ba62803092-454	Mr President, I would like to I thank you for the question and hope that we will have to come back to it again and again. If we want everyone to be able to live and operate freely and independently in Sweden, we must overcome the brutal racism that is now increasing. We need to break that trend.
i-9b6d97ba62803092-455	Mr President, and Minister Stenevi. I was gonna ask you a question about the beach shelter. There's a beach protection investigation on the way out for a referral right now. My question to the Government is: Does the Government intend to try to ease the beach protection even in Stockholm County or just in the rest of the country? Today it is almost impossible to build beachfront in Stockholm County. If you have a jetty that makes it difficult to put your boat there because of the land rise and you therefore need to extend the jetty, you will get no. If you appeal, the matter is before the County Administrative Board for several years. This is just one example.
i-9b6d97ba62803092-459	Mr President, I would like to Beach protection has emerged as an important mechanism for defending the right of public access that I believe we are all possessed of and the access to our common nature and our natural values in Sweden that it entails. Now we have an investigation that has done a great deal of work, and it is out for a referral and will then be prepared. I cannot, of course, precede that work, but we will have to come back to it when it is ready and ready to be presented to Parliament.
i-9b6d97ba62803092-460	Mr President, I would like to It is interesting to hear the Government's view that the right of public access takes precedence over the right of ownership. They should be weighed against each other. What I am referring to is existing properties that are already built. That's not where the right of public access is available. There's also a home peace zone. I find it remarkable if the government does not intend to ease the protection of the beach.
i-9b6d97ba62803092-461	Mr President, I would like to I am convinced that the President noted that I did not comment on the Strand protection investigation at all, but only on what was behind it. This is not going to precede the investigation or the treatment of it at all.
i-9b6d97ba62803092-463	Mr President, I would like to Today, within the Social Democrats, there is a rumbling about reintroducing a property tax in Sweden. At the same time, we are seeing rising electricity prices, increased municipal tariffs for water and sewage and refuse collection, and a re-imposed amortisation requirement, paused during the pandemic. We also see a fear of interest. SBAB has forecast a 50% increase in interest rates up to 2024. At this time of crisis and pandemic, when you worry about unemployment, housing falls and much more, my question will be to Anna Ekström, who answers general policy questions at today's Question Time: Is the government discussing the reintroduction of property tax?
i-9b6d97ba62803092-465	Mr President, I would like to As everyone has noted, the pandemic has exposed rifts in our country. As everyone has also noted, taxes are an issue that will be dealt with in a joint investigation under the January Agreement. In reply to the honourable Member's direct question, I can say that there are no proposals for re-imposed property tax. There is no preparation of such proposals in the Government Office. I think that was the question the honourable Member asked. The answer is: No.
i-9b6d97ba62803092-467	Mr President, I would like to Unfortunately, I can't feel safe with that answer from Anna Ekström. The Social Democrats talked earlier about not introducing market rents. We then saw this introduced, after discussions were held with the Centers and Liberals. Can we really trust the government on this issue?
i-9b6d97ba62803092-469	Mr President, I would like to I can't speak for the Center Party and the Liberals. But so far I have not heard strong demands from the two parties for a reinstated property tax. We will see what demands are made in future discussions and negotiations. What is important in a budget is of course that plus and minus should go together. Expenditure and taxes should work well together. The government will at all times and as long as we are in a position of government advocate a budget that goes together, where plus and minus meet, where expenditure and revenue can work in such a way that we get the whole together and not just share.
i-9b6d97ba62803092-472	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to the Minister for Defence and concerns K 3 in Karlsborg. After SVT Väst's reviews last autumn and revelations about hunting training in Karlsborg, the Swedish Armed Forces have conducted two own investigations. They are now ready. Broadly speaking, the audit confirms that inappropriate behaviour has occurred and that errors have been committed – in Sweden in 2021. The Pliktrådet (Pliktrådet) says in a statement:"It is not possible for the state to force individuals into a complex and dangerous activity, and then to compromise security and turn a blind eye to insulting treatment. .....................................................
i-9b6d97ba62803092-476	Mr President, I would like to There is a foundation of value for the Swedish Armed Forces, which you work with all the time and which you put into everyday life. We follow up this work through our follow-up work towards the Swedish Armed Forces. We also regularly examine the situation regarding the Swedish Armed Forces' efforts in such matters. I have also personally followed up the situation in Karlsborg through discussions with both regimental management and conscripts in Karlsborg. The strong disadvantage of this type of event, which the Swedish Armed Forces naturally tackle, is that a picture is painted of the fact that various types of negative things are constantly being committed throughout the Swedish Armed Forces. I would like to say that the spirit of the Swedish Armed Forces is good. Respect for values is strong. You should always react hard when these kinds of problems arise. That's how you work, too.
i-9b6d97ba62803092-479	Mr President, I would like to Whether this is an isolated event or an organisational culture, it is serious. There may always be individuals with a lack of character. But it is when internal control is unable to reprimand those individuals that we have major problems and no longer a single problem. If this is not taken seriously throughout the ranks, from government and parliament all the way down to each individual recruit, the process does not work. Then the steering won't work. Then it doesn't matter in the end. Then they're just fine words.
i-9b6d97ba62803092-482	Mr President, I would like to This problem has been addressed. And it's always getting hold of these things. It's taken seriously. I react a little bit to the idea of painting a picture of a defence force that does not take those kinds of fundamental values seriously and see the depth of them. I believe that the Swedish Armed Forces are doing so today. It's not a coincidence. But when such negative events occur, you should react harshly.
i-9b6d97ba62803092-485	Mr President, I would like to I think that this House cannot end the day and Question Time without lifting up what is happening not very far away, in Belarus. We have all followed the great commitment of the Belarus people to freedom and democracy, in order for their elections to be fair and free. The demands are also being raised today, which is the day of freedom in Belarus. For us, it is important to reach out to our sisters and brothers in Belarus and support the work they are doing, to demand the release of political prisoners and to have a neighbour of the European Union where freedom and democracy can be experienced.
i-9b6d97ba62803092-488	Mr President, I would like to Warm thanks, Kerstin Lundgren, for this question being raised! It's very important. Thanks to the Swedish Presidency of the OSSE, the government and the whole of Sweden have good opportunities to have transparency and to have discussions and talks as well as to speak plain text with those who decide in Belarus. It is important to maintain not only the demands of Sweden as a nation, the EU as an association and also the OSSE in terms of developments in Belarus. It is also important to maintain the important cooperation between civil society organisations. We in Sweden have a good and nice tradition of building cooperation with other countries also through town twinning agreements, various forms of cultural and sports exchange and the like. To our delight, we can see that these cooperations have also served as a way of supporting the good forces of our neighboring country of Belarus.
i-9b6d97ba62803092-491	Mr President, I would like to I understand that there is a strong commitment by the government too to support the demands for free and fair elections in Belarus. Now it is also a question of creating the conditions for mediation. I know that in our neighbouring countries there are great ambitions in trying to build common momentum there. I hope that the government, both as Chairman of the OSCE and elsewhere, is prepared to contribute to this development.
i-9b6d97ba62803092-493	Mr President, I would like to I can assure Kerstin Lundgren that it is important to maintain good relations and support what can lead to a positive development in our neighbouring country of Belarus. Kerstin Lundgren raises the issue of free and fair elections. But there is also the question of how human rights are handled. These are issues that must be on the agenda. There, Sweden will have a clear and strong voice. Thank you again for the question.
i-9b6d97ba62803092-496	Mr President, I would like to Sweden has a health insurance that is in case. We see how people are secured as never before and referred to jobs that do not exist. During our term of office, we have seen in the regulations that Försäkringskassan should work for low sickness benefit rates and that the difference in sickness benefit rates between men and women should be reduced. In other words, the sickness benefit rates for men and women must be equal. There are absolutely many important elements in the work on gender equality. But for what purpose can you make these demands to the Social Insurance Agency that men and women should be granted sickness benefit in equal, or in this case small, extent? In order to achieve such a goal, the cashier also needs to reject the application more women than men. Does Minister Stenevi think it is important for the Social Insurance Agency to pursue such a goal, or does the Minister, as I do, believe that the most important thing is that men and women are treated equally and that they are entitled to sickness benefit regardless of gender?
i-9b6d97ba62803092-500	Mr President, I would like to I believe that the most important thing is to reduce sickness rates, that is to say that fewer people are ill and that the rehabilitation chains are working. What we do know, however, is that more women than men are on sick leave, that is, the sickness rate is higher. There are a number of reasons for this and certainly a number of reasons we do not yet know, but a clear link is that after the other child there will be considerably more women than men on sick leave. For example, a partial explanation that is often pointed out is the unpaid domestic work. A major study is now taking place. We commissioned SCB yesterday to investigate how the sick leave rates have developed over the last ten years. To highlight the issues in order for rehabilitation chains to work so that more people do not need sickness benefit must be an explicit objective. In this way, we will also achieve better gender equality when it comes to sick leave and therefore the Social Insurance Fund's payments.
i-9b6d97ba62803092-502	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your reply, Minister Stenevis. I can agree with the Minister's reasoning, but at the same time I cannot quite understand why such a wording is included in the regulatory letter. If you want the difference in sickness benefit to be reduced between men and women, i.e. sickness benefit rates to be about the same size or the same size, it must ultimately end up with women generally being rejected more often than men.
i-9b6d97ba62803092-504	Mr President, I would like to I do not share this view at all, but I believe that they must aim for the rehabilitation chains to function better so that more women get back to work and do not need sickness benefit because they are simply healthy. That is an extremely important objective, which I hope we will all continue to pursue together.
i-9b6d97ba62803092-505	Mr President, I would like to Yesterday was a day of shame in the Swedish Parliament. Six out of eight parties chose to debt generations of Swedes by searching for SEK 150 billion in other countries and their citizens. For what? I'm on top of it. Not for Sweden and our interests, but for citizens' wages, reduced retirement age and long lunches in southern Europe. But it is perhaps above all for the continued back downs in the fine rooms of the EU elite. Mr President, I would like to This cannot be described as anything but a complete betrayal of Sweden and our citizens. How does Anna Ekström defend this?
i-9b6d97ba62803092-507	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question. Sweden's interest is that we have a strong Europe, a Europe in which we, as Swedish citizens, full citizens, proud citizens, participate in building Europe when severe crises occur. The pandemic that has hit the European continent has worked hard in many countries. The day we see markets being destroyed, trade agreements being uprooted, is the Swedish job that is in danger. It is Swedish jobs that are threatened when exports to our EU neighbours do not work in the way they are supposed to, whether it is due to different forms of worn-up trade chains or to an economy that is at risk of collapse. In Sweden's interest is that we together and together build a strong Europe. We do so with pride and without disparaging expressions.
i-9b6d97ba62803092-511	Mr President, I would like to Neither Anna Ekström's answer now nor previous excuses from others can legitimize this betrayal. Sweden itself faces incalculable social problems. People die waiting for care. The pandemic has destroyed parts of our economy. Uncertainty is spreading and segregation is increasing. How can the solution to these problems be to vacate $150 billion?
i-9b6d97ba62803092-513	Mr President, I would like to Let me remind you that the recovery package that can get Europe back on its feet, which is an advantage for Sweden, is also part of a major negotiation in which Sweden managed to get a package that included a very large discount on the membership fee. I am in favour of the kind of deplorable expression that comes from Mr Andersson, and I would like to point out that it is in Sweden's interest that we are members of a Europe that not only works but also stands strong.
i-9b6d97ba62803092-515	Mr President, I would like to It'll be a little weird to break up in the middle of an interpellation debate, but it'll be okay. Mr President, I would like to The Minister mentioned the General Heritage Fund in connection with our introductory speeches. The fund has provided grants to promote the language of river valley. Those who take part in the contribution from the General Inheritance Fund are very grateful. But it is a temporary contribution, and it is not certain that the grant will be granted for all eternity. It shall be renewed every or every two years. I have heard from those who care about the language that they are concerned that the contribution will disappear. There is no guarantee that the grant will continue to be distributed, and that is one reason for taking state measures to protect the language of the river valley. The Government mentioned previously the Government's expert authority Isof. Isof has not taken a position on whether the river valley is a language of its own or not. I myself have taken note of an email from Martin Sundin at Isof to Yair Sapir. He clearly writes in the email that Isof does not take a position on the question at all, which I may find a little strange. Who's gonna take a stand if they don't? Mr President, I would like to The Government mentioned the investigation as the basis for giving five languages the status of national minority languages. That investigation was done a long time ago, and it's not flawless, is it? If all the world's expertise says something and the investigation says otherwise, well, then you can't lean on the old investigation very much, I think, anyway. Compare with tornedalsFinnish and meänkieli! They have about the same history, these languages... or they have completely different history, but they're comparable. They have the same boundaries. Well, actually, I think the river valley is full of class with the two languages. During Question Time I read on Wikipedia that meänkieli is a dying language. That's very boring. This is despite the fact that it is designated as a national minority language. I really hope that the river valley does not suffer the same fate so that in a few years' time it will be on Wikipedia that it is also a dying language.
i-9b6d97ba62803092-522	Mr President, I would like to To begin with what Robert Stenkvist is now mentioning about meänkieli and our national minority languages, I can only confirm that this is a very difficult situation even for our recognised minority languages. We have taken several steps on the part of the government in terms of both legislative issues and language revitalisation, but this also demonstrates the challenges. Then I think you have to return to the very positive development that is taking place for the river valley and the commitment that Älvdalen municipality and many within civil society show. I would like to comment on something that Robert Stenkvist mentioned in his previous speech – that Ulum Dalska does not have any demands on government contacts in the river valley or that river valley can be used in society as a whole without much of the language and culture promotion work. This was something that was commented on in a government bill. The Minority Language Committee in 1997 found that one of the arguments against applying the minority language convention to public objectives is that the aim of that convention is to strengthen the position of minority languages in public life. We in the government have stressed that the support from the General Heritage Fund, for example, is positive. We know that in order for support to be granted from there, it should be about long-term projects and long-term work. That's a good thing. We have also said on the part of the government that peoples' education should be able to play an important role here when it comes to the study circles that already exist, in order to establish these languages and to stimulate the learning and use that takes place. I would also like to point out that in terms of dialect policy – because it does exist very much – the Institute for Languages and People's Memories has a job here. It is therefore not only the recognised minority languages in which the government and our responsible authority are involved. There is a dialect work and a long-term project with a dictionary for the population goals in upper Dalarna. It is pointed out in Isof's instruction to work with dialects. Again, we see elf valley as a popular destination, a dialect. There are many other ones around Sweden that I know there is a commitment to preserve, and I see for myself that it is clear that it would be positive. As I said before, dialects, peoples' goals and languages are very much connected with local cultural heritage and local identity, and it is well worth working with. I would like to say this to emphasise that this is not a question of government disinterest. But I think we should also remember that if there is to be a question of a classification of river valley or any other popular target as a national minority language, then it is not something that I or the government take lightly. In that case, there would be a solid investigation. It is not that all the world's expertise says this, as Robert Stenkvist says, but there is also disagreement among linguists about this. And, of course, the government would not point out a new minority language on loose grounds. This is a question I'm following. I feel strongly about the commitment that exists. But at the moment no such work is going on within the Government Office.
i-9b6d97ba62803092-532	Mr President, I would like to Yes, I understand the argument about government contact and national minority languages. But I also read just recently that in Älvdalen they had wanted to put up signs in the river valley but got no from the municipality, who thought that it was against the law because the river valley is not a national minority language. There are such things too. Now I don't think the municipality interpreted the law correctly, to be said, but there are such aspects to it all. The Elf Valley is a language of its own. It is beyond Norwegian and Finnish and is comparable to Icelandic. Listen to Ellinor Nilsson! She's on Youtube, and she sings modern songs in the river valley. I don't understand a word. It could have been an Asian language. When she sings in Danish, at least I understand a few words. No, I think it's a language of its own. Another question is how to support river valley nationally. In fact, support is needed. I've seen what happened to meänkieli, and it's not going so well. It would be really boring if it were to be the same with the river valley. But I don't think that's gonna happen. There is such a great commitment, and it is a growing commitment. This is also our historical heritage. Älvdalska has connections to Old Norse, i.e. direct connections. People in the 14th century might have understood the river valley. That's amazing. I see the time is up, so I'll stay there and thank you.
i-9b6d97ba62803092-537	Mr President, I would like to Yes, I know that this is a subject that arouses commitment, and I am happy to have the opportunity to discuss language and dialect politics here in Parliament. These are very important issues that affect many people and that involve them. As Robert Stenkvist mentioned, we face quite major challenges in minority policy with regard to the already recognised national minority languages, not least in terms of language revitalisation. It is a work that the government is currently working intensively on, both with action programmes and with language centres and the like. This shows that, regardless of whether it is a recognised language or not and at what level it is recognised – because we know that there is a difference between romani chib and Yiddisch compared to the more territorial languages, which are also part of the work of the administrative municipalities – there is a difference in what measures and support can be possible. I think what we need to land in is that the river valley is very valuable. It is valuable, the work that is done and the support that the government provides both through Isof's work and through other actors who have the opportunity to support. Learning the language and linking it with culture, as Robert Stenkvist describes, is very positive. That work should, of course, continue. Although the government has not seen any reason to reconsider the position regarding the status of the river valley, I and the government see a great value in the conservation of the river valley as part of both a common cultural heritage and the local rural and cultural history. Then it is of great importance that we continue to work on the preservation of dialects and other parts of the intangible cultural heritage. It is clear that, as the Minister responsible, I am still constantly considering the need for change within my responsibilities, and this is an area that I will continue to follow closely. With that, I would like to thank Robert Stenkvist for an interesting debate.
