i-4c74881522ca254f-0	On Monday 22 November, I submitted the proposal that Magdalena Andersson, the Social Democrats, should be appointed Prime Minister. Magdalena Andersson has stated that she intends to form a government composed of representatives of the Social Democrats and the Green Party. The proposal has now been tabled twice and will be examined at today's sitting.
i-4c74881522ca254f-1	Mr President, I would like to It paints against Christmas, and it's not for nothing that autumn's blubbery in the red-green camp makes me think a little bit about the classic line from Kalle Ankas's Christmas: Who is it that drives? Until late last night, it was uncertain whether the government could find support for its new Prime Minister candidate. When we woke up this morning, it was still uncertain and unclear whether they had support for their budget – this despite the fact that it was already clear this summer that it was just such a situation that we risked getting into if the red-greens were again allowed to enter Rosenbad. Sweden lacks leadership. The government's decision is not made on the basis of what is required to address the social problems, but on the basis of what is required to resolve the government's own political problems. This is not good for Sweden. This is not how a country should be ruled. Too much of the discussions on the government issue are about the parties rather than about Sweden. Is it a pity that the Left Party is not allowed to participate, even if it seems that they may now be involved? Would it look bad for Magdalena Andersson if she lost a vote? Where are Annie Lööf's red lines anyway? But it is not primarily the parties that are affected when Sweden lacks leadership. It is all those who would have needed a strong government. I am talking about the 180 000 patients who have been waiting illegally for a long time to receive the care they need, all the parents who are worried about the safety of children and about the criminality creeping down the age line, the 454 400 people who are fighting the EU's fourth highest unemployment rate, all those who are worried about running prices of electricity and fuel and all those who live in the heart country – our small and medium-sized cities and our countryside, which have been overlooked by this government. The fact that these people must not be at the centre of the government's policy is not good for Sweden. This is not how a country should be ruled. After the last few weeks, it is obvious even to the most refined that the government's decision is not based on a social analysis. They are based on pure political analysis. You put what's best for Sveavägen 68 before what's best for Svea. No regulations or statesmanial norms are sacred enough when the Social Democrats are allowed to remain in power. They are ready to throw Sweden into the government chaos to increase the pressure for negotiation on the government base. It is willing to tighten up the budgetary frameworks in order in practice to draw up two budgets for the same year, in the same autumn. You're ready to round the retirement group. What we have seen in recent days is party politics when it is at its worst. When politics works well and helps to move a society forward, the government is focused on solving societal problems – making life a little easier for people to live. There will then be a policy aimed at the common good, the good of the kingdom, and not the good of its own party. In that case, the country is not governed by party politics but by national politics. The fact that this system does not apply in our country is not good for Sweden. This is not how Sweden should be governed. However, there is hope for a better future for Sweden, for the Christian Democrats and the Moderates are prepared to shoulder government power and change the starting points for how politics is conducted, with the heart of all Sweden. We have demonstrated this through our common budgetary option, which is based on a common understanding of starting to solve social problems and which we have been able to negotiate in good spirit with the Swedish Democrats. Our draft budget will not solve all the problems overnight, but that means that we could take the first steps in a new direction. The proposal also shows what our option offers. We want to allocate more resources than the red-green ones to care to cut the care queues, but we also want a national care agency to start running the county council bureaucracy. We want to give the police the tools they need to give back security, with targeted increases in police salaries, developed technical capabilities and more employees. We want to see reduced tax rates for everyone who works, with a focus on low and middle income earners, and reduced costs for companies that employ the long-term unemployed, because it must always pay off to work. The work line needs to be preserved. We want to see targeted investments in expanded charging infrastructure, more carbon storage and a wise use of Sweden's forest assets to achieve an effective climate transition. We want to help create safe families through more flexibility in parental insurance and parental support programmes and by investing 2 billion more than the government in reducing children's groups in preschool. We want to put politics on the side of rural and small town Sweden and therefore lower the fuel tax and say no to the forced purchase of individual forests. We want to create a migration policy adapted to our integration capacity and increase aid to rebuild war-torn countries. And we want to lower taxes on the country's pensioners, give the most deprived pensioners a lot more in retirement each year, set aside funds to break the involuntary loneliness of the elderly and counteract the split tours in the care of the elderly. This is a political orientation based on the major social problems that Sweden faces. This is a policy that is good for Sweden. That's how a country should be ruled. Since we are opposed to the party-centred way in which Sweden is ruling today, we cannot support or accept the entry into force of a new red-green government either. The Christian Democrats will therefore vote red in the Prime Minister's vote today. Sweden deserves better than to be governed in the way that is happening today. If you have a heart for all of Sweden, you can see that for the good of our country a new government is required. As things stand, it is the budgetary option of the Christian Democrats and the Moderates, in negotiations with the Swedish Democrats, that will win the support of this House. The natural thing, according to parliamentary principles and for the good of the kingdom, is that our parties also have to shoulder the power of government. To allow a government to take office that does not support the budget set by the Riksdag is not good for Sweden. That is not how Sweden should be governed.
i-4c74881522ca254f-21	Mr President, I would like to It's great that we can gather here again to vote on important topics. The far too high unemployment in Sweden means that the gap has widened between people who have a job and their own home and people who live in exclusion, not infrequently dependent on benefits and too far from the chance of a real job. The result is permanent social vulnerability and relative poverty for children. We see that no one can live in security from crime anymore. The fact that the state is taking back control of our streets from criminal gangs and clans and that the insane murder of shootings and blasts is being pushed back are the greatest democratic and social policies facing our country. We see young people who are losing opportunities for the future because of a school without studies for everyone and with a lack of focus on knowledge. Entrepreneurship in Sweden is hard pressed by employee shortages, crime and an incomprehensible energy policy. There are people who have been allowed into our country but never allowed into society because integration has not worked. Many people experience the possibilities in Sweden as almost only theoretical. The freedom to shape one's own life simply does not reach everyone. It is for these people that the Liberals have produced hundreds of reform proposals in what we call the suburban lift. Let more shape the future together! The gap also exists between generations – between our generation and our children and grandchildren. The latter are in danger of living in a world where the climate has completely broken down because too much political force is being put on symbolic politics and too little on fossil-free emissions. Care needs to be there when it is really needed – when we get sick or when we age. The same applies to the right to live an independent life on equal terms even if you have a disability. With the queues in health care and care, the health gap is growing. Mr President, I would like to After more than seven years of government with the Social Democrats and the Green Party, many of our major problems are still unresolved before us. The government has barely entered the starting blocks in several areas. Unfortunately, the current government option has failed in the past, and a little is in favour of success this time. Sweden needs a liberal bourgeois government that can face our social problems – a government that can talk to all parties in parliament. Liberals are working to be a liberal middle anchor in such a government as soon as possible and with the greatest possible support. Mr President, I would like to The Liberals will vote against Magdalena Andersson as Prime Minister and to this government. Or rather, red button for a red government! Its ability to get an entire budget for 2022 must be considered relatively doubtful. There is a mandate support for a non-socialist government in this House. This should have been tried. Liberals will, as always, continue to work constructively for a stronger knowledge school for all, to reduce exclusion and for a fossil-free society. Sweden's first female Prime Minister deserves today's congratulations on her new mission. But Sweden can do better politically. We don't need any more socialism. Sweden needs a fresh start, and Sweden outside this House, Mr President, cannot wait much longer.
i-4c74881522ca254f-33	Mr President, I would like to Today, the House will take a position on the proposal to appoint Magdalena Andersson as Sweden's Prime Minister. 20 weeks ago, this House released a Social Democratic Prime Minister. Nothing has changed since then. We Social Democrats are once again ready to take the responsibility required to take Sweden forward. Magdalena Andersson is the natural founder of government, and we Social Democrats are, of course, fully behind the direction and priorities that she has pointed out to Sweden. Mr President, I would like to For a long time Sweden has had a growing inequality. For a long time, our welfare system has gradually been eroded as the market has taken up more and more space. For a long time, serious crime has grown strong in our vulnerable areas. Society has been allowed to withdraw. Since we got the government power in 2014, we have done a lot to reverse developments. We have strengthened the service in society and the presence of society throughout the country. We have invested in the welfare of the whole country and made historic extensions of the judiciary. We have gradually strengthened pensions and made health insurance more secure. We have done a lot, but we Social Democrats see that we need to do a lot more to deal with social problems, because we know that Sweden can do better. When we choose Magdalena Andersson as Prime Minister, she is not an uncertain card. Her qualifications for the mission are well known and respected in all political camps, not least after her seven years as Swedish Minister of Finance. She has negotiated more budgets than any other Finance Minister has. Magdalena Andersson has restored order in Sweden's public finances. She has used the strength of the Swedish economy to equip health care, school and care, to invest in our green transition and to have more police officers to create security throughout the country. During the pandemic, she provided the financial resources needed by healthcare and care for the elderly and implemented crisis measures that saved hundreds of thousands of Swedes from the risk of losing their jobs. Unemployment has now fallen back to the pre-pandemic level. Do you remember the financial crisis that struck with full force in 2008? Then the well-being went to the knees of the municipalities, and 100,000 industrial jobs disappeared. The support of the moderate-led government then failed. So it makes a difference who controls a crisis. Now we change Social Democrats Party Chairman, and Sweden will have a new Prime Minister. Now we will also build Sweden strongly after the pandemic, and we will do so with Social Democratic solutions. For it is something that the pandemic has shown us, yes, then it is the importance of more common solutions, not less, and the importance of more policies, not less. The wind blows for us Social Democrats. Mr President, I would like to With Magdalena Andersson, Sweden gets a prime minister who does not hesitate to say what it is and do what is necessary. She is a person driven by her anger over injustice and her absolute conviction that Sweden can even better. When Magdalena Andersson says that she prioritises breaking segregation and breaking the gangs, we will turn every stone to build a society that holds together. When she says that we should make sure to create new jobs with decent conditions throughout the country by taking the lead in climate change, and when she is clear that we should take back control of welfare – that there should be order in healthcare, school and care with more employees with better working conditions and with a pension that you can live on – then it feels really good for me to say that Magdalena Andersson is the Prime Minister of the Social Democrats. Mr President, I would like to The Socialist parliamentary group will be pleased to vote in favour of appointing Magdalena Andersson as Sweden's Prime Minister.
i-4c74881522ca254f-48	Mr President, I would like to The turbulence that has been since this summer shows the effects of giving the outer edges power over how Sweden is governed. The Swedish Democrats and the Left Party then joined forces to bring down the government and the middle cooperation in the form of the January agreement that has served Sweden well in recent years. By concluding the January Agreement, the Center Party helped to improve people's living in the whole country. We have made important efforts for the climate and gender equality and made sure that people in exclusion have come closer to the labour market. We have shown that it is possible to reduce taxes significantly, especially for those with low incomes, while at the same time investing heavily in strengthening welfare throughout the country. It is precisely this kind of cooperation in the middle that provides the most stability and focus on the political reforms that Sweden needs more of. The Center Party will continue to strive for more parties to realise that dependence on outer edges is not the way forward to solve the social problems facing Sweden today. Unfortunately, the January agreement fell this summer. Then it was no longer possible to continue active cooperation with the government. Nevertheless, we chose to let a Social Democratic Prime Minister through on the basis of the agreement we had to implement the party agreement on LAS and the transition to the labour market, on strengthening ownership of the forest and on a reformed beach protection that makes it easier to live and live throughout the country. We in the Center Party are still prepared to take responsibility for Sweden to be able to be ruled while keeping the Swedish Democrats away from government power. Now this agreement is also being implemented. We are therefore abstaining, that is to say, pressing yellow in today's vote on Magdalena Andersson. For the Center Party, the yellow button means that in a given parliamentary situation we do not see another possible government leader. That does not mean that we are part of the government base. To claim this is a misinterpretation of the parliamentary practice that we, like many other parties in the Swedish Parliament, have used in recent decades. For example, the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Left Party were not part of the same government base after the 2014 elections, but all chose to vote yellow in order not to give the Swedish Democrats influence over government power. Sweden has a long parliamentary tradition of minority governments and of their being able to rule the country. It is very worrying that so many parties are no longer behind this important foundation of our parliamentarism. Sweden needs a government during the limited time remaining until the elections. We want to ensure that Sweden has a government, but we keep the Swedish Democrats away from the government. Of course, we will be constructive and work together on many issues, but we will have no budgetary or other organised cooperation with the government parties. We will vote on our own budget, our own policy, this afternoon and do as we have always done in opposition: abstain from the final vote. We are an independent liberal opposition party that will go to elections next year as an independent alternative.
i-4c74881522ca254f-56	Mr President, I would like to Sweden has major problems: killings, youth robbery, unemployment, exclusion, the energy crisis – to mention the obvious. It is a shooting a day and more than 1 million people of working age who cannot support themselves. It is the result of seven years with Magdalena Andersson as Minister of Finance and principal architect behind government policy. A government led by the Social Democrats will never have the power to break the gross crime, break the exclusion or restore the line of work. To get Sweden in order, another government is required. Despite ever more shootings and a double number of youth robberies since 2014, the Social Democrats today will vote for 1.5 billion less to maintain law and order in Sweden. And even though it is possible today to stack contributions on each other so that it is not worthwhile taking a job, the Social Democrats want to make it less profitable to work in their budget. The Moderates instead want to lower taxes for everyone who works and who has worked. Our budget shows the priorities that a government led by Ulf Kristersson will do. It would mean a lot to Sweden if that budget at the vote later today gained the support of the Parliament. We are now gathered here for a prime minister's vote. That is the third one during this parliamentary term. It's the second one for this year. Last summer, a parliamentary majority supported the declaration of censure on Stefan Löfven, which led to his resignation. The January Agreement is based on irreconcilable promises. At the same time, part of the government base, the Left Party, would be isolated from any political influence. During today's vote Magdalena Andersson will be examined. This vote was decided without her being able to tell the President that she would have the acceptance of Parliament. She had not been able to get along with the Left Party even though she had ten days. And what the Center Party would think if a possible agreement were uncertain. To cooperate and build a government on the premises of the Social Democratic plus Environmental Party government is absurd. The government's policy has not been aimed at solving Sweden's social problems. Instead, it has been about dealing with the government's own cooperation problems. The conviction of the Moderates is that a successful government must be based on what one is for, not on what one is against. Sweden needs a government that can talk to everyone and that can compromise on issues where you want to go in the same direction, a government that knows what it wants and that gets something done. This term of office began, as I said, with a proud declaration that the Left Party would have no influence over the political direction in Sweden. It concludes with the Left Party dictating the terms of government formation, negotiating the budget and reviving the traditional left-wing bloc – all of this with the full blessing of the Center Party. The Center Party supports for the third time this parliamentary term a Social Democratic Prime Minister – this is fully aware that the Left Party has gone from no influence to decisive influence and is now at least as good a partner to the government as the Center Party. It doesn't matter what rhetorical loopholes and excuses the Center Party brings. This is how it is. The entire Swedish people see it, and it is an important declaration of goods for the elections next autumn. If, in today's Prime Minister's vote, the Centre Party, as has now been said here in the speaker's chair, abstains, a Social Democratic Prime Minister will be re-elected. And if the Center Party does as it has said today, follows the practice and votes on its own budget, the budget presented by the government falls. In that case, Magdalena Andersson will only have a few hours after she has received the support of the Riksdag to see her budget fall. It would be an exceptional event in Swedish political history. Mr President, I would like to I think I've been clear. The Moderates today vote against Magdalena Andersson as Sweden's Prime Minister.
i-4c74881522ca254f-68	Mr President, I would like to Then we'll stand here again. It is only a few months since we had the last Prime Minister's vote. It is months that have been filled with additional war headlines in the newspapers, months of continued violence, of frustration, of lost lives. There won't be a day without new shootings or seeing other cases of very serious violence and criminality in our society. These are new attacks, pure executions and attacks on everything that our democracy and our nation are built on and stands for. Think, Mr President, if it had been so simple and so wonderful that a new Socialist party leader could undo all this – that you could just turn the page, as it is called, and move on! Unfortunately, that is not how it works in reality. We hear the argument for the new Social Democratic Prime Minister: we know what we are getting. It's a prime minister candidate with a lot of experience. That is the problem, Mr President. That is precisely what is at the very heart of the fact that we, from the Swedish Democratic Parliamentary Group, cannot possibly bring forward another Social Democratic Prime Minister. It is a prime minister candidate who has not been left out of the total failure of the last seven years, but, on the contrary, has been one of perhaps the greatest architects behind this very total failure – one of those primarily responsible for the fact that our country looks as it does today. Many people talk about turning stones to crack crime and other problems. It is probably a good thing to do that, Mr President, but I think it might be a good idea to start by turning the stone that you have lived for yourself over the last few decades if you now want to solve real problems. Sweden needs breathing space. Sweden needs to heal. Not least, we need new governance. We need a government that has not lived under a stone in recent decades but, on the contrary, understands what problems we are facing, why we are facing those problems and what is needed to solve those problems. None of this has been understood either by Magdalena Andersson or the party she represents. They have not been able to take this in, they have not been able to handle it in the seven years they have had government power and there is no prospect whatsoever that they will do better in the coming months until the next elections. Chance of chance on chance, failure on failure on failure, excuse for apology after apology. We will not contribute to this continuing. Our citizens deserve something better. Sweden deserves something better, and that is why the Swedish Democrats will vote 'no' and press the red button here today, Mr President. Now it probably won't help. It is still likely that we will have a new Prime Minister in a little while. I would like to send one thing to the new Prime Minister, and that is that at least the confidence of the Swedish democrats in Per Bolund is exhausted. We believe that there is a majority in favour of us in this House. We do not want him to come back as Minister for the Environment and Climate in a new government, and should he do so, Mr President, we will arouse mistrust of Per Bolund as Minister for the Environment and Climate Change.
i-4c74881522ca254f-77	Mr President, I would like to Ladies and gentlemen! In the run-up to the previous Prime Minister's vote, I had negotiations with the government and the Social Democrats. In these discussions I was focused on improving the conditions for society's most vulnerable. For me, it was important to have assurances that the government had a focus to improve the conditions for poor pensioners and those who are at risk of being insured. Then I was the only one to raise these demands on the government issue, and I am pleased to see that more people have wanted to raise these issues the closer we have come to the elections. As a result of these discussions, I and Minister of Justice Morgan Johansson were able to present directives to criminalise so-called innocence operations. This is legislation that will intervene at the heart of the culture of honour, namely the norm of innocence. Together with the Social Democrats, I have also written motions to ban religious schools and to stop profits in welfare. As a single, independent Socialist Member of Parliament, I can only influence by cooperating with other parties. But cooperation does not mean that I cannot conduct opposition policy. Therefore, I have continued to demand that the government become more active in the work to free Dawit Isaak, who has been imprisoned in Eritrea for 20 years, and Ahmadreza Djalali, who has been sentenced to death in Iran, and that Sweden is taking the lead in the fight against child marriage and genital mutilation in the world and in Europe. In my previous explanation of vote, I spoke about how my political commitment began in Kurdistan, Iran, as a fight against Islamic oppression and the rights of women and minorities. This also continues here in the Riksdag. The world is connected. The struggle of the Kurds and others against Daish has meant that there is no longer a caliphate for which Swedish Islamists can go and fight for. Sweden will condemn those who maintained the caliphate, and we will show our support for the movements that fought against the murderers, rapists and beheadings. After constructive talks, I am pleased that today I and the Social Democrats have been able to mark this in a special statement, in which we together state the following: The legal certainty of these people must be guaranteed. That freedom fighters who have fought or sympathize with YPG/YPJ or PYD are classified by certain state actors as terrorists is unacceptable. ..................................................... Kurdish women have shown the way in the fight against Daish, and they have also shown that women have confidence and can, side by side with men, free themselves and the world. The statement also stresses the importance of supporting the autonomy of Rojava. In the development work, it is important to lift and demand the release of the imprisoned leader of HDP in Turkey, Selahattin Demirtaş. Mr President, I would like to In a parliamentary situation with a right-wing majority, it is, of course, difficult to hear left-wing politics, and during the parliamentary term it has become apparent that only parliamentary support for a Social Democratic Prime Minister has been possible. This summer, the Chairman of the Moderate Party did not even want to test his support in the Riksdag. The President has now nominated a Prime Minister candidate who has almost eight years of experience in being Minister of Finance. Known men like Fredrik Reinfeldt, Göran Persson, Carl Bildt, Olof Palme and Tage Erlander had little government experience when they became prime minister for the first time. Today's candidate has been head of the Swedish Tax Agency, conducted research studies at Harvard and had heavy international assignments for the UN. If you look at formal competence, it is a historically well-qualified new prime minister that is proposed. Nevertheless, the historic point of today's vote will be that Parliament is voting for the first time on electing a woman as Prime Minister. This year we have celebrated 100 years of democracy, and we have paid attention to the introduction of women's voting rights. But even if women have been allowed to vote for 100 years, no woman has been elected prime minister. For me, the feminist struggle is about girls in Afghanistan learning to read and write and about stopping female genital mutilation, child marriage and human trafficking all over the world. It is also about girls and women in Iran not having to wear a veil and live under sharia. It is also about the standards of honor, child marriage and honorary oppression that exist around the world – also in Swedish suburbs. It's about women being raped or beaten by their husbands. Of course, the fight is also about economic inequality, which must be combated. The fact that Sweden can choose a woman as Prime Minister naturally seems to be a small thing in such a comparison. Feminism is also about women and girls always being whole people with the same opportunities and rights as men and boys. If women are always allowed only to vote but never to be elected to the highest office, democracy is not complete. Girls who grow up in Sweden should be able to feel that they are whole people and that they can get around in society. Mr President, I would like to In schools and on the streets, Ica and Friskis & Svettis, girls and women have wanted to make sure that I will really vote for a woman as Prime Minister. There is something important and symbolic in this decision that should not be ridiculed. But the biggest gender equality problem in Sweden is that not all women and girls feel that gender equality is always for them. I have expectations and hopes that the government will be even clearer on this point. Similarly, I expect a feminist government to lead the international work against child marriage, genital mutilation, human trafficking and sexual violence. I look forward both to working with the government and to making demands on it. Magdalena Andersson should feel that there are both demands and expectations – but also sisterhood. Therefore, this time I choose to print green with the hope of a red Prime Minister.
i-4c74881522ca254f-91	Mr President, I would like to Now is the time to reverse developments in Sweden. It is about the security we expect society to stand for, the responsibility we expect politics to take, the confidence in politics's ability to solve society's problems. Security, responsibility and trust will be restored. Sweden will be built better and stronger. Politics seems to be a spectacle to many. It is empty talk where promises are issued but nothing is kept. It is dangerous for democracy if the voters do not feel that what is promised in the election speeches is also what is then implemented. Respect for the rules of democracy and the influence of a majority of voters on politics are fundamental to a democracy such as Sweden. It is not about political prestige but about respect for the Swedish people and their voices. With the influence of the Left Party, 700 000 pensioners now receive an increased pension. It's as simple as that. 3 million tenants did not have to raise rents when we demanded the obvious, that if you run the Left Party's mandate you cannot introduce market rents. Much more needs to be done. The mandate of the Left Party is needed today to elect a new Prime Minister. That is why we now have influence. The most deprived pensioners in Sweden now receive SEK 1 000 tax-free a month starting in August. I am pleased that, through constructive negotiations, we have managed to bring about the greatest increase for older people with a guarantee pension that has been implemented since the introduction of the scheme. Closer to every third pensioner will receive a substantial supplement. If you drive a bus, take care of the elderly in the home care service or sit in the cash register at Konsum, you are entitled to it. Whether you live in a house or in an apartment, you will benefit from the increase. The person with the housing supplement does not have to worry, but you can keep it. Let's raise your pension to give you more security and freedom in your life. Sweden has the most poor pensioners in the Nordic countries. Anyone who has toiled and built the country will receive respect in Left Party Sweden. What has now been done is a major first step. Now the whole pension system needs to be reformed so that all pensioners receive a good pension. Mr President, I would like to The words are important, but if they don't lead to action, it's just empty talk. The person who needs to be entitled to sickness benefit has little to do with chatterers. Anyone who needs a higher pension is not deserving of empty slogans. Per Albin Hansson said the act is the best agitator. So now we have to build Sweden strong again, equip health insurance, raise pensions widely and ensure that welfare works. People's security is the responsibility of politics. Your Safety — Our Responsibility. Politics is to take power over the future, to take back control of what has been handed over to an irresponsible market. We left-wingers are happy to cooperate constructively, but we stand up for the voters. We can be trusted. Sweden can now have its first female prime minister. What never existed when I grew up will become a matter of course for my daughter. Sweden also needs stability. That is why the Left Party takes that responsibility by also giving the government we release the budgetary power. Health insurance has been strengthened in the government budget thanks to the Left Party. The Left Party will therefore vote primarily on its own budget and, secondly, on the government's budget. The most deprived pensioners in the country now receive a better pension. The Left Party will therefore today vote yellow and thereby release Magdalena Andersson as Prime Minister.
i-4c74881522ca254f-99	Mr President, I would like to Prove us wong – prove us wrong! These words were uttered by climate activist Vanessa Nakate, who stood up on the stage in the hall at the climate summit in Glasgow. Her words filled the gigantic room we sat in. She testified to what many young people know today: a complete lack of confidence that we in politics can solve the climate challenge. A lack of hope for the future. When politicians refuse to do what is necessary to avoid a climate disaster, it is a betrayal of every young person in the world. Let's prove them wrong! Mr President, I would like to The idea of a future of well over one and a half degrees of warming is really serious. The fact that my own children are to grow up in that world, where people die of heat waves and floods and where refugee disasters relieve each other, is an intolerable thought. When they lie safe in their beds at night, yet unaware of the great world, it becomes a painfully clear reminder of the responsibilities of our generations. Yesterday I read the bedtime story about the dinosaurs to them. At the end, the author describes the world's fifth mass extinction, the one that put an end to the dinosaur age. I did not tell my children that we have now begun the world's sixth mass extinction. Life on earth is threatened — not all life, but much. Species that die out don't come back. And it is we humans who threaten life on earth, in many different ways. People displace animal and plant life from the places where they live through the felling of forests, by destroying the nursery of marine life on shores, by emissions and not least by climate change. Nature's strongest protection is people who love it. That is one of the reasons why we in the Green Party will always defend the right of public access. In the same way that we protect the rainforests around the equator, we in Sweden must take responsibility for the nature that is our Amazon: the mountain forest. Mr President, I would like to Climate change is linked to the threat to biodiversity in nature, both because climate change threatens biodiversity and because we become more vulnerable when nature is less robust. I am appalled when I read the opposition budget, because it is a total slaughter of the Green Party's important effort to protect valuable nature such as the mountain forest but also a betrayal of all the children and young people facing an uncertain future of climate change. Making fossil fuels cheaper now, rather than investing in a fair climate transition, is beyond irresponsible. It is to fatten hopelessness and climate anxiety. Several of us recently attended the climate summit in Glasgow, where world leaders agreed on the final chapter of the Paris Agreement. On the ground were climate activists from all over the world, young people who appeal to us to prove them wrong when they lost the hope that we politicians can solve this challenge, who want us to prove them wrong – that we will prove them wrong. Today we are faced with a clear choice for the climate between, on the one hand, a blue-brown coalition that wants to dismantle environmental and climate work and, on the other hand, a prime minister candidate who wants to continue to raise ambitions for Sweden's climate work. But it is not just climate and nature that are at stake today. Democracy is in decline around the world. In Europe, too, we see right-wing nationalist parties dismantling the independence of the rule of law, restricting media freedom in Hungary and ending human rights for all. The rights of refugees are questioned when the right of asylum is challenged. The rights of LGBTI persons are set aside in certain LGBTI-free zones in Poland. Women's right to control their own bodies is subject to exceptions both in states in the United States and in Poland, where the right to abortion has now in principle been abolished. The blue-brown parties have formed themselves into a new bloc in Swedish politics. There are four parties that want to take a different path, one where democracy, human rights and anti-racism are guiding principles. We must show an alternative way forward, an alliance of decency. The government that I want to see must also tackle the social divides and build a Sweden that holds together. The Green Party recently held a congress. We decided, among other things, on a programme of social justice, a programme that we have worked with for a long time in our party and which answers the questions of how we reduce social inequalities, how differences between those who own a lot and those who have nothing can be reduced, how the lowest pensions can be increased and how children's conditions can be more similar. These are crucial questions for our country. The government's budget also takes important steps towards this – in contrast to moderate representatives, who question whether there are socio-economic differences at all. If you don't see it, you don't open your eyes. Mr President, I would like to 100 years ago Sweden's first MPs were elected: Elisabeth Tamm, Nelly Thüring, Bertha Wellin, Kerstin Hesselgren and Agda Östlund. In the Women's Room there is an exhibition of these political pioneers, and next to them is a mirror with a question: Sweden's first female prime minister, is it you? Our Nordic neighbours have all had female prime ministers – in Norway Gro Harlem Brundtland and Solberg Erna, in Finland Anneli Jäätteenmäki, Mari Kiviniemi and Sanna Marin, in Iceland Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir and Katrín Jakobsdóttir and in Denmark Helle Thorning-Schmidt-Schmidt and Mette Frederiksen. Today is a historic day for Sweden. For the first time ever, we in Parliament have the opportunity to vote in favour of a female prime minister. And just as it's been almost every time a woman knocked on the glass ceiling, it's now a woman who has performed far above average for her male predecessors. Today, 100 years after women got to vote for the first time, we in the Green Party vote for Magdalena Andersson as the first female prime minister in Sweden. We do this because Magdalena Andersson intends to form a government that will implement red-green policies for the climate, for nature, for democracy, for human rights and for gender equality.
i-4c74881522ca254f-116	The decision shall be taken by vote. I would like to inform you that the yellow button LED does not work on the northern voting table for Catos Jonny's seat 330, but this does not affect the voice function.
i-7kHB725NvFgXZAbUDciA3W	Vote yes if you wish to approve the proposal to appoint Magdalena Andersson Prime Minister.
i-B5LsMM5sSud3NX8gc2nsJH	If at least 175 of the members of the Riksdag vote no, the Riksdag has rejected the proposal. Otherwise, it has been approved.
i-DR7N1MoFbAT8sFimVJVj8X	Less than half of the members of Parliament had voted against the proposal. The Parliament had thus appointed Magdalena Andersson Prime Minister.
i-4c74881522ca254f-121	Madam President, I would like It took 100 years. We've all been through something historic. We have had to choose Sweden's first female Prime Minister. It's not a coincidence. This has been done through solid reform efforts for new steps for gender equality in a whole century. But in the end we got there, and we have a new female prime minister. It feels historic to have been there. At the same time, Magdalena Andersson takes up office in a difficult parliamentary situation. Then it feels safe to know that it is not the first time that she takes up a post with a difficult starting point. When she became Minister of Finance, she did not inherit a well-managed and strong economy. During the financial crisis, Anders Borg was on the Ministry of Finance. When the crisis struck, the local government sector was not compensated for unfavourable tax revenues. Instead, it was welfare that took the fall. Without short-term lay-off support, thousands of jobs were lost in industry. Fredrik Reinfeldt had the view that the industry was nevertheless fundamentally gone. Security systems weakened. The number of members of the a-kassas decreased by more than 470 000 years before the financial crisis. The tax was reduced by 140 billion. There were still large deficits left. When Magdalena Andersson and the Social Democrats together with the Green Party took over in 2014, intensive work began to reverse this development. For several years we were grazed by the moderate-led government deficit, while investing in welfare. When the pandemic crisis struck, we had the lowest public debt since 1977, 350,000 more jobs than when Stefan Löfven became Prime Minister and 100,000 more employees in welfare. It gave us a position of strength. With almost 400 billion in budgetary spending during the crisis, we have been able to use our common strength to protect lives, jobs and welfare, and that has had an effect. Now the economy is recovering rapidly. Many come back to work, and there is more scope for solving social problems. Let us not repeat the mistakes of the financial crisis and tighten up too early. The situation remains very uncertain and the risk of new pandemic waves is highest. It also continues to affect the international economy on several levels as countries close down and bottlenecks prevent trade flows. Madam President, I would like In the vote on the budget later today, two options will eventually stand against each other, but both mean that most of the government's budget proposal will go through. This does not mean that this vote is unimportant. For two months, four parties negotiated issues where they thought they felt the same. In the eleventh hour, only three parties, M, KD and SD, presented a joint proposal for amendments. The liberals were left out. The funding was not published until Monday, despite the fact that these proposals directly affect all Sweden's inhabitants. The idea in the proposals is directed at ordinary people. It will not be a family week, for in the right-wing conservative world, only parents who can afford to give up their salary will apparently have to accompany their children to development discussions. The Funki tax doesn't go away. In the right-wing conservative imagination, it is important that the disabled and long-term sick are poored, because then they can apparently hux flux get rid of their disabilities or their long-term illness and take a job.
i-4c74881522ca254f-133	In the midst of economic recovery, M, SD and KD also want to slaughter labour market policies – no additional services, no introduction jobs and no government investment in labour market training. At a time when industry is screaming for new skills, it is chosen to spend money on tax cuts. In the midst of a burning climate crisis, we want to reduce taxes on petrol and diesel. They say no to renovating our million-dollar programme areas to make them more climate-smart and energy-efficient, they say no to energy-efficient industry and they say no to protecting Swedish nature. They say no to climate change, no to new jobs and no to improvements for ordinary people. Madam President, I would like We Social Democrats choose another road for Sweden. When we restart the economy, we want to do it in a way that allows everyone to be involved in working Sweden out of the crisis. We want to use the strength of the Swedish economy to build Sweden stronger and more sustainable than it was before the pandemic, and therefore we point out clear priorities in our budget: the climate, jobs, the fight against crime and welfare. Madam President, I would like A green industrial revolution is currently underway in Sweden. It will be carbon-free steel production, battery factories, electric heavy trucks and tens of thousands of new jobs. This is not a coincidence, but the result of a long-term, consistent and determined policy that is pushing to accelerate the pace of climate change. We are now following up with the government's strong green start-up of the economy with new investments. Madam President, I would like In Sweden, a larger proportion of the adult population is working than in any other country, and unlike in many other countries, people have not given up and continue to look for work. The green shift further strengthens that position. Everyone who can work is going to work. However, the rise in unemployment in an economic crisis is inevitable. No government in any country can save all jobs. One of the great risks we now have to deal with is the fact that unemployment is getting stuck, especially among young people and those born abroad. There is no need for the right-wing cuts in labour market policy. No, because now we need to create new ways into the labour market, into the green transition. Therefore, we provide more resources to increase the number of additional services, introductory jobs and internships. We are strengthening labour market policies and increasing the number of matching services. Work on shortening the start-up period continues. For those who need to change their course in life and change into a new profession, more opportunities are needed to equip themselves with knowledge. In accordance with the Party Agreement, we are therefore introducing a completely new system for conversion, and the expansion of the Knowledgelift continues. We will not leave until everyone who can be involved in working Sweden out of the crisis. Madam President, I would like Shooting, blasting, drug trafficking and gang crime are currently putting entire residential areas in horror. Men's violence against women and the shameful culture of honor restricts, harms and even kills. There is, of course, no room for compromise here. With the power of the whole community, we're going to push back the criminal gangs. Whoever shoots will be locked up. Men's violence against women must be stopped. Since the government took office, more than 60 sentences have been tightened, and some thirty acts that previously went unpunished have been criminalized. Almost every law enforcement agency has been given new tools, more employees and greater powers. Now we are increasing the pressure on cheating and black money when a new agency for joint payments is to be set up. Next year the police will receive SEK 2 billion more, and we are more than halfway to the target of 10,000 more police employees. It also meets up with a strong commitment to the whole judicial system, which has got more to do when the expansion of the police force gives effect. But the gangs manage to recruit new young people all the time. All those teachers, social secretaries, district police officers and sports associations who are trying to do an extremely important job, but they need more support. Municipalities and regions need to be given more resources in the coming years to cope with both welfare and prevention. Madam President, I would like The pandemic has shown the strength of a common welfare that we all contribute to according to our abilities and get to know as needed. Now we're launching resources so that the corona queues in the health care system can be grazed off. The extension of the Elderly Care Lift continues: The working conditions will be better and colleagues more. A strong welfare we all benefit from, and that is why the government changed its policy in 2014, from major tax cuts to large investments in welfare. ( ANDRE VICE PALMANN: There is the end of speaking time. ) Excuse me? I thought I'd talk a little more. That is why in this year's budget proposal we are paying SEK 23 billion. (Andre VICE PALMANN: It is not acceptable to exceed speaking time in this debate. The maximum time is ten minutes, and it's the same for everyone. I'm sorry, but that's the deal. I must therefore ask for the honourable Member's request. ) Madam President, I would like I've never been through the likes of it. I have often heard speakers exceed their speaking time, and this is the first time I have ever done so. I am astounded by this intervention, but I am in favour of the Socialist and Left Party's reservation and rejection of the committee's proposal.
i-4c74881522ca254f-158	I would like to make it clear that this is an agreement between the group leaders on the rules of debate for this particular type of debate. In ordinary case debates we do not usually intervene when speaking time is exceeded, but in such framework debates we are careful that all the speakers hold the speaking time.
i-4c74881522ca254f-159	Madam President, I would like When the parliamentary majority takes decisions that do not go in the direction of the Social Democrats, the Social Democrats tend to be very upset. In this case, it is a budgetary agreement in which the opposition proposal is also the committee's main proposal. What, then, is so critical about? Is that the special pay bet on the police? So you want policemen to have a lower salary? Is it the effort to start abolishing the so-called shared tours, primarily in health and care professions? Do you want more people to have to work shared tours? Is this the focus on basic protection – strengthening the economically most vulnerable older people? So the Social Democrats want more poor pensioners? Is it more care places that you are critical of or that it will be cheaper to refuel your car or that pensioners will have to pay lower taxes? What exactly is the substance of the committee's proposal, which is so critical of from the point of view of the Social Democrats and against which we are therefore opposed?
i-4c74881522ca254f-161	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Oscar Sjöstedt, for the question! What we are opposed to is the fact that, in the situation in which Sweden finds itself, it is our top priority to reduce taxes most for those who earn the most and to reintroduce a tax for disabled people who are higher than for those who work. We are opposed to reducing the construction of cheap rental apartments that people can afford to live in. We are opposed to slowing down in the work on climate change. And, above all, we are opposed to the fact that, in the midst of a situation where long-term unemployment is at risk of becoming entrenched, many of the important measures that put women with foreign background in particular into work are being removed. That is what we are opposed to. At the same time, we are pleased here and now that you have not managed to agree on deteriorations in health insurance, as your Prime Minister candidate wants to do, Oscar Sjöstedt. At the same time, it is regrettable that the voters are not told. What does your government's alternative look like when it comes to health insurance and unemployment insurance, since the Swedish Democrats choose to cooperate with parties that want to make major cuts in these particular areas?
i-4c74881522ca254f-164	Madam President, I would like It is now on the table in the committee's proposal. As Åsa Westlund notes, there are no cuts or deteriorations in either unemployment insurance or health insurance. The answer is what is on Parliament's table now and that we are voting about this afternoon. I'm paying attention to a couple of things. When it comes to reducing taxes on those who earn the most, the tax relief included in the committee's proposal is designed for those with lower incomes. Those who earn the least, Madam President, benefit most from the proposal on tax relief. The functionaries do not receive a higher tax with the proposal, absolutely not. It is a delusion, and I have taken note of it in the past as well. We also heard about building subsidies. Why should we give more money to developers who are incredibly profitable today? The only thing that happens is that they get higher margins. It's really bad politics.
i-4c74881522ca254f-168	Madam President, I would like Well, your biggest change in the budget, Oscar Sjöstedt, is to transform the tax cut that we have made and that everyone gets to take part in a new job tax deduction that goes most to those who earn the most. That is your priority. You have also chosen to cooperate only in matters where you originally believed that you felt the same. But Oscar Sjöstedt knows that after election day it won't be like that. Then, if you have a government alternative, you have to present an entire alternative. I just hope that that option will be clear to the voters before election day so that there won't be many voters who believe that the Swedish Democrats will prioritise a high unemployment fund for those who happen to lose their jobs or a good health insurance – simply politics for ordinary people – and so that they don't vote for a prime minister candidate who wants the opposite.
i-4c74881522ca254f-170	Madam President, I would like When you listen to Åsa Westlund you understand that she likes to sing in Stefan Lövven's choir that it has been seven amazing years. But I wonder what has been so amazing about these seven years. Is it that gang criminals have taken over areas so that honest people can no longer stay there? Is it that twelve-year-olds are now part of these criminal gangs? Or is it that women, wherever they live in Sweden, feel insecure when they go out into their area? The list can be made long. Sweden has become an example of horror for other countries in terms of crime. On Monday, I sat down with police officers in Trollhättan and talked to them. They gave me a whole list of what they think we should do here in Parliament, because they see what reality looks like. They need to be more. Their conditions need to be improved. Their tools need to be increased. The list they gave was long. When Magdalena Andersson now says she wants to turn every stone around to get to crime, it must surely be realised that resources for the police and the judiciary are central and important. My question to Åsa Westlund is: What stone do you turn on when today you vote against our budget and thus say no to big investments in police and justice? It simply slaughters the proposal that is on the table. The main task of the state is to ensure security for citizens. This task has been failed by the government. Why do you say no to all the important efforts we are now making to ensure that one step is taken to get Sweden in order?
i-6Gi3yH8ex4Y48BW8nVuDE9	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Elisabeth Svantesson, for the question! On Monday 707 new police officers started in Sweden. It's amazing– we're about to reach the target of 10,000 more police workers. This is a development that we have been pushing. We inherited a situation where you had made major cuts in police training, and we are still suffering from this. But step by step we are beginning to catch up, and in our budget option, both the police and many other law enforcement agencies are getting more money. They get at least what they themselves have estimated they need to carry out their mission. But it is not just about new money, it is also about new tools, which we have given both police and other authorities. We'll keep looking at that. We have tightened the penalties and strengthened preventive work, but we need to do more. I also said this in my speech that we are doing this through our budget. My question to Elisabeth Svantesson is: if it is just about money for the judiciary, why is your biggest change in the adjustments that you are presenting instead a tax cut that goes most to those who earn the most? Then why don't you spend all your money on law enforcement?
i-4c74881522ca254f-177	Madam President, I would like 11⁄2 billion more to the justice system and the police are what we think they really need right now to do their job. Åsa Westlund sounds very pleased with the situation. She's still talking about the Alliance's eight years, even though you're in your own eighth year and you can't control the crime. There's a need for an investment in police salaries. You say no to that, Åsa Westlund. We need more cameras to get to the crime scene. We are going to decide on that today, and that is very good. But much more is needed. Now I want to say something about the taxes. We are lowering taxes on people who work, but let me be very clear in this House. Those who have sickness or activity benefits receive an average of SEK 850 more per month with our budget. The person who works gets about 150 kroner. I think you should stick to the truth when you are chairman of the Finance Committee of the Swedish Parliament. We will always continue to lower taxes for those who work. We will continue to make it more profitable to work.
i-4c74881522ca254f-179	Madam President, I would like I'm telling the truth. We have put forward a proposal whereby the unjust funkis tax that you introduced during your reign, Elisabeth Svantesson, disappears. You have not agreed to remove that change. On the other hand, you are introducing a new funkis tax. It is clear what your priorities are. I am not satisfied with what it looks like in Sweden, but I share your party leader Ulf Kristersson's view: It will take a long time to reverse the trend. This does not mean that we should work slowly, but that means that we should work fast. But we're gonna do the right thing. I note that neither does the opposition believe that it is only about money. It is about money, but it is also about strengthening the tools and prevention and ensuring that criminals cannot hide their dirty money without us chasing them.
i-4c74881522ca254f-181	Madam President, I would like First of all, I can see that it is very good to improve the economy of all the poor pensioners in the country. But I was actually going to talk about the care and the flaws that were exposed during the pandemic. The under-financing was clearly demonstrated. There were too few places for care, understaffed care, activities with poor working conditions and too little influence, and many had poor wages. It was a staff who had worked hard long before the pandemic struck. The cuts were tangible. Region by region had presented savings programmes. In the same way, it was in the elderly care of municipalities. It was so obvious that these were not politically prioritised activities, which tax cuts must have been said to have been for a long time. For example, the January parties spent SEK 29 billion in tax cuts the year before the pandemic hit and SEK 200 million in supplements to care to share in order to train more nurses. More important than that was health care and care for the January parties. Tax cuts have their price. That is why we also had our framework requirement for the government's budget, that the tax cuts should be matched by equal tax increases, because welfare must be financed in the long term. Well, I don't want any more cuts in welfare, but that's what it looks like. Of the SEK 12 billion contributed to this government budget, SEK 11 1⁄2 billion is temporary. In addition, the Karen Day is maintained, which means that many are forced to go to work sick. This increases the spread of infection because people cannot afford to be at home in case of illness. Is not health care, welfare and care more important than this for the Social Democrats?
i-4c74881522ca254f-186	Madam President, I would like I thank Ulla Andersson for the question. Welfare is extremely important, and I am glad that we share this view. Unfortunately, the Left Party has the ability to ignore the distribution of seats in the Swedish parliament and to always see the Social Democrats as the great enemy, even though we know that it is when we hook arms that we can make the greatest difference and also jointly gain greater influence in the Swedish parliament. We will have to do that in the future. And we will continue to need to prioritise more resources for welfare. It has been our priority through all these negotiations that Magdalena Andersson has done as Minister of Finance – to strengthen welfare in the future. I hope, of course, that the Left Party will support this work. I also hope that more voters will ensure that this Parliament is more sympathetic to strengthening welfare and not allowing tax cuts to take precedence.
i-4c74881522ca254f-188	Madam President, I would like The Left Party has offered to negotiate all these years. It was the Social Democrats who chose not to. It was the Social Democrats who chose to let the Center Party dictate the terms. Thus, the budgets have looked like they have done – SEK 29 billion in tax cuts and SEK 200 million in health care. I do not know whether the Social Democrats are very bad negotiators or whether it is the case that the Social Democrats have moved very far out to the right. I'm afraid that's the way it is. I find it disappointing when care is not given permanently. How can you improve working conditions and get more care places when you withdraw almost all the money after two years? That's not how it works in real life. It'll be a chimare, a fake job. You talk, but in practice, it's not that much of a workshop. That is probably the problem of the Social Democrats.
i-4c74881522ca254f-190	Madam President, I would like When I joined the SSU, according to the Left Party, the Social Democrats had gone right. A few years later, according to the rhetoric of the Left Party, the Social Democrats had gone right. And now, many years later, we have apparently also gone right. It's not like that. We are a Social Democratic Party. We look to reality, to reality. We are negotiating on the basis of the situation that arises. We do not live in a dream world where we can do everything we want, but we want to bring about change here and now. That is why we are also working with other parties that have different opinions, but where we still see that it is more important for ordinary people that we take small steps forward than that we stick to the big dreams in theory.
i-4c74881522ca254f-191	Madam President, I would like Electricity crisis, electricity prices rushing and people who when they get home electricity bills wonder what's going on. 13 000 SEK a year is something like what a Lundabo pays more for their electricity than anyone who lives in Umeå. 237 percent, to be more precise, is the difference in electricity prices between the southern parts of the country, where I live, and the northern parts of the country. The electricity crisis is not just about electricity prices. It is also about us starting from time to time that oil power plant in Karlshamn that makes us vomit carbon dioxide into the atmosphere. The electricity crisis is also about the conversion – that companies want to switch – not being possible because there is a shortage of electricity, or the risk of a shortage of electricity later on. In the budget bill a few years ago, the government warned that the situation we have right now would be the effect of closing Ringhals 1 and Ringhals 2. Former Prime Minister Stefan Löfven was a very strong supporter of nuclear power. But when it comes down to it, we all know that it is the environmental party's energy policy that has to decide. The consequences are now apparent. The budget presented by the Social Democrats does not mention this in a single word. The electricity crisis, the impact on the climate, the impact on the homeowners when they get their electricity bill – nothing if this is mentioned in the Social Democrats' budgetary options. Why do the Social Democrats let the Green Party decide on energy policy? Why do you let the Green Party make sure that homeowners get a scare-off when they open their electricity bill? Why do you allow a villa owner in Lund to pay 13 000 SEK more per year than a home owner in Umeå? Is this fair?
i-4c74881522ca254f-197	Madam President, I would like It is quite right that the climate change that we are now seeing will require increased electricity generation in Sweden. That is why we have vigorously ensured that renewable electricity production in Sweden is expanded and continues to expand. This is also why we invest and continue to invest in more and better electricity transmission in Sweden. I have read your draft budget. I find nothing in this that says that we should allow nuclear power plants to continue operating without meeting the safety requirements that made the owners not think it was worth investing to continue to operate the reactors that have now been shut down. Nor can I find any funding for the construction of new nuclear power plants. It is perfectly legal to build nuclear power plants in Sweden today. But nobody wants to make this investment because it is expensive to do so and does not save the climate and because it is going too slow. But if Mats Persson now stands by the fact that it is nuclear power that is supposed to save the climate and us, it would have been more honest if you had set aside money for it. Who's gonna pay for it? Is it the electricity consumers who will pay for the new nuclear power – the more expensive choice – instead of renewable electricity? Then there will be even higher electricity prices, Mats Persson. I have a question. When you left the cooperation in January, you motivated it, among other things, by the fact that you could more easily pursue a climate policy that was good for Sweden. Now we see how M, SD and KD left you outside and preferred to prioritise a reduced tax on petrol and diesel. But you stand by your choice of which Prime Minister you want, namely Ulf Kristersson. Wasn't the climate more important than that, Mats Persson?
i-4c74881522ca254f-201	Madam President, I would like It is clear that people are worried when they open the electricity bill: 237 percent and 13,000 kroner a year. The reason we are there is that the Social Democrats have decided that nuclear power will be phased out by 2040. We say very clearly in our budget that we do not accept it. We spend money on more research. We are very clear that we want a focus so that Sweden now changes the line in energy policy. That's how we make sure that Sweden can reset. That's how we make sure people don't have to feel that electricity prices are rushing. And that is how we ensure that we take responsibility for the climate and so that the industry in Sweden can develop new services while taking responsibility for the climate. This is how we build Sweden stronger. We do not do that by hooking arms with the Green Party or letting the Green Party decide on energy policy. This is quite the wrong way to go for Sweden.
i-4c74881522ca254f-204	Madam President, I would like I did not hear the answer to the question why the Liberals, if the climate is so important, still want a Prime Minister who, in the midst of a burning climate crisis, prioritises reduced prices of petrol and diesel. Maybe someone else heard it, but I didn't hear it. The Social Democrats have not decided to close any nuclear power plants. The owners have done so, as they make the assessment that it costs too much to live up to safety requirements. The rhetorical question is therefore: do the Liberals want to compromise safety requirements if they now want to ensure that more nuclear power is built at the expense of electricity consumers having to pay a higher electricity bill? If so, it is you who will be responsible for the answer. It will then be for you to answer for choosing a more expensive way for electricity consumers.
i-4c74881522ca254f-206	Madam President, I would like It is sad that you have to start by cleaning up a little in Åsa Westlund's speech. Persons with sickness and activity benefits are the group that gets the greatest improvement with the proposal that we have put forward at Parliament's table. We have an increase in the guarantee level of SEK 1 000 and tax relief of an average of SEK 850 per month. In addition to this, there will also be a reinforcement of the housing supplement with up to SEK 1,300 per month. It can be about SEK 3 000 in improvement for these people after the end of the year. I think it is good that they get improvements. It is a group that has had tough economic circumstances for a long time. The difference with Åsa Westlund's proposal is SEK 45. This is what Åsa Westlund calls us poor people. It is not reasonable to explain the matter so in the Chamber of the Swedish Parliament. The same applies to tax relief. Åsa Westlund says that we put forward proposals where the one who earns the most gets the most. This is true with Åsa Westlund's tax proposal. With our tax proposal you already get 13 000 shares of maximum tax relief, while Åsa Westlund's proposal takes place only at 22 000 SEK per month. The dusted points of speech are therefore not correct. Sweden is basically a good country to live in, but progress is going in the wrong direction on several points. We are among the countries in Europe with the highest unemployment rate. We have the lowest number of care places per inhabitant in Europe. Not in any other European country do we see such a marked increase in deadly gun violence, and at the same time Sweden is the third most prominent country in Europe. In this situation, Åsa Westlund wants to come forward with a reservation that draws resources away from the police, prosecutors, courts, the Prison Service, Coast Guard and Customs. She also makes a reservation that provides fewer care places, larger groups of children in preschool and poorer conditions for elderly care staff and the most deprived pensioners. The question must be: Why?
i-4c74881522ca254f-211	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jakob Forssmed, for the many questions! I think it would be more honest if you stood by what you do. We presented a budget bill that abolished the funkis tax that Jakob Forssmed's party has been involved in introducing in Sweden. It is a tax that has led disabled people with sickness and activity benefits to pay a higher tax year after year. You obviously thought that was right. We do not think so, and that is why we tabled a proposal at Parliament's table to abolish it. I'm glad you didn't change that. But I am also concerned that you are re-establishing the tax gap, because I know how it is: you always give priority to job tax deductions, and that means that you will always put this group outside. I may have lost count a little, but I think you are now carrying out your seventh job tax deduction. Job tax deductions numbers 8, 9, 10, 11, 12 and 13 will, if you decide, still mean that people with disabilities are put outside. Why is it so important for disabled people to pay more taxes than those who work?
i-4c74881522ca254f-213	Madam President, I would like I note that Åsa Westlund does not answer the question at all why, compared to our proposal, they want less resources for the police, why they do not want to give the police capacity through technical equipment, why they want larger children's groups in preschool, why they do not now want to implement improvements for the most deprived pensioners in Sweden and why they do not want to remove shared tours in elderly care. Job tax deductions have been very good for Sweden. They have been an important instrument for creating more jobs and making it more profitable to work. It is central for Sweden, which now has a very high unemployment rate, that it pays for people to work. That is why we prioritise it. We also give priority to improvements for sick and active people. We prioritise removing the care queues, which have grown far for econona, with more care places. We also give priority to elderly care staff so that they do not have to work with shared tours and tear themselves apart from their work. They should be able to endure and make their important efforts. However, Åsa Westlund does not want this. Why?
i-4c74881522ca254f-217	Madam President, I would like Our budget option means more money for the police. No court is given less than what they themselves have deemed necessary to carry out their mission. If we need more money, we'll be ready to push it. But this is what they have said they need at present. Not only is money needed, but there is also a need for a lot of new technologies, new tools and crime prevention. This requires us to go to the money. We must continue to do that. I will come back to what I mentioned earlier. A year ago, Jakob Forssmed said in Parliament's Chamber: This is, of course, about people who, in many cases, lack the capacity to work and who will not be able to regain the capacity to work. He now reintroduces the tax gap between Sweden's working employees and disabled people.
i-4c74881522ca254f-220	Madam President, I would like There is a big question about the budget that the government has put on the table of Parliament. Why did they not do more if, after the pandemic, they wanted to do everything possible to enable the country's small businesses to employ the many unemployed and the many long-term unemployed who have been hard hit during this time? Why was it not possible to reduce taxes on hiring those furthest from the labour market? Why was it not possible to make work even more profitable? If you have to turn all the stones around, why have you not allowed more than one in four unemployed people to meet an effective and results-based matching service that can help them find the right employer? Why did they not let this budget, when you had the chance, lean to where the needs for Sweden, the unemployed, businesses, jobs and rural areas are located? Rural areas have experienced their deepest cost crisis since the great drought a number of years ago. Yet they do not get the reinforcements that they need in this crisis situation. Why did they not choose to let employment policy lean in the middle?
i-4c74881522ca254f-221	Mr. Old President! Thank you, Martin Ådahl, for the question! I regret, of course, that the Center Party does not think that our budget is better than they obviously think. There are many proposals in our budget that our parties have been negotiating for a long time and that we have now put on the table of Parliament. It is therefore sad to hear that the Centre Party will abstain in this important vote on the budget. Among other things, this means that a budget with fewer efforts to tackle long-term unemployment is passed. Extra services and introductory jobs disappear. We also get less of the investment in labour market policy that is really needed in this situation. After all, I cannot help but regret that so many unemployed people have problems meeting someone who helps them get to the right level of unemployment. Unfortunately, I think that is due quite a lot to the cuts in labour market policy that the Center Party has also contributed to. We are trying to do our best to restore this. I can only say that if our budget had been passed, it would have been easier to overcome long-term unemployment – including through additional services, which will enable those who are currently furthest from the labour market to move forward and enter the labour market.
i-4c74881522ca254f-225	Mr. Old President! It cannot have escaped the government that we do not believe, that there is no proof and that it has not been shown that extra services and introductory jobs do anything but lift a burden from the municipalities. Although it is a heavy burden that they should not bear, it is not an effective measure per crown. There are many unemployed people looking for jobs, and there are many who need labour. You need to match them much more effectively than today, so that not everyone stands with a lot of applications at each end. They would have needed this effective matching help. It is extremely frustrating that only a quarter, or perhaps not more than a fifth, will meet these matching services that will apply in the future and that everyone is talking about. It's not really happening.
i-4c74881522ca254f-227	Mr. Old President! Not all unemployed are alike, Martin Ådahl. Some are further away from the labour market than others. Some have been unemployed for a very long time, others a little shorter. Some have never had a job. Extra services are apparently less effective than other measures because they are targeted at those furthest from the labour market. But the extra services lift those people up a bit, and then it becomes a little easier for them to enter the labour market. That is why it is so important to have extra services. Otherwise, we give up on those who are furthest away from the labour market. Once again, I regret that the Center Party will contribute to the fact that we are less able to tackle long-term unemployment in the future. I regret even more that this also brings out what the Swedish Democrats have called the first step towards a government in which they have influence.
i-4c74881522ca254f-229	( AGESPRESIDENT: I would like to ask Åsa Westlund to clarify her reservations. ) We only have one reservation from the Social Democrats and the Left Party. I'm sorry, I mean the Green Party! I hope I told you right from the start. The Social Democrats and the Green Party have a reservation, and I call for it to be approved. If we have two reservations, I am in favour of both.
i-4c74881522ca254f-231	Mr. Old President! Imagine what a chance the Swedish economy has right now! It has at least as much chance as a simple economist can hope for. Despite increased infection rates, the risks of shutdown, the serious upsurge in inflation and all bottlenecks around the world, recovery is now with its full force after the pandemic. The chance of a turn is here, the chance to give Sweden a fresh start after so much crisis. I am thinking not least of the well over 400 000 unemployed and the 180 000 long-term unemployed. So many people I've met who are struggling to show what they can – so many foreign born, so many people with disabilities, so many vulnerable people! It is not we in this House who are going to create their jobs, but the employers. The small entrepreneurs, the unsung heroes of the pandemic, create four out of five jobs. When I meet small businesses and ask them what they now need to lift after the pandemic, they reply that they want a little less regulatory hassle. They want lower employers' contributions, perhaps removed employers' contributions for the first ten employees, as in the Center Party's budget. Anyone who invests in hiring the vulnerable long-term unemployed will have to get rid of this tax on hiring. They want a little better matching assistance, preferably much better, so that you as an employer do not need to read a hundred applications unnecessarily and above all so that you as a job seeker do not have to send a hundred applications unnecessarily. These are small but fundamental things that can add tens of thousands or hundreds of thousands of jobs around our country. This is what Sweden needs now. That's also what's in the Center Party's budget exercise, where we spend 53.9 billion over three years getting Sweden back on track with job creation and entrepreneurship. Equally hopeful – but also frustrating – it can feel that we are so close to getting the climate transition done and become completely fossil independent. Now emissions are rising again after the pandemic. But Sweden is still the country that shows what is called decoupling, i.e. that you can decouple growth and jobs from increased emissions. Emissions can drop as we grow. We can grow green. I spoke a few weeks ago to hundreds of companies at Fossil-free Sweden who are working to create the transition. They were ready. H2 Green Steel's CEO stood there on the link and said he was ready with his fossil-free steel. But we in politics are not ahead today. We are behind the companies and not ahead. We are also behind and not ahead of our voters – now that everyone is changing to the green, now that electric cars are tops the lists, thanks to the bonuses that the Center Party has pushed forward and the maluses of the cars that you would rather not buy. In the Baltic Sea 170 terawatt hours of wind power are waiting to be built. But shortcomings in the licensing process, the inability to bring the Swedish Armed Forces together with the licence providers and the fact that the power grid monopoly and the Swedish power grid do not keep up with this historic expansion mean that it is slowed down. Once again, in our budget we put forward the proposals to ensure that this is done. Seven years ago, when we were running negative emissions, people called it science fiction. A few weeks ago, I heard it on a moderate budget presentation. All this must now be speeded up. We need to move faster. We need to invest more in the so-called 'Industrial Life' for a green industry. We need to invest more in plastic recycling. We need to invest more and not less, like the government, in enabling people to buy an environmentally friendly car – new or used. We have to have sandwiches with more charging poles all over the country. That is why we are making offensively 14.4 billion to accelerate climate change and save the Baltic Sea. Don't let go, dear colleagues! I am asking for the same thing when it comes to rural areas. There has been a lot of rhetoric in recent months and weeks. But it's not rhetoric the countryside needs. What is needed is to turn on the lights when the Swedish Transport Administration shut them down over the small roads in my village. What is needed is that individual roads are ploughed when the Swedish Transport Administration has stopped doing so. There is also a need for much more broadband, so that everyone can be part of the digital economy on the same terms. There is a need for effective primary care in small towns. There is a need for a chance to build a house by the water next to the forest and the place you love – while protecting the right of public access, so that is said. Especially right now, Sweden's farmers, who are going on a cost shock of SEK 4 billion, need a straight relief. I am a little disappointed that in practice no one here has put anything into these areas in their budgets, despite their rhetoric and despite high expectations, to meet these very challenges. We spend 24 billion over three years. It is now time, as many have been at it, to give hope to the suburbs and those in society who have been subjected to crime again. The police will be there on the street tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, in a month and in a year's time and not just when something happens. Then the police must be supported with police assistants and good conditions for long-term ownership of the street, and not just that. You have to do both, as you say now, thank God. I recently visited one of the vulnerable areas in Stockholm and met people who worked with the young people. They felt a huge frustration that not only the police are strange compared to the gang members, but also those who are going to work with the young people. They see that crime spreads instead of decreasing. I do not have time to tell you all about what we want to do to get the brilliant schools, the strong social services and the outreach activities. It is all about the hope these areas need today, and we are spending 9.6 billion on it. Now there are many of the reforms that we have been pushing in recent years towards the current government that lie in both budgetary options. It is the tens of billions of tax cuts on both jobs and entrepreneurship and the reforms to break unemployment that are starting to come into effect next year. It is the major climate efforts that are beginning to bear fruit and the large but insufficient ruralisations, which, after all, have been joined by more and more parties. There are recruitments of 10,000 police officers who need to be speeded up. This is in both draft budgets. All the positive draft budgets highlighted by Magdalena Andersson in their own budget remain in all of the proposals. It's great for our country. Without them, we could not have recovered. Now some say that we should not vote on our own proposal, but we should vote on their proposal. We will insist here on our own proposal. We will follow practice. We will stick to the fiscal framework. We will stand up for what has been in Swedish politics and economic policy for so long. When you put the Center Party's budget motion next to the main options, you can ask yourself: What has happened to Swedish economic policy? Should the Center Party be the last party to represent the classic serious economic reform will in Sweden? This is what has built Sweden strong decade after decade. Where are the long-term ideas? Where is the political courage? Yesterday new supposedly generous pension proposals were presented. They are unfunded, unserious and without support in Parliament, and taxpayers' money will magically fall from heaven. You blame the capitalists and send the bill to the taxpayer. On the other hand, the old bourgeois virtues have been replaced with industriousness, entrepreneurship, the work line and belief in small businesses with a single word to solve all problems: immigration. Now the second budget option shows few, if any, job creation efforts in growing small businesses. Does anyone remember the Thai kiosk, Mr. Old President, that Reinfeldt was talking about? There you get up early in the morning, open the kiosk and go to bed late in the evening. I think he said it symbolized jobs, integration, security, development and a really good pad Thai. Where is it? It is the expectation of the people who come to our country and who grow up in our country. It's about us thinking the best about them, that they want to do their part in the sweat of their face and build their future, and that they shouldn't be met with mistrust. Where are the major, serious, long-term economic reforms? I say this to you who are looking at this, now that so many parties are lending their vote to the outer parties, to quote a party leader. Remember this moment when we remained alone in the Center Party and appealed to everyone else to go back to the serious, long-term economic policy that made Sweden strong. Thank you, Mr. Old President.
i-4c74881522ca254f-254	Mr. Old President! The Centre Party is on the far right of economic policy. It's an achievement in itself. Out there it is very crowded, but you still manage to place yourself on the far right side. The Left Party is on the far left of economic policy. It's not an achievement, because it's very empty. Above all, what separates us is that we are trying to find solutions and take responsibility. We are trying to negotiate and find a solution in a very difficult parliamentary situation. You refuse to negotiate, and you ban the negotiation of other parties. First, you'll release a prime minister. Then you deny the Prime Minister the use of his most important tool. There is a budget that you refuse to negotiate. But then you put the hookbones on those who have tried to find solutions, and you cut the budget. You write on your website that you have received more than 20 billion in the budget you choose to draw. You then put forward a budget that risks increasing climate emissions. You call the improvements in health insurance that exist in the budget that you choose to set for contributions, even though you are actually closer to us than the Moderates and Liberals in terms of health insurance. Above all, you are preparing the way for an inhumane view of human beings where economically vulnerable people are being hunted. You are preparing a path to give SD influence in Swedish economic policy. Why, Martin Ådahl?
i-4c74881522ca254f-259	Mr. Old President! That's enough, Mr. Old President. I do not take any lessons in how to take responsibility for Sweden from a party that voted for SD's censure on a Social Democratic Prime Minister and created a long-standing government crisis. There's nothing to laugh about, Ulla Andersson – excuse me for addressing Ulla Andersson directly here. We took responsibility and made great reforms. We created a partnership agreement that the whole labour market is behind. We took Sweden through the crisis together with the government and keep to this day the Swedish Democrats away from the corridors of power. We do so when so many others, including you yourself, repeatedly voted with them and in practice negotiated with them. Now it's gone this far. Incidentally, the 20 billion in both draft budgets are, but that was not the main point here. You have allowed the whole of Sweden to wait day in and day out to arrive at an unserious, unfunded proposal that you do not support. That is the very proof of why we did not want us to negotiate with you on the state budget.
i-4c74881522ca254f-262	Mr. Old President! Martin Ådahl has a high tone and says he does not accept any lecture. Then he tries to tell me how to behave. Mr. Old President! We stopped the market rents. We didn't think it was reasonable for millions of tenants to get an increase in rent. I think we did the right thing. We are trying to find solutions. We tried to find solutions with you then, but you refused. You don't realize what it looks like. You think you belong to a broad mine, a mine that no one sees but yourself. You call the proposal for increased pensions an unserious proposal. You yourself demand an increase in pensions, especially for the poorest pensioners. We will ensure that this is done by negotiating. You deny parties to negotiate, sit in the gallery and, unfortunately, act like you're in the middle of the age. Imagine how much we could have done in a negotiation!
i-4c74881522ca254f-266	Mr. Old President! I know I talked a little fast with the new time constraints, which are very sharp. There is a longer name for a very honourable title to pronounce, but I did in fact insist on the quick move here to approve our budget motion – although it was not clear enough. I would therefore like to make it clear, Mr President-in-Office, that I am in favour of Amendments Nos 2 and 6. I'd like to answer the line. The whole point of pensions, which everyone realizes should be long-term, is that they are long-term and stable funded. For this we have the Pensions Group. The behaviour of the Left Party shows that they should not sit there, because it is precisely the quick jerks and the simple solutions to long-term problems that do not give pensioners security. That is what will lead to a pension system of the kind that you have in Greece or that you had in France before you got things straight. If you do so, you have to reduce pensions because you have not financed them and have not thought this through. Thank God your proposal will not go through.
i-4c74881522ca254f-269	Mr. Old President! I have a lot of questions for the Center Party at this point, but to make it easy, I'll take them down to three. The first concerns the process, and I hope that Martin Ådahl has in himself to be honest now. I ask: has the Center Party called for the content of the budget proposal submitted by the government to Parliament, and have these demands been met? The second question concerns the content. Is the Center Party in favour of or against lowering the tax on petrol? And is the Center Party in favour of or against ensuring that there is a tax gap between those who work and those who go on sick pay?
i-4c74881522ca254f-272	Mr. Old President! I understood two questions, and I'm going to answer them. First of all, it is not exactly a big secret how the budget process has gone about. Time and again, the question has been asked why we cannot negotiate with the government. And time and again, unfortunately, we have had to reply: we wanted to, but unfortunately the Liberals left the agreement we had and what they had promised their own party. They created a situation in which we did not have a majority of work for a sensible budget. Then we had to go this way. It wasn't our choice, and it wasn't our wish. But, Mr President-in-Office, once again speaking of the populism we have heard from the Left Party here: we were not going to let them into the budget negotiations. On a straight question of whether we have negotiated the budget and made demands in negotiations, I can reply that the first thing I have said when I have entered the room the times I have met Magdalena Andersson and the last thing I have said when I have left is this: You realise that we will not negotiate on any part of the budget, but we will have to talk about other things. As far as sickness benefits are concerned, I would just like to say that in our budget, which we stand for and vote for and which Sweden needs, we have accepted this reduction. From the beginning we thought it was a tough priority but that it was necessary. Now, obviously, everyone has accepted it. It's been through, and whoever wanted this won. Therefore, I do not understand why we are now beginning to focus on the fact that there is something wrong with the tax being reduced for others. That is not what we are doing in our budget, and that is not something for which we are responsible. I don't really understand the logic. You've won, and what you call the funkish treasure is gone. You've had big tax cuts for this group. Why, then, do this and not celebrate that victory?
i-4c74881522ca254f-278	Mr. Old President! I understand that the question was quite simple and that Martin Ådahl did not answer if the Center Party has made demands. The question is not answered, nor is the question of the tax on petrol. Nevertheless, I would like to dwell on the question of the so-called functional tax. It is extremely good that we have now finally come to the point that we are removing the funkis tax. Of course, however, we cannot celebrate a victory that is also eaten in a battle. If you stand for there to be no difference, you should not introduce, back up or release such measures. For the people out there in Sweden the effects are the same; it is not about how the processes here have been done. The effect is the same. If a budget or reservation is released, it will have an impact in reality, and that is what matters. We will continue to live with unjust taxation of those who have the least.
i-4c74881522ca254f-281	Mr. Old President! The Green Party may put the questions to those whose budget it applies. We stand for our budget. We follow practice, and we stand up for what Sweden needs. Ask the questions to those who have cooperated and put forward the proposals without any concern at all to seek support from someone else in the broad center! Once again, I would like to say quite clearly: of course we sat and negotiated the budget initially, until cooperation was left by the Liberals and shot down by a joint motion of censure by the Left Party and the Swedish Democrats. Then we couldn't go on. But I have not made demands that have been met. We have not negotiated in any form.
i-4c74881522ca254f-283	Mr. Old President! Today, for the third time in its term of office, the Center Party has voted for a Social Democratic Prime Minister. One of the reasons, as I understand it, is that we want to keep the Left Party and the Swedish Democrats away from political influence. And in front of an open curtain, social democrats and left-wing parties are negotiating with each other. We even heard a Freudian slip here just now from the chairman of the committee, who called for the agreement of the Left Party and the Social Democrats on the reservation. But I understand that it was wrong. All this happens, and Martin Ådahl says: We stand alone. Yes, you do. Nevertheless, I would like to ask you a question about the budget that we have now tabled and which is the main proposal here today. I hear Martin Ådahl talking about the Thai kiosk and restaurant owner. My picture when I talk to that particular group is that they feel that Sweden is very unsafe. They see that working doesn't pay off. Although they themselves work hard, there are others who stack contributions. They do not feel that Sweden is heading in the right direction. That is why, in this budget, we are now ensuring that the police and law enforcement authorities are given more resources. That is why we are taking a step towards a benefit reform so that it always pays better to work. That is why we are reducing the tax on hiring the long-term unemployed and young people. These are all important parts. I wonder, Mr. Old President, how does the Center Party view our budget? What is it in our budget that you cannot support? Are these better conditions for pensioners or reduced taxes on jobs and entrepreneurship? Is there more resources for police and justice?
i-4c74881522ca254f-288	Mr. Old President! First of all, I would like to say that when I said in my speech that we were alone, it was an appeal to other parties to join the classic mid-reform policy that has supported Sweden for many years and that Elisabeth Svantesson was once part of a government that made major reforms for work and entrepreneurship. But that doesn't mean we're alone. Many, many in Sweden, feel the same way. Many, many want Sweden ruled from the middle. That is why we should stick to our exercise and follow the practice and the classic fiscal framework. We will therefore not support any other draft budget, nor yours.
i-4c74881522ca254f-289	Mr. Old President! I think it's important to see what reality looks like right now. What social problems do we need to solve together now? I heard Martin Ådahl say earlier that he visited a vulnerable area. It might be an idea to do it a little more often, because the problems today do not look like they did in 2006 or 2014. A lot of honest people who live in Sweden's different areas feel insecure. A lot of people feel gang criminals have taken over. Anyone who says no to our budget today is also slaughtering the efforts that we want to make in the judiciary and in the police. Anyone who says no to our budget today misses out on a unique opportunity to finally start a grant reform that makes it more profitable to work. I only mention two things, Mr. Old President, because time is short. But this is classical and important bourgeois policy in order to get order on Sweden.
i-4c74881522ca254f-291	Mr. Old President! I would just like to express my regret, as I did in my speech, that there is so little of the classic bourgeois policy mentioned here – the belief in small businessmen, substantial and real investment in rural areas, efforts to improve the labour market vigorously and not only with subsidies, although we can agree that some of them are needed. It is like a vacuum has arisen where classical bourgeois politics existed in Sweden. And when it comes to vulnerable areas, Mr. Age President: Believe me, Elisabeth Svantesson, I have visited many. I have met many in these areas, and everyone tells me the same thing: We must do both – with full force create police presence in everyday life and invest in a dream and an opportunity in school, social services and so on. We should not blame people for their ethnic or religious background.
i-4c74881522ca254f-293	Mr. Old President! I remember the movie with the Thai kiosk. It was not as Martin Ådahl described it; it was rather a woman and her son who had created four jobs, I think, over 50 dishes and hundreds of thousands of crowns of taxes. They saw an opportunity where others saw a flat grass. I think it's extremely good. It says something about entrepreneurship and the drive forward, to create a better life. It is our job as politicians to ensure that these conditions exist, and just as Elisabeth Svantesson said, there are not the conditions today in many areas in Sweden where there is insecurity. That is also why we are moving forward with very strong increases in police and judicial systems. I know that Martin Ådahl in the Center Party's budget also has some increases in the judiciary. I think that's good. We also go forward with the idea that it will pay better to work with job tax deductions. We are significantly reducing the costs of companies that want to employ the long-term unemployed with heavily reinforced new start-up jobs. I know that there is also something that Martin Ådahl thinks is good, and I understand then that you are releasing our budget that does these things. We're cutting down on the money for the forced purchase of forest. I also know that is something that appeals to Martin Ådahl. We also invest in more care places throughout the country. It should not depend on where you live if you receive treatment on time. In addition to this, we are making efforts to remove shared tours and civil society. But I still have a question for Martin Ådahl. Now we have a situation where the Left Party dictates the conditions for Magdalena Andersson to enter as Prime Minister. Now that you're releasing our budget, wouldn't it be better to also release a government leader who had more opportunities to conduct a policy that strengthens jobs, that strengthens the judiciary and that strengthens care and care for the elderly in Sweden?
i-4c74881522ca254f-297	Mr. Old President! I have to repeat that it is not – just so that everyone is clear about it – about releasing any budget. We are following the practice that has been in place for many decades in this country in terms of budgetary management, and we really do not see in any of the draft budgets that this vision and this hope exist. I also remember all the fine things that Jakob Forssmed tells me about from the film. I guess we'll all have to look at it later. But here was hope and faith in man, not the suspicion. Here was the dream of creating a new life together in this country, a dream that has been completely lost – unfortunately also in the concrete proposals. It's not about everything. A great deal, including investment in the judiciary – which is inadequate – we have actually pushed forward in successive budgets with the current government. It is about the absence of the offensive proposals for small businesses and the lack of proper investment in rural areas. It is also – and here I am really worried – about the lack of proper investments in the work line. In addition to everything else, I am concerned that it is now felt that the increases in the budget made by the Social Democrats during the pandemic – very reluctant from our side – should suddenly be accepted as permanent because you have a new partner who has completely different priorities from the classical bourgeois ones. It worries me a lot.
i-4c74881522ca254f-301	Mr. Old President! I am happy to cooperate with the Center Party and Martin Ådahl on reforms for entrepreneurship and the work line forward when that opportunity is given and we can do it together. Hope is incredibly important in politics. I and the Christian Democrats believe that investing in the judiciary to revive hope in neighbourhoods where the lives of their children are now being circumscribed in a very clear way is incredibly important. Having presence, restoring security, being able to recruit police officers and ensuring that there is a clear legal effect when committing crimes is incredibly important to rekindle this hope. But it is also about creating more presence in children's lives. We have many children today who think they are alone with their problems. More teaching time, smaller groups of children and more opportunities for parents to get support in their important role is also something that can give hope for the generation that is now growing up under some tough circumstances, Martin Ådahl.
i-4c74881522ca254f-304	Mr. Old President! Yes, absolutely! But it is very obvious that we need both. Not only do we need more policemen; we need them on the streets, in everyday life. That is why we are pressing so hard on our budget. Yes, we need a sensible and hopeful policy. Yes, we need to move away from the guilt of immigrants because of their ethnic or religious background to the hope and dream of a Sweden where they can contribute and work in their faces sweat. Yes, we need to go back to what Jakob Forssmed is talking about. But that's where we see how you've turned away and let the extremes and outer edges control. That is where we appeal that you turn back to the middle of Swedish politics and seek collaborations where you have the same values, the same visions and the same faith in man.
i-GVFZRWRFwwAvQBiV1sdRFu	Mr. Old President! I support reservations 3 and 7. The party at the far right of economic policy calls others outer parties. It's a strange order. You are pushed to the far right and try to make it that there is some form of broad in the middle of Swedish politics. I think everyone sees through it, except maybe the Center Party and Martin Ådahl. But now, Mr. Old President, there is terrible left-wing politics! In fact, the pensions are now to be increased for 700 000 pensioners, almost one in three pensioners. More than half a million of them are women. They have toiled and dragged their entire lives, such as cleaners, nannys or nurses. The pension they then received has forced them to turn over every penny. We've heard the screams: Old lady needs money! And now they come. This is something we and many others have been fighting for a long time. At most 1 000 SEK in tax-free guarantee supplement – that mark-up is probably the largest that has been made and makes a real difference for many. Now there must be an end to the unworthy treatment of the country's poor pensioners – so many hard-working women who have had to turn over every penny and then give up so much more during retirement. Now their wallets are being filled up in a great deal, and many people are delighted: we children, grandchildren and, of course, all pensioners. Left-wing politics really makes a difference. We all need a strong welfare that guarantees financial security in the event of retirement and illness, with a well-functioning, coherent and well-funded healthcare, school and care for the elderly. Such a society can also cope more easily with a crisis, but the privatisations and cuts in society and welfare in recent decades have made us less equipped to face crises – a pandemic, a climate threat or a greater reception of refugees – in a good and robust way. This has been shown time and again, so also now during the pandemic. Neo-liberal economic policy has had its price. As a result, the economically vulnerable have become many more and have never been so many since SCB started measuring. At the same time, the economic elite have withdrawn and improved. Instead, we want to build a stronger society that is capable of caring for its citizens, whether the crisis is global or affects us personally, only affects you. People's security is the responsibility of politics; you should not be left in the lurch. In unequal societies, class and status become more important and affect how we people view and value each other. It affects everything from health to school outcomes. Sweden is the OECD country where the gap has increased most since the mid-1990s. We are also on the top list, in fact in third place, in terms of misallocation of wealth and at the bottom level in terms of sickness and unemployment benefits, while now having the least redistributive tax system in the EU's 15 core countries. The rise in inequality is mainly the result of conscious policy decisions on everything from tax policy to pension systems. But we're taking a different path than the one that's been wrapped up. Neo-liberal economic policy must be brought to an end. It is a policy in which people are left in the lurch, where structural social problems become the individual's own fault. However, a fundamental element of a welfare society is, of course, that there are security systems that catch us when we need it. You should of course have a good pension after your working life. The unemployment fund should provide reasonable compensation if you lose your job. No sick person should be left in the lurch or have to hear that it should rely on soc or relatives instead of on health insurance. You should not have to go to work if you are ill because you cannot afford to be at home. We're a lot of people who've been in it, too. Karen's day must be removed. In the pandemic, it has become clear what it leads to. The Left Party chooses to spend 8 billion more than the government on strengthening social security and employee security. We also make a red tax shift, where those with high incomes pay more in tax but eight out of ten pay less and thus get an improved disposable income. We believe that those who have benefited from the current economic policy should now contribute more – that we should have a more effective economic policy in which capital can work for all of us instead of being piled up in the pockets of a small economic elite. That is why we propose increased taxation of capital, for example through property tax, inheritance taxation and progressive capital taxation. Sweden does not need more luxury apartments but rents for reasonable rents. We do not need more giant motorboats, but an extended public transport and a railway system throughout the country. We do not need more financial speculation, but a school that gives every child the best conditions. We need prosperity for all of us, where our needs are at the centre and not the welfare companies' need for profits. We do not need a tax system in which the richest have the right to deduction while the sick person is being yelled out for being a beneficiary and given without compensation. We do not need more luxury renovations of the giant villas at Djursholm or grants for laundry, cleaning and refurbishment at Östermalm. What we need is a dignified care for the elderly with time for the old, good working conditions and more employees. We need more care places and investment in health care and its employees, and we need climate investment. That is what our budget is all about. We propose an increase of 10 billion in general state grants to health care, education and long-term care, and we also have a supplement to improve working conditions in health care and long-term care. We spend EUR 32 billion more than the government on increased climate investment, and to this comes credit guarantees of SEK 100 billion for, among other things, an electricity grid expansion that is much needed and a green investment bank. We are also investing in small businesses so that they can switch, because this is the time. We must act now for the sake of future generations. The recovery policy that is being pursued must be sustainable. In order to meet both the climate crisis and the Corona crisis, Sweden should launch a comprehensive state investment programme. It would fulfil several functions at the same time, all directly necessary, such as climate investment in particular. The long-term investment of the state also creates a wealth of jobs. That's how we effectively create jobs. In this way, more people get to work, and indirectly it also boosts the economy. We have many great, deprived social needs that we need to invest in. The Left Party is a constructive party. We'd be happy to take responsibility. We do so through negotiations, because that is how we solve problems in politics and meet needs in democratic order. However, in the run-up to this budget proposal, the Center Party, although what we are part of the government base, chose not to negotiate with us and also banned the Prime Minister whom it has itself released to negotiate. Unfortunately, the government allowed the Center Party to be held, and today we see what this has led to. We can't have that. It's far from responsible. The budget proposal submitted by the government contains several of the demands made by the Left Party on the government. Above all, most of the proposals we have made to strengthen health insurance are included. There should be an end to the hunt for sick people in the Sweden we want to see. We act, and we take responsibility. That is why we are trying in every way to push through a policy that makes it better for the vast majority of people. In our country there is health insurance for you when you need it. There is unemployment insurance for you when you need it. There's a pension you can live on when you grow old and retire. In our country, we are all equals. There we build solidarity and a stronger society.
i-4c74881522ca254f-322	Mr. Old President! I will do something unconventional, but that is because Ulla Andersson started talking about something other than the budget we are now debating. After all, the newly elected Prime Minister has explicitly said that this pension proposal, or whatever you call it, will not be presented in the current budget. I'm just saying it so everyone understands. If it were free to raise pensions, all of us in this House would raise them to astronomical amounts per month. But it's not. They're supposed to be funded for the long term. This is quite serious, actually, because you paint a picture of giving to all pensioners. Now that you can magically raise the pensions that we all want to raise, without having any money for it, we have to ask the only relevant question: how is this reform financed? This is not just about political rhetoric in Parliament. It's very important to our pension system, because we've been where you're going. These are unfunded pensions and astronomical deficits – in Sweden and in other countries. This was the background to the major pension reform and long-term financing. This was the background to the Pensions Group and to the fact that those who are doing as you do should not be there. In fact, that was also the reason why there was an increase in pensions for the most deprived – although insufficient but still a powerful increase since then. My question is once again: where is the money for these promises?
i-4c74881522ca254f-327	Mr. Old President! We can see that the Pensions Group has been ignoring the poor pensioners of the country for decades. We're trying to do something about it. Certainly, the Left Party has in various ways cleaned up after bourgeois governments through the decades. After the government Bildt, we were involved in cleaning up together with the Center Party. Then we had to clean up after Anders Borg's time as Minister of Finance in a government where the Center Party was part of, which also drove the state finances downwards. We take responsibility and we finance our reforms. I think it's a little strange that Martin Ådahl spends 29 billion on tax cuts one moment and next questions why pensioners should get better off, pensioners who really need more money in their wallets. Martin Ådahl was part of a government that removed the defense tax for the most wealthy in society. He is now questioning why pensioners who have lived in economically vulnerable conditions for many years should be better off. Martin Ådahl, we will finance this reform. This is done in a budget, and we will, of course. I think that Martin Ådahl and the Center Party have shown very clearly in recent years how far out on the right side they have ended up. They drive through market rents and carry out neoliberal privatisation experiments, and when health insurance is finally set up and sick people are going to feel safe, Annie Lööf and the Center Party go out and accuse us of doing welfare policy. Here Martin Ådahl is now questioning something that his own party actually has as its demand, namely that the poorest pensioners should get better off. We're willing to settle. We can negotiate a solution. It is possible if you want – if the political will actually exists. But it's not in the Center Party. They'd rather sit in the gallery and accuse everyone else of making a mistake.
i-4c74881522ca254f-334	Mr. Old President! There will be rhetorical flower paintings when you do not really answer the question. Let me make a few points. With all due respect, I have not been in any government that has reduced the defense tax. That was the January Agreement. But thank you anyway. Why is it so important to reduce taxes precisely on jobs, especially those with the lowest income? Well, it's about getting people into work. What is it that finances pensions, Ulla Andersson? After all, it is everyone's work, and the more people are working, the greater the opportunity to finance this. That is how we have been able to strengthen welfare and, at the same time, reduce tax time and time again. I have to ask the question again: where is the money? How is this financed? It's nice to have fair promises, but if they can't be kept and it's not sustainable, it doesn't have to be in the pension system.
i-4c74881522ca254f-339	Mr. Old President! After all, we have tried tax reductions for several decades, and we have seen what this has led to. We saw in the pandemic how the care was dismantled and how elderly care employees toiled under unworthy working conditions and did not have time for the old. Tax cuts have their price. Moreover, we know from empirical and research that tax cuts are not an effective job policy. We've seen that time and time again. On the other hand, public investment is much more effective in creating jobs, and that is what we are proposing. I still think it's a little strange. I think Martin Ådahl should see that unemployment has increased sharply following the tax cuts, and economic inequality as well. School results have deteriorated, and the proportion of people living in financial vulnerability has increased apace. Tax cuts have a price.
i-4c74881522ca254f-343	Mr. Old President! I would just like to take this opportunity to congratulate the Left Party on the fact that the ban on talks has finally been lifted. I do not believe that we parties should not talk to each other to get things done. I am thinking of what the Left Party, along with the Moderates among others, did in January 2020. Then we stopped together the free year and strengthened the welfare. During the pandemic, we worked together to ensure that the aid was actually put in place. Had it not been for the Left Party, the Moderates and some other opposition parties, the individual traders would not have received the support they need. I want to thank you for that. You can make a difference in opposition. Now I have just one brief and very straightforward question. After all, there are two draft budgets that will stand against each other at the end of today's vote. Then I would like to ask Ulla Andersson: Is it the budget of the Green Party and the Social Democrats, that is to say the government's reservation, which is spending more on pensioners next year, or is it the budget of the three opposition parties?
i-4c74881522ca254f-346	Mr. Old President! Thank you, Elisabeth Svantesson, for the question! A budget is a whole. That is how we look at a state budget and at our own budget motion, and it is from this that we act. There are elements that can be better in the blue-brown budget. But there is also an inhumane view of humanity and a lack of solidarity in that budget motion, which we cannot support. You reintroduce the funkis tax, that is, that disabled and chronically ill should pay more in tax than all healthy people with jobs. We find that unworthy. We also think it is wrong to remove the absolutely necessary investment aid to build more rental apartments. Because we want people to have a home. We think it is wrong to hunt families with children who are financially vulnerable and to deny them financial security. Because that is what is reflected in your budget motion and your proposals in various places. You also have an asylum policy that we cannot support. It is also clearly shown in your budget option. For us, it is very much about human vision, about solidarity and about the society in which we want to live together. We believe that all of us humans are trying to do our best to build a society together – to work and toil and do everything you can. But this seems to be something the blue-browns don't believe. They hunt vulnerable people and impoverish them instead of providing them with solutions.
i-4c74881522ca254f-351	Mr. Old President! It is still a little sad that the Left Party uses old points of speech that they have been using for many years. The fact is – it is a little consumer information for those who are watching this debate – that in this budget, which is the main proposal and which will win today, there is an investment in next year on pensioners with almost twice as much as in the government. I would still like that to be said; that is an important point. Is it a bad view of people when we invest in reducing the tax on sickness and activity benefits by SEK 850? Is it not a policy for ordinary people when we lower fuel taxes for those who depend on the car and who must be able to drive to work? Is it also an inhuman human view? I do not share that view, but I note that, with the budget that we are deciding on here today, we will strengthen pensioners' finances much more than the government.
i-4c74881522ca254f-354	Mr. Old President! That sounds good, because then the Moderates will support the guarantee supplement for all 700 000 pensioners affected. That must be the answer. Or are you going to reject it, Elisabeth Svantesson? It would make a real difference instead of the duttning that has been year after year and that has provided child caretakers, cleaners, caretakers and nurses with such a crass economy that they have not even been able to go out for coffee with a friend or buy gifts for their grandchildren. No, those aren't old points of speech. I wish it were. It is just to read what is in your budget about how you try to make people poor and chase them, I would say. People who live on support and who have children should not be entitled to extra money, for example, at Christmas. You should not be able to apply for extra support if something happens in life. Security systems are thus weakened.
i-4c74881522ca254f-357	Mr. Old President! Thank you, Ulla Andersson, for your speech. My question is similar to Elisabeth Svantesson. It is about the fact that you, the Left Party, have declared today that you are voting for your own budget motion but that in the final vote you will support the government. I am a little surprised by this, not least because a guarantee pensioner with the proposal that the Christian Democrats and the Moderates have drawn up together with the Swedish Democrats will receive SEK 3 200 more per year than with the Government's proposal. With the votes of the Left Party today, you have to wait until August before you get the welcome reinforcement that we are proposing, which is substantial and which is important for those people who really need money. It is people who have to turn over each crown to take the train to their grandchildren or to take this lunch with their friend. The second proposal, which I think deserves some attention, concerns something that we have worked together on in the past: the conditions for the staff of the elderly. There we have worked together with the Left Party to increase staff continuity, and we noted that the shared tours need to disappear. Now we are presenting – I will honestly say that it is with some inspiration from the Left Party budget movement – a proposal which means that we can now begin to abolish the shared tours and introduce the Söderhamn model. This would mean less work for elderly care staff. They could more easily reconcile family life with working life and improve the functioning of social life. We know that it is very painful for these people. But the Left Party also votes against this. There are two major and important proposals in what is now coming from us. I think that the Left Party should explain why it does not support them instead of the government.
i-4c74881522ca254f-362	Mr. Old President! I hope that Jakob Forssmed also appreciated my speech – it was a lovely left-wing policy with solidarity and humanism! But I suspect that there are some question marks in this on the part of the Christian Democrats. We reason this way: we have negotiated with the government, and if you let a prime minister out, we think it is reasonable that you do not deny it its most important tool. We have made an overall assessment. That is why we have come to the conclusion that we will vote for that budget in the second place. Jakob Forssmed can be calm, because we will increase the guarantee pension by a maximum of SEK 1 000 per month. That's a big addition. What a significance it has for all our mothers, grandmothers, or grandmothers! I think we all have someone close to us who actually lives his life in financial vulnerability. It's mostly women. Over half a million women receive a guarantee pension, even though they have worked and dragged their whole lives. Then I will admit that I laughed well when I saw the proposal for shared tours in your budget option. It was like a copy of our proposal. I understand that you put it forward to try and lure us to abstain. Your three parties have never before had their own concrete proposal on shared tours, so the credibility of the political transition may not be huge. But I appreciate that more people have come to the insights that we have: that sharing tours is reprehensible. We provide a large amount of care for the elderly in order for them to have better working conditions. Jakob Forssmed is very welcome to vote for our budget motion, because it would make a real difference.
i-4c74881522ca254f-366	Mr. Old President! I can assure Ulla Andersson that my commitment to elderly care and to removing shared tours is not about attracting the Left Party in a certain direction in a budget vote. It is just reading articles that I have written over the last few years on this issue and the concrete proposals that we have produced from the Christian Democrats to get rid of it. I see that this is an element of working conditions that should not exist in the Swedish labour market. I think it's indecent. There shouldn't be. I am very pleased that we are now presenting this proposal. I am sorry that this proposal does not get the green buttons of the Left Party today, but I know that we share the commitment here. Then there are huge differences of opinion in terms of the driving force for work and in terms of ensuring that people are not hidden and forgotten in benefit systems. We will give all people the chance to contribute what they can, to be needed and to be in a working community. There are completely different proposals and directions. But I always appreciate Ulla Andersson's speeches. Ulla Andersson can be safe with that.
i-4c74881522ca254f-369	Mr. Old President! I know that Jakob Forssmed has a genuine commitment to care for the elderly and also for the elderly. I also know that the Christian Democrats have a policy of job security that may not really rhyme with that entrance, but we do not need to take that debate now. As far as I know, neither the Christian Democrats nor the Moderates, nor the Swedish Democrats, have had a concrete proposal of their own on shared tours before. But all of a sudden it was there as a copy of our proposal. We will of course work to ensure that elderly care has the resources needed and that shared tours are abolished. Yes, we differ widely. We do not believe in poor people living in financial vulnerability. We don't think their lives will get any better like that. We don't think there's a job they can take. We believe in active labour market policies, in education, in economic equality and in investing in school and in public investment. That's how jobs are created.
i-4c74881522ca254f-372	Mr. Old President! I would like to begin by calling for the Liberals' reservations 4 and 8. The political circus – it seems to be mostly political game you are doing up there in Stockholm. This is what the voters at home in Lund say to me when I run into them at Ica or football practice or wherever I go. What we have witnessed in Swedish politics since this summer is very serious. I think people's confidence in politicians and politics gets a thorn when a lot of energy goes into talking about political games and tactizing instead of solving the problems that Sweden actually has. We have an alarming development in Sweden. We have children and young people who do not learn to read, write and count. We have teachers who are exposed to threats in the classroom. We have a growing gang crime. We have an electrical crisis that stings every time you open the envelope with the electricity bill. I would like to address you Swedes directly in the hardworking middle class, those who get up and go to work every day and who are fighting for your children to get it better than you did. I would like to address those of you who take responsibility for the football club, the housing association or to make our society a little, a little better, to those of you who stand up for important values about doing their duty and demanding their right – to those of you who stand up for what once built Sweden strong. You deserve better than political games and tactizing. You deserve better than the political circus that we are experiencing right now, partly in this House too. I have a very clear message for you: Sweden needs change. We need a liberal bourgeois government that tackles school, crime and the electricity crisis. Mr. Old President! Many of the problems we see in Sweden today – gang crime, unemployment – are due to the fact that the school does not work. Too many students leave school without full grades. Every sixth student has no upper secondary school qualifications. Every sixth student is therefore unable to enter upper secondary school, and we all know the consequences for society and Sweden in the longer term when children and young people do not learn to read, write and count. I think the most important investment we can make for Sweden is to ensure that we get a school that leaves no one behind, a school that stimulates and challenges those who are easy to learn but who also tackle the fact that for many people do not learn enough. Therefore, the Liberals' budget exercise is characterized by substantial contributions to the school. We want more teaching time at school so that children and young people learn more math. We want to ensure that those students who are lagging behind get more time in school, for example through school holidays. On point after point, we propose reforms to invest in and expand Swedish school so that the school will work and make sure that everyone, regardless of background, learns enough. The class trip begins in the classroom. Mr. Old President! The last few years have been marked by unrest, conflict, violence, deadly shootings and a growing crime that a few years ago was perceived as something that did not affect everyone. But now everyone is affected by a crime that creeps into the skin and feels both present and close. This applies whether it is a youth who risks losing his mobile phone or a newly purchased jacket, an elderly person who is robbed on his watch or someone who lives in an area where the criminal gangs have completely taken over what is happening and what may be said in the marketplace. It is about criminal clans, honorary culture where children suddenly disappear from the classrooms to be found in another country and clan crime that must never be accepted in our society. Let me be very clear: parallel legal structures and criminal clan communities are completely incompatible with a liberal democracy and a modern welfare society. It is something that we should fight with full force and that we should never let get hold of in Sweden. Mr. Old President! The climate challenge is a crucial issue for the future. One of the most important challenges facing Sweden is to switch from fossil to fossil-free, and Sweden is currently one of the countries in the world where it happens most in that area. Swedish companies say they want to develop the most modern technology available to solve the climate issue, but to do so, more electricity is needed – a lot of electricity and cheap electricity. The gigantic industrial projects we see in northern Sweden offer fantastic opportunities for our planet, but they can only be implemented if there is enough electricity in our country. Therefore, it is very strange and a very big problem that we in Sweden have put ourselves in a situation where we now have an electricity crisis and where anyone who opens their electricity bill sees that prices are just rushing. A villa owner in Lund, where I live, pays 13 000 SEK more per year than a villa owner in Umeå. $15,000 a year! Where's the justice in that? Large companies want to reset and establish themselves in northern Sweden and invest in the new technology but say they can't, because it takes too long to get the permit in place and the electricity is not enough when more people are going to buy an electric car and charge it in an electrical socket. We accept that some days we have to start the oil power plant in Karlshamn which causes us to vomit carbon dioxide into the atmosphere. So we are doing exactly what Sweden has long been beating its chest and saying that we are not doing. We now do not take responsibility for the climate. On the contrary, we are weakening the climate through our miserable energy policy, for which the Social Democrats, the Green Party and, above all, the Center Party bear a very, very great responsibility. These parties decided to close Barsebäck in the 1990s, and recently Ringhals 1 and 2 were closed. The consequences are seen in the electricity crisis that is emerging in Sweden. It is sad, not only for consumers, but above all for the climate. Mr. Old President! The Liberals' budget bill contains very large investments in the school. We take a very strong responsibility for the climate. We are the green voice of the bourgeoisie. We want to expand the judiciary. All law enforcement agencies get more money in Liberals' budget options. We believe that the combination of investing in school, breaking crime and standing up for the climate are the most important ingredients for building Sweden strongly forward. The most important investment we can make for our country is to ensure that the school gives all children the same chances. The class trip begins in the classroom. The most important thing we can do for our country is to break the development where parallel communities, clan structures and criminal clans take over our suburbs. The most important thing we can do is stand up for a modern climate policy where people can make climate-friendly choices, where there is a charging infrastructure so that you can buy an electric car and where we in a modern way bring Sweden into the future. By taking responsibility for our planet and for the climate issue, we take responsibility not only here and now but also for the future of our children and young people. Mr. Old President! With this, I would like to support the Liberals' budget motion, as well as Amendments Nos 4 and 8.
i-4c74881522ca254f-389	Mr. Old President! Sweden has worked its way through large parts of a pandemic and an economic crisis, which is the result of this pandemic, through cooperation and with rolled-up sleeves. The pandemic is not over, but in the economy we are beginning to see the light that can be expected after a crisis. With the budget that we are debating here today, we are taking the direction where we want to go after the pandemic and where Sweden is going. Sweden will also need cooperation, consensus and hard work in the future to address the new goals and crises that are still going on. The Green Party wants to build a climate-smart and fair Sweden. We make major investments to combine green transition with radically reduced emissions, secure welfare, increased gender equality and greater equality. It's possible to combine. There is a bright future where we have managed the climate crisis and the natural crisis and secured a good old age for our elderly, functioning health care and a fantastic school. Mr. Old President! I would like to talk a little about the crises that are continuing. They have been going on for a long time and are in no way over. Instead, they deepen day by day. There is a natural crisis. It's about species dying out, whole ecosystems weakening. What we draw our nourishment from, which allows the air to breathe and keeps the temperature at such a level that we can have a good life is basically being shaken. We need to work smartly, efficiently and hard to overcome these crises. There are measures to be taken, and there is plenty of research that points to these measures. The crises should be handled jointly in order to reduce the effects and increase resilience. That's what they call near-natural methods. They mean that nature is used, which is better than our smartest engineers, to create the conditions for life. One such simple and important thing is to preserve the most valuable and protective nature. In connection with the climate summit in Glasgow, there was a lot of talk about forests. On the global level, images of how important it is to preserve the forests of Borneo and the Amazon are emerging. Many Swedes feel for them too. But then it is important to see that we have a responsibility for a Swedish Amazon in the Swedish mountain world with extremely shelterable forest. There are also some – not very much – old forests in other parts of the world. What the forest does is amazing. It creates homes for many species, but it also helps to capture carbon dioxide. Forests are therefore also an important part of the work on climate change. To understand all this, it is not just about the trees themselves, it is about the habitat, the soil and how the fungi in the soil work together. To get all of this, one must either leave the forest standing, which in these contexts is an effective and inexpensive measure, or use the forest in a way that makes room for nature. In Sweden we must do both, so that we also get sustainable and productive forestry and take our global responsibility to protect. There is a reason why I spend so much time explaining why these measures are so effective. The budgetary options we are debating represent a choice between two methods. It is clear that one can choose one or the other. Should we use nature as an effective co-player in the work against climate change and the loss of biodiversity, or should we think that everything will work out with technology? The budget reservation contained in the report seeks to slow down efforts to protect forests and instead spend a lot of money on CCS, which captures carbon dioxide from the air. Me and the Green Party are convinced that we will need CCS in the world. Climate change has reached the point where CCS is needed. But the question is how much hope are we going to make that CCS will be in place quickly. It is technology that is incredibly immature and incredibly expensive. The choice to spend money on immature and expensive technology instead of taking the safe and much more effective card is an extremely bad choice if you want to have a lot of impact per crown in climate policy. Another thing that is incredibly important, and that can be thought of as a low hanging fruit, is electricity prices that fly up and down and put businesses and households in a difficult position. Dictators in dictatorships in our vicinity use energy policy as a geopolitical network to pressure the EU, Sweden and the democratic world. It is smart to use energy and electricity as efficiently as possible, i.e. to reduce waste and not burn for crows. In the budget bill that the government has put on Parliament's table, there are efforts to help companies and households use the energy smarter. But it is incredibly strange that of all things you can choose the brown blue option to go on these particular bets. It's wrong, and we're gonna stop doing that. It is an extremely clear symbol of an anti-climate policy, that is, a policy that does not choose the most effective ways forward. What is positive about climate change – there are things that are positive – is that there are so many companies that stand on their toes and want to do more. To help them, we are now presenting a large and new programme that involves the state going in and taking the risk of really large climate investments. This is the type of investment that almost, but not quite, reaches the global market on its own feet. They need the extra support. That's where the next ball bearing can be waiting to make a world success. This is called green credit guarantees, and it means that the government goes in and takes the risk so that such investments are easier to obtain cheap loans. It is an ingenious solution that will be very useful, and I am extremely proud of it. Of course, in the bill we take a broad grasp of what is needed in the various parts of society to get back on track after the economic crisis. It is about strengthening welfare, health care and the municipalities. We are making special long-awaited efforts against men's violence against women, that is, strengthening the organisations that are there every day for them. We correct a mistake, an injustice, which has been present for a long time in the Swedish system, namely that those who have the least money, such as those who have sickness benefits, have actually paid more tax than those who work. It's an anomaly that can't be justified. That is why we are taking measures to remove that gap. But I am appalled and somewhat shocked that the opposition chooses to go forward with measures that create a new such gap. It makes no sense to me, Mr. Old President. I hope that everyone who is in this situation and the organisations working on these issues will see the clear difference in Swedish politics – whether you stand up for the weak or not. We could be a little tired after dealing with a pandemic, which is still ongoing, and an economic crisis. That is not the case. I am not in the least tired, and the Green Party is not in the least tired or downcast. We have our sleeves rolled up, and we are ready to deal with the crises that are still going on. We are ready to take the fight for the forest, the beach, the children and the future. In fact, I don't think the Green Party has been so contentious for a long time. We are ready to work hard for a fair and green future.
i-4c74881522ca254f-407	Mr. Old President! I asked for a line, not to polemize, but to apologize to Karolina Skog. I was alerted to the fact that I did not actually understand the question raised at the turn of the line when I had given my speech. The question was so distant from my world that I did not even understand its content. As I understand it, Karolina Skog did not really ask if we had negotiated with the government, which we did not do obviously, but she asked if we had negotiated with the second coalition.
i-4c74881522ca254f-410	That's not the question? Well, then, I've misunderstood again. It was the main report, I thought. Then all I can say is that we haven't done that either. All the misunderstandings have been completely investigated. We have not negotiated with either, and we are in favour of our own motion. I don't know if we should have a change of line about this; I just wanted to make sure that I answered properly.
i-4c74881522ca254f-413	Mr. Old President! I won't laugh, but it got a little funny. I'm glad it's settled!
i-4c74881522ca254f-414	Mr. Old President! There is a rumour outside and in the media that the Green Party wants to leave the government. I think the best thing would be for the Green Party to leave Parliament. I'm gonna do everything I can to make them do it next fall. Let me say a few words about why. Karolina Skog talks about crises. Yes, but one of these crises has been caused by Karolina Skog herself: the electricity crisis. The electrical crisis we are seeing now and have seen in recent years is, of course, due to political decisions taken jointly by the Social Democrats and the Green Party. Households notice it. Companies notice it. In February this year Holmen closed two of its paper mills due to extreme electricity prices. The Pågen in Malmö has postponed plans to expand. The oil power plant in Karlshamn has been started periodically. There's been a lot of oil burning there. This affects those who also Åsa Westlund talks about: ordinary people. Electricity prices are high and will be high during the winter. Vattenfall is counting on this. In addition, Mr. Age President, fuel prices are very high in Sweden. I know that the Green Party really does not like the fact that we want to reduce taxes on fuel. But let me make it clear that Sweden has the highest fuel prices. The price of diesel is highest worldwide. I'll get right there; I think Hong Kong might have a little higher. But Sweden has among the highest fuel prices in the world, and many are really affected by this – single households and single mothers and fathers who are completely dependent on their car. My question, my simple question, to the Green Party is when the Green Party thinks it is enough. Is there any limit, says the Green Party, to how high fuel prices in Sweden can be?
i-4c74881522ca254f-419	Mr. Old President! There is nothing good about dependence on fossil fuels. It produces enormous emissions that threaten the future of our children. It makes us dependent on dictatorships, which can use that dependence on us. It also makes us dependent on a price, a world market price, which goes up and down in a way that we cannot in any way influence. In this House, it seems a little different how much we care about the various points. I am extremely concerned about paragraphs 1 and 2. Elisabeth Svantesson seems more concerned about point 3. But no matter why, we should be able to agree to free ourselves from dependence on fossil fuels – free and independent. We can have a transport system where we produce the electricity ourselves in Sweden, get rid of the emissions and get control over the price development and make us free from whims – that some Saudi prince gets a bit sour and it has effects on our households. What is required of politics now to do this is answer to how we get electric cars with towbars that work throughout Sweden at prices that work for ordinary people and how we get the charging infrastructure and do the transformation that is needed. That is what we need politics for in Sweden.
i-4c74881522ca254f-423	Mr. Old President! Here I agree with Karolina Skog – we must be independent of this. But what's the way there, and how do we get there? Let me just point out a few things, Mr. Old President! Karolina Skog says the government wants fossil-free electricity, but you shut down nuclear power. That is one of the reasons why we now have high electricity prices. You want electric cars but do not build the charging infrastructure at the required rate. You say no to shorten permit processes so that you can actually electrify the industry in real life. Yes, the list can be made long. You say one thing, but you do another. We must have an effective climate policy with a global price of carbon dioxide and international climate investment. We need to make sure that the charging infrastructure is properly expanded so that more people can buy those cars. A secondary market is needed so that so-called ordinary people, as we have heard about here before, can also drive electric cars. Until then, however, we believe that this whole burden cannot be borne by a group of people, a large group of people, who are totally dependent on their car. High electricity prices and high fuel prices eat up your wallet, and you don't see those people.
i-4c74881522ca254f-426	Mr. Old President! The Green Party has speeded up the expansion of charging infrastructure in Sweden. We have pursued a policy that is now starting to really kick-start the electric car market. The Moderates are the party that says stop for new electricity production in Sweden. They say stop for wind farms outside Stockholm and stop for wind farms outside Gävle here and now, and they say stop for energy efficiency. If they are so worried about electricity prices, how can they say no to energy efficiency? The Moderates are also pursuing a policy that prolongs the dependence on fossil fuels and all that comes with emissions, dependence on dictatorships and dependence on a fluctuating global price that we will never influence from here.
i-F76Thcir6Bj3SuxHWG5PEv	Mr. Old President! Thank you, Karolina Skog, for your speech and your focus on crises! I must admit that I, too, heard the words of the electric crisis in my head when I listened to you and saw the representatives of the Green Party here. You cannot be satisfied with the outcome – the elusive electricity prices, the lack of power, the problems we have in the electricity market. This requires a completely different policy from that pursued by the Green Party. But I was going to ask Karolina Skog about a couple of other crises. One is the security crisis in many vulnerable areas. Now there is a proposal on Parliament's table that involves higher police salaries, better conditions for the police, so that more of the important staff of the police are kept, and better conditions for police officers in external service, so that more people can be present in vulnerable areas. The proposal also provides more support for technical equipment, to strengthen the National Forensic Centre, to strengthen the Coast Guard and Customs and to strengthen prosecutors, courts and prisons. These are incredibly important initiatives... against which you have reservations. The question is why you are doing this at this point, when we have a situation where Sweden is at the bottom of Europe in terms of police density and at the top of Europe in terms of killings. The second crisis is about healthcare, where 170 000 people are in line and have waited longer than the 90 days of the guarantee. Why, in this situation, do you say no to investments in more care places and the establishment of a national care agency so that the whole country can benefit from the available care capacity? These are, of course, important reforms in order to start grazing off the very long queues, so the question is why you say no and reserve your reservations about this.
i-4c74881522ca254f-433	Mr. Old President! There is no doubt whatsoever that strong work is needed against crime and the terrible pressure it puts on people and residential areas around Sweden. There is agreement in this House that the law enforcement authorities in all parts need resources to be strong. The government has invested heavily in the police and in several other authorities. I have to say that I find it sad that the legal debate has been so much about overbreach policy and who put forward the latest proposal for different authorities to have more. In that debate, the essence disappears. I must also say that I miss the more human voice of the Christian Democrats in this. In addition to strengthening repression, we must also see man. What makes boys go on a criminal course? We also have to do the other parts. We need to see people and strengthen people. This is prevention. I miss that in the debate, not least from the Christian Democrats.
i-4c74881522ca254f-437	Mr. Old President! Karolina Skog talked about overbreach policy. I think we need these resources for the judiciary at this stage. You have to spend an incredible amount of time and effort on the gang criminals. This means that we cannot and cannot do anything that is a central crime prevention measure, namely to react early and quickly to early steps in crime. I think some of the things we do here are important. We propose more adults present in preschool for smaller groups of children, more teaching time, strengthening civil society and parental support programmes, so that parents get better tools to be present and good parents of their children. We are strengthening the drop-off programme in our budget. These are crime prevention measures contained in our proposal. However, I fully agree with Karolina Skog that this debate must be conducted with the same momentum and clarity. I think a lot of parties can take that away.
i-4c74881522ca254f-440	Mr. Old President! What I was trying to get out was that it would not be a fair view of the debate if we were to talk about the difference being made in how many crowns are being placed or who put forward the latest proposal to increase the allocation to an authority. There is another – political – difference in the debate on justice policy. Some parties are prepared to go extremely far and take measures that will reduce trust in society when we actually need to increase it. We must be able to do both. Then it will not be so interesting who put forward the latest proposal. The interesting thing is actually how we create a safer society with greater trust. That is where we need to have the debate on justice policy. We should not pretend that there is a difference in whether we want the judicial system to work; everyone in this House wants that.
i-4c74881522ca254f-442	Mr. Old President! I would like to begin by calling for the proposal in the report to be approved. Prime Minister's vote and budget vote on the same day; a lot is happening in here. But above all, a lot is happening outside the walls of the Riksdag. There, shootings have almost become everyday. Only during the time when the Center Party, and later the Left Party, had negotiated with the Social Democrats have several people died. Parents dare not let their children go out and play in the playground. They follow the kids to practice. In some cases, mothers now bury their children. All this has become like everyday life in Sweden, but it doesn't have to be. Outside, we still have many companies struggling for the pandemic. Now that we seem to be getting a new wave, they're very worried about what's going to happen. Outside, Mr. Old President, there are also many who have lost faith in what is happening in here. When parties seem more focused on solving their cooperation problems than on solving societal problems, I understand that many lose hope. Mr. Old President! Sweden is fantastic in many ways, and I am very happy that I have grown up here. We are many who are grateful for everything that Sweden has offered – nature, freedom and opportunities. But when Stefan Löfven was about to describe his seven years the other week, he wanted to describe them as seven amazing years. I mean, instead, it's seven lost years. What exactly do the Social Democrats think has been so amazing? Was it when the Minister of Housing resigned because he had partyed with an ultranationalist man from the Grey Wolves? Maybe you forgot. Was it when it became clear recently that Sweden received the fourth highest unemployment rate in the EU rather than the lowest, which was the promise anyway? Was it when the oil power plant in Karlshamn burned 140 000 litres of oil an hour because we have put down working nuclear power? Was it amazing when during Stefan Lövven's time Sweden established itself as Europe's most dangerous country, with the most deadly gun violence in relation to the number of inhabitants? The list can be made long, but I won't use any more of my time for this. I still ask myself: what has been so amazing about this government's efforts? It is no coincidence that we have ended up where we have ended up, Mr. Old President. This is the result of a government that has dismantled the work line so mildly that every second immigrant cannot now support himself, who, through highly conscious priorities, has destroyed the energy supply and has allowed gang criminals to take over the public space. Mr. Old President! There is an alternative to this. Today, all members of the Riksdag have the opportunity to vote for the budget that several of the opposition parties have now gathered to take a first step towards solving Sweden's social problems. We are three parties that think that the tax money should go to the most important thing: to stop the shootings, to push back unemployment, to increase the number of care places and to ensure that students in school have more teaching time. Our budget makes this possible, and anyone who votes against these proposals therefore wants to make savings in these particular areas. What are we doing in this budget, Mr. Old President? I will mention four important areas. Firstly – and this is most important of all – we are now making a substantial strengthening of the judiciary. I've heard here that money doesn't solve everything. Of course it is, but if we are to tackle crime and all its ramifications, resources are needed for the police and for all the judicial authorities. It is about the level of political ambition. I hear representatives of the government say that no more money has been asked for, but we are putting in here the level of ambition. In this budget, we want to make it possible for a major police salary to be paid. It is important for more people to apply for police training and for the chairs not to be empty in January. Secondly, we are strengthening employment policy in several ways in this budget. We make it more profitable to work. We are reducing taxes on low and medium-sized incomes. We are also reducing the cost of hiring young people and people who have been outside the labour market for a long time. We are also taking the first step towards a subsidy reform. All of this is important, because we know that if we do not strengthen the work line, we will not have the resources for prosperity and security in the years to come. Mr. Old President! As I have said in various speeches, we are improving the situation of pensioners, particularly for the most vulnerable. All pensioners receive more tax with this budget than with the government. In addition, we spend money on housing allowances during the year, as we know, the most vulnerable pensioners meet best. The Social Democrat voting against this initiative is therefore voting in favour of saving pensioners today. Fourthly, Mr President-in-Office, this budget makes a difference to the climate. It will be voted through if no one has time to change – it goes fast in both politics and hockey. If it is voted through, this means that Sweden will have the largest climate budget ever. We continue to make important investments in Industrikliv. We are expanding the charging infrastructure so that more people can run on electricity. We are committed to Sweden being able to capture, capture and bind carbon dioxide. These are some of the things included in the budget. It is an effective climate policy that can make a real difference. The budget contains many more parts, but I can imagine that many from the other parties will mention them. We are three parties now – the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats – taking the first step to get Sweden in order. All Members of this Parliament must ask themselves which Sweden they want to see, what Sweden should be like. I know how I want Sweden to be. I want everyone to feel confident and secure, that you can live and live throughout the country. I want you to know that the police come when you have been subjected to crime wherever in Sweden you live. In a breast-feeding way, care should be provided on time wherever you live. That's how I want Sweden to be. The assistant nurse travelling long distances by car to a night shift should be able to afford to refuel the car. Not everyone has a bus stop at the corner. Companies must have access to electricity all year round, not just when it's blowing. That's how I want Sweden to be. Those who have been excluded from the labour market – there are many of them now – must not be forgotten. They're supposed to have an internship, an activity. They should feel that they get to join and do good and feel proud to have colleagues, to go to an after work. That's how I want Sweden to be. There's no need to rob a child on the way home from school. Here girls should be able to walk home from the restaurant without being afraid and constantly check their shoulder. That is how I believe and hope that we all want Sweden to be. But if this is to be possible, a new direction and a powerful government are needed. First, the Moderates plan to tackle the major problems. Then, of course, we will also continue to seize all the opportunities that exist. Sweden should be safer, freer and more successful. We are to be an example in the world, not an example of foreign headlines that we are in many ways right now. With this budget, Mr. President, we are taking a step forward in order to get Sweden in order.
i-4c74881522ca254f-473	Mr. Old President! I shall take this opportunity to correct my mistake and to call for approval of the reservations of the Green Party and the Social Democrats, which I, in my eagerness, failed to do. With the budget reservation that will now go through, Moderate policies have ruled 11 out of 16 budgets. When you hear Elisabeth Svantesson about how Sweden is doing, you can't really believe it. Has that policy not had any kind of effect? In that case, Sweden would not be such a misery as Elisabeth Svensson actually paints. It goes without saying that one should present one's policy in parliament and find coalitions. But it is actually the case that this summer your party leader had the opportunity to test whether he could form a government. He didn't want that. What is the advantage of steering by proxy, first presenting an economic policy and then saying that it has no effect? I have to say that I think the plan is unclear here. I simply have to ask whether you Moderates and Elisabeth Svantesson are actually ready to take responsibility for Sweden. All that was said for a while that the opposition is ready every day to take over does not actually seem to be right. In my eyes, you don't look at all ready.
i-4c74881522ca254f-477	Mr. Old President! The short answer is that we are as ready as ever. The slightly longer answer is that it is very clear right now that there are no preconditions for a bourgeois government. After all, other parties have made sure that they simply block. Let me just say something about the difference between opposition and government. Of course you can make a difference. We started a pay bet that you stopped. Let's get on with it. Because we have both been ministers, Karolina Skog knows very well that one can govern the authorities in a different way. You can be clearer in your assignments. Having a budget and being in government makes a difference. One thing I have learned from this parliamentary term is that it is important to ensure that you have support for your budget when it comes to Parliament. Sweden has never had such a weak government. I just want to make it right that we don't have a reservation. So we have a budget, and you have reservations. You have a reservation because you have no support and cannot talk to everyone. I learn two things: to continue to spend money on what can be useful and that it is important to be in a government position. I would like to say to everyone who sees this debate that, in order to really change the direction of the country, it is necessary to sit in government, and we are prepared to do so every day.
i-4c74881522ca254f-482	Mr. Old President! Every day except for a specific day in July, when you really were not prepared at all, so there are some exceptions quite clearly. There's been a chance. There have been very clear promises here over the years about how the Moderates should take power, and it has touched the Swedish Democrats. There will have been very many coming-never-pronouncements, for example will never be budget negotiation. The latest I understand is that the Swedish Democrats will never be allowed into a government. Just as Elisabeth Svantesson says, it makes a big difference to sit in government. Then I thought I'd try the latest: will never let the Swedish Democrats into government. How long is the shelf life of that statement?
i-4c74881522ca254f-484	Mr. Old President! I will answer the question, even if it has nothing to do with the budget debate. But that is for the Bureau to decide for itself. Just to make it clear: We intend to form a bourgeois government, point. However, while we are on the subject of government, there is now a rumour that the Green Party is leaving the government. Then I guess I'll have to return the question: Will you remain in office or will you leave the government? As I said earlier, I hope that you will leave not only the government but also the parliament in autumn 2022. It would be a blessing for Sweden, for Swedish climate policy, for the energy system – in every way. I'd like to hear if you're still in government this afternoon.
i-4c74881522ca254f-487	Mr. Old President! I heard Elisabeth Svantesson in her speech accusing the government of dismantling the work line. But I would like to ask if the Moderates are dismantling the work line. The irony is that, after the negotiations we had with the Social Democratic-led government, there were major tax cuts on labour. And we stood right up to the pandemic against strong demands to raise the unemployment fund. We agreed, but only temporarily during the pandemic. Then it would go away. It was a supporting part of the work line. Then it turns out that when the Moderates are now getting their proposal together, it is together with the SD with their to say the least left-wing policy. They are not, by the way, a bourgeois party, so you will not have a bourgeois government. You will have an SD-dependent government. SD pushes through the temporarily high unemployment fund, that's what's the new work line. In addition, it is added to an unpaid family week, in principle the same number of days fixed without payment. All of us who are doing this know that it is bad both for work supply and for equality – just as bad in fact. In fact, I also have another question: why did all the concrete investments in rural areas and all the promises made before this budget was presented go away? There was a clear effort on individual roads and to invest in the rural development programme and improve broadband. Why did this disappear when it came to the bottom of your budget?
i-4c74881522ca254f-490	Mr. Old President! I thank Martin Ådahl for the many questions from a party that has kept the government under arms that has created the highest unemployment rate and set a record in long-term unemployment. The work line is important, and so we say no to the acquisition deduction, which I think the Center Party is saying yes to. Instead, we are reducing taxes on labour, because we believe that it is important to strengthen the work line. We also think it is important that aid reform should be put in place. It is problematic that the Swedish benefit systems make a lot of people earn as much by being at home as by going to work. However, I share Martin Ådahl's fundamental assessment of the unemployment fund. It is a temporary increase, and we do not want to see it permanent. In this budget motion, we are addressing the major problems. As I said, we are sending a lot of money to the police and the judiciary, we are taking the first steps to strengthen the work line through job tax deductions and benefit reform, and we are ensuring that the most affected in the labour market, the long-term unemployed, receive effective action. These are important steps we take in opposition. We are improving and changing the government's budget and thus strengthening the work line.
i-4c74881522ca254f-496	Madam President, I would like It is sad to have to repeat the question of all promises to the countryside and concrete initiatives, in addition to the government's efforts that have been in place since we negotiated with them. You left the walkover at the end of the day, which we did neither in the debate nor in concrete action. There are many billions that you are removing from your budget from the financing of the unemployment fund, which is good for the job supply, without putting them into small businesses and job creation. Where did the Moderates work line go?
i-4c74881522ca254f-498	Madam President, I would like Let me remind you that it was Martin Ådahl who raised the compensation from the unemployment fund. Now he is trying to get away with this and that he has held a prime minister under his arms who has pulled Sweden in the wrong direction. He has held a prime minister under his arms who has ensured that Sweden is one of the less secure countries in the EU. Sweden now has one of the highest levels of unemployment, and every other immigrant cannot support herself. I am happy to discuss questions about the work line, because they are important to strengthen Sweden in the future. As far as rural policy is concerned, much of this budget is good for rural areas. Many of Martin Ådahl's voters in the countryside think it is reasonable that we lower the tax on fuel. It will make their daily lives easier. Much else in the budget is also good for rural areas.
i-4c74881522ca254f-501	Before giving Åsa Westlund the floor, I would like to apologise to Åsa Westlund for interrupting her main speech earlier today. I interpreted the regulation of speaking time limited to ten minutes as a maximum time but was later told that this is not the case. I'm sorry again.
i-4c74881522ca254f-502	Madam President, I would like I appreciate the apology. Let me start by saying that Moderates and Social Democrats are in fact very much in agreement on one thing: Sweden's future depends entirely on the fact that many people are involved and contribute and that everyone who can work is working. However, we have different views on how to get there. In Sweden, long-term unemployment has increased due to the pandemic crisis. The same happened during the financial crisis. The government at the time, headed by Reinfeldt, then attempted to reduce the tax burden by means of job tax deductions in order to tackle long-term unemployment. It didn't work. Albert Einstein is said to have said: The definition of madness is to do the same thing again and again and expect another result. Now we are in the same situation again. Why would the policy that did not break long-term unemployment then work better now, Elisabeth Svantesson?
i-4c74881522ca254f-507	Madam President, I would like I thank Åsa Westlund for a very good question that I am happy to answer. Let me start with long-term unemployment. The problem is that it grew before the pandemic. Åsa Westlund has mentioned people with disabilities and functional variation several times today, but the Social Democrats have left them in the lurch. Today she is having a discussion about the 45 SEK difference between our budgets, but she has left them in the lurch. Two thirds of all long-term unemployed have no activity and are left entirely alone. It upsets me. If you are chairman of the Riksdag Finance Committee, you should read evaluations and research. Everyone is coherent: Job tax deductions have done a lot of good to increase employment, and a high employment rate is good for supply, good for growth and good for Sweden. I understand that the Social Democrats want to go back to a time of high contributions when it did not pay off to work. But I hear many employers say what they said in 2005: we are not getting the workforce back after the pandemic, because in some sectors the unemployment fund is as high as or higher than the lowest wage. It's a warning bell. We look at this differently, but the work line is essential. My question to the chairman of the Committee on Finance is: why are you leaving two thirds of all long-term unemployed behind?
i-4c74881522ca254f-516	Madam President, I would like I don't really know which end to start. The Moderates have closed disabled people out of financial improvement. It has been the core of what is called a driving force for work. If those unable to work get worse, they will suddenly get rid of their disability or long-term illness and take a job. But it doesn't work that way. I want to do more to break long-term unemployment for those who can get a job. These include, for example, what you are saying no to today: extra services and introductory jobs, continuing to shorten the start-up period and our investment in labour market training. How does it help the industry that is now emerging to spend less money on labour market training?
i-4c74881522ca254f-520	Madam President, I would like If you continue with exactly the same policy as you have always had, what is the result? Yes, exactly the same. The problem is that much of your labour market policy is ineffective. In addition, the Employment Service sends back billions every year because they cannot be used. It is a matter for the authority; it must work better. However, I leave this with a warm hand to those of you who are now in charge. Our point is that the stakes should be effective. New start jobs, as you yourself write, are the most effective way of letting people get to work, you have halved in number. That's where you should reconsider. Extra services are expensive and ineffective. Do the right thing! I did not get an answer as to what you intend to do for the two thirds of the long-term unemployed I mentioned. Many with disabilities can and do want to work, but you leave them in the lurch.
i-4c74881522ca254f-525	Madam President, I would like I hear Elisabeth Svantesson is worried that so many people cannot support themselves. Then I think that the Moderates will fight for union organisation, higher wages and better working conditions to counter the root causes of high unemployment. Instead, their job policy consists only of poor people. That's actually what it looks like, Elisabeth Svantesson. The Moderates, who would never ever cooperate with the Swedish Democrats because of their values, have now bent their spines, betrayed their promises and started a budget collaboration. There is a human vision where economically vulnerable people are hunted and questioned, and the pursuit of them continues. In the budget that you have agreed on, you can see that you leave questions completely unanswered. You do not take up health insurance, and you do not take up unemployment insurance. In the Moderates' own budget exercise, there are major cuts. We have a jumbo seat on unemployment insurance in the EU, seat 21 of 27, but Elisabeth Svantesson is not satisfied and wants to make it even worse. The unemployed will be even poorer. We are last among the OECD countries when it comes to sickness benefit, but Elisabeth Svantesson thinks it is far too good and wants to go further. Now I wonder whether the Moderates, with the budget that is likely to go through today, have suddenly changed their minds. Or is it the case that everything is being pushed forward so that voters will have no idea what policies are going to be for the unemployed, the sick and the economically vulnerable?
i-D5WzY3tbtLj3S92HUAbad	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Ulla Andersson, for the question. If there is something that concerns me very much, it is that people with work capacity, as I have mentioned before, do not get a chance to enter the labour market. There are several reasons for that. We know that aid schemes play a role. That is why, with this budget, we are taking a decision to launch an inquiry into benefit systems. I know that Ulla Andersson and I think very differently about this, but I would like to remind you of the Somali woman that Expressen did an interview with a few weeks ago – a lovely woman who got a job with forest clearance. She got 32,000 with all the grants and salaries after she started working. Before she went to work, she also got 32,000. This is not something I made up, but it is a fact. The benefit systems are an important part of changing so that it pays better to work. But that's not enough. We should not leave people who are long-term unemployed in the lurch. You have to get an internship. You have to get into a place of work. You need better language skills. You need an education that is relevant to the person and the labour market that we see. Many parts need to be arranged to deal with the exclusion and high unemployment that we see, especially in many vulnerable areas. That is the policy we intend to pursue. I think it is important when we are here in Parliament today to tell those who listen to the debate and wonder how the budget will affect their very lives next year that we do not touch the unemployment fund or health insurance in this budget. This is important to know. We will, of course, like the parties that you may eventually have to cooperate with, Ulla Andersson, come back before the election on the view of different parts of the security system. This is absolutely self-evident.
i-4c74881522ca254f-535	Madam President, I would like The fact remains: your own employment policy, Elisabeth Svantesson, consists only of making it more difficult for people who have financial difficulties and live in financial vulnerability. Pooring them doesn't create jobs. It does not create increased demand in the economy. There will be no hocuspocus new job just because people become poor, rather the opposite. And you know this, Elisabeth Svantesson. I would like to say that you make it difficult for people. You are cutting back on labour market policy. You make people who have toiled and dragged not feel financial security when they get sick, but you should hux flux become healthy just because you get poor. People who have worked in a factory that may pull down should not live in financial security, but should be poor. That way, the work at the factory will come back. Their children should be disadvantaged in life. This in turn affects school results – there is a lot of research on. Elisabeth Svantesson chooses to make it more difficult for people.
i-4c74881522ca254f-538	Madam President, I would like The worst thing we can do is make people poor. How do you do that? Well, by ensuring that you have benefit systems, by having an employment service that does not benefit from work, that does not help people to work and that does not have enough support for employers so that they can hire people at a lower cost and by not reducing taxes on labour. All this is a good mix for people not to get into work. When parents don't come to work, children see their parents at home. That's the role model they get. We will never let go of the focus on more parents having a job to go to, have their own income and be able to support themselves. It's the best role model we can give the kids. This is my focus and will always be my focus, although Ulla Andersson is happy to suspect my intention. It is simply that all our systems must be rigged, because this is both right and fair, so that more people get to work.
i-4c74881522ca254f-540	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved. In fact, this is the first time I have done so, at least within the framework of a budget report. I am, of course, very pleased that the three opposition parties have agreed on a joint draft budget. What happens when the Swedish Democrats gain political influence? What happens is that the judiciary gets more resources: the police, the Prison Service, the Prosecutor's Office, the judiciary, the Security Service, the Customs Agency and also the Coast Guard. The government has proved to be completely incapable of taking tough action against the rather gross and very widespread crime that cripples entire districts of our cities. Sweden has become an extreme country, Europe's most dangerous country, according to the German newspaper Bild. Many places in police training are shouting empty. My conclusion, or perhaps our conclusion, is that we need to make the police profession more attractive. A targeted police salary initiative would therefore be very welcome. We are still in opposition and are somewhat limited in what we can achieve, but later, in less than a year's time, after the next elections, we must bring about tangible penalties. If you shoot a uniformed policeman with a k-piste, i.e. a fully automatic machine gun, you should be in custody for the rest of your life. It's no harder than that. Madam President, I would like I would like to express my deepest sympathy to Officer Andreas Danman's parents and family. He died in the ministry, 33 years old. Furthermore, Madam President, what else will happen when the Swedish Democrats gain political influence? Pensioners will have a stronger position, partly in the form of tax relief for all those who have worked in the past and partly in the form of increased housing allowances for the poorest elderly. 293,000 pensioners have such a poor economy that they are eligible for housing allowance. These 293,000 older ones are now getting a gain of between $1.50 and $2.50 a month, in addition to the aforementioned tax relief of another $150 a month. Madam President, I would like It'll be cheaper to refuel the car. A half a crown per litre is not very much – I am fully aware of it – but in times when the government wants to turn the thumb screws even more by significantly reducing the travel allowance for everyone who has to take the car to and from work we show in a different direction. We're not happy here, or at least I'm not happy. There's more coming, be sure! Furthermore, Madam President, every employee receives a strengthened private economy, one or two hundred cents a month for fairly regular wage levels. We think it is right, and we think it is wise. It's supposed to pay off working or working. Current wage earners and former wage earners, i.e. pensioners, thus receive similar tax reliefs on similar income. You can call it a work line if you want. You can also call it common sense. Madam President, I would like We in the opposition have also agreed, not on migration policy – I do not want to go that far, but on trying to agree on a direction that is considerably more restrictive in relation to the government's migration policy. At least the following starting points are already agreed today: Firstly, asylum legislation is adapted to the minimum legal level laid down by EU law. Secondly, labour migration is limited by, among other things, introducing higher wage requirements. Thirdly, more expulsions and expulsions are to be carried out. Fourthly, priority must be given to the fight against illegal immigration – people who are illegally in Sweden. Exactly where this lands when we have sat down to discuss these important and complex questions, I cannot answer or explain today. Of course, when we are going to have a vote on Prime Minister after the next election, in less than a year's time, the results of these migration policy talks and any agreements will be fairly decisive for whether we are going to press a green button or a red button. The Swedish Democrats cannot release a government leader with less than a comprehensive agreement where a much more restrictive approach to migration policy is one of several crucial elements. 700 000 immigrants in Sweden today are not self-sufficient. More than half of the unemployed are born abroad. I find it incomprehensible that we do not understand the extent of this problem. A blind hen has better perception than the Swedish government. Madam President, I would like Finally, a word on what is not included in the committee's proposal, that is to say in the agreement reached by the opposition parties. There are no reductions or cuts in unemployment insurance. There are no deteriorations or cuts in health insurance. That is exactly what the Social Democrats have had as a scare-speak, and totally unsubstantiated as it has now been shown, that as soon as we have budgetary power, there will be major cuts in our public security systems. But that was not true; we know that now. It was another in the line of plump jumps in this deeply dishonest tirad of just plump jumps, orchestrated by the lie factory at Sveavägen 68. Never trust a Social Democrat! That is my extremely strong appeal to the voters, especially now that we are moving towards an election year.
i-4c74881522ca254f-556	Madam President, I would like The budget proposed by the government makes a substantial increase in sickness and activity benefits. At the same time, we are removing the unjust funkis tax which has existed and which was introduced by the bourgeois government. It has meant that disabled people have paid higher taxes year after year than others. But the Swedish Democrats are introducing a funkis tax again together with KD and M. I just heard that Oscar Sjöstedt in the speaker's chair called this common sense. Then I would like to ask Oscar Sjöstedt: What is the common sense in the fact that people with disabilities should pay more tax on their small income than those who work?
i-4c74881522ca254f-558	Madam President, I would like That's twisting things so mildly that it's no longer true. The difference in tax, based on the committee's draft budget, does not go between people who have a disability and people who do not have a disability. There are plenty of people with disabilities who make incredibly important contributions to the labour market. You can work even if you have a disability. There are certainly plenty of people who do not have a disability and who make no contribution to the labour market. When introducing a job tax deduction for those who work today and for those who have worked in the past, there is a difference between those who work and those who do not work. There is no difference between those who are disabled and those who are not disabled. It is a strange view of people that simply because they have some form of disability or disability, they cannot make a contribution to the labour market. That is not the case; I know it. Even if you are unable to work, the committee's proposals do not give you any higher tax. But it is a strange view of people that they cannot contribute to the labour market because they have a disability. There are huge numbers of people with different types of disabilities who make extremely important contributions to the labour market. And contradictedly, invertedly, there are definitely people with no disability whatsoever who make no contribution to the labour market. And the difference goes there, that is, between those who work and those who don't work.
i-4c74881522ca254f-561	Madam President, I would like I think no one is so stupid that you think disabled people can never work. Of course they can. But some people do not have the ability to work. Then the question is: should we jointly ensure that they can live a dignified life, or should we make sure that they are made poor in order for others to be better off? You, Oscar Sjöstedt, call in your speech the principle that people who cannot work because of disability or long-term illness and who should have higher taxes than others for common sense. I ask again: What is common sense in that view?
i-4c74881522ca254f-564	Madam President, I would like People who are disabled to such an extent that they are unable to work do not receive higher taxes. No one has such a proposal. We are not cutting into any security systems for them, and we are not raising taxes for them. That's not true. It's not like that. We are lowering taxes on people who work today or who have worked in the past. But we're not raising taxes for anyone else for that matter. There's a big difference. You certainly cannot come and try to insinuate that we are raising the tax on people with disabilities because we are lowering it for some others. That is simply not true. This was another plumpy attack. This tirad of plump jump is extended. Never trust a Social Democrat! Don't do that!
i-4c74881522ca254f-568	Madam President, I would like It is clear that the tax system makes a difference between people and people if they have different levels of taxation depending on where they get their income. That goes without saying. It was the bourgeois government that introduced it, and I know that the Swedish Democrats think it is reasonable. If you have a chronic disability that makes you unable to work, you should also pay higher taxes. If you are chronically ill and cannot work or work only partially, you should also pay higher taxes than those who are lucky enough to be healthy and have a job. I would like to say that this view of humanity is also gaining ground in the Swedish Democrats' school policy. My starting point is that everyone should think that all children should have a good schooling and the opportunity to develop in the best way. Most people should sign that. But in the Swedish Democrats' own budget motion they want to remove the government grant of SEK 6 1⁄2 billion which is intended to equalise the conditions for children in school and which is based on the research available on which factors affect children's learning and school outcomes. These could be socio-economic factors, living in a socio-economically vulnerable residential area. This can be about the parents' level of education, for example whether you live with both parents or not, and whether you have just immigrated to the country or not. But the Swedish Democrats remove this right from – SEK 6 1⁄2 billion, 9 000 teachers – because the Swedish Democrats do not want all children to have the same conditions. Who's hardest hit? Yes, they are the children of the working class. Why, Oscar Sjöstedt?
i-4c74881522ca254f-572	Madam President, I would like If you are disabled but partly able to work, you get lower taxes with this proposal than today. The school is of course incredibly important, and I thank Ulla Andersson for the question. Now it's the way the school is municipal. I'm sorry about that. I think the municipalization of the school was a bad decision. But don't blame me or the Swedish Democrats for it, because we didn't even sit in the Swedish parliament when it was carried out. Therefore, it must be seen primarily as a municipal matter. You have to look at what we're doing. Then we are talking about the Swedish Democrats' budget motion and not the committee's proposal. What are we not doing to strengthen the local government sector? We are making 18.5 billion, which is comparable to the government's budget proposal. It is clear that at least some of this money will seep out to school. Having said that, we should not regulate in detail that a certain part should go to school, because there are also other needs. It can be about care for the elderly, preschool and so on. If you want to invest in school, you should do so by investing in the municipal sector, which we are clear about and also did in our budget exercise. I think that's the wiser way to do it.
i-4c74881522ca254f-576	Madam President, I would like With this reasoning, the Swedish Democrats would not spend any money on elderly care or health care to control how the activities will develop. However, the Swedish Democrats choose to do this anyway. Actually, we have a very segregated school. Much of this is because it has been privatised and the school has become a market. It has consequences for the children's school results. We also live segregated in society, which affects school outcomes. Unequal societies affect children's school outcomes. What you actually do in your budget exercise is take 6 1⁄2 billion from the children in school who need it most. You know, I think you do it because you know it goes to children in socio-economically vulnerable areas, where the working class also lives. Many of them have an immigrant background. I think that is the case, and I deeply regret it. It shows a very inhuman human view.
i-4c74881522ca254f-579	Madam President, I would like Surely it was too much to blame the segregation of private school operators. It was to take a little too much, even for Ulla Andersson. Come on! There are reasonably other factors and explanations why we have a segregated school and, for that matter, a segregated society. This cannot reasonably be blamed on the fact that there are a number of private actors in the school sector. I thought that was a little too strange.
i-4c74881522ca254f-581	I refer to Swedish research. ) Let me get back to our budget exercise. We are not making cuts in the spending area in general. I don't remember if it's 15 or 16; I often confuse them. We do some re-priorities and invest in things that we think are far more effective and productive. To blame the segregation of Swedish schools on private school actors – seriously? I blame it on the government's migration policy. It is the one who has driven the division in society as well as in school, which of course is an obvious part of society.
i-4c74881522ca254f-584	Madam President, I would like Anyone who is balanced on a line knows that the forward movement is slowed down when the force has to be put on the actual act of balance. To the extent that the government has had a force ahead, it has now been lost. The budget bill was more designed to balance the government's parliamentary problems than to solve Sweden's. Magdalena Andersson even described at Harpsund that a budget focus was to find a balance between the disparate villas Center and Left – and a good balance for the Swedish people, she could add. Madam President, I would like However, this attempt at a budget walk on balance-sheets was not good enough. Forbidden to negotiate, the Minister of Finance had to guess what would burden the balance sheet, as if the wingland with MP was not enough. Madam President, I would like Spending $74 billion isn't hard. But to do it structurally right, with leadership and reforms to solve social problems, the government will not be able to cope when considerable efforts are made to build power. This is bad for Sweden. Makes the thought experiment that an alien falls down from outer space and makes a diagnosis of Sweden. When it sees that we are at the bottom of Europe in terms of deadly shootings, the number of policemen, unemployment and care places and then the government parties' budget reservation – what do you think is said in the phone call home? Civilization is not quite as advanced as we thought. Madam President, I would like The problem is clearer than in a long time, and the budget – the business plan for Sweden – should therefore have an equally clear focus. Gang crime must be broken, care queues cut, care strengthened and long-term unemployment broken. Now there is a proposal on the Riksdag table that makes important re-priorities to meet these particular problems and others. The Christian Democrats and the Moderates have kept this work together and have negotiated the proposal together with the Swedish Democrats. Not everything can be done now. A lot of things have to wait until we get a change of government. But the work can begin. Important resources and reforms can be put in place. 20 billion are being redirected to meet these societal problems. We propose efforts to better combat violence and gang crime in our country. When mothers and fathers bury their sons and daughters, when the space of life decreases, when fear spreads, and when this basic blast to security hits someone, we all suffer. With our proposal, there will be over 7 billion extra for the judiciary, of which 11⁄2 billion will already be added next year. The police get more colleagues, better conditions and better technical equipment to fight crime. The prosecutions are getting bigger. The courts, the Prison Service, the Coast Guard and Customs will have increased capacity. There will also be more support for parents in their important role as well as for drop-outs. This is done so that security can be recovered. Fashion can spread at the expense of fear. Hope can return to places where it has been hunted on the run. Madam President, I would like The care queues circled long long before they started to call them coronaköer. Now more than 170 000 people have waited longer than the three months of the health guarantee. When Sweden has the lowest number of care places per capita in Europe, we propose more resources than the red-green ones to cut queues and create care places. We suggest a national health care agency so that the postal code does not determine which care you receive. Now that we can, we will also eradicate cervical cancer. Madam President, I would like When the Social Democrats have failed their most important promise – that of jobs – and when Sweden is getting further and further away from the EU's lowest unemployment – in fact almost the longest – we are investing in jobs to reverse the long-term unemployment crisis with reduced tax rates for all who work and with more focus on low income earners than in the government's proposal for tax relief to increase the drive to work. We are also investing in reinforced new start-up jobs that reduce the cost of hiring the long-term unemployed even more and through better opportunities to get to work for those who have long distances. Working must always pay off. People should not be hidden and forgotten in benefit systems. We want to investigate increased driving forces to work with a job premium that can be in the form of a double job tax deduction for those who go from exclusion to work. We want to investigate requirements in benefit systems so that everyone who can do work or equip themselves for jobs and is not left in passivity. We want to review the design so that the long-term unemployed can receive better support. For those who are unemployed or ill, there should be security, but there should also be a way back to work community for those who can. It may not always be 100 percent of a full-time but 100 percent of the ability n. We turn every stone to make it possible. Madam President, I would like Efforts are now also needed to reduce climate-damaging emissions. Our proposal includes investments in expanded charging infrastructure, more carbon storage and a wise use of Sweden's forest assets for an efficient climate transition. We make investments for the elderly, for those who are in financial vulnerability and find it difficult to afford lunch to the friend or train trip to the grandchild. We want to give them and all other pensioners a tax relief with a focus on low pensions and an increased housing supplement that gives a single pensioner an additional SEK 200. With our proposal, it will be for a pensioner with a low pension and housing supplement 760 SEK more in his wallet each month, almost 300 SEK more than with the government proposal. This also increases the possibility for more people to move to shelters with Community opportunities. It can mean a lot to many, for when loneliness creeps in the corners, ill health follows. We also propose that the work against the involuntary loneliness of older people, which the government incomprehensiblely wants to end, should continue. We care for the elderly. We are investing heavily in eliminating involuntary shared tours that we know are a drain on social life and make it difficult to combine work and family life – because the staff deserve better and they are able to perform their great efforts sustainably. Madam President, I would like We invest in school, preschool and parents and in more adult attendance in children's lives. It is in a country where, according to Bris, many children do not believe that their parents or other adults have time for them and where children think they are alone with their problems. We spend 2 billion more than three years on smaller children's groups in preschool in order to better see each child. We invest in holiday school for children who have fallen behind and more teaching time. We see the need for support for parents in their important role with parental support programmes when children are both small and a little larger. We are introducing the possibility of exchanging tax relief in more time for the children. We also see the role of civil society. This applies to those who make contributions to our children's upbringing, break loneliness and allow good values to spread. It applies to those who reach out a hand to those in need. We make investments there that go beyond the government. With our proposal, Sweden's aid to people in the world affected by poverty will be strong. Madam President, I would like It is possible to reverse the trend, but it is urgent. If the government lacks the necessary leadership and reform power, the work can nevertheless begin if Parliament approves the Committee on Finance's proposals in the report here today. That is why I am in favour of this. I do it for a society where no one is held back and no one is left behind.
i-4c74881522ca254f-606	Madam President, I would like I almost didn't ask for a line. We've been doing this a long time. But I think that Jakob Forssmed appreciates having a reply to his speech. It is not immediately understandable that the Christian Democrats are in charge in the majority of Sweden's regions when listening to Christian Democrats' criticism of how it looks in the country's regions. It is absolutely right that we have long care lines. I would appreciate it if the Christian Democrats also did more to get to grips with what they have in power, namely in the regions of Sweden. But the question I was going to ask is not about that. My question, however, is about family week. I understand that the Christian Democrats do not want a family week. It's very unfortunate. In Sweden, however, not so many people can come and go a little as they want to at work when the children have development talks or preschools have closed. I don't think it makes sense for an ambulance nurse, a police officer or a fireman to have to take vacation days to be able to attend a developmental discussion with their child. It is neither waste nor a luxury reform. It is a reform of freedom that makes it easier for people to combine working life with parenthood. This is a path that Sweden has taken a long time ago with a strong parental insurance policy that could be improved with a clear family week with a financial compensation that allows all parents to take this responsibility. Why do Jakob Forssmed and the Christian Democrats want to limit this possibility only to those who can afford to take unpaid leave?
i-4c74881522ca254f-612	Madam President, I would like Let me start where Åsa Westlund started with the queues that the Social Democrats and the government have now begun to call the Coronaköes. There were 122 000 people in those lines before the coronapandemy. We need to take structural steps to tackle this. It is a Christian democratic conclusion that the regions cannot do this. There are unfortunate bureaucratic obstacles and capacity constraints. Our conclusion is that it does not work for 21 regions to cope with all the abilities of care, but that we have to change this. One way to do this in the short term is to establish a national health care agency. It is important to ensure that the capacity available in the country is better provided to all patients by also having travel paid for. It is important to ensure that some of the capacity ceilings in the county councils are removed so that the care available is better distributed to those who need it wherever they happen to live. That is a conclusion we have drawn. Then we will fight every day in the regions where we are in charge of shortening the care queues. Now we are also providing resources to expand more care places. That's good, too. We have seen that we are very low in relation to the European average. We last saw last week, I think it was, a SNS report that pointed out that it leads to increased mortality and increased care injuries that we have too few care places. It's very urgent. As far as family week is concerned, it is a very expensive reform. Only the administration of the compensation costs 300 million, and the overall cost of the reform is around 4 billion. In this situation, we choose to invest more in the judiciary, to shorten care queues and to reduce long-term unemployment. We also want to introduce an opportunity for those who want to prioritise more time with their children not to have to take holiday days without being able to take leave of absence. That is why they can use the tax relief that now, with our policy, goes much more clearly towards those with lower incomes who work. They get considerably greater tax relief with our policy and can use the increased space for more time with the children. I think that's an important thing.
i-Q5tRKTPxvL2QQYU2k9wRap	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jakob Forssmed, for your answer! I myself live in the same region as Jakob Forssmed, Region Stockholm. Here goes the region with large surpluses even though the care screams for more resources. This applies not least to our hospitals that perform the most important life-changing care. We also see that staff stop because of poor working conditions. This also reduces the number of care places. I hope that the Christian Democrats everywhere take responsibility for this. We will continue to do so. It is thanks to our efforts in the regions that they have money at their disposal to do something seriously about this. The need to accompany your children to development talks does not apply only to those who can afford to give up their salary. More time for the children is something I feel the Christian Democrats should be able to stand up for. Why limit it to those who can afford to be at home without pay and who may also already have flexible working hours and can do so?
i-4c74881522ca254f-622	Madam President, I would like Åsa Westlund returns to the situation in different regions in Sweden. It is important, and the work should be carried out with vigour in those regions. Here in the Swedish Parliament we have the opportunity today to make decisions about more money than Åsa Westlund proposes for more health care places and to create a national health care agency. It is then sad that Åsa Westlund does not take the chance to vote for increased resources for the staff so that you can create more care places in Sweden. We also invest in strengthening the conditions for elderly care staff where we also have major recruitment needs ahead. That is an important thing that is happening with our draft budget. As far as family week is concerned, we are creating the opportunity to give more space to people who work by providing them with a tax relief that they can use to exchange for more time with their children. I think it's really important. It's like Åsa Westlund says. We need more parents present in children's lives. This also applies to those who do not have flexible working hours. With this proposal, their opportunities are increasing. At the same time, we are reducing the children's group in preschool and providing parental support to parents in their important role. There are a few things we do to strengthen the families.
i-4c74881522ca254f-628	Madam President, I would like The state's budget and the big efforts to take Sweden forward means a breathtaking amount of money. The Social Democratic-led government's draft budget for the 27 spending areas next year is over SEK 1,200 billion. It contains many new investments – investments of SEK 74 billion. It is a budget that will build Sweden further after the pandemic. But, Madam President and the audience, it is not the Government's proposal that is the Finance Committee's proposal to this House, but it is the proposal of the Swedish Democrats, Christian Democrats and Moderates. They have more members of the committee than the Social Democrats and the Green Party. It is therefore simply the case that the majority of the Committee on Finance is proposing that the family week be abolished. They also want to create a new tax gap for the disabled through the seventh job tax deduction. The budget is to be financed by more people coming into work and by taxes and contributions. Of course, here I will focus on the financing through taxes. Madam President, I would like Despite the lengthy formation of this term of office, agreements depending on the outcome of the elections and the vote of censure, we are celebrating this year. We celebrate the right to vote for women, and today we have chosen the first female Prime Minister, Magdalena Andersson. As a tax policy, it should also be pointed out that 50 years have passed since the abolition of co-taxation in 1971. Madam President, I would like It was a famous person who swore and wondered what he was getting for the treasure. It's a notorious quote. Taxes finance a faster climate transition, more people will get to work and more welfare. We will deal with the issues around that Sweden should be a safe country for everyone. For example, we are halfway to the target of 10,000 more police workers. This month 700 new policemen have made their first day of work. This is worthy of attention in this House. This is also met with a strong commitment to the entire judiciary, which is getting more to do now that the expansion of the police force is having an effect. What else do you get for the treasure? The budget shows the strong commitment to continued high spending in dealing with the pandemic. The Swedish economy is making a powerful recovery. GDP, consumption and investment are developing positively. Stable public finances continue to enable the resolution of social problems. Transfers over time have decreased. What is worrying is unemployment, and it must come down after the pandemic. This can be done through the reindustrialisation of Sweden, through training and security reforms in the labour market and by continuing to strengthen welfare. Madam President, I would like Our budget option also includes 13 billion in tax cuts. That is a large sum compared to the amount of spending space in a normal year, which is between 20 and 30 billion. The Government proposes that the tax reduction for earned income such as salary, pension and social security benefits be increased and, as a general rule, is made with SEK 2,820 per person per year. This corresponds to SEK 7 billion in the budget. The tax reduction for persons with sickness and activity benefits is proposed by the Government to be strengthened in order to remove the difference between the taxation of earned income and such compensation. I am very pleased with that proposal. A tax reduction for contributions to the unemployment fund is included. The rules on points of service and tax-free compensation in the case of temporary contracts and assignments are simplified. The government's draft budget also includes a reduction in employers' contributions for 19 to 23-year-olds, which should be strengthened in June, July and August next year. It is a reasonable policy to create post-pandemic employment. This is estimated to cost SEK 1 1⁄2 billion. Finally, the tax on advertising is abolished! We also propose lowering taxes. The government believes that VAT on repairs of bicycles, shoes and clothing should be reduced from 12 percent to 6 percent. Some taxes that we have announced in the past we are not introducing, because they have proved difficult. This applies, for example, to taxes on chemicals in clothing and shoes. An important reform for Swedish entrepreneurs and other actors is that the turnover limit for VAT exemption is raised from 30 000 SEK to 80 000 SEK per tax year. An increase in the turnover limit is a simplification for small businesses that no longer need to be registered and declare value added tax. In addition, the Tax Agency does not need to administer declarations and payments for these companies. It is a good reform for small businesses. Madam President, I would like This was a sample of the tax changes contained in the Social Democratic and Environmental Party government budget. I would like to make three more points. Firstly, we note that the revision of the tax system has been delayed due to covid-19. I hope that a review of the tax system will be launched in the future. Secondly, Madam President, it is proposed that the Swedish Customs Agency, the Swedish Enforcement Authority and the Swedish Tax Agency receive 12.7 billion. That's 300 million dollars more than when we stood here a year ago. These are three authorities that are important to ensure the financing of the public sector. They contribute to a well-functioning society, and they counter crime, create order at our borders and receive payments. Thirdly, a great deal is being done to stop tax and benefit fraud and undeclared work. We have already decided in this House on a wide range of measures to ensure that more authorities work more closely together and together to stop organised crime. The latest disclosure in the field of taxation is about tax evasion through anonymous letterbox companies and foundations that hide assets in tax havens and avoid taxes. These are companies where most are registered in tax havens such as the British Virgin Islands and Seychelles. This reminds us that we must work tirelessly in this area on tax agreements and on the various initiatives of the OECD and the EU to combat tax evasion. Madam President, I would like I support the reservations of the Social Democrats and the Green Party Nos 1 and 5.
i-4c74881522ca254f-649	Madam President, I would like We gather for this debate only months after restrictions have slowly eased up in Sweden with new and renewed insights into what reforms are needed to build Sweden stronger. A few years ago, we stood in this House debating what we then called the summit of a boom and the need not to allow a boom to pass without the necessary structural reforms being carried out. Uncertainty about where the world economy is going is high, partly due to problem supply chains, rising prices and the continued management of covid-19. In the midst of all this, we must be able to look ahead and meet the challenges that require fundamental structural reforms. At the same time, we have to deal with issues that may not capture interest as easily but that would make a big difference for Sweden, not least for Swedish companies, and thus bring growth and future income to welfare. Madam President, I would like If we are to be able to hire more people in health care, but also more police officers, who are to be better paid, more people have to work and pay taxes. Reducing taxes for all those who work is an important reform to create more jobs. It is only by more people working and paying taxes that the resources needed for welfare can be created. The cost of hiring is too high. This makes it difficult to enter and accelerates the exit from the labour market. It is particularly problematic in the light of the major socio-economic needs of extending working life. Taxes and rules must be based on the small and growing companies that account for most of today's job growth. Madam President, I would like The Swedish tax system is becoming increasingly complex, and our tax rates, overall and individually, are far too high. Long-term it is not reasonable for Sweden to have such a high tax burden. We are paying with developmental power and lack of job creation because of this. The Swedish tax burden must be reduced and the complexity of tax legislation must be thoroughly simplified. Madam President, I would like In its budget motion for 2022, the Center Party has put forward a series of proposals to reduce the complexity of the Swedish tax system. These are reforms that really affect businesses in their daily lives. For example, we propose:
i-4c74881522ca254f-658	These are not the reforms of the big headlines. But it is reforms that really meet the entrepreneurs in their everyday lives. It is reforms that make a difference. If we begin to solve the problems, large and small, that exist in the tax system, we will also solve the problems we see with the low productivity development. It's got to go up. This would strengthen Sweden as an entrepreneurial and investor country. We also see that this is the only long-term sustainable answer to how Sweden will continue to be a world-class welfare country. Madam President, I would like Better conditions are needed to live and work throughout the country. Investing in better roads in rural areas is a direct investment in simplifying people's everyday lives. A strengthened rural development programme makes an important contribution to ensuring the development and innovation of agriculture and to encouraging the green transition. This is a priority for us in our budget exercise. We can note that there is currently a cost crisis for Swedish agriculture, where the dramatic cost increases that are currently affecting agriculture can also escalate in the future. These are increases that risk leading in the near future to the exclusion of farms and to the suspension of investment projects. They also threaten Sweden's successful green transition in agriculture, as this requires profitability and investment. Furthermore, the crisis threatens what we here in Parliament jointly decided in the food strategy, namely that our domestic production should increase. Madam President, I would like As the only parliamentary party, the Center Party has allocated SEK 1 billion in national co-financing to the rural programme 2022, which can be used to meet the cost development of Swedish agriculture in the short term. While we need reforms here and now, we must also aim to implement tax reforms for agriculture, such as agricultural deductions. Here, Madam President, we need to start a debate in Parliament on how we combine green conversion with greater production and increased competitiveness. Today's crisis shows the need to switch from fossil energy to renewable energy and electrification. Where possible, we must give agriculture the opportunity to start ridding itself of the dependence on fossil energy and strengthen its own production of green energy and fuel. Today's situation also shows Sweden's need to break the long-term trend of increasing dependence on imports of food and inputs, in favour of more domestic production and increased self-sufficiency. Madam President, I would like Important investments are now needed to strengthen Sweden's economy after the pandemic and meet the climate challenges. Very good centre policy was pushed through within the framework of the January agreement during the term of office with efforts on the environment and climate, for jobs and businesses, for safer care and for rural areas. With the Centre Party's draft budget, we continue to work on the green transition and a more modern labour market, on new rural reforms so that the whole country can grow, and on greater security and gender equality. The draft budget we are presenting ensures that companies get back on their feet and create new jobs. We are also making green investments to accelerate climate change. Finally, Madam President, today's start-up small businesses are tomorrow's big employers. Sweden needs to offer companies good opportunities to start and grow. In order for Sweden to be able to follow global competition, rules and taxes need to be adapted to the conditions of the digital economy and not to block new business areas. A rapidly changing world increases demands on our ability to adapt and our ability to implement reforms that strengthen the conditions for job creation, welfare and our international competitiveness. Madam President, I would like I would like to support the Centre Party's budget motion and our reservation in the Committee on Finance's report.
i-4c74881522ca254f-667	Madam President, I would like We raised pensions and reduced market rents. Surely politics is much better when the Social Democrats settle with the Left Party? We've reached a deal with the government. This means increased pensions of SEK 1 000 more per month tax-free for the 700 000 most deprived pensioners. It is a step forward for increased pensions, in fact the largest increase in the lowest pensions since the introduction of today's pension systems. Those who have worked hard get a boost, but the struggle to achieve a fair system that provides a dignified pension after a long working life continues. People who during a long life have had low income or breaks for sick leave and unemployment, or retire earlier because their body is worn out by a hard working life, in today's Sweden very likely become poor pensioners. It is not worthy that those who retire after a long working life should be forced to take extra jobs to cope with rent and food, not be able to buy presents for the grandchildren for Christmas and birthdays and have to make excuses for not being able to afford to go to the movies. Everyone should be able to live on their pension. It should be a matter of course here in Parliament. The long-term wishes of the Left Party are a new pension system that provides real financial security at the end of working life. But one thing we have already done is to increase the guarantee pension. We are proud of this, and it is a major step forward for increased pensions and for those who need it most. Madam President, I would like Once again, we are standing here after the Center Party in the debate. It's always just as inspiring, I have to say. At this point, we know exactly what has not worked: the neoliberal policy that has eroded welfare, not least through major tax cuts, privatisations, hourly contracts and precarious jobs, and which has also weakened our ability to face a crisis. In times of crisis, a strong society needs to step in and create stability and security. We have faced major crises in the past and in the past. They create an understanding of society's responsibility for the economy, investment, security and welfare, which characterized politics in Sweden for a very long time. Our common needs indicated the direction, and it is precisely the needs that should be at the centre when we restart the economy. A strong green transition is needed, creating development and jobs throughout the country. A policy is needed to increase the security of people through a strong social security system and secure working conditions. It is through left-wing politics that we create well-being that everyone benefits, from the smallest children in preschool and through school and working life to the elderly who need care. But, Madam President, crisis management today is also about repairing the great damage caused to our society by the neoliberal economy. Over the last 30 years, this development has been dominated by the dismantling of our common welfare and our security systems. It is an economic policy based on the idea that the rich should benefit, power should be handed over to the market and our community should be sold out to venture capitalists who actually do not care about us or our needs. Now it is also beyond doubt that this has affected not only equality and welfare but also increased the class divides and created a lagging economy, where money is concentrated in the few. It turns out year after year that the few rich who have the greatest assets invest in speculation and financial affairs, not in creating jobs, in climate change or in our welfare and economy. The money of the rich is put into rapidly growing piles, while the gaps are increasing. The money would have been most useful in large investments for jobs, the climate or better working conditions, but they are not. Instead, there is unemployment and chaos privatization. Madam President, I would like In Sweden, the richest 10 percent have as much as 75 percent of the total private wealth. Our distribution of wealth and property income is one of the skewedest in the world. Today, taxation is low on capital income and non-existent on wealth. The underfunding of welfare, the climate crisis and the high level of unemployment are linked to tax cuts and the abolition of taxes for the rich. When the capital is collected by a few, it is not used to invest in the common. Instead, we have 41 billionaires, who have accumulated more than SEK 1,500 billion – almost 30 percent of Sweden's total bnp. This is unworthy of a country where the class divides are rapidly increasing and the few are leading in abundance while more and more people are living on the margins. The will of individual rich individuals should not determine how we build the future. Capital is most useful when it comes to society. That is why we propose the introduction of a tax on large wealth and the progressive and increased tax on capital income in order to finance increased resources for our common. Madam President, I would like When we in the Left Party talk about using tax policy to redistribute and increase equality, the bourgeoisie often objects to the fact that the rich take great risks with invested capital, which must be matched by large private profits. Then one might wonder why it is Sweden's dollar billionaires who have benefited most from the policies pursued, not least during the crisis, and not the workers of the first line, who have carried us through the crisis. Who has actually taken the greatest risks? Is it all the health care professionals who have worked 12 hours with severely ill or CEOs and financial puppies who have been able to constantly shift their risks to taxpayers? In fact, if we in Sweden had had the same tax rate as at the turn of the millennium, we would have had about 300 billion more to move with. That is the difference between a functioning and a crisising welfare. That is why the rich must also be involved in financing the necessary efforts to improve their welfare and to renovate society. Health care needs to be upgraded, housing needs to be built and rails need to be laid. Strong public investment is needed from the state. The tax system is crucial for us to put an end to inequality and start investing and redistributing to our common. In the light of the deep class divides we have and of the fact that rich years after years withdraw at the expense of all of us, I have to say that it is time for us to build an economic policy that allows people to feel the faith and hope of the future, where climate investment is allowed to take a greater place and where we decide to build an equal and well-functioning society. We need to redistribute capital and wealth, and it is also time we looked after each other. We owe it to this community.
i-4c74881522ca254f-683	Madam President, I would like Sweden is in a serious situation. In the suites of the coronapandemia, the labour market has weakened and long-term unemployment is at historically high levels. We see a serious education debt and integration debt emerging in our society. These are two failures that will have devastating consequences for society if action is not taken immediately. The Social Democrats are about to reach their eighth year of government, and they have not been able to solve social problems. That is why we Liberals will vote for our own budget motion, which offers a new start for Sweden, and our priorities are clear. It's about school, integration and climate change. Madam President, I would like Today, the knowledge crisis in Swedish schools is a fact. This spring, every fourth pupil completed comprehensive school without achieving the knowledge goals in one or more subjects and thus lacked complete grades from comprehensive school. For us liberals, the class trip begins in the classroom. The right to good and equal education must never be linked to one's background or housing address. The Liberals are the Swedish School Party, and we clearly show this in our budget. We spend more than any other party on the school – 14 billion more than the government. We are committed to tackling the knowledge gap with more teacher-led teaching hours. We give all children the right to their own textbook. We are strengthening teachers' status and working conditions, and we are introducing peace and study in the classrooms. So we liberals want to restore Sweden as a nation of knowledge, because the school is the most important battering ram against exclusion and segregation. Madam President, I would like Swedish integration policy must be given a new start. Liberals are the party that has shown most clearly that we are ready to shoulder responsibility for reversing the development of socially vulnerable areas. Integration must go through the work line, not the benefit line. We must put an end to the policy of hiding and forgetting people in benefit systems for too long. Therefore, I am genuinely surprised that the Liberals seem to be the only party that can stand up for the work line. When other parts roll out the red carpet for the contribution line, our message is clear: We say no to the dismantling of the work line. That is why we say no to the extension of the unemployment fund levels. We say no to the historical departures from the working line with the left-wing bloc proposals for health insurance reforms. We say no to family week, a costly reform that means more leave for the world's most vacant people. To make demands is to care. But the gain from going from allowance to work must also be visible in the wallet. For this reason, the Liberals are proposing both a reinforced job tax deduction focusing on low income and a ceiling on contributions. In Liberals' Sweden, it must always pay off to work and stand for your own livelihood. Madam President, I would like The liberal budget stands up for the work line. It says no to the benefit line and lowers the tax rate for low- and middle-income earners. Entrepreneurship is fundamental to Sweden's prosperity. Four out of five jobs are created by SMEs. Entrepreneurs are our most important welfare builders, and they deserve better conditions and a better business environment. It is with entrepreneurship, investment, innovation and entrepreneurship that we build a stronger Sweden. That's why I'm worried about the political winds that blow a little everywhere. The list of threatening tax shocks is too long. This means strong capital tax increases, reinstated military tax, caps on savings in ISK and increased taxes on sheep companies if the left wins the election one more time. This also gave very clear expression to the representative of the Left Party. Their policies should begin to hunt down those who earn a little more – those who are involved and equally contribute to our common tax system and our common welfare. This is a message that I hope the voters have taken on board. I want to be clear. What the next election means is that proposals will be high on Magdalena Andersson's, Nooshi Dadgostars and Märta Stenevis's wish lists. Liberals will always stand up for entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs who work hard every day to create jobs, welfare and innovation. We are the party that most clearly stands up for Sweden as a strong entrepreneurship nation. We offer a new start for Sweden, where we become the guarantor of the development of the work line and not the dismantling of it in a bourgeois context. We're putting school first. We are working towards a new focus on integration policy, changing society in a green and liberal direction and making Sweden a climate-friendly country to live and live in. All this we offer with a new start for Sweden. With this, Madam President, I would like to support the Liberals' budget reservation.
i-4c74881522ca254f-699	Madam President, I would like This pandemic, which we are now hopefully seeing the end of in our country and in the rest of the world, has put us through very great trials. It has cost us dearly in human lives and in money but also in suffering. It is a suffering that I have often seen myself when I worked as a nurse in a pandemic ward. That is why I would also like to remind everyone of the spirit of hand that is here. If we are talking about a pandemic, we must also act accordingly. The Pandemin has also shown that we have built and continue to build a social system that can act as an important airbag when the crisis suddenly strikes us. Many were reminded of the importance of insuring themselves against unemployment, which led to the arrival of more than 270 000 new members in the A-kassas by 2020. It is desirable for people to feel confident about having a livelihood even in times of crisis. That is why we think it is good that the government encourages membership of the unemployment fund through a tax deduction for part of the membership fee. For us in the Green Party, this is an important part of a resilient society. Madam President, I would like We've been talking about work. Anyone who can work will. But if you are not able to work because of your health, you should not be punished for it. For too long, the tax system has treated people with sickness and activity benefits as people who need additional incentives to work even though their condition sometimes makes it impossible. They already have significantly lower incomes because they are unable to work. This is actually unworthy. It is unworthy that they should be further punished for not having their health. These people need to be treated fairly in the tax system. If the government's budget now goes through, this will be achieved by removing the unjust tax gap, the so-called functional tax. I have three months left of my substitute here. Then, as I return, I will again work as a nurse at the habilitation. This is about the individuals I meet. I see them every day. I can see how they're doing. I wish I could have the opportunity to look them in the face and say: I did what I could do. We're in the middle of one of history's biggest projects. It is to shift all human activity so that it is compatible with our future on our planet. A central part of this is changing the economy. Taxation in this context is a key tool for bringing about a change in people's behaviour. The budget presented by the government contains several important steps towards an economy where the impact on the environment and climate is a guiding principle for taxation. Sometimes the green tax shift is accused of forgetting the reduction in taxes on things that are not bad for the environment, so I guess I'll have to start there. Tax itself is not really an end in itself, but it is an important instrument for financing what we have in common. It is about financing the green transition and combating inequality. Despite successful support measures, the pandemic has been an economically challenging time for a great many people. The government has therefore proposed a broad tax reduction with an emphasis on low and medium-income people. I would now like to conclude by highlighting three examples of tax policy for a green transition. To cope with the climate crisis, we need to do more with less. The car is a good example. It should not stand 90% of the time in a parking lot. The car could be owned by more people. It can be used by more, and owned by more. A drilling machine, which most of us actually own, is used for about 15 minutes during its lifetime. So it's only 15 minutes. It is also a good example of something that could be rented or borrowed. The very fact that everything will be owned will be a waste of earth's finite resources. It is for this reason that we as the government now propose that anyone who wants to rent out their private property should be able to make it tax-free up to SEK 20 000 annually. Many in our elongated country are and will continue to depend on cars to get to work, to travel and to make ends meet. Fossil fuels such as diesel and petrol have so far dominated, but this fact needs to be changed as part of the green transition. As a friend of the climate with confidence in the future, I can see that the government's policy of replacing the vehicle fleet's fuel with electricity has been well under way in recent years. But we're not content. The pace will increase. Therefore, we are now further tightening the bonus malus system to steer towards a fossil-free vehicle fleet. Finally, I'll mention the bike benefit. I have to admit that I have saved what we environmentalists like best at last. It must be noted that all those who can cycle make an important contribution to the green transition. Anyone who is able to trade the car for a bicycle to work saves us his contribution to major problems, such as greenhouse gases, particulate emissions, noise and traffic hazards. I can also mention the good effect on public health of more cycling. Madam President, I would like I am pleased and proud to conclude my speech by saying that in next year's budget we propose that employers be able to offer their employees a tax-free bicycle benefit of up to SEK 3 000. With this, I support the reservations of the Green Party and the Social Democrats.
i-4c74881522ca254f-721	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposals to be approved on all points. I could not ask for a reply to the speech of the Social Democrats, Jörgen Hellman, depending on the rules of debate in this House, so his varied wisdom must remain undisputed. But I would like to say to those who listen and to Jörgen Hellman that we in the Tax Committee are pleased to have a chairman who has led and who leads the work in a fair and fair manner in the difficult time that has existed and that prevails in Sweden. It is important to emphasise, because there is reason to have faith in politics and in the ability of politics. Tomorrow may be better than today's situation, and although the challenges are many, the situation today is better than the situation in the country a hundred years ago, for example. This is not the end of optimism and confidence in the future. But at the same time it is easy to understand all of them, myself included, who wonder what is going on. Some of us probably saw the Newscast last night, where the elected Prime Minister, the leader of the Left Party and the spokesperson of the Green Party would sort out what they had agreed on. But not even once by rewinding and watching the broadcast again, I think it was quite understandable for someone. The Green Party did not seem to know exactly what was going on. Our newly elected Prime Minister felt that the agreement was valid for the next term of office. The leaders of the Left Party felt that the agreement was valid for this term of office. Moreover, what the policy actually contained was almost impossible to read. If, with the support of the Center Party, the government's budget had won today, it would have resulted in a sharp deterioration in pensioners' conditions compared with the budget which now has the approval of the majority. But it was thought that the economy of 700 000 pensioners would be improved. It simply could not be understood, perhaps in the light of the fact that there is nothing really to understand. We had a prime minister's vote earlier today. The best thing about it is that Magdalena Andersson is no longer Minister of Finance, because it has not gone very well. Perhaps the worst is that Magdalena Andersson is now instead Prime Minister. But it seems unclear how long Magdalena Andersson is Prime Minister, because immediately after the Prime Minister's vote, which is based on the Green Party's inclusion in the government, the Green Party announced that they are considering resigning from the government. So it did not take many seconds for the new government crisis to draw near. This is of course not how we can have it long-term in Sweden. I admit that from time to time I feel trapped in a very calm film that you cannot really tell whether it is parodic or not, because right now the democratic system in Sweden is not delivering at the level that citizens can expect. We in here can together take a step out in reality, and instead of doing as we do now, we can try to see and solve the serious problems that have hit Sweden, Swedish households and Swedish companies. Madam President, I would like Speaking of reality, early this morning the alarm bell rang in many homes. Many tired eyes were opened, and a new day of work was waiting. It was nurses who were going up to care for the elderly. It was construction workers who were going to build schools and housing. It was taxi drivers who were going to make sure that we arrived by train and plane and up to our jobs and that children with special needs came to school. School food staff were supposed to make sure that there was lunch to eat, and it was they who were cooking in nursing homes that were supposed to make sure that there were portions to serve. It was doctors who would make sure that long - awaited operations were carried out, and it was pilots who would make sure that we got there where we should be. In short, it is people who work hard and who then come home to homes that need cleaning, children who need comfort, relationships that need patching up, floors that need scrubbing, outer walls that need painting, sick relatives who need care, parents who need help logging in to Facebook again or children who need homework help. It's just people working and working very hard. I think I have listened to all the speeches in this House during the day, and I can only be struck by the lack of sympathy and empathy for these people. Everyone else has lawyers and speakers for: those who have not worked, those who never think of working, those who cannot work and everyone else. All of them get a voice in here telling them that they need and should have more. It's not all the time wrong. It is part of a safe and cohesive country. But we have forgotten those who actually make our country, our society, possible, those who work and toil. Many of us, or perhaps all of us, in here probably feel that we have jobs that are in themselves satisfying, intellectually challenging and exciting. We can realize our ambitions and take part of various things we are interested in even at working time because we have that kind of privileged job at a very exciting workplace. There are plenty of such jobs, for example at Södermalm. It's advertising agencies, TV work and much more. But very many people go with a commitment and with an interest to a job that is good but which in itself is very hard and hard. The job sets tough demands mentally and on hips, shoulders and wrists. It makes demands on the body and the psyche. And it affects the possibility of having a life on the side. That's the reality. It is extremely important that it pays to work, that work is appreciated and that effort, zeal, diligence and integrity are rewarded. That is why, in our budget, we are making sure that we pay more for the people who work. They have the right to buy good consumer electronics, a new TV, to get away on vacation, to buy a new car and to fill their free time with joy and rewards for the hard work they do. But it's never heard from here. From here it is almost exclusively heard that more should go to those who do not work. That's right from time to time. Many times it's wrong. But it is therefore impossible if it were not for all the people who actually work. That is why we are making sure to reduce the tax on labour in our proposal. It is in order for people to get more over but also for it to be possible to live, work and work throughout Sweden that we lower fuel taxes. Here, Per Åsling and the Center Party will really have the opportunity to show the cards – whether you are on the rural side or not. With the arrival of a special bill, each party can, openly and honestly, show the cards if they are on the rural side or if they just think that it is reasonable to be able to travel cheaply to work if you have public transport and metro. It is in order for us to have a decent society, where people can feel safe, that we increase resources to the Customs Agency. I have been very surprised that we have started more and more new opinion-forming authorities but have done very little about the core mission in the state: to make sure that drugs and weapons do not flow in while stolen goods flow out. There we are now doing more when we get the chance, and I assume that the Social Democrats, the Left Party and the Green Party will not oppose that change. Madam President, I would like With our budget, we are taking a small step towards breaking the farcical situation that has been in Swedish politics for a long time and which has led to a growth rate that is among the lowest in Europe and unemployment among the highest in Europe. We are now providing resources so that we can reduce unemployment, curb crime and get out of a situation where not even half of immigrants are able to support themselves. It is also a wish from me and the Moderates that we should get away from a situation where Swedish politics feels like a failed high school class, where it is a discussion about who gets to come to the party and who can't come and who can't get him or her, I certainly won't come. This is part of human development. We can be like that when we're 13 - 14 years old, but we shouldn't be like that in here. We will put Sweden first and on the basis of our different values and starting points make sure that Sweden is a good country to live in. In this we are taking a small step in approving today the budgets of the Moderates, Christian Democrats and Sweden Democrats. However, much remains to be done. I'm willing to be self-critical and I'd be happy to challenge you all to get better. Together, we will ensure that Sweden becomes Sweden at its best, and it always starts with full employment. All people who want and can work should also have a job to go to. That is why it is the main focus of our policy.
i-Ttf3JQ3rxtbDHMPUQUmhE8	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Niklas Wykman, for the words on leadership in committee! We can see that we need to make a new tax reform, because our tax system is somewhat ageing. But pending the tax reform, which hopefully can restore uniformity and make income tax neutral between the Incomes Act, we Social Democrats want to close the tax gap for them next year with sickness and activity benefits. Some people talk about it as removing the funkis tax. More than 260 000 people in Sweden live on sickness and activity benefits. With the Moderates' tax proposals, there will be a new small tax gap for this group. I wonder why injustice and inequality are always part of Moderate politics. I do not think that the healthy employee thinks that he or she is a better person than pensioners, sick and unemployed and can be rewarded with a little extra incessantly. Why do you always want divisions and differences, Niklas Wykman?
i-4c74881522ca254f-742	Madam President, I would like You can of course think what you want about the proposals for the budgets of the Moderates, Christian Democrats and Sweden Democrats. The group that Jörgen Hellman talks about, who lives with sickness and activity benefits and who used to be called sick-pensioners in the past, receives with the budgets of Moderates, Sweden Democrats and Christian Democrats 830 SEK more a month. This is the group that receives the most in everyone's draft budget individually. I am therefore perhaps somewhat surprised that this is precisely what Jörgen Hellman thinks is the problem. After all, it is like answering immediately what I said in my speech: there is commitment, sympathy and empathy for all people except for the very people who actually work. But without people going to work, there's no money to pay sickness and activity benefits with. Without people going to work, there is also no money to fund health care, childcare and care for the elderly. It simply cannot be done without people working. The person who works also has costs for it. Transport to work is not enough; you need to have lunch and perhaps buy other clothes, and you cannot save money in other ways like a person who does not work can. So it is perfectly reasonable for the tax system to reward those who go to work and work, because what else does society look like? LO has assessed the job tax credit and concluded that, in order to extend their assessment of the first steps and take all the steps, the employment impact is approximately 150 000 people. Reducing taxes on labour is therefore good for those who work because it is important to have a job. It is also important for job creation in the economy as a whole, and it is important for the financing of welfare. It's not wrong that it pays to work, Jörgen Hellman.
i-4c74881522ca254f-746	Madam President, I would like Nevertheless, I would like to congratulate Niklas Wykman on the outcome of the negotiations with the Swedish Democrats and the Christian Democrats. In the joint proposal, the Moderates managed to get billions in tax cuts, while you had to give millions in cancelled reforms. The paid family week shall be unpaid parental leave. Labour market policy is replaced by tax cuts. Climate action is cancelled in favour of petrol tax reductions in order to satisfy the climate sceptics within the Swedish Democrats. From the Moderates' point of view, I guess it was a good negotiation. Now you are using a mix of job tax deductions, reduced employers' contributions and reduced taxes on petrol and diesel, as well as some other tax cuts. Niklas Wykman spoke earlier about political renewal, and you had some group looking at it in your party. But is not the political renewal just to reduce taxes even further?
i-4c74881522ca254f-748	Madam President, I would like Sometimes you can think about what a social democrat you would be if you were a social democrat. When it comes to fuel prices, I am probably in such cases Magdalena Andersson 2014, who thought that there was absolutely no justification for any fuel tax increases. Then she became Minister of Finance and betrayed that promise by increasing fuel taxes very much. But my opinion and opinion are no more extreme than what Magdalena Andersson was in 2014. At the time she also thought there would be reasonable prices at the pump. I still think so. I have not changed my mind since then, but obviously Social Democracy and Jörgen Hellman have done so. The high fuel prices tear Sweden apart. They do not make it profitable to work, and for example, for pensioners with small margins in their economy, the price of fuel is very stressful. You cannot greet children and grandchildren, and you cannot afford to participate in your leisure activities. It is simply not right that it should be that way. Environmentally, it doesn't matter at all. If our budget goes through today, it is the largest environmental budget ever made in Sweden. For example, we are investing in carbon storage, if I remember correctly, seven times more than you do in your budget. As a result, we will reduce emissions by 2 million tonnes of carbon dioxide, ten times as much as a lower petrol tax leads to an increase. That is what is effective in politics, quite simply. You should not go after ordinary, hardworking people and pensioners with small margins. An effective system policy should be put in place to address social problems instead. Jörgen Hellman seems to have tremendous insights into our negotiations between the parties. I congratulate him on this; then he knows that good mood, open ears, listening, humility, taking and giving rather than high school fashions actually lead to results. I simply recommend the left side to do the same: Sit down and talk, Annie Lööf and everyone else together, and maybe it will be a little better order in the future!
i-4c74881522ca254f-753	Madam President, I would like There is no turning a blind eye to how the national economy works. Excessive taxes reduce incentives to work, leading to the erosion of the long-term tax base. Excessive taxes are a threat to all that we protect: security, law and order and welfare. I know that some Members find it difficult for the so-called Laffer curve, which shows that high taxes do not always lead to a correlated tax revenue for the state. The direction of the Swedish democrats is to strive for a reduced tax burden in favour of the development of the economy and society and for the individual's right to his or her own work's reward. The joint budget reserve of the blue-yellow bloc therefore includes tax reductions, not only for those who work, but also for pensioners and sick leavers. We do not want to re-create a tax gap between income from services and income from pensions. The tax reduction for both working people and pensioners will be about SEK 150 per month with our proposal. This is much-needed money especially for pensioners. But neither can we have one of the world's highest fuel prices in a country which, on the surface, is Europe's third largest while Sweden is one of the more sparsely populated countries on our continent. Sweden consists largely of a vast landscape where there is a long way between towns, between houses and even longer between stations and with a non-existent charging infrastructure for electric vehicles. It is no understatement to say that most Swedes outside the city centre and associated suburbs are completely dependent on the car to get to work, drive the children to kindergarten, drive the children to leisure activities or drive their old parents to the hospital. If you want the whole of Sweden to live, if we want a living countryside, we also need a policy for that to happen. Tax on petrol and diesel generates up to SEK 60 billion annually to the state. We think that is too much. Madam President, I would like In addition to our joint budget reservation with the Moderates and Christian Democrats, the Swedish Democrats in our own budget reservation have several proposals which, although we will not be calling for approval today, may be worth mentioning. The Swedish Democrats do not want to see changes in the travel allowance. On the contrary, we want to strengthen the travel allowance. Aviation tax is a symbolic measure that is justified by environmental considerations, but which practically brings in approximately SEK 700 million per year for the government, despite coronatides. This tax affects not least the smaller municipal airports, which are often already struggling with profitability problems. This makes the air tax one more of the government's anti-rural proposals, i.e. a policy that leads to less resources for the municipal welfare work. As regards the symbolic tax on plastic bags, the estimated tax revenue for 2020 of SEK 1.6 billion has only resulted in a revenue of SEK 200 million. At the same time, the trade sells garbage bags on rolls like never before. But of course it also takes a lot of paper bags. The only question is how useful it is. From an energy perspective, the paper bag needs to be reused four to eight times in order to match the energy efficiency of the plastic bag. And I dare to promise you that there are few paper bags in the store that do. We are also critical of the fact that the government is now moving forward with the bnp indexing of the chemical tax. It is an automatic increase in a tax that has led to an export of Swedish retail and Swedish jobs. According to an investigation by the Swedish Tax Agency and the Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate, there is no demonstrable benefit from the choice of materials in the products. The same logic is behind the so-called waste incineration tax, which has actually only led to increased prices of district heat combined with reduced investments. The government's ingenuity in making up new things to tax without demonstrable benefits seems to find no limits. All this is happening while large parts of society are falling due to longer care queues, high unemployment, high energy and fuel costs, low pensions and welfare holes – let alone insecurity. Only a few weeks ago, the German newspaper Bild named Sweden the most dangerous country in Europe. Madam President, I would like Although we do not get all our policies in the first budget we present together with the Moderates and Christian Democrats, we are nevertheless proud that we jointly address society's greatest challenges. With this budget, we start work on building a better and safer Sweden. We are also seriously beginning the journey by replacing the harmful government that for seven years has allowed social development to put Sweden in the serious situation that it is currently in. I support the committee's proposals on all points.
i-4c74881522ca254f-766	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved. Sweden is a fantastic country, but we are faced with several different problems that we need to address. 170 000 people line up for surgery or meeting with specialist doctors. Gracious criminals are taking ever greater liberties at the expense of ordinary people. Moreover, unemployment is the fourth highest in the European Union. But none of this is a law of nature. There does not need to be care queues, shootings or huge unemployment. It's possible to reverse the trend. In our draft budget, which is now the Committee on Finance's proposal, we are aiming to find more places to take care of the queues. We'll see to it that the police get more colleagues and higher salaries. We create incentives to hire and take a job, so that more people can join a working community and have the opportunity to support themselves. We are starting to turn the development in Sweden in the right direction. Madam President, I would like None of these efforts would have been possible if it were not for all taxpayers around Sweden. The money we are debating today does not belong to us; it belongs to all taxpayers. Our responsibility is to try to give the best priority to other people's money. For me, this means that it is an objective in itself to reduce taxes. We are therefore continuing to reduce taxes for everyone who works and all pensioners. The focus is on those with low or medium-sized incomes and pensions. We also lower taxes for those with sickness and activity benefits. This group receives the single largest tax reduction of an average of SEK 10 000 per year. We do it because it is right, but we do it also because it is a sensible job policy. Reduced taxes boost growth and create more jobs. Sweden, which has almost the highest unemployment rate in the EU, desperately needs a sound employment policy. In addition, tax cuts – which stimulate work – lead to the long-term strengthening of local government finances. In this way, municipalities and regions can maintain and develop well-being. Madam President, I would like In many parts of our country, distances are long. For all those who live and work in those parts of the country, the high fuel prices are a very high cost. These prices consist mainly of taxes. We see and understand all those who depend on the car for everyday life to work; those who need the car to get to and from work, to drive the children to school or leisure activities. Our whole elongated country will live. That is why we are also proposing that the tax on fuels should be reduced. The new rules for the reduction obligation will mean price increases, and we will compensate households for this. Madam President, I would like In March 2020, many were convinced that organisations such as the Cancer Fund and Save the Children would suffer severe economic deterioration due to the Corona virus. Then, at the beginning of the crisis, 55 percent of the members of the trade association Give Sweden believed that revenue would fall. To some extent, these fears came true. Gifts from companies have declined during the crisis, but at the same time the donations from the public have increased. In fact, donations from the public increased so much that the total revenue to organisations such as the Cancer Fund and Save the Children increased despite the pandemic and the deep economic crisis that followed. There is an explanation for this. The explanation is the gift tax deduction, which means that the person who gives gifts to an approved organisation can make a tax reduction of up to SEK 1,500 per year, and that by 2020 was the first full year that the gift tax deduction existed after we Christian Democrats managed to reintroduce it into the budget decided by the Riksdag in 2018. Since then, I have repeatedly highlighted in this speaker's chair the need to start developing the gift tax credit, inter alia, so that the deduction is greater and that more organisations are included. Now, at last, this development can begin by doubling the actual deduction in the budget that we have presented. The gift tax credit has already been successful. Now I really look forward to seeing the positive effects on the non-profit organisations that will come from the improvement we are making. Madam President, I would like It matters how we vote in the elections. It becomes clear when you look at the various draft budgets that Parliament has to choose from today. In the draft budget that we have been involved in negotiating, we have started from what problems Sweden has today and how these are to be resolved. We're committed to shortening the lines of care. We're betting on more cops with better pay. We make sure that ordinary people get more money in their wallets. We know the importance of non-profit organisations to our society, and we are working to strengthen their economy. Against us is a government that is producing a draft state budget not on the basis of what it needs, but on the basis of what other parties need in order to possibly support the draft budget. It matters how we vote in the elections. Madam President, I would like Today, Parliament has the chance to take steps to turn Sweden's development in the right direction. These are important steps, but more is needed. I am hopeful about the future, but it requires sustained work. It also requires a government with a strong Christian Democratic influence so that these issues can be prioritised.
i-4c74881522ca254f-781	Madam President, I would like In this last autumn change budget for this term of office, the Government is making an addition to the development budget that will stretch Swedish international aid to a total amount of SEK 47 billion. This is done in a situation where Sweden is already the second largest contributor within the OECD. Against this background, it is indeed time for us to start discussing what efforts are missing at home, which areas of expenditure remain underfunded as a consequence of this policy and how effective aid policy really is. Fortunately, in terms of accuracy and effectiveness, we have a wide range of experts and reports to lean on when we look for an answer. We can begin with the Swedish National Audit Office's report of 2 November this year, which states that there are major shortcomings in the government's management of aid sent to organisations such as the UN and the World Bank. In August this year, a report from the Expert Group on Aid Analysis, EBA, came on aid to Afghanistan. The investigator says that there has been a discrepancy between goals and actual results. Moreover, corruption has been widespread. A few years earlier, the one-percent target was reviewed by the same authority, which wrote the following: a number of indicators indicate that Sida has sometimes received more money than it has been able to manage with sufficient care. In pure Swedish, this means that tax money has been thrown to the right and left on countries and organisations without any benefit to the most vulnerable. Madam President, I would like Here, then, we have three reports which unisonly point to systematic shortcomings in Swedish aid policy. It is for the reasons stated in these reports that Swedish aid has fallen into the hands of corrupt governments and authorities around the world. We all remember that the mission review a few years ago revealed that a farmer's cooperative in Zambia has embezzled financial support from the aid agency Sida of up to 30 million SEK. Even more serious is the fact that aid falls into the hands of governments that violate human rights – as in Tanzania, which has been a major recipient of Swedish aid, where state funds have gone to hunt homosexuals. Then I wonder: Is this the meaning of moral power? Is this the Swedish picture? Is it for this that Swedish ministers are beating their chests at international conferences? With Swedish democratic politics, they would not get another crown. With Sweden's democratic aid policy, we could go above the EU average for aid and free up the scope for reform of health, education, care and justice. When the government talks about the holes in welfare and you read in the newspaper that Sweden has the third lowest police density in Europe, then you as a voters should be aware that there is not a lack of money because Sweden has the fourth highest tax burden in the world but that there is a lack of money because the government simply has other priorities. Although we ignore the fact that Swedish aid has been seen by authorities and experts, although we ignore the fact that the aid has financed corruption and even disregarding that Swedish aid has ended up with governments that violate human rights, SEK 47 billion is still provocative. It is provocative when we have an under-funded judiciary, when we have the most poor pensioners in the Nordic countries and when we have record-long healthcare queues. How many more cops in the streets and squares could we have for that money? How many homeless people could we have covered our heads? How much more could we have invested in health care? SEK 47 billion, Madam President, is equivalent to approximately 88 000 nurses. Instead, they are thrown into corrupt, inefficient aid efforts. That is why the Swedish Democrats firmly reject social democratic aid policy and call for approval of the Swedish democratic reservation in the report.
i-4c74881522ca254f-795	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by calling for the proposal to be approved and for the reservation to be rejected. 2021 has been an exceptional year. The consequences of the pandemic are and have been extensive, and yet it is not over. For us in politics, the work has been about pairing and managing, prioring and protecting, maintaining and developing, all in order for Sweden to stand strong through the crisis and even stronger after it. Massive support efforts have been made. The work to get these subsidies in place has taken on board everyone in this House, not least the Committee on Finance and the Government in particular. This has been possible because Sweden had a stable and well-managed economy when the pandemic struck. The economic strength laid the foundations and gave room for manoeuvre. The efforts that have been made are well known, and they are because they have been important. The aid measures have saved companies from bankruptcy. They have secured the welfare of municipalities and regions, and they have kept people's incomes and jobs. Just take the short-term leave. This model was introduced by the newly departed Prime Minister Stefan Löfven. When he was previously president of the IF Metall trade union, he made sure to get the model in place to save jobs during the financial crisis. This time he looked as Prime Minister to get the short-term layoffs in place to save the jobs during the pandemic. Almost 600 000 people have been short-term laid off during the pandemic. That's over 18% of all employees in the country. This is worth recalling. The importance of the interventions – or how it would have been without them – is difficult to view economically and socially. In any case, we can note that the Committee on Finance has adopted nine supplementary amending budgets during the year before we adopt this autumn amending budget, which adjusts the budget for events during the year. Even in this amending budget, we see the consequences of the pandemic. One major item is about SEK 6 billion in increased resources for testing and infectious detection. Another item is support for rail transport of SEK 1.4 billion. One entry is, of course, another 1 billion for vaccination costs. Another effect of the pandemic – or rather a consequence of Sweden's economic management of the pandemic – is that Sweden's EU contribution has increased significantly, by 8.8 billion SEK. As you know, we are doing everything we can to keep the fee low, and the government also ensured during the budget negotiations in Brussels that our low fee would be maintained. The reason it is now rising is that the Swedish economy has recovered so strongly and is walking like a train. We have substantial economic growth and comparatively better economic development than the other Member States. This means that our gross national income – our BNI – is growing. As a result, our membership fee, which is linked to the development of the economy, is also growing. Although this is an increased fee, it is therefore proof of something that is fundamentally positive, namely that the Swedish economy is strong and growing. Madam President, I would like Allow me to comment briefly on the reservation from the Swedish Democrats. One might ask whether the party has changed politics. In the past, there was a desire to reduce the reception of refugees here and to increase support on the ground. Now they seem to want the opposite – less help on the ground, and then reasonably more refugees here. It's worth noting. Madam President, I would like For 2021 we put a budget that would take Sweden out of the pandemic. It was the jobs, the jobs and the jobs that were in focus. Then there was another wave. The recovery came off, and it had to be pandemic management more. We now hope, however, that after this amending budget we can look more forward and advance. The Swedish economy is developing well, and we are now going to speed up the pace of the construction of society and tackle the challenges we face. Our focus as Social Democrats is clear, and the country's newly elected Prime Minister Magdalena Andersson is super clear. We see three priority areas. We're going to turn every stone around to break the segregation, and with the collective strength of society, we're going to push back crime and increase security. We shall regain control of welfare after it has been subjected to failed market experiments and forced privatisations that cause it to lose its quality, increase the gaps and drain it on tax money, which goes down into the large groups' own pockets. We will ensure that we are at the forefront of developing the new green jobs throughout the country, not least in the industrial revolution that is now under way. These jobs don't just put food on the table, and they don't just fund welfare. The new jobs also mean that we take Sweden's responsibility in the climate transition. Now it's full speed ahead.
i-4c74881522ca254f-813	Madam President, I would like Let me first state that the Moderates see the Government's proposal for the autumn change budget as a way for the Government to correct its own budget for this year. We Moderates are not behind the previously decided budget, because we had our own one that was much better. We are therefore not proposing any changes to the Government's autumn budget. In order to realise our policy, we need a completely different direction, and we are therefore not taking part in the decision on the autumn change budget for 2021. Madam President, I would like The clearest way to illustrate the government's failed budget for this year is to note that the newly elected Prime Minister Magdalena Andersson promises strong action against both organised crime and segregation in our suburbs. So she goes in opposition to herself. This is a tactic that the Social Democrats use every time we approach an election. It then points out all the social problems that need to be addressed but forgets that you yourself have been in the government without having taken hold of these social problems. Instead, you blame all the problems on someone else. If it is not the pandemic, the alliance government or Bildtgovernment in 1991 is to blame – or the municipalities, regions or health professionals. The present Social Democratic and Environmental Party government is apparently never responsible for anything at all. I understand if Magdalena Andersson is a little ashamed of the policy pursued. The fight against organised crime, for example, was the focus of former Prime Minister Lövven's government declarations 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019, 2020 and indeed 2021. But the trend has gone in the wrong direction. The shootings and murders have increased, and insecurity has spread. At the same time, the measures taken by the government have been incomprehensible. The government has even said no to most of what the opposition has proposed to reverse developments. Failures also apply to other areas. For example, Stefan Löfven promised the EU's lowest unemployment rate, but instead we have the EU's almost highest unemployment rate. At the same time, we in Sweden now have, for the first time since joining the EU, higher unemployment than the EU average. When the new party leaders of the Social Democrats promise to get to grips with the problems, it rings very falsely. Magdalena Andersson has not only been Minister of Finance in Stefan Lövven's government and thus the second most heaviest minister in the government, but she has also been responsible for all budget proposals for eight years and for the priorities that have been set in these. She is also a member of the Executive Committee of the Social Democrats and thus responsible for the political line and decisions of the party, including negotiations with other parties and government cooperation with the Green Party. Magdalena Andersson cannot pretend that she stood by the sidelines of failed politics. She is very much responsible for what has gone wrong. Stefan Lövven's failures are the failures of Magdalena Andersson. There is no autumn change budget in the world that can correct all the government's mistakes. Sweden needs a new government and a new policy – not more of what has gone wrong. As things stand, in any case, we can have a better budget than the government. In the budget that is on the table, and which the Finance Committee is behind, we are spending more than the government on the police and the judiciary. In the budget there is more money for increased police salaries, better tools for the police in their work, investments in drop-off activities, strengthening the prison service, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the courts, Säpo, customs and Coast Guard, and more detention places for persons with expulsion decisions. We also spend more resources on health care for, among other things, more care places. We are investing in measures to combat long-term unemployment. We are expanding the teaching time at school and introducing special support to the school to make up for missing lessons during the pandemic. We are lowering taxes properly for both employees and pensioners and increasing the housing supplement for low-retirement pensioners. We also lower fuel taxes and, at the same time, invest more money in expanded charging infrastructure for electric vehicles. Our three parties also announce a comprehensive grant reform and tighter targets for Swedish migration policy. Our budget is actually a really good start to the political change that Sweden needs. Madam President, I would like I would particularly like to highlight one item in the autumn amending budget. This applies to Sweden's EU fee, as Björn Wiechel mentioned earlier. Thus, the cost of the current year is increased by nearly SEK 9 billion. The Moderates wish to underline the remarkable fact that the Government has not reasonably communicated the announced increase for Parliament and the public before the autumn change budget. There are many considerably smaller positions that are discussed and preferred in the Committee on Finance, but this huge position has not been taken into account at all. Thus, the cost of the Swedish EU levy for the current year is suddenly increased by 9 billion, which just pops up a little bit like that without warning. Of this, just over EUR 6 billion is due to higher charges to the EU, and EUR 3 billion is due to the fact that it simply moved some of the cost between the years and spent the money on other things for what was meant by 2020. The reason why the Swedish EU fee was increased was affected by Björn Wiechel. But he gave a slightly twisted picture there, I think. A number of large countries in mainly southern Europe have had even worse GDP development than Sweden in the past year. Therefore, Sweden's share of the EU's GDP has increased during the pandemic from 3.5 to 3.8 per cent of the total. This will increase our share despite the fact that our GDP actually decreased, and we will have to pay more in EU contributions under the EU Treaty. So it was not quite the way Björn Wiechel claimed, that the Swedish economy has gone like a train, but we had a slightly less bad development than some large countries in southern Europe. Therefore, the Swedish fee increases. The fact that the Swedish cost of the EU levy increases by as much as 9 billion in the current year is dramatic and an enormous item in the state budget. It is comparable to the entire government budget for housing allowances for pensioners or one third of the budget for the entire police service. So it's not coffee money. It is remarkable that the government only enters this in the autumn change budget without in any way taking the initiative to come to the Committee on Finance and explain the huge increase in costs. As I have said, the Committee on Finance normally visits the government when discussing considerably less items than that. In fact, when I expressed this criticism to the Secretary of State of the Minister for Finance, he was somewhat humble and gave me the right and promised better information and dialogue with the Committee on Finance in the future in the event of major changes this year. I hope we can trust this. Although the Government, within the framework of the Autumn Change Budget for 2021, cannot of course affect the amount of the EU levy, we would like to stress from a moderate point of view that major changes in the current year should be announced clearly by a government, especially in view of the fact that Sweden is already paying one of the highest EU contributions per capita today.
i-4c74881522ca254f-833	Madam President, I would like It is also important that we manage to deal with the regular things that need to be done, for example, to get through an autumn change budget. I would like to draw attention to two important points in the autumn amending budget. One is that we provide funds for neglected maintenance in the infrastructure. Only the other day there was new chaos in Train Sweden, and that is not acceptable. We must raise our ambitions and ensure that this work goes faster, and that is both track and road. One should be able to trust the infrastructure. The second thing that is important in the autumn change budget, and which has caused much frustration, is linked to the bonus that you can get if you buy an electric car. There are a lot of car owners who have made the wise choice when buying a car to choose an electric car. They have then expected a bonus but have not received the money within a time that they think is reasonable. I understand that frustration. I have received quite a lot of disappointed emails and can only say that it is obviously not acceptable. When we lead a transformation of society, there are a lot of things that don't really keep up. One such is the forecasting tool of the Budget Department, which assumes that society changes a little bit at a time. But when we face a change, it's harder. Then we need to take the kind of action that we are now doing, to gradually replenish with more money, so that there will be money for everyone who chooses an electric car. It is an important part of the transition that we free ourselves from the extremely destructive dependence on fossil fuels and choose the modes of transport that will work in the future. With electric cars you avoid emissions in the exhaust pipe. There is no dependence on capricious princes in Saudi Arabia or dictatorships in other countries. It also avoids the whimsicalness of the global oil market. So there are many advantages. It is amazing to see the development that is now taking place in the electric car market. We get from politics to do everything we can to run fast enough to create the conditions that are needed. With this, I would like to call for the committee's proposal to be approved.
