i-87a69941dd7040dc-0	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for the initiative for this important debate. The Nordic region is unique. We have among the oldest and most extensive regional cooperation in the world. Our cooperation is based on common values and a mutual ambition to be able to live and work throughout the Nordic region. The North is our common home. Our community is part of our culture and identity, our history and our future. Our cooperation strengthens the position of our countries in the world. For a year now, we have been in an extraordinary situation. The pandemic has challenged Nordic cooperation. Entry restrictions have led to a difficult situation for those who live, work and run companies in our Nordic border regions. Throughout the pandemic, I have had many talks with citizens, families, companies, trade unions, Nordic business organisations and representatives of municipalities and regions along our borders. The testimony has touched me on a personal level. It is about families that have split up, children who have not been able to get to school and polarisation between groups. It is about entrepreneurs who see their life's work at risk, workers who have had their financial security swept under the carpet and, in fact, even children who have not even been given a birthday present because the parents could not afford to buy one. You didn't know how much money you would have at the end of the month when the border commute to Norway was stopped overnight. There have been too many examples, and it is, of course, to me that the Minister for the Nordic Countries is unacceptable. Madam President, I would like What is the foundation stone of Nordic cooperation if not the interpersonal trust? Here we in the Nordic countries can do better. Whenever obstacles and problems have arisen that have made it difficult for our citizens, the Swedish Government has acted forcefully and constructively to seek solutions to this. Sometimes a phone call has been required, sometimes a far more persistent courtship. One year into the crisis, we have been able to solve a number of urgent border barriers. Of course, we are not content there. The government continues to work to solve all remaining border barriers in cooperation with our neighbouring countries. Together, we Nordic governments have a shared responsibility for those citizens who have chosen to settle in the border regions. That's where they live their lives. We have invited them to live their lives there, with relationships that see no limit. We Nordic governments must show these people the ability to act and respect. Finally, we co-operation ministers have been commissioned by the prime ministers to implement a vision: the Nordic region will become the most integrated and sustainable region in the world. That mission must also apply in times of crisis. The pandemic has shown that our Nordic cooperation cannot be taken for granted. Constantly targeted and active work is needed. Since the start of the crisis, I and the government have been working to strengthen the Nordic border cooperation, especially now in this crisis situation. That is precisely why I have presented to my Nordic colleagues a proposal for a model that places a much clearer joint responsibility on our border regions. We need better dialogue and better coordination before decisions are taken. We must jointly anticipate negative consequences and deal with them. Our Nordic cooperation must be better equipped to deal with crises here and now and in the future.
i-87a69941dd7040dc-9	Madam President, I would like It's a failure. We can't have this. Unfortunately, this applies to a lot of things that the government is now doing. This is also how many Swedes feel about the Nordic cooperation right now. What we see is a failure, and this is not how we can have it! Madam President, I would like The Swedish Government Anna Hallberg is to be acknowledged for being clear, straightforward and, as far as I can judge, trying to act. But what we see fills us all who believe in a strong Nordic region with sorrow. 40 years ago tourist maps were found in the border town of Haparanda, where everything on the eastern side, i.e. the Finnish side, was marked with white. Nothing. Unknown country. Today we are talking about two cities, with Tornio on the other side, which in practice have grown together with the divided Victoria Square in the middle. Now the border is back again, and the difficulty of getting between the countries means that it is once again white on the other side of the Torne Valley. It is white even west of Arvika. It is white and empty for shop owners in Strömstad as well as northeast of Denmark in Sweden for Danish holiday owners and those who via Skåne would have to get to the Danish island Bornholm. This strikes at exchanges and contacts and risks destroying what has done and makes the Nordic region so strong. According to SCB, Norway was our main trading partner in 2020. Denmark was our fourth and Finland the fifth trading partner. This is where we belong. This is our springboard towards the rest of the world. Madam President, I would like In August 2019 Stefan Löfven and his fellow governments from the other countries adopted a vision that the Nordic region will become the world's most sustainable and integrated region. My message to the Swedish government is: Go back to the drawing board! We are currently very far from the world's most integrated region. In our Nordic region, work commuters in Norway should not be called dirty Swedes. In our Nordic region, a Dane who stops at a grocery store in Skåne will not be yelled out. Back to the drawing board! The requirements that can be imposed on the government are to develop a plan for how the damage that Nordic cooperation has now been done can be addressed. We need a vision that the common long table at our border crossings will be set up again. A plan is needed to better address future threats and pressures in the Nordic region. It's about everything from supply issues to cyber. Arrange that promised cross-border statistics so that it can be compared and that the real value of cross-border exchanges can be clearly measured and accounted for! Closed limits will hardly be opened until the vaccination issue is resolved. The failure is due to the fact that it is people who have been stopped, not the infection.
i-87a69941dd7040dc-18	Madam President, I would like The Nordic region as the world's most sustainable and integrated region – this is the vision for Nordic cooperation. These are grand words, but they are distant words in a reality where the opposite has been everyday life during one of the greatest disasters of our time. Not since the Second World War have Swedish soldiers been deployed at the border with a neighbouring country in the Nordic countries. Was that necessary? Could it have been avoided? The situation surrounding border regions in connection with border closures has affected many Swedes and Nordic neighbours. Surprisingly, the 1958 abolition of internal border controls in the Nordic countries has been reversed. It is clear that measures are needed for increased Nordic cooperation both during crisis and everyday life. Madam President, I would like The Nordic countries are Sweden's second largest trading partner. The Nordic region's share of trade is greater than the combined share of the United States, China, India and Russia. Tens of thousands of citizens move between the Nordic countries. Tens of thousands of students are studying in another Nordic country. The latest complete survey of work commuting from 2015 shows that about 50,000 Northers work commutes between two Nordic countries. The three - king meeting in 1914 called for a memorial. At that time the three Nordic kings gathered with their foreign ministers at the county residence in Malmö for discussions after the outbreak of the First World War. One result of the meeting was that they confirmed their unity around the neutrality line. Today, and as soon as we see a light in the pandemic, we will have to take a new starting point for the future. In view of this, we Swedish democrats are today taking three initiatives. Firstly, the establishment of a Nordic crisis preparedness committee, which rests directly under the prime ministers. Secondly, the consultation of the Ministers of State. In the event of major international crises, the Prime Minister of the country holding the Presidency of the Council of Ministers must immediately initiate a consultation process. It shall determine whether the Emergency Preparedness Committee is to be activated. If it is not activated, one needs to focus on national measures that will be taken and that will affect the neighbouring country from day one. Thirdly, the coordination of EU directives. We want Sweden to probe the possibility of creating procedures to coordinate the transposition of EU directives into the legislation of the Nordic countries so that undesirable differences do not arise. In addition, new legislative proposals should always be supplemented by a coherent analysis of how they will affect relations with the Nordic neighbours and how legislation hits people and companies living and operating in the border areas. Madam President, I would like The third initiative is an ambitious objective, but if we are to reach the goal of the world's most integrated region by 2030, these must be more than fine words and Nordic gold must not turn into sand.
i-87a69941dd7040dc-26	Madam President, I would like As unimaginable as it is, more than 13 000 Swedes have died from covid-19, a year after the World Health Organization classified covid-19 as a pandemic. This deadly and invisible virus has put the world, as we knew it, on its end. It has caused the deaths of millions of people, plunged millions of people deeper into poverty, brought down industries such as the global aviation industry, and caused bankruptcies and life's work that have gone up in smoke. It has changed our behaviour, some voluntarily, others under coercion and demands. Nothing's any more like before. The pandemic is another crisis that the Nordic cooperation, unfortunately, has proved incapable of dealing with jointly. To close your own border quickly as soon as a crisis threatens has become the new norm in the crisis management of the Nordic governments. Instead of coordinating and working together, everyone is closest to himself when the crisis is at hand. United we stand, we divide fall. Since nearly 63 years ago we were given the right to travel freely, without passports and without internal border controls within the Nordic countries, the pandemic is not the first crisis that has caused governments to panic and close borders. As late as during the refugee crisis in 2015, governments took to closed borders. Sweden's border controls against Denmark have been going on for several years. A restriction that begins as something temporary tends to become in practice permanent. Madam President, I would like Through unilateral, drastic and draconian decisions, the governments of the countries have opened and closed their national borders hip as happy. This has damaged thousands of border commuters in the Öresund region, in my home country Tornedalen and along the Norwegian-Swedish border as well as most recently on Åland and Bornholm. Madam President, I would like It didn't have to be like this. In October 2019, a unified Nordic Council approved a strategy for social security. The strategy highlights the need for effective joint crisis preparedness that can assist each other in major crises at short notice and without border barriers and doubts about roles and responsibilities. Unfortunately, governments have shown little interest in the strategy. Instead, ministers and emergency preparedness officers have argued that existing cooperation is sufficient. All of us who have been hit by and seen the covid-19 pandemic know that the common existing emergency preparedness is anything but sufficient. Madam President, I would like The fight against pandemic and crisis management cannot be at the expense of those of us who live and work in the border regions and the free movement of the Nordic countries. It is therefore high time to try new solutions. As early as June last year, the Tornedal Council, an association of 13 Finnish, Swedish and Norwegian municipalities, proposed a pilot project with a border crossing to guarantee the border crossing and facilitate commuting to work and studies. It will be interesting to hear how the Minister for the Nordic Countries views that proposal. Is the government prepared to allow special solutions and pilot activities?
i-87a69941dd7040dc-32	Madam President, I would like My vision and that of the Left Party is that cooperation between the Nordic countries should be deepened. We have a partly common history and a similar social structure, and we have many common concerns. This applies not least because many Swedes have relatives in the other countries or have lived, worked and studied there. Therefore, close cooperation with our Nordic neighbours is strategically smart in a number of areas, such as climate and environmental issues, joint production of vaccines and emergency stocks. Unfortunately, the current pandemic has shown that our cooperation is not as deep-rooted as we hoped it was. The Nordic region will be the world's most integrated region in 2030. We have a Nordic Council, which is working hard to make border barriers visible and to give the Nordic governments recommendations on what is needed to remove them. In recent years we have seen the introduction of border controls and border closures, not least during the pandemic or in the search for a better life for refugees. Governments have, in their willingness to prove strong, chosen to close borders completely without any deeper foundation or impact assessment. We from the Left Party share the view that the Nordic region should be an integrated region and believe that this situation shows both that Nordic cooperation needs to be concrete in a deeper sense and that we need to prepare for future crises. One way to do this is to develop the Nordic collaboration on border regions. We would all benefit from developing cooperation in a number of areas such as infrastructure, the labour market and services. As a party, we have also proposed the creation of regional solutions to make it easier for those who work and live in the border regions. Had we been able to achieve this – we would have strengthened border-regional cooperation – the Nordic countries would have been more keen to find solutions than to close borders. In the current situation in Norway, the priority should be that the Government continues to press on the Norwegian Government so that the limits are also opened to the weekly commutes and the Norwegian Government provides the affected commuters with full financial compensation for the entire period. The victims testify that they were forced to take loans to pay for loans or take vacation days to get food on the table. We cannot allow nationalistic notions to affect workers' rights. Today we see, unfortunately, that the French Party is trying to pit workers against workers. We believe that border commuters should feel confident that their social protection will last.
i-87a69941dd7040dc-39	Madam President, I would like No pay. No other compensation either.
i-87a69941dd7040dc-42	中 Bankruptcy – the life's work has gone to waste. I'm not allowed to visit my grandson. The whole first year with my first grandchild has been lost. I sat all alone during Christmas because I couldn't go home.
i-87a69941dd7040dc-46	I can't get to my forest, which I would have to go and take care of – not least because of bark drills. a mile instead of a mile to the mailbox and garbage can.
i-87a69941dd7040dc-48	He didn't get to say goodbye to Grandma while she was alive. .10 days quarantine to attend the funeral of a dead brother. I can't visit my mother, who's been given a severe cancer note. I am an only child, and my old and sick parents live across the border. They don't have anyone else. I have to wear orange watch vest at work because I'm Swedish. I'm not allowed to eat with other colleagues because I'm Swedish. The children are not allowed to see their father. I can't go to my own holiday home. The list can be made much longer, Madam President. These are just a few examples of how the pandemic has affected us northerners in general and those of us who live in border regions in particular. To quote a neighbor: It feels as if we border dwellers are the ones who are to take the punishment for others not taking care of themselves. It is extremely stressful, too many economically and for even more psychologically. I usually say that it is a pity that Stockholm is not closer to Finland or that Oslo is not closer to the border, because then we would not have had these problems. By then they had hit so many more, and then the governments had become aware of the world in which we border dwellers live. The limit does not normally exist. This winter, however, it has been guarded by police, military and police helicopters. At that time, resources were also available in rural areas. Unfortunately, Madam President, we feel that much of the Swedish Government has been totally absent from all this problem. At the same time, I want to say something that I have been very clear about in many contexts: The Government Hallberg has done as best she can. No shadow over her. Unfortunately, however, the title of Minister for the Nordic Countries does not go very high. That post is not high in the hierarchy. Then why hasn't the Prime Minister got on the track? Why has he been in the gallery until recently he was formally dragged out by his own MPs to take a fight with Norway to ensure that Swedish border commuters, who are full members of the Norwegian social security system, would receive compensation when they were locked out by the Norwegian State? I think I know the answer, Madam President. You don't understand what it means to live in a border country. This is understood only by those of us who live there, and because of the inability of the Nordic governments to take this on board, there is now neighbourliness, cooperation across the border and many of us who live there with a broken back.
i-87a69941dd7040dc-60	Madam President, I would like This is an important day. Sometimes I can see that a majority of our politicians see the Nordic issues as a special interest. For me who live in Värmland, Norway is not only an important trading partner but also an important part of the tourism industry, the labour market and not least the social. For us warmers, Nordic cooperation is anything but a special interest. For us, Norway means a lot. Nordic cooperation is the cornerstone of what we see today as both trade and international relations. Tens of thousands of Swedes receive all or part of their income from work in Norway. Several Norwegian industries depend on the Swedish workforce. Norwegians are a very important part of the Swedish tourism industry. In addition, 12 000 Norwegian families have their leisure accommodation in Sweden. One indication of the effects of the pandemic is that grocery trade increased by around 4 per cent last year. However, it was not an increase that the border municipalities could take part in – on the contrary, sales there decreased by an average of 25 per cent. In Värmland Eda and Årjäng you can see a dot of 49 and 42 per cent respectively. In Torsby there is just over 18 per cent. Madam President, I would like It is no national concern for other countries to support the Swedish border trade. But even before exports and imports are added to the calculation, the economic relations between Norway and Sweden are about huge sums of money. Nor should we forget the relationships between families, friends and, not least, lovers that military at the border put an end to. This sets deep tracks. It is therefore a national concern to safeguard Nordic cooperation. Madam President, I would like We have a broken Nordic cooperation. As early as April last year, I asked Minister Hallberg a written question. During the year, I have asked more questions. I know that the Government is passionate about Nordic issues and cooperation, but unfortunately she represents a government that has not understood the importance of this. I understand that the Government would never admit it, but there are quite a few examples that the government has always been three steps behind. In times of crisis, the government must put on the leadership shirt and see the whole picture. Unfortunately, this has been missed when it comes to Nordic cooperation, which is why many people have come under pressure.
i-87a69941dd7040dc-66	Madam President, I would like The Coronapendemy has hit the whole world. A pandemic has no limits, but we do. In the Nordic Council, we cooperate in a wide range of issues. It is about trade, the environment, transport, energy and more. But it is also about much more. It is a sense of belonging and trust, and it has had a big thorn in connection with the closure of borders. Many have suffered from corona but also from the closed borders. This applies to companies and commerce, employees and commuters, but also to families. Sweden's entry ban prevents children from being with their relief families on the other side of the border. Although they are there on a regular basis, there are no exceptions. This group of children and their families urgently needs everyday life and life to function as usual. Sweden's entry ban also affects non-Swedish family members, who have Norwegian or Danish citizenship. They may not travel to Sweden, even together with the Swedish family member. There is only one exception for children and parents, and this applies to shared custody or urgent family reasons. Families and relatives are severely affected in everyday life due to the Swedish entry ban on Denmark and Norway. The assessment at the border is said to be arbitrary, creating frustration for families in their day-to-day planning. The last year has really taught us the importance of open borders, both for nations and for relationships.
i-87a69941dd7040dc-72	Madam President, I would like Time and again since the start of the pandemic, the Swedish Government has highlighted the impact of restrictions on border regions, including with the other governments. We have really worked hard to achieve flexible solutions with our neighbours. The government's work has also produced concrete results – let me mention some of them. Before doing so, I would also like to say that we have the Border Barriers Council and the border-regional information services. They have played a key role in this too. They have worked intensively to solve problems with border barriers, and many have also been able to be solved. We should also remember that the Swedish Government has managed to protect the necessary work commuting, which was not even self-evident from the beginning; I am thinking above all of socially critical functions. We can look briefly at the different parts of the country. In the Torne Valley, Finland decided last year on total entry restrictions, along a border that had previously been basically completely delineated. But after an intensive dialogue with the Finnish Government, at the initiative of the Swedish Government, Finland decided on an exception for these border communities for a period of time. This was a signal, but of course it was also a very important step in the right direction. Now the border is closed again, but we continue our dialogue. So it can be influenced. Similar constructive dialogues have been conducted with Denmark by the Swedish Government. Denmark has chosen to have exceptions in place for residents in our border regions. The Öresund region is central to Nordic cooperation. In Norway, as we have heard here earlier today, there was an emergency situation that would not really have had to arise if there had been a dialogue before. But now it arose, and for several weeks thousands of commuters lived in uncertainty. Now we have solved it for day commuters and also for the compensation for day and week commuters. This is an example of how it is possible to achieve results through dialogue and intense pressure – it is pleasing, but it is not enough. We really need to do much more, Madam President, together in the Nordic countries. We need to do more also at strategic level, and I welcome the initiatives that have been taken up here today. While each country makes its own decisions, we must sit down together and see how to avoid this in the future and how to get out of the crisis we are still in. It is usually said that it takes two to tango, but it requires five countries to agree that we have the problem and want to solve it together. Actually, we're not there today. D a Swedish government has been extremely active in trying to create a model for how we should interact. I highlight this at every meeting, and we Nordic ministers have also called for extra meetings to solve the issues but also to work with the border cooperation model that I have previously presented. I think it is absolutely crucial that we start here and now, before we start talking about new strategic initiatives. We need to show that we are serious in everyday life, here and now. I will continue to work for this every day, in dialogue with my Nordic ministerial colleagues.
i-87a69941dd7040dc-82	Madam President, I would like I also firmly believe that Anna Hallberg is really trying to do her job as Nordic Minister for Cooperation. But it is just as Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson says: The whole government wants to do things, especially the head of the government. Madam President, I would like Closed borders have not arisen by chance. The truth is that Sweden stands out. By 15 March, 640 people had died in Norway because of covid and 800 in Finland. In Sweden there were 13 146 people. I have two questions for the Government, which is a member of Stefan Lövven's Government: When the Government has made a decision, or delegated it to any authority, has it ever been reflected on how Sweden's actions will be perceived by others and what countermeasures may come? Secondly, border openings and cross-border movements should also be linked to the possibility of vaccination, but also to the possibility of functioning rapid tests. What are the government's plans? Will all adults in Sweden have been vaccinated by the end of June?
i-87a69941dd7040dc-85	Madam President, I would like Let me begin by saying that every single death is, of course, a tragedy. We see in the Nordic countries that we in Sweden have been hit harder than in other countries. Why do we not yet have an answer? If we look out in Europe, we see that countries are affected differently, even though they are close to each other and despite the fact that they impose different types of restrictions. What we need to do here and now, today, is work together to get the Nordic community back in place. We need to fix this together. I do not see that in the Swedish political context we are valiant to point fingers. I rather believe that it is about in which different political networks – between governments, between border municipalities and so on – we can influence each other to want to take the next step forward. That is what we need to discuss today, and I would like to invite you to a general summary of what we can do together.
i-87a69941dd7040dc-88	Madam President, I would like The government keeps saying that Sweden has been affected. Many countries have been affected. But it is clear that if there are over 13 000 deaths in Sweden but 800 in Finland and 640 in Norway, this risks leading to countermeasures. Then, firstly, my question: Has the government ever during this year that the pandemic has been going on considered and reflected on what consequences it will have when Sweden is perceived to go away? Secondly, I am quite convinced that something that can help us to see border openings again is the roll-out of vaccinations, as well as the possibility of another rapid test, not least in the border regions. Then my simple questions to the Government, as part of Stefan Lövven's government, are these in place? Will vaccinations be rolled out according to plan? Can we say that all adult Swedes on the last June of this year have received the vaccine they so hotly desire?
i-87a69941dd7040dc-90	Madam President, I would like The measures taken to curb the pandemic can have several different causes and are affected by each country's national context. Given that we are still in the midst of the pandemic, I do not want to review in detail our own country or our Nordic neighbours' management of the pandemic. We see many similarities between countries when it comes to taking measures to reduce the spread of infection – for example, it is recommended that you stay at home if you are ill and so on. So there are similarities and differences. To get back to the issue of vaccination, we are all currently faced with the concern that we do not have enough vaccine production. The target set by the government by the end of June is based on the forecast delivery of vaccines. Right now we are facing a major challenge; we last heard today about the restriction of Astra Zeneca's vaccine in Sweden. We have a common challenge when it comes to vaccination, and we shall also deal with it together – within the EU but also, of course, within the Nordic region.
i-87a69941dd7040dc-94	Madam President, I would like During the coronapandemine, the different Nordic countries have adopted very different strategies. Risk assessments and risk management recommendations have also differed significantly between the risk assessment authorities in our different countries. It is about everything from the infection of the virus to restrictions. When governments have followed the recommendations of their respective authorities, differences have arisen. We believe from the Swedish Democrats that it is important that the risk assessment authorities have access to the same scientific data on an ongoing basis and continuously compare their risk assessments. My question to the Government is: Will Minister Hallberg work to investigate what has caused the various assessments, and is the Government prepared to act in order for a new coordination model that has been mentioned to be put in place and for more tools to be developed that can be quickly activated in the event of future crises, so that we can be proactive and not just retrospective and reactive?
i-87a69941dd7040dc-96	Madam President, I would like First of all, I'd like to turn against the description that we've only been reactive. I have been very proactive over the past year in trying to find solutions to the border problem. As far as collaborative models are concerned, there are different types of models, and we can discuss whether they will be successful in the short term and in the long term, but I very much welcome this type of initiative. I have now tried to find a model for cooperation during the crisis, so that we can at least agree on how to deal with our border regions and the citizens and businesses affected. This has been a challenge, I can tell you. Not all countries in the Nordic countries have even supported this. Let's start here. We're trying to solve this now. I won't give up. I hope that we will get there, but we really need to find models of cooperation, not least within the framework of our authorities. It's obvious.
i-87a69941dd7040dc-99	Madam President, I would like In this sense, we believe that Minister Hallberg has tried to work as proactively as she has been able to. However, a recent survey of the Border Barriers Council shows that more than six out of ten experience increased concern about not being able to meet their family members across the border. Nearly nine out of ten experience increased concern over the different restrictions of the countries, and one in five experiences increased anxiety about losing the job. Concerns increase in all categories when, as eight out of ten say, conflicting information is obtained from the respective information services and countries. This is, of course, untenable for a region that has just the ambition to become the world's most sustainable. It is not only a question of the environment but also of social, cultural and economic sustainability and so on. Sustainability is also required in the labour market. My supplementary question must therefore be: Is the Government prepared to act to secure long-term games for commuters, students and families, and to review the border crossing rule in order to implement more effective agreements where it is actually needed?
i-87a69941dd7040dc-102	Madam President, I would like Yes, we have many lessons to learn from this crisis. What we thought in the past was perhaps less problems and border barriers that needed to be resolved in the longer term have now proved to be acute problems. We absolutely need to learn these lessons and remedy it at a strategic level, and we need to raise our eyes to the government level and to the Prime Minister level and see what we can do together to ensure that this does not happen again. Now we have many examples of the Nordic countries not actually being able to hold together in crisis. We need to learn from this, and I am convinced that we will be able to emerge stronger from the crisis if we put the problems on the table and can agree on a new model of cooperation. As I said, five countries should decide on this, and Sweden is at the centre and driving this. We in the Swedish Government are doing everything we can to achieve results in this.
i-87a69941dd7040dc-104	Madam President, I would like It has now been over a month since Sweden introduced entry restrictions also against Finland, except for the earlier announcements against Norway and Denmark. While we in Sweden have rightly been upset by how Swedish commuters in Norway have been locked out of there without income, unfortunately the Swedish entry restrictions have affected Finnish border commuters working in Sweden. The requirements for presenting a negative covidtest affect those who commute weekly from Finland to Sweden with additional expenses of between SEK 6 800 and SEK 10 000 per month. Anyone who has previously had covid man who is now healthy can still get positive results on tests and thus be denied entry. The Finnish course participants who train at the Education North in Övertorneå together with other adults from Norway and Sweden are denied entry by the Swedish police to Sweden.
i-87a69941dd7040dc-106	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Linda Courage, for the question! We all know that the border restrictions that we in Sweden finally had to impose, with testing at the borders of the Swedish Public Health Agency's advice, were unequivocally necessary because of the pandemic response. There, of course, we listen to our expert authority. But it has the consequence that it affects even more, as Linda Modig describes, for example students or border commuters who also have to show tests when the test activities do not work. This is also about the application of the rules. I am the first to take on board information and ensure that, in the performance of their duties, authorities also ensure that there is predictability in how the rules are applied. But then we have this with testing. There, Sweden may have to look at what we at municipal and regional level can help with in our border regions, as other countries have done. We also need to have a dialogue with municipalities and regions on this. I intend to initiate it, preferably together with the Members of Parliament concerned.
i-87a69941dd7040dc-108	Madam President, I would like Nevertheless, I would like to take this opportunity to ask the Minister for the Nordic Countries to review the entry restrictions regulation. There is now room to make adjustments when it has been in place for a while. Throughout the pandemic, we have been able to tighten the regulatory framework when it does not work. I also wonder about what I mentioned earlier, namely special solutions. Is the government prepared to test pilot activities, for example? The Tornedal Council has proposed border crossings precisely to ensure border crossings and facilitate commuting to work and studies. As Minister Hallberg mentioned, application is a major problem when it comes to border closures and border openings. Not only do we see a risk, but there are, unfortunately, arbitrary assessments of individual officials at the various authorities in the various countries that put individual people at risk. Sometimes it's a lottery if you get into a country or not. One way to eliminate this is to create this kind of border crossing. It would be an amazing pilot operation. Is the government prepared to take the chance?
i-87a69941dd7040dc-111	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Linda Modig, for very good thoughts and suggestions! The regulatory framework should be constantly reviewed and tightened so that it makes things easier for people without countering pandemics – absolutely. Special solutions we have very good experiences with. We try to have special solutions in many of our border regions between the Nordic countries. Sweden has been the driving force for special solutions, and it has been successful. I would be happy to take that initiative and look further at it. As far as enforcement is concerned, I have high confidence in our authorities, but it is clear that there must be predictability and a common way of applying the regulatory framework. It is important that we ensure this. I therefore agree with that.
i-87a69941dd7040dc-113	Madam President, I would like Sweden has fallen into the same ditch as the other Nordic countries and thus closed the borders, even though the mutated virus that we were supposed to stop was already here. Here, too, we notice that solutions are coming up that may work well on a desk in Stockholm, but it is very clear that they do not work out in reality. As early as the first day, this caused great concern to border municipalities, which also made different interpretations of the restrictions on school pupils, health workers and relatives of people working in Norway. A question to the Government: Does the responsible minister or department have contact before decisions are made with the regional actors, regions, municipalities, authorities, information services etc. available to get feedback on the national restrictions or guidelines that will be proposed, so that they can be adjusted for a decision?
i-87a69941dd7040dc-116	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson, for the question! The Swedish Public Health Agency presented a request to the Government regarding the regulation of entries from Denmark and Norway. We listened to this and made a decision that was valid until 31 March. Yesterday there was a new request from the Public Health Agency. We are now looking at them and will shortly come back to the matter. Of course, we want to shorten the time when Sweden has an entry ban as much as possible. This was only a result of the Swedish Public Health Agency's wishes and request. Of course we have to listen to this, as I said earlier. But we look forward with confidence to now being able to deal with the request from the Public Health Agency again. As I said before, it goes without saying that the application of public authority must be predictable. We must ensure that, and the dialogue before that is crucial. It is important in order to be able to investigate consequences but also in order to be able to manage the effects in good time.
i-87a69941dd7040dc-118	Madam President, I would like It is clear that it would have been very good if you had taken one, two or three extra days to actually check what this would mean in reality and not on the other side of the Strömmen at Rosenbad. It would have made a lot easier. The Government mentioned the exercise of authority. We note that the police website, among other things, states that there are a number of circumstances that allow you to cross the border. It's on the police website. It also states that no advance rulings are given. So, as we heard earlier, it is up to the individual official, who stands at the border there and then, and to what knowledge he has. It was very clear now that the border was reopened with Norway that those who stood there had not received the necessary information. As a result, some had to go quite a long way to take new tests that then proved unnecessary.
i-87a69941dd7040dc-120	Madam President, I would like I very much agree that in the best of worlds we shall have foresight and dialogue. That's exactly what I run in contact with my Nordic ministerial colleagues. In fact, that is how the Swedish Government has acted. When we have imposed restrictions, we have contacted the other Nordic governments to give a warning but also to have a dialogue. Then together we can anticipate the consequences that this can have. I wish the other governments would accept this too. Some are already doing it, and it's working better. With regard to the specific decision, I will say that sometimes you do not have one, two or three days. That's the problem. This type of mutations comes in very quickly. In this case it was in the Oslo area. There was a quick request from the Public Health Agency, and it would be a quick decision from the government. It is, of course, unfortunate from the perspective we are now talking about – it is unfortunate for border citizens. But we are really going to do everything we can to try to provide information on time. It should, of course, also be a predictable application of the regulatory framework that we have set. As I said, I have great confidence in the police. But these are very important issues.
i-87a69941dd7040dc-123	Madam President, I would like I should like to begin by stating one of the examples highlighted by the Government. This is what the government has done for day commuters, and it is about the financial compensation given to those who commute to Norway. This actually happened after quite a lot of pressure from me and many of my colleagues in the Nordic Council. Then there is the issue of the world's most integrated region. I can agree with the Government when she says that cooperation strengthens our countries in the world. I can also agree with the challenges that the Government has seen. This concerns the fragmentation of families, the economic crisis for families and companies that have gone bankrupt. But the fact that we are the most integrated region in the world does not really match reality. I think it's good that the Government has a disease perspective. However, I would like to hear what three points the Government is taking with it in view of future cooperation. What can we do to make things better?
i-87a69941dd7040dc-126	Madam President, I would like Yes, as Mr Teimouri mentions, there has been pressure on the government – absolutely. The government has now also acted, not least myself, with regard to day commuters and compensation for both day commuters and weekly commuters. I'm grateful for that pressure. It is very much to be welcomed with all kinds of initiatives in relation to another country that is acting against our will, so to speak. I'd like to get back to what I said earlier. This is true at government level, in political networks and between municipalities on both sides of the border. We really need to push from all sides. I'm very much in favour of that. Then there were the three points that I now want to see. We need to have a dialogue before we decide on border closure. However, we must also examine all other options before closing borders, and we must take responsibility together for the consequences of border closure. That is exactly what I have proposed in the model I am talking about. If we had done this, we would have had it in place on 29 January when the Norwegian border was closed.
i-87a69941dd7040dc-129	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I agree. We should never really have ended up where we ended up. That's the big challenge, isn't it? I believe that the government has the main responsibility and must put on the leadership shirt in such a situation and in all forms of crisis management. It cannot be the idea that changes should occur because of pressure from others. I would have liked the government to have been much more active in its role. I know that the Government itself has been very active in this matter, but we have missed this at all levels. What I can think is positive is precisely what the Government is raising about conversations. I think we need to talk a lot more, but I'd like to see an action plan as to what we're going to do for the future. We have a rather damaged Nordic cooperation today, and I am worried about what it will look like in the future.
i-87a69941dd7040dc-132	Madam President, I would like Of course, the government has the ultimate responsibility. This is a question of foreign policy, and Nordic cooperation is ultimately the responsibility of the government. I also think it is important that we now find solutions and that we help each other in a broad context. That's more what I was talking about. That is why I welcome various types of pressure, if that is what we call it. Initiatives may be a more constructive concept. I can see that we actually have a vision. But it's not worth much if it doesn't reflect reality. We have concrete action plans, adopted by the Nordic countries, to achieve the vision. We are now rolling out these action plans. Nor are they worth so much if they are not seen in the reality of our citizens. So we need to take the vision and take the action plans. But we also need here and now – I come back to this – to decide that we need to have a dialogue. We do not make decisions together, for each nation makes its decisions on border barriers. But we must take responsibility for Nordic cooperation. We need to do that together.
i-87a69941dd7040dc-135	Madam President, I would like The solutions are there – they are right in front of us. – – – In the Nordic countries, we have repeatedly shown that we are stronger together. ..................................................... Madam President, I would like I quote directly from the vision for the Nordic region that Stefan Löfven has signed together with the other Heads of Government. It is difficult to say that this applies. What I see as a great danger is that Nordic trust is now rapidly eroded. Closed borders that make it impossible to live in one country and work, study, enjoy culture or have a person to love in another country are now at risk of creating fear of the future. You really want me to take that job? You want me to buy that house? Worse still, it leads to the feeling of wanting to retaliate. It is possible to drive from Haparanda to Ängelholm – it is a journey of 15 hours without stopping – but you cannot get from Haparanda to Torneå, which is five minutes away. I am convinced that this is spelled the possibility of rapid tests and vaccines. All this is the government's task. It is a matter of governance and management. This is about the inability or unwillingness to control when it really burns – the tsunami in 2004, the refugee crisis in 2015, the Transport Board scandal in 2017. For the future, it is also important for the government to ensure that a credible Nordic vision is developed. How will people dare and want to invest in something on the other side of the border after the pandemic? Therefore, my call to the government is: Listen to the residents of the border regions! From north to south, they point to the need for better infrastructure. Do this after the pandemic! It is about an increased understanding of skills supply and commuting in a common Nordic labour market and a functioning border regional statistics. Madam President, I would like We need vaccines and rapid tests now, a national crisis management worthy of the name and vision for a common Nordic region, for the future, after the pandemic.
i-87a69941dd7040dc-142	Madam President, I would like I must say that I find it remarkable that Mr Wallmark is accusing the government of the lack of vaccines, for example. As I said earlier, this is a global issue in which we struggle every day, every hour to get the vaccine production going. We are faced with difficulties. We should remember that a year ago we thought it would take three to five years to produce vaccines. We have an incredibly intensive work to do on this. That it would be the government's responsibility, for example, for a vaccine producer in Belgium not to deliver, I do not understand how a political point can be made. There is no government in the Nordic countries that has been as active as the Swedish government to get Nordic cooperation back on its feet after the pandemic. There is no government that has been as constructive and as outreach as the Swedish government during this year, to make Nordic cooperation work.
i-87a69941dd7040dc-144	Madam President, I would like The Government just replied in a change of line that the Government has ultimate responsibility. This is the case in Sweden – the government always has the ultimate responsibility. Then I think you should shoulder it, too. Madam President, I would like Let me remind you that a year ago, for example, the Moderates pushed us to have a clearer pathology and rapid test. This was not very important to the government. We pushed for the appointment of a Corona Commission. This was rejected at first, but then it was forced to do so. It is extremely important that responsibility is shouldered. As I said, Madam President, if we look back, the problem is that the government is dealing with national crises in a very bad way: the tsunami, the refugee crisis and the breakdown of the Transport Agency. Therefore, I think it would be wise for the government to consider self-critically how to rule and lead the country.
i-87a69941dd7040dc-147	Madam President, I would like It's interesting that Hans Wallmark and the Moderates are sitting with the basis for how to fight the pandemic. We have expert authorities, the European Disease Control Agency and so on, and now we have a national vaccine coordinator. Of course, the government has the ultimate responsibility, but it is also about what issues we deal with in a political context. Is it the vaccine production that is not working right now, or is it that we actually also have to look at the reality out there? I will come back to what the debate is about today – the Nordic cooperation – and the government's responsibility for this. There the government has been very active. I very much welcome Mr Wallmark's proposals and constructive ideas on what more can be done, in addition to my proposals and what the government has proposed to the other governments. I have not seen much of this, but rather criticism and perhaps even a little big words, but no concrete proposals.
i-87a69941dd7040dc-150	Madam President, I would like I think it is painful, and I think it is also painful for Anna Hallberg as Nordic Minister for Cooperation, that we see the effectively closed border between Sweden and Finland, that we see the effectively closed border between Sweden and Norway and that we see the difficulties between Sweden and Denmark. Clearly, this will have consequences. We see it already in the border regions, how it erodes trust and how it also breeds the feeling that you want to retaliate and respond. That is why I think it is extremely important to consider how it has arisen, because it is clear that other countries have not acted against Sweden by chance. Or does the government really believe that? Then I think it is important for all parties and politicians to be the same constructive force. We need a vision for Nordic cooperation beyond the pandemic, for what we have now seen has erased and destroyed. This must lead us to heal and build up.
i-87a69941dd7040dc-152	Madam President, I would like It is undoubtedly the case that we in all the parties in this House seem to be inspired by Nordic cooperation and keen to repair the damage in our border areas. This has been clear to us in the Swedish delegation in the Nordic Council, especially recently, and there is something as Nordic as a consensus spirit on the issue. However, the question is whether we are all prepared to move from reactive work to proactive leadership for a new Nordic line after the pandemic. One of Denmark's most renowned politicians, as well as the current President of the Nordic Council, Bertel Haarder, usually says that we must stop considering the Nordic countries as a collection of small states in Europe's periphery. He's right. The Nordic countries are in fact a European economic giant by international standards. A study by Copenhagen Economics 2013 shows that if internal borders in the Nordic countries were not sharper than in each country, the value of intra-Nordic trade would have increased by 146 per cent, to SEK 534 billion, based on the 2020 figures, and that if the borders between the Nordic countries had not been tougher than between the states of the United States, intra-Nordic trade would have increased by 17 per cent. This demonstrates the importance of Nordic trade relations and the untapped potential of enhanced cooperation. What stands in the way, no matter where you want to set the bar for cooperation, is a variety of legal and enforcement barriers and the too weak political will of governments. Madam President, I would like Politics is to want and the art of the possible. I look forward to a constructive response to the Swedish Democrats' proposal today. These are ambitious brush strokes for Nordic cooperation that would seriously shape Nordic collaboration 2.0 and shift the focus from year-to-year solving of border barriers retrospectively to starting preventing the presence of border barriers proactively. The dice have been cast. The cause of the Nordic countries is our common cause.
i-87a69941dd7040dc-157	Madam President, I would like For the Center Party, all politics of the individual begins. When we lay our ears to the ground and listen to what the citizens of the Nordic countries themselves want with Nordic cooperation, we will find that it is precisely those who have unfortunately been most affected by the absence of joint crisis management and proactive coordination between the countries and governments. It is about the opportunity to use the entire Nordic region for work, studies or housing, to give the Nordic region a stronger voice in the world and to use each other's resources, for example in the form of healthcare. The Nordic collaborations that the individual perceives as the most important in everyday life are precisely the opportunity to move around freely and work throughout the Nordic region, to move without border controls, to study and get different degrees approved and to handle various public services such as taxes, health care and pensions if you move within the Nordic region. Madam President, I would like Nordic cooperation has suffered a considerable loss of confidence since the outbreak of the pandemic, not least in border regions. Now all of us who protect and believe in Nordic cooperation must act. We must reinvigorate cooperation and not allow it to suffer the Corona death as well. We must leave the past behind, where those who want the least with Nordic cooperation in practice decide most. We need to step up efforts to remove more border barriers, because unfortunately we have received even more during the pandemic. We need to develop our social security and acquire a common crisis management capability. We need to develop cross-border mobility and cross-border communications. We need to develop and deepen our defence and security cooperation. The fact that governments are better at dialogue and at coordinating their work and informing each other is an obvious lesson after the pandemic, but let us agree that better information exchange and dialogue can never replace open borders. Now we must save what can be saved, and what has been destroyed must be built up better and stronger.
i-87a69941dd7040dc-161	Madam President, I would like In addition to the ability to deal with a Nordic region in crisis, which we are debating today, and to maintain this cooperation, we undoubtedly need to be better at maintaining cooperation even in everyday life. As we have described today by the Swedish Democrats, it is very important to try to scan and screen legislation through a form of Nordic Law Council so that we do not create unnecessary border barriers and new border barriers and that we also become better at coordinating and incorporating EU directives in a common way in the Nordic countries. A constraint today, which means that Nordic conventions and agreements cannot be sufficiently reformed, is bureaucratic mechanisms in the EU system that are delaying this somewhere. I would like to hear whether Linda Modig and the Center Party, as one of the cooperation parties in the January agreement and potentially the government basis for a red-green government, are willing to promote an idea of coordination in future government negotiations.
i-87a69941dd7040dc-164	Madam President, I would like It is fascinating that after the next elections, the political game has found its way into our special debate on border barriers. I think we should get back to the point. Mr Emilsson spoke warmly about the need to develop civil law also within an EU perspective. It should not be a secret that the Centre Party in the Nordic Council, in the form of the middle group, is passionate about an increase in civil justice. This is precisely why we need more Nordic cooperation, so that individuals and families can live their lives in the Nordic region in a seamless way that does not happen today. Nor is it a secret that the Center Party sees great added value in the fact that the Nordic countries are better coordinating and preparing to act as a powerful region within the European Union. But then the Nordic countries must cooperate and coordinate in a much better and more offensive way. My counter-question is therefore: are the Swedish Democrats also prepared to stand for this coordination of the Nordic countries in the EU?
i-87a69941dd7040dc-168	Madam President, I would like This is an issue that is definitely part of today's debate. And the answer to Linda Modig's last question is, of course, yes. The fact that I am highlighting the issue of also being a day-to-day, so to speak, hearing how the Center Party as an EU-friendly and EU-oriented party takes the view that, in government negotiations and in other contexts, the EU acquis should not prevent the renewal of Nordic conventions and agreements – which in practice has become a fact after the accession of Nordic countries to the EU – because governments are concerned about a long process, high costs and breaking the EU acquis to be non-discriminatory against certain citizens who are not Nordic citizens – is relevant if, so to speak, it broadens more actively towards the EU and works for the Nordic region to coordinate EU directives so that we do not establish new border barriers. I would say this, Madam President, is a fundamental issue for the future, even in today's special debate.
i-87a69941dd7040dc-170	Madam President, I would like Although we all long for the next election movement and ask the voters for this mandate, we in the Center Party have a fine tradition since Gunnar Hedlund's days: We do not sell the skin until the bear is shot. We go to elections as an independent liberal force and seek the greatest possible support in the political centre. Let us see what the voters give us to manage. This applies to all parties in the Swedish Parliament. Now is not the time to close doors – vice versa. Just as we must open borders, we must also open the doors. The Center Party will work towards smooth solutions in the field of family law and in the field of civil law as a whole. We must respect the fact that the different countries in the Nordic countries have made different safety policy choices and different European integration choices. We will work to ensure that freedom of movement in the Nordic countries and in the EU is maintained.
i-87a69941dd7040dc-173	Madam President, I would like In the future, we cannot find ourselves in this situation. We must secure the situation for the Bornstedt family in Arvika, for example, who were forced to borrow from their parents in order to cope with the economy. We cannot work to have labour exchange and then not take responsibility for it. The pendulums ended up in a hell of a situation. They can't go to work, they don't get Norwegian unemployment insurance and they don't get lay-off allowance. They simply ended up outside everything. It also has consequences for family commutes. Yesterday we received e-mails from Barbro Ainegren in Sysslebäck about the grandson who is not allowed to see his father. She described the situation of families who share custody but live on different sides of the border. There are exceptions, but the practical work on infectious detection makes it impossible to commute. In addition, the economic situation that arises when the compulsory tests have to be paid for must be mentioned. We from the Left Party believe that it needs to be set up a commission with representatives from the Nordic countries to evaluate how Nordic cooperation has worked during the crisis and to develop proposals on how shortcomings can be avoided in the next crisis and on the basis of it sign some form of binding agreement that clarifies how the Nordic countries should act towards each other during future crises. In addition, the Swedish Parliament needs to review how to take on board the competence of the Nordic Council. When proposals are made in the Riksdag that affect the border regions, we have the Nordic Council that works on these issues on a daily basis. In some way we must take this knowledge to heart before decisions are made.
i-87a69941dd7040dc-179	Madam President, I would like As I mentioned in my previous speech, cooperation across our borders has been affected in so many different ways. Why is this happening? Well, it happens because we live like there is no limit. It's a sham-surium of inter-country interaction in the labour market. It is border-marriage, family- and friendship relations, association life, Swedish football players in Norwegian teams and vice versa. Youth work in the churches crosses the border. The list can be made much longer. An industry that really has a broken back now is border trade, which is so extremely important for border municipalities. As my colleague on the Värmland bench, Arman Teimouri, mentioned earlier, turnover along the border has decreased dramatically. Some individual stores have lost up to 95% of their turnover precisely because of closed borders. This means that the border municipalities with such a large share of border trade are extremely hard-hit. To put this a little in proportion, let me give you some examples. If the borders are kept closed so long that the border trade implodes completely, only for my municipality of residence Årjäng would represent 500 - 600 jobs that disappear. To translate it into Stockholm standards, it would mean 120 000 jobs lost. At that level, it is. Then you can add all the commuters who quit because they can't take any more. It's already started. With all the necessary clarity, this shows that closed borders are not a way forward. In addition, state aid is far too late, and it does not cover all these sectors which have such a large impact. Where are they going to get help? Does the Nordic Council of Ministers mean something with its vision, or are they just fine words on paper? Now it's up to you to prove it. Stefan Löfven has supported this. But then he has been blown away in these matters. It would be nice if the government were to use the energy to resolve these extremely important issues instead of using time to smudge other parties. We who live along the border need it.
i-87a69941dd7040dc-184	Madam President, I would like It is a very vivid and credible description of how the border region has been affected that Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson paints. We have talked about the inter-folk problems that have arisen, but there are also economic problems, which Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson highlights. The government's crisis package has been broad, and it has been in support of both citizens and entrepreneurs. It has been very welcome. We are up to almost 300 billion in support, as we all know. It has been a welcome support for business and entrepreneurs, and it has done a lot of good. After all, some sectors and regions have been hit particularly hard. We have also supported municipalities and regions in the form of general government contributions, and they may have to be used specifically in certain regions. Border regions are such an example, and this applies not least to border trade. I very much understand the problem and, as I said, we are doing everything we can to reopen the borders – at least periodically or to some extent.
i-87a69941dd7040dc-187	Madam President, I would like Of course, all the support that comes is welcome; that is not the issue. However, during this period I have had quite a few questions about when the aid will come. They say, "Now it's been this and so many months since we turned in, and we haven't heard anything, and then there's been even more months, and we haven't heard anything." You've had to wait an incredibly long time for your support. Another thing that could help in this situation is lay-off rules. Last week we saw that representatives of the Norwegian Public Health Authority were out saying that they believed that the borders could be opened by summer, but if it were in June, July or August, they could not say anything about the situation as it is now. This means that we still have very many months ahead of us where support is needed for companies to pass this last period. Now it is a Christmas trade and two Easter periods that will have been completely avoided because they have not had the Norwegian trade. You can't take it anymore. You need more support now.
i-87a69941dd7040dc-189	Madam President, I would like The support is, as I said, very extensive, and they are now also extended from the Swedish side. With regard to the Norwegian support, we have a promise from the Norwegian Government that they will ensure that compensation for workers is provided. I understand that there have been difficulties in this regard, and we should be happy to turn to our Norwegian employer to get that compensation loose. Then, of course, we have to be sensitive all the time – and the government has been throughout the pandemic – to see if we are doing enough, if we are doing the right thing and if what we are doing is accurate. Sometimes we need to adjust, as we have often done. So we must always have our ear to the ground, and we have had it. Then, of course, we cannot save all companies, which one can be harsh and say. But if it is a whole industry, or municipalities and regions, that have been hit as hard as in border trade, it is of course extremely serious. The support we have today goes a long way, but we will of course have a dialogue in the future as well. We do not close doors, but support aimed at specific industries and regions also poses major challenges.
i-87a69941dd7040dc-192	Madam President, I would like Border trade is one thing, but we still have people who actually work in Norway and who we do not support today, namely those who are self-employed. Today they are hostages in Norway, plain and simple. As long as they're there, they can work, but if they want to go home and, for example, meet their family, they won't come back into Norway. We have not, at least from outside, seen anything that the government has done to help them. We also have our weekly commuters left. They can't cross. They get their support now, which is welcome, but they want to over and work! Their employers also want them there. Now, of course, they do not get the economy they would have had had they been at work. It is very gratifying that we have come to it that they actually receive compensation, but the best thing for all parties would be if they could go to work. You don't get infected because you cross a border; you get infected because you don't keep a distance, no matter what side of the border you are on.
i-87a69941dd7040dc-194	Madam President, I would like When the government does not put on the leadership shirt, it is important that members and politicians at both municipal and regional level come across to bring about changes. For example, it was not until we from the Nordic Council's Swedish delegation pressed on the governments both here at home and in Norway that day commuters could once again cross the border, and it was not until after intense pressure from us members and Nordic friends that Norway finally decided to replace day and week commuters after the border closure. It is clear that many families who have ended up in an economic and personal crisis have felt a large stone falling off their shoulders. What I want to say, Madam President, is that we should never have even ended up in these situations. That's exactly what I mean by the government being behind schedule. Now neither the government nor I can tell what can or will happen or how other countries will act, but there must be preparation. There must be a crisis insight, which the government has unfortunately lacked. Nordic cooperation is not a special interest. On the contrary, it is a national and international interest. Many should be thanked for the urgent work over the past year: Värmland County Governor Georg Andrén, Norway's ambassador to Sweden Christian Syse, local and regional politicians – the list can be made long. In this debate, I would also like to thank Minister Hallberg for her work during the year. However, my thoughts remain that I would like to hear how the government intends to act in the future, when it is not just about talks. I want to see an action plan, because we know that one is lagging behind and will slip far behind with the vision and the work that exists. The Government must be able to provide a list of measures to be implemented in order for Nordic cooperation to continue to be strengthened in the future.
i-87a69941dd7040dc-198	Madam President, I would like The leadership shirt in the Nordic countries, when it comes to getting the Nordic cooperation back together, has probably the Swedish government taken on. The borders were quickly closed last spring without actually reflecting on the consequences in the other Nordic countries. We had to put on that leadership shirt, not least me, but also several of my government colleagues. So I think it's a good expression, and I actually recognize myself in that sweater. When it comes to crisis awareness, I would like to say that if it is something we see as a crisis that is very serious for us, it is that Nordic cooperation is currently not working. The fact that it is a national interest is obvious; it is in the interests of Sweden as a whole that Nordic cooperation works – not least for economic reasons. We have talked a lot about interpersonal relations, but there are also economic reasons. Neighbouring countries are our largest trading partners in many sectors, and they are also important partners for companies. So the leader's shirt is definitely on.
i-87a69941dd7040dc-201	Madam President, I would like My point is that there is a disease perception of what has happened but that what I asked for is what we should do in the future so that we do not end up where we have ended up today. I also know that the Government has been out on these issues in the last year, but I have missed, for example, Stefan Löfven. I have missed Magdalena Andersson and Eva Nordmark when it comes to labour market issues, and others. There are several ministers who have been lacking in the arena in order to be confident that something is happening on these issues. That is why I believe that the leadership shirt has not been put on in this respect. Perhaps Minister Hallberg has done so.
i-87a69941dd7040dc-203	Madam President, I would like After all, I have overall coordination responsibilities, so it is natural that I should be seen. However, I can assure Mr Teimouri that my colleagues are also, of course, working intensively on these issues. The Minister for Labour, as well as the Prime Minister, was most involved in resolving the issue of labour commuters to Norway, compensation and so on. I would like to take one more example, and this concerns the Torne Valley, which we have heard about earlier here today. It was incredibly important to get a decision from the Finnish government to allow Tornedal municipalities to open up and show good examples for a period of time. We have also talked here about the possibility that there might be pilot cases, one might call it, to make use of in that region. I'd be happy to take that on. With regard to what we do in concrete terms, I see it this way: if we cannot even agree on what I have proposed, namely that our role as Nordic ministers should be a guardian of the Nordic interests in the respective governments, we have a challenge. We must begin by embracing the problem, and we must have a common picture of where we are going. I'll be honest with you and tell you that I can't quite see that we're there today. That is why we have to land in it first, before we take new initiatives.
i-87a69941dd7040dc-206	Madam President, I would like With regard to the absence of other ministers, it is not only I who have asked for them, but also Social Democratic Members from Värmland have, of course, mentioned that they have lacked, for example, Stefan Löfven on the issues in order to have a stronger force. This is not just about diplomatic work across borders between two telephones, it is just as much about being visible and about strengthening those who live in border regions, which have actually been hit very hard. I believe that we need to have strategic work in the future to re-establish broken Nordic cooperation. This needs to be done forcefully so that we do not end up in this situation again. I do not believe that this is the last pandemic we will have.
i-87a69941dd7040dc-208	Madam President, I would like Arman Teimouri, like Linda Modig, has my deep respect for her commitment to the Nordic Council and to the Nordic issues in which we broadly agree. Liberals are a proven EU-oriented party, and my question is therefore similar to the one I put to Linda Modig. Are Teimouri and other liberals who are also inspired by the Nordic dimension prepared to work for a stronger Nordic voice and coherence in the transposition and implementation of EU-level directives and regulations? There are good opportunities to create procedures for coordinating this transposition so that it is not done without reason in different ways and contributes to different handling operations that in turn travel rather than dismantle border barriers. But the fact is that it is often the EU level that makes it difficult or hinders the renewal of Nordic conventions and agreements. My question, as I said, is whether Teimouri is prepared to work for the EU to stimulate integration and free movement in the Nordic region rather than its integration, which is the risk today.
i-HhTYUwaxwqWXoRqeoVmQKD	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Aron Emilsson, for the question! It is no secret that Liberals like Europe, the Nordic countries and Nordic cooperation. Liberals also stand for the fact that we need more cooperation to make us better. I think you should look at things from different perspectives. Now we are not a Nordic state, but we are a state of our own and are part of EU cooperation and cooperation between the Nordic countries. Having said that, I believe that there are certain issues that we should keep at national level, but there are also many things that can get better. Policy has to discuss how to ensure that directives from EU level are implemented so that it will be good both here in Sweden and in the Nordic cooperation.
i-87a69941dd7040dc-213	Madam President, I would like I think there are many of us who notice that there are many forums for Nordic dialogue among interest organisations, authorities, networks and so on, but that the conversation in these forums often stops at beautiful words and lack of real action. What is understood is that in some cases, Nordic conventions and agreements that were established before our EU membership and can now be up to 20, 30 or even 40 years old – such as those concerning the Nordic labour market – find it difficult to renew because the government is concerned that this would conflict with non-discrimination rules in EU legislation or because there is a risk of a costly process. I think it would be a further change in the way forward if all parties could agree, as we have put forward some other initiatives, to actively promote joint management of the EU issue in this respect in order to make it really easier for cross-border commuters.
i-87a69941dd7040dc-216	Madam President, I would like There are great challenges both with Nordic cooperation and with European cooperation. However, my character is such that I believe in more cooperation at different levels. There are certainly issues where we can find a consensus among all parties. There is, of course, unity in this House on several issues relating to Nordic cooperation, and everyone who is here is friends of the Nordic countries. I think there is every reason to discuss these issues further in order to find the best possible situation for us in the Nordic region in the future.
i-87a69941dd7040dc-218	Madam President, I would like It is a bit of fun to sit in this House and hear all the parties, including the Swedish Democrats, talk about and turn for open borders; I appreciate that. But we are where we are. There are different rules for quarantine and the possibility of shortening quarantine by testing. The criteria for work commuting differ, as do the rules on taxation, social security, work travel and so on. We've heard stories. We've seen stories. We have also heard in this House about how societies now have a border built across the community and how different inhabitants are made. This creates a division and fertilizes suspicion. One example is that Swedish preschool workers have to test themselves once a week, which does not apply to their colleagues. Separate lunch rooms have also been introduced, as well as demands for Swedes to wear masks – this requirement does not apply to their colleagues – and for Swedes to wear special vests. This is very unfortunate, and it fights precisely the solidarity that we defend in the Nordic Council rather than the Corona. It is not possible to go back in time and undo this, but we can certainly learn from the mistakes that have been made. This is heard from all the parties in this House. We, as members of the Nordic Council, have a responsibility to strengthen and build on solidarity and cooperation. So has Anna Hallberg, who has received well-deserved praise in this matter.
i-87a69941dd7040dc-222	Madam President, I would like As Rebecka Le Moine says, there has been great evidence of the problems and difficulties experienced by people in border areas in particular – in Norrbotten, Värmland, Bohuslän and the Öresund region. On the other hand, I do not think that the two government parties, the Social Democrats and the Green Party, have really explained how this came about. I share Rebecka Le Moines's view that what is desirable is open boundaries – that we will once again see the long table set up in Tornedalen with real coffee and coffee cheese. But can the Green Party, perhaps also a little self-critical, explain how it is that it is Sweden that has been marked against Finland, Norway and Denmark in this way? Sweden has responded and given back, but how did this come about?
i-87a69941dd7040dc-224	Madam President, I would like I thank Mr Wallmark for the question. I'm not in jail with any secret answers, but I think this is due a lot to fear. Sweden stands out in its corona handling. Different death rates have been mentioned, and comparisons between different countries have led to restrictions. We have seen that borders have arisen in societies and that they are treated differently according to their nationality rather than according to different types of behaviour. We must look at where this fear comes from. I think that quick and rather bad decisions are made when you react to fear.
i-87a69941dd7040dc-227	Madam President, I would like Rebecka Le Moine gave two very real and important answers. I also believe that it is a question of fear and that it is therefore fundamentally closed borders. Just as many people have testified, it is not basically people who live 500 meters away from each other who may have infected each other, but they infect each other because they do not keep a distance and do not live by the rules. We've stopped humans rather than stopped the infection. The central thing is exactly what Rebecka Le Moine said, and which has been my criticism of the government and therefore also the government parties – now I do not blame Rebecka Le Moine personally for the government's actions, but she belongs to one of the government parties – is that Sweden stands out.
i-87a69941dd7040dc-229	Madam President, I would like Yet what unites all nations in this time of crisis is the will and intention to try to deal with the pandemic and crisis that we are all in. No one has been able to sit inside with answers, and no one has been able to predict how the pandemic would develop, so all politicians and nations all over the world, including the Swedish Government, have certainly done everything in its power to do it as well as is possible. But I believe that this fear, if it continues to exist, will separate nations from nations. We must build on something other than fear, on cooperation again in the Nordic Council, among other things.
i-87a69941dd7040dc-232	Madam President, I would like Thank you for an important debate. We agree that a vision must be seen in the everyday lives of our citizens, otherwise a vision is not worth much. We shall not only repair the Nordic community, but with experience of this crisis we shall deepen and strengthen Nordic cooperation, and here we all have a responsibility. Finally, I would also like to highlight the potential that exists here and now, because Nordic cooperation strengthens our countries' position in the world. In the post-pandemic economic recovery, companies that are world leaders in sustainability can play a crucial role in sustainable development. Then Sweden grows, and then the Nordic region grows. There is no doubt that this government has been capable of action. And that we have delivered results during this year in the Nordic cooperation, we know all who follow the Nordic issue. We in the Nordic countries have long felt that we trust each other. We want each other well, and we're working towards the same goal. That is where we are going again, and it is a strengthening message that we in the Swedish Parliament are united in this.
i-87a69941dd7040dc-248	Madam President, I would like Lars Beckman has asked me what measures I intend to take to ensure that rural residents do not have to drive, for example, 60 kilometres of single road to visit their postal agent, what I consider reasonable distances for rural residents to have their packages delivered and if I take any action. Lars Beckman has also asked me about the government and I have observed the deterioration that has occurred according to Region Gävleborg's report and statistics and if I take any action. Lars Beckman recently asked me a similar question so the answer is similar. I'm on 3rd of chapter. Paragraph 1 of the Postal Act(2010:1045) states that postal and delivery points within the universal postal service should be so close that users' needs are taken into account. Consequently, the Parliament has chosen not to set a maximum distance to expedition and submission points, and I do not think that I should therefore comment on what is a reasonable distance. In sparsely populated and rural areas, there is an extended service within the framework of the land mail service provided by the designated universal postal service provider Postnord Group AB. The extended service means that on certain days of the week recipients can receive announced packages and letters delivered home and order stamps for delivery. This is possible in principle throughout the entire Region Gävleborg if the dwelling is not close to a town. If all persons in a household who are covered by a rural lettering service are over 80 years old or have a disability, you can receive additional assistance through a special postal service, which means that all mail is distributed at the land border or the dwelling house. Unfortunately, I have not taken note of Region Gävleborg's report, which I hope the region will send to my employees. I do know, however, that the region has been in contact with the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency (PTS). Responsibilities can be a challenge in sparsely populated and rural areas throughout the country. PTS is the authority appointed by the Government to supervise compliance with the Postal Act and the regulations and permit conditions that have been issued under the Act one. PTS's supervision includes continuous monitoring of developments and ensuring that the actual level of postal services in the country corresponds to the needs of society and the requirements of the state. I have full confidence in PTS's supervision in the postal sector.
i-87a69941dd7040dc-252	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Madam President, I would like It has been a tough time for those who live outside the big cities of Sweden since 2015. This government has increased the tax on petrol and reduced road maintenance. It shocks the vehicle tax and now also plans to shock increase company car taxation. Of course, this has a major impact on those living outside the city's comfortable and accessible public transport and roads. This interpellation is therefore about the more than 1,600 people in Gävleborg that Region Gävleborg has produced statistics about and who have more than 20 km of one-way travel to the nearest postal representative. P4 Gävleborg interviewed a man in Svågadalen. He said, "Sometimes I get to drive more than 20 miles one way. I have asked this interpellation because I want to know what the government and the government think, because it is after all the government that governs the kingdom. Madam President, I would like I can understand that it is difficult for an ingrained Stockholmer to know how long the distances are north of Dalälven, especially if you are not there very often, so I will make some comparisons. We're in the Parliament House now, on Riksgatan 1. From here to Arlanda, Madam President, it is 44 kilometres. It takes Google Maps 40 minutes to drive. Madam President, I would like If Anders Ygeman instead sits down and drives south, he can drive 36 kilometres and end up in Södertälje – it takes 35 minutes. If he goes from Riksgatan 1 towards the coast and to Nynäshamn it starts to approach six miles. There is the distance 58 kilometers and takes 44 minutes on the double-lane highway. And anyone who has driven on the roads in Gävleborgs inland or other places in Norrland knows that it is not double-lane, asphalted highway, but rather gravel roads that are under any criticism. It is clear that I was a little surprised, Madam President, that the Government does not think it is reasonable to go from Riksgatan 1 to Arlanda to pick up mail or packages. Is that reasonable or unreasonable? We will have a living Sweden, a Sweden where we can run companies, live and live outside the comfortable urban area. Then I expect the government and the government representatives to have an idea of whether it is reasonable for those living in Stockholm's inner city to go to Nynäshamn to pick up mail and packages. It's a 58-mile journey that takes 44 minutes. This is the reality of the person who lives in Gävleborg. I am very grateful that Region Gävleborg's officials have developed this basis for us elected representatives to react to. That must reasonably be why it has been developed and wants to highlight this in all possible contexts. Let me repeat the question that this interpellation is about: what, in the view of Minister Ygeman, is a reasonable time limit and distance for those who live outside the comfortable urban area in order to be able to pick up and leave letters and packages and manage their company by mail?
i-87a69941dd7040dc-262	Madam President, I would like I thank Lars Beckman for the question. This is now the third time Lars Beckman has asked this question, and it is not surprising that the answer is the same: the Parliament has not established an absolute distance. This also applies to Lars Beckman, who has voted in exactly the same way. Instead, we have commissioned the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency to supervise the postal services in the country, and it is this authority that, taking into account different parts in individual cases, must take into account what is reasonable or not – and thus may also require an operator to have several offices.
i-87a69941dd7040dc-265	Madam President, I would like It was one of the most comprehensive and comprehensive answers a minister has ever given in the Swedish Parliament. This may be because the Government is ashamed, that the State Council does not have the geographical knowledge or that the State Council has no opinion. Let me repeat. We are now on Riksgatan 1. I can understand that it is difficult with geography for a person who moves in the inner city of Stockholm, but it is about perspective. From Riksgatan 1 to Nynäshamn it is 58 kilometres, and it takes 44 minutes. This distance is the reality for those who live in Hälsingland and Gävleborg – or Riksgatan 1 to Södertälje, 36 kilometres, 35 minutes, or, as many can surely relate to, Riksgatan 1 to Arlanda, 44 kilometres, 37 minutes. Is it this public service the responsible minister wants to see and have? Those who live in Gävleborg deserve an answer. Does the Government believe that it is right for Region Gävleborg to raise this issue and the perspective of being able to live, live and run companies throughout Sweden? If the Government believes this, the policy must of course be improved to enable people to live and live throughout Sweden, even in the interior of Gävleborg. It is said, possibly a little ironic, that entrepreneurs can get the packages run out once a week. How does it work for the small business owner in Hälsingland who depends on a daily flow of goods to be able to send and receive goods, sell and buy? How can someone be able to run a business under these conditions? The Government must have an opinion and be able to give a message to those who live in Gävleborg if he thinks it is right with the long distances, to drive 12 km round-trip to send goods, or if he thinks it is wrong. If the government thinks it's wrong, what's he gonna do? If the Government thinks it is right, he and the Government need of course not do anything. As I began with, it has been and is a tough time for those living in the countryside. Road maintenance is deteriorating, petrol taxes are rising and the Finnish Transport Agency is turning out street lights. It's not Minister Ygeman's fault. But this is his responsibility, and here he and the government must have an opinion. Are we agreed on the basic principle of being able to live, live and run companies throughout Sweden? Should a female small business owner be able to send and receive goods? Maybe she has a web shop and she's sending goods to customers. Actually, I want to know what the government thinks.
i-87a69941dd7040dc-276	Madam President, I would like It does not seem that Lars Beckman's ability to absorb the answer is particularly distinctive. I can only say that I have replied to Lars Beckman and that Lars Beckman in this area has no other policy or crown than the government. The same goes for Lars Beckman as for the rest of us. We have a supervisory authority to do this. Lars Beckman asks a question he hasn't asked before, and I'll answer it. I think it is good that the County Administrative Board and the region in Gävleborg pay attention to the conditions for those living in Gävleborg. The region has also been wise enough to contact the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency. It is perhaps an idea for Lars Beckman to do because PTS is the licensing authority in this area. I can also note that the parcel service in Sweden is not subject to any legal requirements but is an area of free competition – because the Riksdag believes that this is the best way to meet the needs of small businesses in the parcel area. This is a system that I understand Lars Beckman is looking after and turning for. Perhaps Lars Beckman should consider whether or not that female small business owner really benefits from the free market. Is it perhaps even the time for Lars Beckman to reconsider to see what measures could give the female small business owner in Hälsingland better opportunities? Madam President, I would like For its part, the government has considered this issue and has therefore set up a special postal inquiry to look at the parcel service. Maybe it's something for Lars Beckman to think about.
i-87a69941dd7040dc-283	Madam President, I would like That's where the left man came up in the government. It's always the market's fault. I, and certainly also those who listen to the debate, note that the Government does not want to give its opinion on whether it is reasonable or not to go from Riksgatan 1 to Arlanda, Nynäshamn or Södertälje. I find that unfortunate. A good signal from the Government would have been to say: You should be able to live and live throughout Sweden, you should be able to run companies throughout Sweden and there must be a reasonable public service throughout Sweden. This is how we take responsibility for the whole of Sweden. But the Government does not share my view in this area, and I regret that. I think it's good that Region Gävleborg and the County Administrative Board run these issues publicly and provide the government with input so that the government can act. I hope that the Government will act, because I think the Government itself would find it more and more difficult to have to go to Nynäshamn to pick up and leave mail and packages.
i-87a69941dd7040dc-288	Madam President, I would like When I hear Lars Beckman ask the same question for the sixth time, I will think of something Albert Einstein said: Madness is doing the same thing over and over again and expecting different results. What label to put on Lars Beckman for this I leave unsaid. This government wants you to be able to work, live and work throughout the country with fair conditions. We have made it easier for that in many areas, including through record road maintenance that is many billions larger than when the Moderates ruled Sweden. We have put in place operational support for the country trade, which means that many people around our country have had better local services and that local services have been guaranteed. We have also decided to review how postal services can be improved, especially in sparsely populated areas. I look forward to coming back to Parliament and telling you about the conclusions that the investigation has drawn when it is completed. Our goal is very simple: you should be able to live, work, live and develop throughout Sweden.
i-87a69941dd7040dc-293	Madam President, I would like I just started answering Lars Beckman's last interpellation. I don't know what Einstein would have said about it, but I guess about the same quote would have been applicable. Madam President, I would like Lars Beckman has asked me three questions. The first question is what objective I and the government have to increase the availability of predictable and planned energy production in northern Sweden. The second question is what measures I intend to take in the short term to increase the availability of planned supply of electricity in Sweden. The third question is which calculation of the increase in electricity demand in northern Sweden has been made by the responsible authorities to ensure that industrial projects are not delayed due to shortcomings in energy supply. I would like to start by pointing out that the government is still working on the basis of the 2016 energy agreement, which, unfortunately, Lars Beckman's party chose to leave. In addition, I can note that the Nordic electricity market is well-functioning with large net exports of electricity from Swedish sources. The fact that Sweden can offer competitive electricity prices is important for all electricity users and crucial for us to be an attractive place for industries. D is too pleased that Sweden's medium-sized and large companies have the lowest electricity costs throughout the EU. With regard to the possibility of meeting the electricity needs of Sweden in the future, I see several solutions, in particular the expansion of renewable electricity generation and the reinforcement of transmission networks for better transmission of electricity through the country. Swedish power networks have announced that major investments will be made in the transmission network in the future. In the nvesteringen period 2022 – 2024 totals 23.3 m illarder kr onor. This compares with SEK 8.4 billion over the last three years. The parliamentary target of 100 per cent renewable electricity production by 2040 is still valid. It is a goal and not a deadline for banning nuclear power. My assessment is that the different forces complement each other. By increasing the share of wind power, we can further diversify the electricity mix. Lars Beckman emphasises the designability of electricity generation. For me, the most important thing is that Sweden has a sustainable and cost-effective system with high security of supply where planning in the electricity system as a whole can contribute. At the same time, it is important to be humbled in the face of the challenge of planning and expanding the electricity grid when large projects suddenly show up, which is illustrated, for example, by the major investments made by LKAB and H2 Green Steel. It is, of course, gratifying that Sweden is attractive to such companies, and the government is working to continue to enable large establishments where appropriate conditions exist. Such industrial efforts may reduce Swedish emissions and contribute to significant emission reductions in other countries through, for example, the export of fossil-free steel. To further facilitate this work, in December 2020 the Government appointed a coordinator for social change in connection with major business start-ups and expansions in Västerbotten and Norrbotten. The coordinator shall act as a link between the actors concerned and contribute to the coordination and complementarity of the actions undertaken at national, regional and local level. Both the Swedish National Energy Agency and the Swedish Energy Agency are working with scenarios for a large electrification of industry and transport sector. To better meet the increasing need for electricity, the government has initiated a national electrification strategy. The strategy will contribute to a fast, smart and socio-economically efficient electrification across the country. In the strategy, the government takes a holistic approach to the conditions in the energy sector to enable increased electrification. A plan to address possible obstacles to increased electrification will also be included.
i-87a69941dd7040dc-302	Madam President, I would like Few people thought that Sweden would end up in a situation where many large companies flag electricity shortages. In recent days, we have been able to read about electricity shortages in Gothenburg, Skåne and Stockholm, where an Ica store cannot be expanded due to electricity shortages. And when Parliament's car network visited a car dealer north of Stockholm, they talked about getting charging poles sometime in 2028. The government's argument has been that it is a question of transmission capacity, that is, that we should send electricity south from Norrland. You might think so. But in Norrbotten, among others, a lot of industrial investments are now taking place. In my old hometown Boden, a large fossil-free steel mill will be built, and then Swedish power grid says that reinforcements of the network are needed. In the NSD you can read – the Government may not read it very often – that there is today a surplus of 3,000 megawatts. However, when the three major industrial projects are underway at the same time, they have an average effect of 9 000 megawatts, which corresponds to three times the surplus. This means that the current should now go from the south to Norrland or Norrbotten. Then transmission capacity may be needed. The question will only be which electricity the government will send up to Norrbotten. In Dagens Nyheter we recently read that there was a shortage of electricity here in Stockholm for 24 hours. There was no power to send to Stockholm, but they had to manage with local production. What is important for business is that there is planned electricity production. It is not good enough that the electricity runs out or that there is no electricity if, for example, it is very cold outside, which is common up in Norrland. I have asked what the Government's objective is to increase the availability of predictable and planned energy production in northern Sweden. What measures does the Government intend to take in the short term to increase the availability of planned supply of electricity in Sweden? The key word is "planerbar. " An industry cannot rely on current that comes and goes. Madam President, I would like Is it not the case that the whole government's energy policy has fallen now that it can no longer be said that it is about transmission capacity of electricity from north to south? Anyone who googles the name Ygeman and the word, transfer capacity, can see several articles where the Government has said: If we only get to the power lines from north to south, it will work out for Pågen in Skåne. So the problem is now the opposite. It needs to be transferred electricity from southern Sweden up to Norrland. I saw yesterday talking about 20 000 – 30 000 new inhabitants in North and Västerbotten, thanks to the large investments. A battery manufacturer in Skellefteå also went out and told them that they have received a giant order from a German car manufacturer. They will of course need to charge the batteries with power. If we are to believe in the statistics produced, this means that the entire surplus that has existed will have to be reversed. It will need to be added electricity to Norrbotten. There will have to be electricity added to Västerbotten. Electricity will need to be added to the major industrial efforts in Norrland. Then the question is: How will the government add energy to Norrbotten?
i-87a69941dd7040dc-309	Madam President, I would like Let me first say that there is no Ica trader in northern Stockholm who has not been allowed to connect to the electricity grid, as has been claimed in DN. When the Ica dealer submitted his application, he was informed of connection to the electricity grid. There Lars Beckman – as usual, perhaps you should add – will have to check his sources a little better. I have to start with a situation description that is more realistic than the one expressed by Lars Beckman. Sweden has a record surplus of electricity. When Lars Beckman's party ruled Sweden, we had a shortage of electricity and had to import electricity from our neighbours. Now we export electricity to our neighbours. We have never exported as much electricity as we do now, and we have never pushed away as much fossil energy production as we do now. We also have a very competitive electricity price, Europe's lowest for industry. Good supply of electricity, stable electricity grids and low prices are the three things that together make companies like LKAB, H2 Green Steel and Northvolt invest. I am pleased to hear that. I want to continue to have good conditions for industry in Sweden, so that we attract investments from other countries. But this requires not only that we maintain a high level of electricity production, which must increase significantly, but also that we have competitive prices. Lars Beckman says that the industry only strives for planning. I don't think that's true. Of course, they want to know that they will have electricity at the moment they need it, but they also want it at competitive prices. What does the industry invest in? The industry in Sweden is a major energy investor. Take Holmen, as Lars Beckman's party colleagues sometimes hold up in the debate! They have invested in 127 wind turbines and 21 hydroelectric plants and will significantly expand their investments in wind power over the next few years. How much does Holmen invest in nuclear energy? They choose not to do that at all. Why? Because the cost curve of nuclear power goes up, while renewables go down. I would also like to give Lars Beckman the right in at least two respects. Firstly, Norrbotten and Sweden need to significantly increase their electricity generation. Secondly, electricity lines can be used in both directions. If you do, you get the lowest cost for customers, because you use different amounts of electricity at different times. That is why, in October, I set up a working group to develop proposals for an electrification strategy. I can see that we will shortly be reporting results that mean that Sweden will set a planning target for significantly increased energy production and significantly increased energy use. Then it is so clever in a market that if there is a strong increase in demand the supply is also usually behind. As the profitability of the Swedish energy industry is high, I see that there will be strong investments in new energy production, just like in recent years.
i-87a69941dd7040dc-315	Madam President, I would like I quote from Dagens Nyheter:Sören Englund in Täby sighs. "We can't build our ICA store because we don't get enough electricity," he says on the phone. Five years ago he began planning an ICA Maxi store in expansive Arninge in Täby just north of Stockholm. The fact that there was going to be electricity out of the contacts was considered self-evident. ... – We got a building permit but then they could not supply electricity. If this is resolved now, it is well done, but that is what it said in this article in Dagens Nyheter. I assume that Minister Ygeman is one of the few people who don't read Today's industry, read the Gothenburg-Post, watch SVT, take part of the news flow on the news or, for that matter, have direct contact with organisations such as the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, the Entrepreneurs, the Chamber of Commerce and others who are now alarming about the same thing: We have ended up in a situation where there is no planned electricity. Of course, we agree that we should have reasonable electricity prices. But that is not what this debate is about. Anyone who Googles different names in the government, such as Minister Anders Ygeman, can see that the whole solution to Skåne's problems would be to transfer electricity from Norrbotten to Skåne. But there will therefore be no electricity to transfer from Norrbotten to Skåne, Madam President, because the electricity, as Anders Ygeman said, must go the other way. Then, of course, the question arises: What is the planned electricity that will come into the pipelines? It does not, of course, help to have electricity surpluses in July if we have a cold day in February. Of course, everyone knows this, including Minister Ygeman. The Swedish electricity system must of course deliver every second of the year, regardless of temperature and whatever needs, but the Swedish electricity system does not in the long term. This is perhaps the case when you have an energy policy that does not live up to what befits an industrial country like Sweden. That is why I have written this interpellation about planned electricity production. The key word is We therefore agree that it is a good thing that the lines are changed, so that we can send up electricity to the amazingly large industrial investments in Norrbotten and Västerbotten. But where will electricity come from, Madam President? That would be interesting to hear. What kind of electricity is going to be sent up the wires? We know that there is a large electricity shortage in Skåne. We have all been able to find out about the bread manufacturer who had problems with its expansion. In Today's industry we have been able to read about the major deficiency that will arise in Gothenburg. It cannot therefore be from Skåne or Gothenburg we will send up electricity to Norrbotten. In addition, Stockholm has a shortage of electricity. Where does the electricity that goes up to Norrbotten and Västerbotten come from? Should we import Polish electricity from oil and coal power? Then you can say that wind power is a solution. In my county, Gävleborg, extensive sea wind power is planned. That is something I can say that those who live on the coast do not want. They don't want to see their habitat destroyed by wind power. However, very little wind power is planned in Stockholm and in the Stockholm archipelago, without it being somewhere else to build. My questions remain. Where does the planned electricity needed for major industrial investments in northern Sweden come from?
i-87a69941dd7040dc-323	Madam President, I would like First of all, I have to say with a smile on my face that Lars Beckman thinks I should watch more public service television and read Dagens Nyheter. It's probably the first time Lars Beckman's asked someone to do that. Surely there are people who will be happy with this message. But I guess it's like they say, when the fuck gets old, he gets religious. There is something that chafes in Lars Beckman's perspective. In 2010, Sweden was heavily dependent on imports of electricity on an annual basis. Then Sweden was ruled by the Moderates. Now, ten years later, we're a big exporter of electricity. What conclusions does Lars Beckman draw from that? And what does he conclude from the fact that, while this has happened, we have reduced the number of reactors in the country? Lars Beckman's confidence in the market doesn't seem very strong. Instead of the market, he seems to want plans or political decisions to identify the types of power plants to be built in which regions. Is that really so, Lars Beckman? Should we adopt a five-year plan in the Chamber for which power plants are to be built in which counties? I think that would be a bad order. I believe that politics should put in the steering stages and point to the goals. Then we shall have a combination of political decisions and free market. It will provide the best and cheapest solutions in the long term. Mixed economy, I suppose, would be the best description of that system. Over the next 20 years, demand will increase sharply. In an economy with market signals, then, of course, supply will also increase. This has also been the case in recent years. We have greatly increased the supply of electricity in Sweden. The projections ahead point to – hear and behold, Lars – increased surpluses and not deficits, which we had during the moderate-led government. Lars asks: What are the forces? If we leave the movement for five-year plans, I believe that all power teams will increase their supply and contribution to the Swedish electricity system. If the trend with a sharp increase in demand for energy is correct, I think we will see an increase in the supply of cogeneration and an increase in the supply of wind power at sea and on land. We may even see an increase in the supply of nuclear power in terms of the extension and revision of the three most modern reactors. We will see much more of the storage in the systems using hydrogen, batteries and electric cars. We will see much smarter power markets where we can use existing management capabilities and existing production resources much better than we do today. Why is it so important? Yes, it is in order for us to maintain a competitive electricity price. If we do not have good access to electricity at competitive prices, we reduce Sweden's competitiveness. Then we will not see the big investments that we now see in northern Sweden. On the contrary, I expect us to see more of that type of investment. Business and industry in Europe see that we have good access to electricity, competitive electricity prices and a stable electricity grid, whatever public service might say in Lars Beckman's version.
i-87a69941dd7040dc-330	Madam President, I would like It is gratifying that the Government also takes part in the media. Then the discussion about electricity shortages that exists in Sweden cannot be unknown. I refuse to believe that the Government is one of the few people in this House who have never heard reports from the Chamber of Commerce, seen television spots or, for that matter, read the News of Today. We who have followed the rhetoric of the government and the government have seen that the argument that the government has used over and over again is that it would only be about transmission capacity problems from north to south. Just google Anders Ygeman's name or representative to the Government and we can look at it. Now the situation is the opposite: There will be lots of electricity from southern Sweden up to meet the electricity demand in northern Västerbotten. Then you can stand here and ralli like the government does. But this is for real for businesses and for citizens. The government says he believes in the market, that's all. In this House, the Left Party, the Center Party, the Social Democrats and the Green Party voted off planned nuclear power with one vote. With one voice overweight, nuclear power was removed in southern Sweden. It was about a vote in this House. Madam President, talk about political decisions. That nuclear power would have been needed, and that nuclear power is needed in the future. Together, we can be pleased with the large-scale industrial investment that is taking place. But it must be that there is electricity in a country like Sweden also the coldest winter day in February, when it is really cold and the electricity demand is great.
i-87a69941dd7040dc-334	Madam President, I would like Lars Beckman is faltering. It is up to the owners of Swedish nuclear power to decide which investments are productive. Major investments have been made in several nuclear reactors. They have chosen to lay down production resources that were planned in the 60's and was put into operation in the 70's, at the time Sweden had just received colour television and was about to get a second TV channel. The parliamentary decision referred to by Lars Beckman had not made either to or from for that development. My party The Social Democrats and Lars Beckman's party The Moderates have agreed on the framework for energy policy. In the part referred to by Lars Beckman, we still seem to agree on that. It is free for the owners of nuclear power to reinvest in nuclear power or to build new reactors in the locations available for existing nuclear power. It is also free for Swedish industry or for Lars Beckman himself to invest in nuclear power, just as it is in many countries. Instead of investing in nuclear energy in the free market, however, we see investments in renewable energy. It is more efficient and cheaper at the moment. I safeguard Sweden's surplus of electricity. We shall continue to have such a surplus. I safeguard the EU's lowest electricity prices for industry, and I safeguard Swedish competitiveness. The government will continue to do so.
i-87a69941dd7040dc-338	Madam President, I would like Mattias Karlsson has asked me if I share the view that the Malmporten project is disadvantaged compared to the Skandiahamnen dredging project in terms of how to calculate the investment aid and whether I will take any measures with regard to the state investment aid. The government is carrying out an extensive investment in shipping. In the current transport infrastructure plan, over SEK 5 billion has been invested in investments in fairways and locks, which is a doubling compared to the previous plan decided by the bourgeois government. Among the major investments that will now be carried out are fairway depths into the ports of Gothenburg and Luleå respectively. These are the single largest fairway investments planned to be implemented in Sweden. Therefore, for investments of this magnitude, the investment responsibility on each side of the port area border needs to be assessed on a case-by-case basis. It is the same principle and process in Gothenburg as in Luleå. In both Gothenburg and Luleå, an assessment has been made of what is the responsibility of the state. Investments in the harbour in Luleå are an important part of the current national plan, not least to strengthen shipping in northern Sweden. Preparations are currently under way for the implementation of that investment in accordance with the decisions taken.
i-5mWU8925xD1tvPq5uEqBti	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer to the interpellation! The Malmporten project is one of Sweden's largest maritime infrastructure projects since Göta Canal. For Luleå Port and for Norrbotten, it is an extremely strategic and important investment in the future that creates new opportunities for today's and future industries in the northern region. We are extremely grateful that the project has received state investment aid. I think it would have been completely impossible to implement it if the state had not written a collaboration and investment agreement with Luleå harbour. For it is extremely grateful to the whole region. However, we come to the problem when making a comparison between Malmporten and the dredging project Skandiahamnen in Gothenburg. It now turns out that the state finances Skandiahamnen much, much more. The current principle that has been in force – and which I think still applies until something else has been decided – is that the state is responsible for all costs up to the port area limit. When this was to be calculated for Gothenburg, the limit was only 50 meters from the quay edge, which is much closer than what was the case when the port area limit would be calculated for Luleå harbour. If you applied the same principle as you had for Skandiahamnen at Malmporten in Luleå, which should have been done, the state investment aid to Malmporten would have been 500 million more. Compared to Gothenburg, Luleå must therefore bear additional costs of half a billion. My question remains despite the fact that the Minister has answered the interpellation: Aren't Luleå and the rest of Norrbotten as important as Gothenburg?
i-J1mwa3Pr1V1xuhZmk6HPf6	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mattias Karlsson, for your commitment! I can still say this is a little strange. During the time when Mattias Karlsson's party had the government power, no effort was made on either Malmporten or Malmbanan or, for that matter, on Norrbotniabanan. In fact, Norrbotniabanan had been very important now with all the investments made not least in Norrbotten but also in Västerbotten. But it chose the moderate-led government to remove from the national plan. You prioritised tax cuts, Mattias Karlsson. You removed the investment in what otherwise today had been completed and had an incredible significance for Luleå, for Skellefteå, for Piteå and not least for Umeå. When the Social Democratic-led government took office in 2014, we said: Now we have to invest in infrastructure. In the national plan 2018 we chose to both give a message and take the first shovel for Norrbotniabanan. We chose to upgrade Malmbanan, and there is more to do with the thousands of billions of investments made in northern Sweden. It is also about being able to give the go-ahead for the huge effort that Malmporten actually means. It is incredibly important not only for Luleå but also nationally. There are more resources going to Luleå harbour than to Gothenburg, and then we should know that Gothenburg is not only Sweden's but the Nordic region's largest port and crucial for the Swedish export industry. But it is equally important to get space to make other urgent investments in fairway depths, and then Luleå Harbour became an important national priority that I chose to make. I may find it strange when an investment of 1.3 billion from the state at Luleå harbour becomes a concern for a moderate. Under the leadership of the Member's own party, they chose not to invest any money either on fairway deepening, on Norrbotniabanan or on other infrastructure in northern Sweden. I think it is important that we give priority to shipping. I think it is important that the government continues in this way to highlight the importance of making fairway intensifications. We will now be looking at the work under way on the forthcoming national plan, which will take place in 2022, to see if there is any reason for other initiatives to be made in other ports in the future. As I said, more resources are invested in Luleå harbour than in Gothenburg harbour, and basically it is the same principles: The state goes in and takes its part, and then of course it is municipalities and regions that take their part. In Gothenburg's case, the council there not so long ago made the corresponding decision that now also the council in Luleå under Carina Sammeli's leadership has made, i.e. that they are running with the co-financing. This is an important strategic decision which means that you finally get a fairway deepening in Malmporten. It's about the benefits of us being able to bring larger and perhaps heavier ships to Luleå harbour, and it's about the benefits that it means that we can increase redundancy not least for LKAB, which now has more opportunity to use Luleå harbour and not just Narvik, which is largely going out from today. It is also, of course, about all the other major investments that are taking place, such as Hybrid and Green Steel. It is clear that it is incredibly important that we now have important initiatives. I think it is a sign of strength that Luleå has now agreed to support its part of the funding. The government is shooting at SEK 1.3 billion, and then we get an ore gate. It is important for Sweden, and it is also important for our entire export industry.
i-87a69941dd7040dc-356	Madam President, I would like I fully understand that the Government is trying to distance itself from the question in the interpellation and is beginning to talk about other infrastructure projects. As true as it is that Luleå policy in unity agreed to go in and co-finance the project, it is that all political parties in Luleå municipality – including the Social Democrats and Social Democratic Commissioner Carina Sammeli, to which the Government refers – are extremely disappointed. They are disappointed in the way they have calculated the state investment aid to Luleå versus it to Gothenburg. Luleå Municipality must now go in and finance half a billion more than would have been the case if the same principle had applied to both of these projects. The Government says in its interpellation response – and he also mentioned it in his second speech – that the same principle and process apply in both Gothenburg and Luleå. Either it is a truth with modification or so the Government goes untruthful, for it is clearly not that the same principle has been applied and used when calculating and assessing what the state investment aid should be. The Government says in its answer: In both Gothenburg and Luleå, an assessment has been made of what the state's responsibility is. But how can the state responsibility differ so significantly between Luleå and Gothenburg? In Luleå it is 700 meters from the part of the quay edge that is closest to the port area limit. It is within this framework that Luleå harbour itself will need to finance dredging costs. In Gothenburg it is similar; it is almost 1 kilometer between the quay edge and the port area border. But there the state went in and said it's okay to set the port area limit 50 meters from the quay edge. This gives Gothenburg a significantly higher level of State investment aid. You don't even use the current principle of talking about the port border, but in the collaboration agreement with Gothenburg you talk about the construction border. If you had done the same in Luleå, the state investment support would have been 500 million SEK larger. It must be that the Government can see this and can say that Luleå has been disadvantaged. Should it really differ in the calculations of investment aid when it comes to Luleå and Gothenburg? Both are core ports, which are extremely important for Sweden and for Swedish industry. Should they not be assessed on the basis of similar principles?
i-87a69941dd7040dc-362	Madam President, I would like I still find it remarkable how you can see yourself as disadvantaged when you get 1.3 billion in co-financing and when Luleå port gets more resources than the Gothenburg port got. In addition to the port of Gothenburg, with its incredible importance for Sweden and for Swedish exports, the government chose to prioritise another port in Sweden. This is a five-fold increase in efforts on maritime transport in the national plan. This port came to be Luleå. It is about strengthening the export industry, and it is important to be able to speed up the development of Malmporten. 1.3 billion will enable the investment that might not otherwise have been made. I can understand that it will be difficult for Mattias Karlsson to take responsibility for how the Moderates in government have acted. If they had the power to decide, we would not have had an ore gate, nor a Norrbotniabana. We had not had any other initiatives in northern Sweden either, because the Moderates have not chosen to prioritise. From our side, we choose to prioritise investments throughout Sweden and not least in Norrbotten. That is why we could take a shovel in Umeå and start working on Norrbotniabanan. That is also why we were able to give the go-ahead for the 1.3 billion investment in Malmporten. The basic principle is that we, as the state, go in and make an assessment: here the state needs to make a contribution. Here we need to go in to enable a fairway deepening. The principle – if we are to speak principles – that the Moderates have applied has been that the state does not go in. Instead, it is up to municipalities and regions – it is the municipality that owns the port – to take responsibility for the investments that need to be made. Since I see that the state has a role and responsibility in strengthening not only shipping but also the business environment, the export industry, employment policy and climate change, I think it is important that we invest in infrastructure with common funds. That is why the national plan that we adopted in 2018 contains SEK 100 billion more than the national plan that Mattias Karlsson's party could present, because we chose not to prioritise tax cuts without investments. In the work now under way for the forthcoming national plan, I note clear requests from the whole country, including from moderate representatives, to invest even more in infrastructure. I hope that Parliament will support a framework that includes more investment in infrastructure. I also see the need to do more, not least in northern Sweden where the Norrbotnia Line needs to be completed – the planning of it will be intensified, according to the January Agreement – and where we also need more rail. The basic thing that we have to take a fundamental position on is: Should the state have a commitment to fairway deepening? My answer is yes– in Gothenburg, in the locks in Trollhättan or for that matter in Luleå. My question back to Mattias Karlsson is: Does Mattias Karlsson think that the state has a responsibility and a commitment to helping municipalities or municipal ports with fairway depths? So far, the Moderates in government have not acted in such a way.
i-87a69941dd7040dc-369	Madam President, I would like Now the Government's speech was again largely concerned with other infrastructure projects. Maybe they're part of another interpellation debate in the future. The Government is taking up Norrbotniabanan, which the government has now promised in two elections to begin to build. He almost claims that Norrbotniabanan is already in place and says that the shovel is taken. Now it does not belong to the debate, but the Government may be able to answer how many meters of railway, apart from the first shovelage, has been laid in the years he has been in government with the Social Democratic Government. The Government cannot understand how you can feel at a disadvantage when you have received 1.3 billion. I have also seen an interview in Norrbottens Media where the Government expresses just this: Why do people feel at a disadvantage in Luleå when they have received 1.3 billion? The Government explains in the interview, subject to the fact that it is not correctly quoted, that Luleå Port and Luleå Municipality should be satisfied with having received 1.3 billion. He does not think that you should open up to renegotiate the agreement, because then it is not certain that there is any money at all to Luleå harbour. Whether this interview was correctly reproduced or not, it has not been the same principle when assessing investment aid. How can this be corrected for the future? We're happy, but we need more money. We need the same conditions as Gothenburg.
i-87a69941dd7040dc-373	Madam President, I would like As far as the agreement is concerned, it was signed in 2018. I note that representatives of both Luleå harbour, the municipality and others have signed an agreement, and that's probably what applies. Surely that must be the starting point, not that one then wants to change the conditions. I think it would be extremely unfortunate to go the way that Mattias Karlsson clearly thinks is reasonable and to tear up the agreement. It would create an extremely great uncertainty about the conditions for a very important fairway deepening. It would also definitely be completely wrong to give a signal in a situation when billions of investments are now made from LKAB, Green Steel and other actors. The clear signal must be: This is the moment we are implementing the Malmporten. It is now that we start to do a fairway deepening that increases the capacity and opportunities of shipping in a heavy export region that is important for the whole of Sweden. The fact that the Moderates want to create uncertainty about this is extremely unfortunate at this point. It was bad enough that you took Norrbotniabanan out of the national plan and thus chose to remove the opportunity that it meant to build rail along the Norrland coast, with all the effect it had had not least for the labour market region or for that matter for the export industry and freight transport. Now the shovel is taken. The planning work is in full swing for the roll-out Umeå– Dåva and Dåva – Skellefteå. I also hope that, with the wording of the January agreement to intensify the planning of the Norrbotnia Line, we can continue, speed up and complete that project. I do not want us to create uncertainty about Malmporten as a project. It is important for Sweden. It is important for our industrial country, and it is also important for the Norrbotten region. I am very proud that we have been able to present, in addition to the investment in Gothenburg, a 1, 3-billion investment in fairway deepening in Luleå.
i-87a69941dd7040dc-379	Madam President, I would like Thomas Morell has asked me several questions about maintenance of roads. It is important for the government to have good accessibility throughout Sweden. It is necessary t for it to be possible to live, live and work in all parts of the country and to get a Sweden that stays together. The Government decided in 2018 on a national plan for transport infrastructure that enables investments throughout the country, with a record investment in road maintenance of a total of SEK 164 billion. The government has since continued to invest in road maintenance. Following the Government's proposal in the budget proposal for 2021, the allocation for road maintenance has been increased by SEK 500 million per year during the period 2021 – 2023, focusing on the fine-mesh road network in rural areas. In the national plan, there are SEK 16.3 billion allocated for bearing capacity measures, frost securing and climate adaptation of roads. It includes, among other things, measures to increase the carrying capacity of a BK4 load class and measures to ensure that the road network is available all year round. It also includes measures to adapt the robustness of the road system in a changing climate. Already today, the Finnish Transport Administration is implementing climate adjustments to enable roads and railways to withstand greater pressures. In the longer term, planning must take the height of an increasingly challenging climate. Today, the transport sector accounts for about one third of Sweden's carbon dioxide emissions. The transformation of the transport system is crucial if climate objectives are to be met. The government will continue to have a high focus on building Sweden strong and sustainable for the future and has now begun work on developing a new national plan for the development of the transport infrastructure.
i-87a69941dd7040dc-383	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister Tomas Eneroth! Roads, or rather the possibility of movement, have been important to man throughout all time. The roads have played a major role in the development of our country, just like shipping and the railways when they arrived. Infrastructure investments have been important for our country's prosperity. Our country has developed into a modern industrial nation. We have been able to export much of the production we have in the country. We have been world leaders in the automotive industry, forest industry, ore and so on. The prerequisite for this is that our infrastructure works everywhere, not only in the railways and shipping but also in the roads. The roads are the fine mesh network in our infrastructure. But we also see that the roads are getting worse and worse. Now on the spring side the roads have not been able to cope with the load that they should reasonably do. You have fixed provisionally – you go out with those trunk cars and spray some oil on the road and sand on it – so that it lasts for a while, and then the repair is gone. The problem with that is that you destroy the road body, because water penetrates the bearings of the road itself. Then the frost comes and blows up and then eats the road from within. When you do not do a thorough audit along the way, thus ensuring that it can withstand both the load and the weather types, the road erodes very quickly. I listened to a radio feature with the Transport Agency's Information Manager, who told me why it looks like it does on the roads: you have not been able to see the rapid development of road decay. So there has been an incorrect calculation over time. It is alarming when the Swedish Transport Administration, which has to anticipate and plan maintenance of our roads, does not have the correct calculation method to see how wear and tear on the roads and the road body are. The Government often says that there has never been as much money spent at the moment to maintain the road network. That may be true, but at the same time we can see that even if funds are now being spent on maintaining roads and ensuring the quality of roads, we will have a maintenance debt that increases over time. This means that the roads will be worse regardless of the money. Then we need to sit down and discuss how we are going to ensure our important infrastructure in the fine-meshed road network, i.e. what supports industrial activity around the country – food production, the forest industry and whatever it may be. If those transports stop going, we have major problems with our country's revenues and livelihoods. We also have problems with people not being able to live and live everywhere in Sweden. In fact, the Government started its response with this: a good accessibility throughout Sweden is important for the Government. As it is now, however, it is becoming increasingly difficult for people to make a living and for Sweden to cope with industrial livelihoods around the country.
i-Ttf3J87NGXD4m1wg8aqaL	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Thomas Morell! I still find this fascinating. Here Thomas Morell is concerned that the standard of the roads is getting worse due to weather, but shouldn't we tell him the truth? It's because of climate change. It is because of an increasingly diverse climate in which we have floods, fires and droughts worldwide. In 2014, the Finnish Transport Agency decided on a climate adaptation strategy. I think the representative of the Finnish Transport Administration is right – we probably need to revise it, because climate change is moving faster than we thought. This is one of the reasons why we in Sweden say that we want to become the world's first fossil-free welfare country. That is one of the reasons why we believe it is important to be able to comply with the Paris Agreement's ambition to reduce emissions from the transport sector. Where are the Swedish Democrats in this debate? Thomas Morell has been politically active for a long time. He was a political representative of the Moderates until 2017, I think it was, and then for the Swedish Democrats. There are two parties that do not lift a finger in climate policy. On the contrary, reduced petrol tax and reduced flight tax are promised. Budget proposals are voted through in Parliament with reduced appropriations for the climate. Does Thomas Morell think that the quality of the roads will be better when one so totally ignores the climate changes we see? We are investing more resources than ever to improve the standard of the roads. That's 164 billion. I believe, not least in view of the Trafikverket's focus base, that we will need to make even more efforts in the future to increase both the securing and bearing capacity and the improvement of the quality of the roads. But wouldn't it be appropriate for Thomas Morell to take responsibility for the root cause, too? Thomas Morell represents a party that – I say it again – ignores the climate and wants to reduce petrol tax and air tax and reduce the climate allowance. This is an excellent opportunity for Thomas Morell not only to talk about his own experiences of driving on the roads but also to take the opportunity to say how we will ensure long-term protection of Swedish infrastructure from fires, storms and floods. Because that's how it's going to be in the future. Only the fires that we could see some summer ago caused huge damage to the infrastructure. If I remember correctly, the Finnish Transport Agency had to relocate a lot of resources to restore the infrastructure on the roads that were affected. I myself come from Kronoberg County where the storm Gudrun caused great damage not only to the forest owners but also to our infrastructure. Resources were then redistributed to the roads in Kronoberg County. These are all signs that something is happening – what the world's scientists are warning about and that Greta Thunberg and millions of other people around the world are demonstrating their concern for. We say that we will be the world's first fossil-free welfare country, and we are in favour of progressive climate policy. We are making great efforts to switch the transport sector and electrify, use biofuels and equip ourselves to meet the objectives of the Paris Agreement. But here stands Thomas Morell, the Swedish Democrats and his former party The Moderates alongside and say: No, we certainly do not intend to take responsibility for this! So please, Thomas Morell, take this opportunity to tell us how to get to the root cause of the roads actually getting worse!
i-87a69941dd7040dc-400	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister Tomas Eneroth! I was asked what the Swedish Democrats want to do to improve the climate. That was not really the basis for the interpellation, but I can answer anyway when I got a direct question. It is also the case that the new spokesperson in the Green Party invests in funds with holdings in large oil companies. The Green Party is part of the government, so perhaps you should be a little careful when dealing with stones when sitting in glass houses. With regard to the question of what the Swedish Democrats want to do, we have been saying for a long time that we need to have a control worthy of the name of the roads in order to get rid of illegal traffic in Sweden. It usually has tractors and trailers, and the gross weight of the combination is 40 tons. That's what the whole combination weighs, and that's also what the load capacity is on a normal-sized Swedish combination. If we get rid of those who are driving in the spot market in Sweden – both vehicles and drivers – we would reduce the number of vehicles on the road and get a fleet of vehicles with higher environmental benefits than we see today in those who carry out the transport. This is a much more efficient way of operating transport, and that is our proposal. We have said this several times, but both the government and the Social Democrats have said no. We have also proposed investments in the expansion of existing rail in order to increase freight capacity. We want to introduce something similar to the German Maut, so that you know which vehicles are in Sweden and that they pay for themselves. It was a little bit about the proposals that we have put forward. We look forward to both the government and the support parties supporting them, so we can perhaps get some order on our roads and also get tax money from those who use the Swedish road network. Then we can increase investment and ensure that our road network works. It is extremely important that we have an infrastructure that lasts both in summer and in winter. That's not the situation right now. In the element from P4 Värmland, residents along the roads and also road hauliers tell how they feel the situation is for them. The roads up in western Värmland are so bad that the facades even crack when vehicles pass. It's like a rocking flight out on the road, and the vibrations propagate to the properties so that they burst. We can't have that in a modern society – that the roads are so bad that the surrounding properties break down. As the owner of the truck said on the radio, the cars are broken. They are literally broken when the transports are carried out. These transports are carried out so that the local business community can live and work, so that people have a job to go to and that the state gets tax money. While we're talking about tax revenue, it's a bit of fun: A normal-sized Swedish combination pays about 30,000 a year in taxes for a car and a trailer. Then, as a roadowner, you can reasonably demand that the roads be in such a condition that the cars do not break down and that links, suspensions and such things are not worn out prematurely but can withstand a normal load. This is not the case today, but the roads are in an abjectly poor condition. The Finnish Transport Administration itself says that they do not have control of the rapid wear-down that is taking place.
i-87a69941dd7040dc-407	Madam President, I would like It's fascinating. As Thomas Morell is concerned about the weather and how it affects the road standard, I chose to take this opportunity to say that it is not only weather but climate change. World scientists warn that climate change will make large parts of the world uninhabitable. Millions of people worldwide are demonstrating their concern for climate change. One of them is Greta Thunberg. I think it was Björn Söder who tweeted what he thinks about her and her efforts. You hear the Swedish Democrats, just like Thomas Morell's old party The Moderates, put forward proposals that in principle actively impair the climate. It is reduced petrol tax – SEK 7 billion you want to spend on it and on increased emissions. It's a reduced flight tax, and you want to cut down on the climate subsidies. This will lead to severe deterioration of the climate and to increased wear and tear on the roads. The Swedish Democrats have a great challenge in trying to gain credibility, not least when Thomas Morell's answer is to expand the railway. If only it had been so well, but I know that the Swedish democrats in their budget motion had in principle only road projects. Then there are EU trailers and more efficient transport. It's not a very ambitious climate policy, you might say. Nevertheless, in order to address the issue of EU trailers and longer and heavier vehicles, we have been working on it for a long time from the government and also on creating the right conditions in the transport industry. Not only are we spending 164 billion – a historic sum – on road maintenance to improve road standards, but we are also ensuring that we can pass on an increased share of goods on rail and shipping to reduce road wear. We are making record investments in the railways and also in shipping to reduce the burden. And so we want to ensure that the serious part of the haulage industry is given the opportunity to change, not least by having fair conditions of competition. We have worked systematically on what Thomas Morell and I have debated often, namely introducing fines and complaints, increasing police controls, ordering responsibility and, not least, a mobility package that will ensure a level playing field. The mobility package had an important part, and it was the posting – to ensure that foreign lorry drivers who drive in Sweden should have the same salaries and conditions and that posting from day one should apply. At about the same time as Thomas Morell was active in the Moderates, the Parliament voted and reserved for the rules on posting. My question to Thomas Morell is: if it is the case that you are thin when it comes to climate policy, what do you think about the rules on posting? Is it reasonable that we require posting from day one, so that we have fair conditions of competition and so that Swedish hauliers have a good opportunity to have resources to invest in road safety vehicles and in good working conditions and perhaps also reduce the load on the road network? We would all benefit from this.
i-87a69941dd7040dc-414	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. I have to remind the Government time and time again of the time when it came to the mobility package and who really worked on it: it was Peter Lundgren and Jens Nilsson. It was these two gentlemen who made sure that the mobility package eventually came into being. It's good to have a correct history description. And then there's some math. No wonder the government doesn't get things done. There is a sky wide difference between loading a vehicle and getting 24 to 26 tons on a drive unit, i.e. a vehicle, and getting 41 tons on a drive unit. It is soon done to calculate how much emissions occur per tonne transported and then multiply it by the number of shipments made. It is clear that making transport more efficient will reduce emissions. But it's more like a wild west out there when you're riding around with little lattes on these EU trailers. It has also had the effect that rail companies have lost transport because of this. The government has literally been hand-flung in the fight against this Wild West market – the spot market – where people and cars are traded in an open market via pre-paid phones. You have not listened to what we have been saying for a long time. I will be standing in this Chamber and going on about this until we get a change. Now there's an investigation at the end of April. I sincerely hope that it will take a step forward on this issue. We need to move forward. Then it will be better for the climate, and there will also be more tax revenue so that we can repair our roads that are literally falling apart at present. But then the government must be active.
i-87a69941dd7040dc-420	Madam President, I would like With regard to the mobility package, Jens Nilsson made fantastic efforts. But with all due respect, on December 3 - 4, I sat in the negotiating room when we settled on the mobility package. It was I from Sweden together with my Danish colleague, and eventually Germany and others that finally got a majority that got us a mobility package. It was thanks to Swedish commitment from the Swedish government. Then it was the process in Parliament and now a mobility package in place that actually means that we can make demands on fair terms and improved competitive opportunities for Swedish haulage industry. It would not have happened if Thomas Morell had received his will and if the Moderates had continued to rule this country. At the time that Thomas Morell was active moderate, the moderate-led government chose not to lift a finger for the haulage industry or to get a mobility package. At the time, the starting point was that it would be as cheap transport as possible. I notice that Thomas Morell has concerns about clearing up the impact of climate on the roads. I have said countless times in the debate that we spend more resources than ever on road maintenance – 164 billion. We have put more money in the budgets that have come since then. I predict that in the next national plan we will have to make further efforts to improve road maintenance after years of underinvestment. But it will be a sisyphore if, at the same time, we do nothing about the root cause of the climate now with storms, floods and fires affecting the infrastructure. We want to be the world's first fossil-free welfare country. There we are making active efforts to change the whole transport sector – transport efficiency, electrification and biofuels. There is Thomas Morell saying that you should lower the petrol tax, lower the air tax and reduce the environmental subsidy. I therefore believe that the Swedish Democrats have a long journey left to gain credibility both in transport policy and not least in climate policy.
i-87a69941dd7040dc-425	Madam President, I would like Jakob Forssmed has asked me a number of questions about cycling. The government is making increased investments in bicycle infrastructure, and now there is both a bicycle strategy and a national bicycle centre. In the last budget, more than SEK 650 million was allocated to efforts to increase cycling, and additional support was given to those parts of civil society that work with bicycle issues. The government is working systematically to facilitate cycling, most recently through the proposal on bicycle streets. With regard to the possibility for cyclists to use the carriageway, it was the Red-Green Government that introduced that possibility last term of office. The aim was to make cycling easy and safe. The government has no ambition to change that rule. The Swedish Transport Agency's mission from the government to propose simplified rules for electric single-person vehicles has recently been reported, and it is welcome that all involved come up with views on the proposals. In order to increase compliance with the rules, good information and police prosecution are important. It is clear from the Traffic Regulation that a driver can only drive if it can be done without danger. The driver driving over shall leave a safe lateral distance between his vehicle and the vehicle being re-run. The maintenance of a sufficient distance in case of overtaking is an important road safety issue for cyclists. The issue may be raised in the future as the government continuously works to improve road safety in accordance with the zero vision. We will continue to develop the regulatory framework to improve the conditions for increased cycling. I can see that it is a government with social democrats and environmentalists who do so, unlike when the Christian Democrats were in government.
i-87a69941dd7040dc-430	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for Infrastructure Tomas Eneroth for his reply. The bike is a fantastic freedom machine. It carries so many of the car's all positive attributes, but so few of its drawbacks. It is something that virtually everyone in the world can have at their disposal. In my world, we should do much more than we do to make cycling easier. I think it has such potential both environmentally and healthly, but also so that it will actually be easier for people to transport themselves in different ways between neighbourhoods and between cities. In these times when we try to travel infectiously, the bike is a fantastic alternative. I note that the Government is talking about the financial efforts now being made on cycling and bicycle infrastructure. We Christian Democrats spend more than SEK 575 million more than the government over the next two years. I think that both I and Tomas Eneroth can agree that that too is not enough for what should be achieved and for the bicycle debt that we have with a lack of investment in bicycle infrastructure. For a long time, there have been submissive sins. However, I think that the answer leaves a little bit to be desired. Sounds like everything's fine. The government is more or less a gift for cycling. It's part of the role, of course. But unfortunately it has a little limited bearing on reality. There is much talk about systematically and continuously working on the issues. But I'm going to talk first about what's good. It is excellent that Tomas Eneroth tells us that it is not appropriate to reverse the rule that cyclists themselves should be able to choose when they want to use a track and when they want to use a bike path. We have received a strange proposal from the Swedish Transport Agency that they want to force good infrastructure by forcing cyclists into substandard infrastructure along with walking. They themselves acknowledge that in the short term this will be a deterioration for cyclists, but hope that in the longer term it will make the need for more infrastructure visible. Then one can think about why this was not made visible in all the years that this possibility did not exist. It is clear that the Government is beating its chest because the Government has introduced this possibility. I also think it is very good that the government did it. However, it took three years after this House had demanded this from the government, after the announcement by Parliament to make this possible. It is not the most complex issue in the world to allow cyclists to also use the carriageway when this is considered more appropriate by cyclists. The Government answers several of the questions. But there's one that he doesn't answer. It is about how the Government intends to secure the bicycle competence of our responsible authorities – at the Swedish Transport Agency and at the Swedish Transport Agency – and how it can come about that the Swedish Transport Agency will come up with this proposal as well as the proposal to abolish the bicycle passes without requiring them to be converted into bicycle crossings instead. It will probably only lead to deterioration for cyclists when crossings are converted into exits, instead of being more unsafe and less accessible to cyclists than the passages are today, although I welcome the fact that there will be consistency around this that is more favourable to cyclists. Trafikverket is Sweden's largest road keeper when it comes to cycle routes – 300 km – does not have a single permanent measurement point for cycle traffic. They have 300 fixed and 3,000 ambulatory measuring points for car traffic. That's why there might be some work to do.
i-87a69941dd7040dc-441	Madam President, I would like I thank Jakob Forssmed for this. I will honestly say that I was a little surprised when I saw the interpellation from Jakob Forssmed, because I know Jakob Forssmed as a wise, discreet and very sympathetic person. And so it says that one should secure the cycling skills of our authorities, implicitly that they do not really understand. That's not really Jakob Forssmed's tone. Just because you think otherwise, it is not certain that the skills are not there. I have respect for the officials at the Transport Agency and the Finnish Transport Agency who work with traffic issues and transport issues and for the assessments they make. Then it will be examined in investigations, with hearings and with referrals, and eventually it is the policy that decides. Just because you think differently should not explain the incompetence of authorities and their work. It surprises me that Jakob Forssmed expresses himself in such an interpellation. This is unusual, because otherwise Jakob Forssmed is an incredibly sympathetic person, I have to say. Once this declaration of love has been made in this House, I would like to say that this government has invested incredible sums of money in national planes and has taken a bicycle into national planes with government initiatives. We have started a cycling centre where we gather national expertise with the opportunity for research on bikes. We have made sure that there is a cycling strategy. As I mentioned earlier, we have added SEK 650 million to increased efforts for bicycles in the latest budget bill. In addition, we have added extra money earmarked for civil society and all its organisations. I know that Jakob Forssmed and I share the view that civil society should be strong and that organisations and peoples' movements should be able to work to strengthen not least the conditions for sport. We are giving direct resources to this. The reason I mention this is that Jakob Forssmed is a person who has been in a politically responsible position. It is possible to spend more money in opposition than the government, but when Jakob Forssmed was Secretary of State in the Council of State committee during the alliance government there was no cycling center. At the time, there was also no cycle strategy, no major investments in national plans or any specific money for civil society. At all, not many of these regulatory changes were made, for example on the bicycle street, which we are now working on. My question back to Jakob Forssmed is: Why did nothing happen when Jakob Forssmed himself had the opportunity to take responsibility and in reality do things for cycling? How come you didn't make much effort under the alliance government? Was it that tax cuts were ultimately a little more important? You didn't invest in infrastructure or rail. You stopped the Norrbotnia Line. There were no major investments in road maintenance, and we now have a very large road maintenance debt. Shipping was hardly mentioned in national planes. Tax cuts were probably the only thing that mattered. Now, if we stick to the cycle, I can see that very little was done during the time that Jakob Forssmed was actually in a central position in the alliance government was responsible for the government's performance. We're doing the best we can. We make sure to properly strengthen cycling conditions. Then we know that a very large part of this is about municipalities and regions and their efforts. There are great opportunities to improve for cycling. The Swedish Cycling Cities organisation has also shown how, for example, Uppsala and Lund – and indeed sometimes at home in Växjö – make very good efforts to strengthen cycling. With reforms as a bicycle street, we increase the possibility of finding good solutions where the cycle is given priority even when it is crowded in urban planning. We work systematically and tirelessly to strengthen the research base and ensure that the state provides resources. We strengthen Swedish cycling. What did Jakob Forssmed do when he was in government?
i-87a69941dd7040dc-452	Madam President, I would like It is almost seven years since the Alliance left the government. It is time to release the point of speech about what the Alliance did and did not do and take responsibility for what you do. We set up a bicycle investigation as a lot of the suggestions that you have been working on came out, but I think we did too little. I think we should do far more. I think the government should do far more. I know Tomas Eneroth as a very wise, experienced and sympathetic person. Tomas Eneroth also knows that you can go beyond a choice of words. If it is the word and competence that disturbs the Government, he can think about the conditions. What conditions does the Government intend to give the authorities to work with bicycles in the future? Will he give them more employees who work with bike questions? Will he give them more assignments, more directives or changed regulatory letters? Will he give them other capacity or a mission to establish measuring points so that they can analyze and follow the cycle development on their government bicycle road network in the future? Will he ensure that they can increase their research-related skills so that they come up with proposals that actually benefit the accessibility of bicycles rather than proposals that disadvantage accessibility? This is what I'm after here. Is the Government satisfied with how to work with bicycle issues? They're government agencies. It is the government that governs the authorities, and it is the government that governs the kingdom. It is not a question of individual officials or of me being critical of them, but of what comes out of the government's work on bicycle issues. How does Trafikverket operate its bike paths in Sweden? Is it the case, for example, that it is ocularly often visible – and not in a positive way – when the Swedish Transport Administration operates them, or is it the case that it works very well compared to other road keepers when it comes to bicycle issues? This is something to reflect on, as I mentioned earlier, on measuring points. I'm also going to talk about regulatory changes that aren't made. Cycling street has been completed and proposed – from what I understand, it has not been a huge success, but it will certainly. All improvements are also good. Let's talk a little about the 1.5-metre rule, which exists in many countries. More and more cyclists are witnessing more careless overtakings, narrowing the road, feeling that motor vehicles do not keep their distance and that fewer people dare to go out and ride a bicycle. This is particularly true in rural areas, where most accidents occur in daylight and on 70 and 90 roads. Then the question is: Isn't this something to take on? In the 2018 election campaign, you said in the Social Democrats that you wanted to look at the 1.5-metre rule to make it easier and safer. You said you saw advantages in it and that you were prepared to look at it. How far have you come in that analysis? When can there be a proposal for such a simple change that would actually make the situation safer for many cyclists? Can the Minister for Infrastructure tell us here today that a preparatory work is under way and that proposals will be made, or at least that information will be given on this issue? I think that would be welcome in many cyclists around Sweden.
i-87a69941dd7040dc-462	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jakob Forssmed, for the clarification! I think that was important. I still think it was very hard worded in the interpellation, and it surprised me. Many officials of the Finnish Transport Agency and the Swedish Transport Agency – not to mention VTI, where we have the Bicycle Centre – are doing a solid job to promote Swedish cycling. Then you don't always have to agree with everything. I stress the importance of promoting cycling and want this to exist in all socio-economic groups. I want us to make efforts for children's and women's cycling – not just for men in the big cities. Once I have said this, it has irritated some people. Seriously: If we want more people to discover the amazing cycling – both Jakob Forssmed and I cycle a lot – I think we also need to increase our efforts. This is why, for example, the Swedish Transport Administration's regulatory letter now receives the clear mandate to provide more resources to civil society for cycling. Resources are earmarked to strengthen civil society organisations. In this way, we steer so that our authorities promote cycling. In the same way, we have developed regulatory changes, implemented the bike street and now finally got the research going, for example through the investment in the Bicycle Centre and a bicycle strategy. I think that the recognition that it was done too little under the alliance government honors Jakob Forssmed. The reason why I raise this, despite the fact that it was seven years ago, is that it is clear that the Christian Democrats – not to mention some other parties in opposition – have an opinion in opposition but another when you get the chance to rule. However, it is a little remarkable that the increase in funding on the infrastructure side and the investment on the bike come when you are in opposition; it did not come when you were in government. We make a difference. Since we took office, we have made sure to invest in cycling. That is why it is now in national planes. This is why the state is now helping the municipalities with considerable resources in their development of cycling through the urban environment agreement or other measures. That is also why we are making directly earmarked efforts in state budgets to promote cycling. That is why we have not only a cycling strategy but also a national cycling centre. We are making a difference, and it is about political will. As far as regulatory developments are concerned, I am pragmatic. I am prepared to look at a number of proposals that can promote, not least, road safety when it comes to cycling. This is something that concerns me. We can see that we are successful in zero vision. We can see that in 2019 or 2020 we had the smallest number of people killed and injured in traffic ever. It's a success story. But we see with some concern, I would say, on vulnerable road users. I have said in particular that we need to follow and pay attention to electrification on the bicycle side. This was also the reason for the investigation mission to the Swedish Transport Agency. We are getting more and more electric bicycles and single-person electric vehicles, and for those who follow the debate it is mainly about electric scooters. I think everyone realises that the way in which the electric scooters were implemented in Stockholm two summers ago led to a terrible disorder with not only incidents but serious accidents. That is why the government felt that we had to have a proper investigation of what this means, how we should curb a development where it is becoming increasingly tough for pedestrians, cycling and electric scooters to co-operate in traffic and what measures are to be taken. The Swedish Transport Agency has put forward its proposals, and we will of course listen to referrals and others. But I make it clear in this part that there is no point in tearing up the rule that we introduced in 2018.
i-QDiWAS3hNKkiURY4ssxrsy	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Tomas Eneroth, again! Tomas Eneroth says he's pragmatic. It's incredibly good to be pragmatic. Introduce the 1 meter rule! Do like France, Argentina, Germany, Australia, Portugal and large parts of the United States and better protect the vulnerable road users, namely cyclists who are the most vulnerable road users! In fact, many get hit or get into trouble because motor vehicles are too close. In reply to me, the Government says that the Traffic Regulation states that a driver can only drive if it can be done without danger and that it should be safe, sufficient distance. This is extremely vague. It also makes it much more difficult for the police to prosecute this, as the Government itself points out as an important thing to enforce traffic rules. I think the government recognizes the information about the two-metre rule under the covid-19 pandemic, a way for you to save lives. A 1, 5-metre rule or perhaps even a two-metre rule when it comes to overtaking cyclists is also a way of saving lives. The fact that the authorities communicate with a two-metre rule is not about keeping exactly two meters away. It is a question of making it clear that you should actually keep enough distance, not that it is your own assessment, in order to be able to do a safe re-run. If we believe, in the case of the coronapndemin, in the communication of two metres for clarity, that we should actually keep this safe distance, then we should also be able to do so in the case of bicycles and overtakings by road. This issue has been taking an enormous amount of time and has been raised for many years. The pragmatic Tomas Eneroth has every opportunity to present this proposal in the near future and also to get it through in Parliament. He can count on the support of the Christian Democrats.
i-87a69941dd7040dc-479	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jakob Forssmed! I am prepared to listen to all the good suggestions, because I am so pragmatic. I think that both I and the government have shown this because we have made great efforts to promote cycling, not least major national efforts. It should nevertheless be remembered that most of the responsibility lies with municipalities and regions. There are indeed municipalities and regions which, to put it mildly, have great potential for improvement. I really appreciate it when cycling cities and enthusiasts show that this is possible, whether we talk about Örebro, Uppsala, Lund, Växjö or other places. I am concerned when, for example, here in Stockholm, electric scooters are implemented in a way that creates terrible confusion in traffic. I think it is important that all municipalities create the conditions for safe cycling in the best possible way. With regard to the 1.5-metre rule, I think it is important that everyone following this debate is aware that the majority of bicycle accidents are single accidents. We will ensure a good quality of our bike paths and infrastructure and that there are good conditions for safe cycling. We will increase knowledge about this. Hence the systematic effort at the Bicycle Centre and research, to build skills, to spread experiences, to strengthen civil society's ability to act and to ensure that children's and young people's cycling can increase, as well as other groups that today have not felt the advantage of cycling – a feeling that Jakob Forssmed and I share. We put in considerable financial resources to strengthen Swedish cycling. As I said, the alliance government did not, because other things were more important. If there is a sobering up, I think it is a good thing. Let us hope that we continue to strengthen cycling in Sweden. It is necessary not only for public health but also for road safety, accessibility and, above all, the climate.
i-87a69941dd7040dc-485	Madam President, I would like Magnus Jacobsson has asked me about high-speed trains. As far as new high-speed main lines are concerned, I would like to remind Magnus Jacobsson that it was the bourgeois government that set up Sweden with the aim of enabling rapid implementation. Unlike the Christian Democrats, the government's ambition is to complete new high-speed trains. The Council would have liked a broad political discussion on the financing of the new main lines, but the Christian Democrats and the Moderates have declined to participate, despite a broad commitment to the expansion of municipalities, regions and a large part of the business community. Work has now begun to develop a new national plan, and the Government intends to submit an infrastructure proposal to the Riksdag in spring 2021 with proposals for financial frameworks. The j anuari agreement states that the decided national plan for infrastructure 2018 – 2029 with investments of SEK 700 billion will be completed. This means that the implementation of new main routes will not be at the expense of other investments in the country. New main lines are needed to meet the rapidly increasing train travel, provide the opportunity for more freight on trains and increase commuter trains' opportunity in the current train system, as it is full of parts of the Swedish railway. More capacity is needed. It modernises and connects the country in a climate-smart way.
i-87a69941dd7040dc-491	Madam President, I would like Normally, I praise the Council of State. We usually have nice debates. We are usually able to meet each other in a somewhat western Swedish way in a pleasant nagging about important issues. But this time, Madam President, I am a little disappointed. The answers I have received to my most important questions, namely whether the development of costs, which is actually taking place before the first shovelage has even been taken, is not satisfactory. Madam President, I would like To indulge in rhetoric about what the Moderates and Christian Democrats have done long, long ago is not quite good enough. After all, it is not the Moderates and Christian Democrats who are ruling right now, but it is the government that is ruling. And as far as I can see, the government also has support in Parliament for its budget, at least another year. There is also an agreement to go forward with some kind of information on new main routes. The Swedish Transport Administration has been contacted to obtain information, and the information we have received is unfortunately not very pleasing. On the contrary, it shows that instead of the government's cost estimates of just over 200 billion, it will be 295 billion plus minus 50 billion. There's a huge difference. The Swedish National Audit Office has also criticised the whole thing and said that it is unclear. This is deeply problematic. We have a situation where, in fact, most parties in this House agree. And I dare to say that the Christian Democrats and the Social Democrats agree on a fundamental issue, namely that rail is an important transport system. I am absolutely convinced that we agree that we want to improve the conditions for freight and passenger traffic both nationally and internationally. And that we agree broadly on the budget can be seen in the motions that we have raised. Yet we find ourselves in a situation where the Swedish Transport Administration signals that, with the funding and structure that is now in place, high-speed trains must, according to Sweden's solution, be left out of the budget, otherwise there is a risk of becoming a cuckoo. There are reports of a lack of maintenance on both road and rail. I am convinced that it worries the Government as much as it worries me, and I am equally convinced that I would also have tough negotiations with the Ministry of Finance if I were the Minister of State. But it is still the government that governs. Then it is not good enough to refer back, but it is about what the government wants to do at this point in time. We've got a whole new number, and it's considerably higher than some of us thought a while ago. Maybe I'm not as surprised. The question is again: what does the Minister intend to do? Does he intend to call some kind of meeting to discuss the important railways, the maintenance deficiencies, the resolution of bottlenecks and where new main roads can be built within a sensible financial framework? Or will the government at some point present alternative funding that we in the opposition can take a position on?
i-87a69941dd7040dc-499	Madam President, I would like I thank Magnus Jacobsson for his commitment, and I believe that this time too we will have a good debate and discussion. It is in the opposition's role not to be satisfied, although I think that some people in the opposition think it is good that the government is making the greatest railway effort in modern times. It was not done under the alliance government. We spent 100 billion more already in the national plan in 2018, and I predict that we will have to spend even more on infrastructure in the future. Therefore, we have given the Swedish Transport Administration the task of producing proper documentation. This is a focus issue for national plans where the Finnish Transport Agency points to some challenges, not least the need for investments in maintenance of railway and road maintenance. It is also about an investigation mission about new main roads. The Finnish Transport Agency was commissioned to see what a cost framework of 205 billion represents for challenges. The Finnish Transport Agency says that it is possible to look at system designs and changes in production, such as the construction of land bridges, as mentioned in the report, how to handle excavations and the procurement of trains for noise reduction. It's an interesting mission and an interesting report. The Finnish Transport Agency has turned around and turned all the possibilities to reduce the costs of building new main roads. In the interest of safety, I have previously commissioned the Swedish Transport Administration to generally highlight what efforts need to be made to meet an increased cost in the construction of infrastructure. I am not just a minister of infrastructure, but also a small-timer, and as a small-timer I am keen that we use taxpayers' money in the best possible way. Investments are good and long-term important. Not investing is also a position. We are now seeing the negative effects of the years in which it was not invested in infrastructure. There are shortcomings today that need to be taken home. It is also evident in the absence of a Northbotnia course, which at the time was not invested in even though it was first in national planes. Investment is important, but we need to have thorough cost control. That is the reason for the third assignment to Trafikverket: to make a proper search. Whether it is a matter of lack of competition, challenges in procurement, increased requirements or otherwise, I want a proper account of why the costs increase in the construction of infrastructure. As Magnus Jacobsson knows, the government will return to the Riksdag with a proposal for a framework for infrastructure investments and eventually a national plan. Of course, these resources should be used in the best and most effective way. First Magnus Jacobsson and the Christian Democrats joined and began the effort to strengthen the capacity of the Swedish rail system, but then they dropped off. I have not heard Magnus Jacobsson but other Christian-Democratic and Moderate representatives, now unfortunately accompanied by Swedish-Democratic representatives, oppose railway initiatives and new main lines and instead speak out for roads, reduced aviation and petrol taxes and other efforts that do not promote either the climate issue or investments in an efficient and climate-smart transport system.
i-87a69941dd7040dc-508	Madam President, I would like I'm going to give the Government a point of order. There is a certain difference between being in government and being free and independent in opposition. The government is forced to compromise, negotiate and make joint proposals. I have every respect for that craft. I have not had the privilege of doing this in government but at municipal level, and I realise that it is a craft where you can give and take. The advantage of being in opposition is that you can tell about your own policy. That is also why I and some other Christian Democrats may think that, after a seven-eight-year period, it is becoming a little sad that it is being referred back to the alliance government. We have shown in these years what we want to do and what we want to prioritise, and we will of course take that with us on that day, hopefully in a few years' time, when we will have to negotiate on government issues. Then it is important for us to be able to highlight our questions. Let us leave the alliance government there and look at what we have to discuss today. It is correct that there will be a bill. It is equally correct that I and the Government debated the timetable for it on a number of occasions about a year ago, and then the whole work, in a Christian Democratic perspective, was already delayed. It should have started earlier, and one should have been in phase earlier. Many regions then asked when the evidence would come. Now they're on their way, and that's good. But in my perspective, the bill will be a year too late. It is another debate that we have had on other occasions, but it may be good to remind you that we have had this discussion in this House. It is correct that the Christian Democrats have turned. This is linked to our assessment that the budget of 205 billion does not last. The numbers don't match. Too much suggests that the benefits do not correspond to the cost. For example, the Government mentions excavations. Here, too, we have a factor of uncertainty. In the Stockholm region, excavations have started to be assessed as waste from government sources. It's cost-driven. Traditionally, excavation masses have been building materials. It is not a question of politics, it is an official assessment. I do not want to hang a single official, but this difference in assessment has an incredible cost-driven effect on all infrastructure. This applies not only in Stockholm but also in the construction of new main roads. As politicians, we must, of course, have control of the economy. Even we residents are afraid of money and rarely like to leave it to Stockholm. We'd be happy to keep them at home because we think they're the best use to us. Even better, we leave the money with the citizens and lower the tax; we find this positive in many situations. At the same time, there are things we in Sweden have to do together, and what we have to do together motivates us to pay taxes. But paying taxes and that someone should then increase the costs with a pen line in an assessment of what is waste and what is construction material, we are not so keen on. We have to take this issue with us, because if we are to cope with our infrastructure efforts, whether they are maintenance or possible new tracks, we must be cost-effective.
i-87a69941dd7040dc-519	Madam President, I would like I share Magnus Jacobsson's view that we must be cost-effective. One of the points of the studies to produce data was that the Swedish Transport Administration pointed out precisely the changed practice and handling of excavations and how it could lead to an increase in costs, which was thus brought to the attention of the Government. I think it is important that the construction of infrastructure penetrates all the different elements which individually can be rational but which, taken together, are in danger of leading to serious costs. I think we need to work so systematically. That is also the point of the assignments we have given to Trafikverket. Magnus Jacobsson says: Let us leave the alliance government there! Nevertheless, I find it interesting to note that there is a great difference between what you did when you had government power and what you think when you are in opposition, namely something quite different. But it is also clear that the Christian Democrats are now leaving the alliance government. Now it is rather new partners, the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats, that the Christian Democrats prefer as company. It was not long ago that we could hear the leaders of the Christian Democrats talking about closer cooperation with the Swedish Democrats. That makes me extremely concerned. This is not a discussion about values, integrity, democracy and everything else. But it is tempting to have such a discussion with Magnus Jacobsson, who I know as a wise and discreet person. The ideological and political choices that the Christian Democrats are now making in terms of cooperating with the Swedish Democrats surprise me. But there will also be a choice in terms of infrastructure. The cooperation parties that Magnus Jacobsson will then negotiate and compromise with do not see investment on the railways as desirable. On the contrary, they are parties that are openly talking about investing in roads, reducing petrol taxes and air taxes and not taking responsibility in the climate change transition. If you want – which I believe Magnus Jacobsson wants – to see a development towards more capacity in the Swedish rail system and if you want to increase the possibility of more climate-smart transport, I actually think that a Social Democratic-led government is preferable. We have shown in the January constellation that we can do this. At the moment, the biggest railway investment is taking place in modern times. It is an extensive renovation and repair of the Swedish rail system, such as Getingmidjan in Stockholm. Many who travel south from have three summers in a row had to drop off already at Södra station to be referred to alternatives. There have finally been resources and power to renovate what is perhaps the heaviest railway line in Sweden. There goes a train every minute. Now it's renovated and ready. Similarly, we have repaired and restored the Swedish rail system and created space for new construction. But it's important that it's not just about regulars. It is equally important to invest in Norrbotniabanan, Sydostlinken or four track between Stockholm and Uppsala. Was it something that became clear when we held hearings on the Finnish Transport Administration's focus base, it was the need for more climate-smart investments in infrastructure. We heard this from region by region, from business organisation after business organisation and from all the different parts of civil society. In many regions there is even a broad, joint participation from many parties, while in Sweden's parliament we have parties – the Christian Democrats and the Moderates – who drop out of talks about how we can jointly make major railway initiatives. I'm sorry about that.
i-87a69941dd7040dc-528	Madam President, I would like Government Eneroth! I am happy to have a debate on values. I am proud of the Christian Democratic values. I am proud that we have a tradition of saying no to all totalitarian regimes. We have never been in a government position where we have been bound to any totalitarian regime. I am proud of our democratic traditions. I am also proud that Swedish politics strives as far as possible to stick to the truth and also to describe each other truthfully. For my part, I already wrote in 2011 a debate article in Svenska Dagbladet about the need to hold talks with all parties in the Swedish parliament. You can google and look at it. Did I do this because I appreciate all parties in parliament? No, but as a simple municipal councillor out on the Bohuslän coast, I realized that if you talk to everyone, it will also be more difficult to create a picture where someone can play victims. Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats wish a bourgeois government together with the Moderates and gladly with other classical bourgeois parties who want a bourgeois prime minister. There we are. There we will continue to stand. We will work for that. Madam President, I would like I note that the Government does not answer my two fundamental questions. We see that the economy is running, and you haven't even put the shovel on the slopes. Investigations are great. But all the investigations show that this doesn't make any sense. Now we see in some media that you want to recalculate the social calculations. Because right now they're showing that it doesn't make sense.
i-HpiLdmtQ4Un86N3Kr5es6Y	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Magnus Jacobsson! The Swedish Democrats were obviously a sore toe. But I think it's troubling. I have many in my circle of acquaintances and friends who are Christian Democrats or engaged in not least the Free Church movement. They are deeply concerned about the cooperation that the Christian Democrats are now opening up to by wanting to put themselves in a government that is directly dependent on the Swedish Democrats with all that it means for their ability to influence fundamental valuation issues. But there Magnus Jacobsson does not share my view, although I share much of Magnus Jacobsson's views in general. I think it is a wrong tactical and strategic choice. I think it will be unfortunate for Sweden if we give that kind of power increased influence in Swedish politics. Back to the interpellation: I think I have answered the questions. I have responded to how we systematically work to produce data for future infrastructure proposals and with the Swedish Transport Administration's various assignments. I mentioned three of them. We also work, of course, to listen to the views of the business community, regions and civil society before the bill and eventually before the national plan. There we clearly announce that we are continuing with the effort to build a climate-smart and sustainable transport system. We do this through the largest railway investment in modern times but also through resources for railway maintenance and road maintenance. In the current national plan, we are already making major investments in shipping or for that matter on a bicycle, which I just debated with Magnus Jacobsson's party colleague. That's how we take responsibility. Last time we financed it with 100 billion more than the previous government invested. There is good evidence that there will be additional resources, not only because costs run out, but above all because the needs are so great if we are to cope with the climate change and if we are to keep the whole country together. Thank you for a good debate!
i-87a69941dd7040dc-538	Madam President, I would like Anne-Anne-Li Sjölund has asked Minister Åsa Lindhagen why the government has not prepared what is proposed in the SOU 2019:33 Increased state presence in Härnösand – Report of the investigation about increased government activities in Härnösand and not after that acted on the proposals. She has also asked when the people of Härnösand can expect to get the new government jobs promised. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. The government has long been clear that Sweden needs more government jobs outside Stockholm and is keen to strengthen its presence in Västernorrland, among others. The Government therefore welcomes initiatives such as the Swedish Correctional Service's announcement to open more institutions in Härnösand. The same applies to the Swedish Tax Agency's plans to locate archives in the municipality, which means new jobs that are being moved from the Stockholm area in particular. It is a clear signal that there is competence and ability around the country to perform government tasks. In its report of June 2019, the report on increased state presence in Härnösand proposed that tasks from five different authorities be assigned to a single office community in Härnösand. The Special Educational School Authority would act as the host authority. The report considered that the proposal would cover approximately 80 years of work and that it would apply to operations at Kammarkollegiet, Sida, the Swedish Tax Agency, the Swedish National Agency for Education and Social Security. The report was referred, and the consultation period ended at the end of February 2020. During the same period, as we know, the covid-19 pandemic broke out. Several of the authorities covered by the investigation's proposal carry out activities that are to a large extent affected or affected by the pandemic, such as the National Board of Health and Welfare and the Swedish National Agency for Education. A strengthened state presence in Härnösand remains an important issue for this government, and I fully understand that the inhabitants of Härnösand are keen to be told. At the same time, the special circumstances surrounding the current pandemic call for particularly careful consideration of the timing of a position and the possible relocation of tasks from the relevant authorities. Against this background, the Government has not yet taken a position on the investigation's proposal. However, I would like to emphasise that we are working on the proposals and intend to come back with a message when the situation has stabilised and the conditions have become clear.
i-87a69941dd7040dc-542	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister of Civil Affairs for the answer to my interpellation, which is about moving government jobs to Härnösand. For ten years, Härnösand has lost a lot of jobs. It's not about one or two. We're talking about hundreds. When Mittuniversitetet moved its operations in 2013, Härnösand lost an estimated 160 services. Between 2008 and 2018, 22 per cent of government jobs were lost. During the same period as the rest of the country's residential cities, Härnösand gained more state jobs. The government has been courted in succession in recent years. It has called for a plan for how to get government jobs back and has wanted to see a development like in the other residential cities. Happily, a few years ago, the government set up an investigation to review the possibility of an increased state presence in Härnösand. When the investigation was set up, it was said that the government was serious about the whole country living and therefore invested in Västernorrland and Härnösand. The Government also considered that further efforts were needed in Norrlandslänen. Västernorrland County is the county where government jobs have decreased most. Härnösand has a higher unemployment rate than the average in the country, a higher average age than the national average and a low population increase, so the effort was directed there. Madam President, I would like The investigator presented a range of ideas and measures for relocating jobs from Stockholm to Härnösand and specifically proposed to move parts of five operations to an office community in Härnösand. It concerns activities from the Swedish National Agency for Education, the National Board of Health and Welfare, the Swedish Tax Agency, Sida and Kammarkollegiet. The relocation of these activities could mean as much as 80 new jobs in Härnösand. Hope grew, of course, for Härnösand and Västernorrland. Madam President, I would like Two years have passed since the report was presented, and nothing has happened. When I talk to officials at the county administrative board in Härnösand and at Härnösand municipality, this is precisely stated: Nothing has happened. There has not been a single post in accordance with the report's proposal from Stockholm to Härnösand, Residency City in Västernorrland. I am not quite satisfied with the answer, so I ask again: Why has the government not acted on the proposals that the investigation has delivered? When can the people of Härnösand expect to get the new government jobs promised?
i-87a69941dd7040dc-548	Madam President, I would like This is a very urgent matter of state presence and government jobs throughout the country. For several years, the Government has ensured that we ensure continued development of government jobs. Then there are different parts of the country, such as Västernorrland, which have lost different types of jobs, and that is really something that we are trying in different ways to take the initiative to deal with. The comparison with other residential cities raised by Anne-Anne-Li Sjölund is correct. At the same time, the county administrative board's survey of government jobs shows that in Västernorrland it is in eighth place in relation to the population in terms of state employment. If you look at the whole county you can see that there have been positive developments lately. We have been informed that the Swedish Tax Agency is moving some activities there. This also applies to 70-80 jobs announced by the Correctional Service. So things have happened in the meantime. I do not want to ignore the investigation in any way, because it is very important, but it is interesting that some initiatives have actually been taken. Then we also have the information that has come about the Swedish Armed Forces' expansion in Sollefteå with a regiment. What I would like to emphasise further in the question itself when it comes to the authorities that are proposed and that are to be co-ordinated locally is that the pandemic has particularly affected the conditions for the National Board of Health and Welfare, which we know has a key role to play in the pandemic. It is very much about what aid is being given to the regions, about protective equipment, about equipment and so on. If major changes are to be made, we also need to assess when it is appropriate to do them, because during the pandemic, the efforts and measures to prevent infection and to ensure that we do what we need to do prioritise. Similarly, we also need to have a discussion when it comes to the Swedish National Agency for Education and the changes that are taking place there. However, in answer to the question, I would like to emphasise that we will continue to prepare this, so that we can come up with a proposal about getting more state jobs in Härnösand.
i-87a69941dd7040dc-552	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. I am pleased that the government shares the view that the Swedish state's presence also needs to be outside the Stockholm area. But does the government believe that the starting point for government jobs is Stockholm, regardless of which state authority it is? I welcome the initiatives of the Prison Service and the plans of the Swedish Tax Agency. But this has nothing to do with the proposal for the 80 state jobs. These government agencies have chosen to locate themselves in Härnösand. The IRS went out with a simple request for land to build a central archive, and Härnösand had the best offer. The government believes that the initiatives of the two authorities are a clear signal that there is competence outside Stockholm. This is not something that the Center Party has ever doubted. Competence and ability to perform government tasks have nothing to do with where in the country you live. Madam President, I would like I can understand that the special circumstances surrounding the pandemic must be taken into account. But it is a very bad excuse for the government to blame the pandemic for not having prepared the question after the referrals were received. No one knew at that time how long or extensive the pandemic would be. The Government mentions two authorities, the National Agency for Education and the National Board of Health and Welfare, which are more affected by the pandemic and need more time. Will those not mentioned – Kammarkollegiet, Sida and the Swedish Tax Agency – be presented at an earlier stage than the two? Madam President, I would like As the Government says in its interpellation response, the special circumstances surrounding the ongoing pandemic are that particularly careful consideration of the timing of a position and possible relocation is required. I jumped at the word. Should I take it that the government is in the process of stepping back in relocating government jobs to Härnösand?
i-87a69941dd7040dc-558	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by emphasising one point raised by Mrs Sjölund, which I think it is extremely important that we all help to describe, and that is that there is competence throughout the country. It also plays a major role in how we can further develop this competence. It will be about educational opportunities and more. I have taken note of the views of the consultative bodies and there are some criticisms from them. I will not comment on the various referrals, because we have a preparation going on. But I think it is of great importance that we describe the different conditions, which are very good throughout our country and absolutely it is in Västernorrland. When I describe the activities of the National Board of Health and Welfare and how they have been affected by the pandemic, it is also for the reason that we want a comprehensive solution. In relation to the investigation that has come, we have prepared how this should be done overall. Then you should see it as that the investigation itself is very important, and that is what Anne-Anne-Li Sjölund's interpellation is about. When I describe what else is happening, it is interesting to see that there is growth in Västernorrland and that we have been able to see more government jobs coming to Västernorrland. It's still a plus. We can't see it as a problem. That is something that is actually positive in itself. At the same time, we have a development that really shows that the government takes these issues seriously, namely that we establish service offices where we gather government activities in different parts of our country, in different municipalities and with authorities together with municipalities. It is a development that we are also preparing for its further development. I would just like to mention the service offices, because this is an example of how we really take this seriously. As far as the investigation itself is concerned and whether Anne-Li Sjölund read something into the reply that we should back down, I can definitely emphasise that this is not the case. We are preparing the question. I hope that we will be able to come up with an answer very soon.
i-87a69941dd7040dc-564	Madam President, I would like You can also choose to see opportunities. From having a higher unemployment rate than the average, we could see today that unemployment in the county is increasing even more. The highest unemployment rate in the county is found in the residence town of Härnösand. If we reverse the idea, it is now even more important to get going and not wait for the situation to stabilise and the conditions to become clear. We know the most important conditions. It is that unemployment is soaring and that there is competence in Härnösand. I will keep a close watch on this issue, and so will those who live in Västernorrland and Härnösand.
i-87a69941dd7040dc-567	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Anne-Anne-Li Sjölund, for monitoring the issue! I think that's important. At the same time, I would like to say that we are in constant contact with the municipal management in Härnösand. It is important that we have a dialogue with it and, of course, also with the other actors. I see that it is of great importance for how we continue to prepare this and come up with proposals that can be implemented in time and which deal with what the overall activities should look like. We need to have an active discussion on this. The government continues to prepare this. We will provide information as soon as possible.
