i-f26f10da07d287f0-1	Madam President, I would like After all, Sweden's pensions have been a hot issue in recent days. Now we are going to debate AP funds, which are part of the financing system for our pensions. A prerequisite for good pensions in the future is that Sweden continues to have successful companies and successful research, public investment that secures access to infrastructure and housing, a well-developed public welfare and a policy for greater equality. The Left Party believes that AP funds should be actively used and take long-term ownership responsibility in contrast to the short-term profit interests that characterise large parts of the financial market today. A strong Swedish business community requires an active and purposeful industrial policy. The AP funds could be used to a greater extent than at present to make this possible. There is widespread dissatisfaction with the short-term yield requirements that govern much of the investment. The Left Party's view is that the AP funds should not be used for speculative purposes but should be managed on the basis of long-term socio-economic criteria. Pensioners' money should be secured, and this is best done by the AP Funds taking long-term ownership responsibility in order to maintain high employment and sustainable growth. The Left Party therefore proposes, among other things, that the First AP Fund be transformed into a fund for social investments. It can then invest in, for example, environmental technology, medicine, housing, mining or infrastructure. Madam President, I would like First – Fourth AP Fund shall manage the funds in an exemplary way through responsible investments and ownership. Particular attention shall be paid to how sustainable development can be promoted without prejudice to the overall objective of investment activities. The Left Party welcomes the goal of investment but questions whether it will make enough difference. At the same time as this goal was introduced, the government stated that the environment, social responsibility and corporate governance should be promoted without compromising the overall objective of investment activities. The government's letter, which we are now debating, assesses the impact of the new investment rules. The evaluation shows that the market value of investments in fossil energy for the First – Fourth AP Fund has decreased by approximately 80 percent, but the Third and Fourth AP Fund still has fossil companies in their portfolios corresponding to approximately SEK 4 billion. SVT's review of AP Funds' investments also shows that the Seventh AP Fund has over 11 billion invested in fossil assets. Neither the Sixth nor the Seventh AP Fund are subject to the same regulatory framework as the First – Fourth AP Fund. The Left Party believes that all AP funds should be subject to the requirement of exemplary and sustainable investment. There must also be tougher demands on all AP funds in terms of environment and ethics. The fact that the Third AP Fund invests in nuclear weapons companies is not ethically justifiable. The Left Party proposes that the placements be guided by the following guidelines: 中 Environmental and ethical considerations shall be equated with the objective of high returns. The AP Funds shall not make new investments in coal, oil or fossil gas. The AP funds will divest existing holdings in the fossil fuel industry, and this will take place within two years. All AP funds shall have quantitative targets for investments in renewable energy. All AP funds shall account for calculated greenhouse gas emissions for their investments. The AP Funds shall not invest in companies that use tax havens to avoid taxation. Madam President, I would like Today, AP funds' investments in unlisted companies are limited. We in the Left Party believe that the First – Fourth AP Fund should be able to invest directly in unlisted companies, as we also proposed in our motion. The current regulatory framework for the First – Fourth AP Fund contains provisions limiting the influence of AP funds in the companies they invest in. For us to be able to use the AP funds as part of a strategic industrial policy, this needs to be addressed. Mobile compensation schemes in the financial sector were a contributing factor to the financial crisis in 2007-2009. In addition to the CEO and other fund management, most employees in the AP funds have variable remuneration in addition to their fixed salary. Compensation schemes risk leading to speculation and more risky investments. A ban on variable remuneration for employees of the AP Funds should therefore be introduced. We also believe that an independent council should be set up to monitor AP funds' investments annually and continuously evaluate operations. The Council's follow-up and evaluations should focus on whether the companies in which the AP funds invest live up to the ethical guidelines on human rights and their environmental concerns. Both the follow-up and the evaluations should be presented to the Riksdag and be the subject of debate. Madam President, I would like Of course, I support all the reservations of the Left Party, but I only ask for reservation 1.
i-f26f10da07d287f0-23	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report and therefore rejecting the reservations. In a debate on the AP funds and their results, it is not unimportant to recall what their mission is. It is to manage the funds so that they are of maximum benefit to the income pension system. The administration shall take its starting point in the commitment of the pension scheme. The assignment is regulated by law and together with the investment rules, constitutes the framework for the work of the AP funds. Among other things, it can be seen from the investment rules that the funds are required to take environmental and ethical considerations into account in investment operations without compromising the overall objective of high returns. The Funds shall not pursue economic or economic policy objectives. Madam President, I would like 2020 was in many ways a very special year. At the beginning of the year, the coronap pandemic struck with full force. Many lost loved ones as a result of the pandemic. Society was shut down, and many were the ones who lost their job or were laid off. Financial markets were also affected. But despite the sharp declines on the world stock exchanges at the beginning of the pandemic, the buffer funds gave a combined result after costs of nearly SEK 132 billion, which corresponds to a return on capital of 8.5 percent. And during the year, the buffer funds transferred nearly EUR 32 billion to the pension system to secure current pension payments. As regards the role of the funds as a buffer to deal with current over- and deficit in pension systems, since 2009, the funds have paid out 271 billion to cover the expected deficit that occurred, among other things, when the 40th-century generation began to retire. According to the Pensions Authority's forecast, the pension system deficit will remain at approximately the current level in the coming years, and an additional SEK 121 billion of the fund assets will have to be used up to 2024 to cover the deficit. Madam President, I would like On 1 January 2019 the First – Fourth AP Fund received a new target for investment operations. Pension capital shall be managed in an exemplary manner through responsible investment and ownership. However, the overall objective remains high returns at low risk. The aim of the new objective is for the Funds to take environmental, social and corporate governance aspects into account in their asset management. The aim is, among other things, to develop common values for management, common guidelines for which pension funds should not be invested, and common guidelines on how the results of management under the new objective should be reported. Hopefully we can agree on similar rules for the Sixth and Seventh AP Funds as well. What about the implementation of the new rules by the AP Funds? Regarding, for example, the development of the First – Fourth AP Fund's investments in fossil energy operations, McKinsey looked at the government's mandate for the period 2016 – 2020, and the market value of investments in fossil energy has decreased from 16 billion in 2016 to 4 billion in 2020, which is a decline of just under 80 percent. But the picture is that during the same period the capital of the funds increased by 350 billion or 30 percent. The McKinsey report also notes that the reduction has increased following the entry into force of the new investment rules in 2019. According to the committee, this is a good development that indicates that the new sustainability objectives have contributed to an increased focus on sustainability work. Finally, Madam President, the fact that the AP funds manage our pension money in a sustainable way requires us to keep under the loop and evaluate. AP Funds' overall goal is a long-term high return to ensure safe pensions for Sweden's employees. Long-term investment, for example, will be phased out. Managing our pension money is a great responsibility, not least because it is precisely about our pensions. Then investments also need to be sustainable in the long term in order for us to have safe pensions that the bus driver and nurse can live on. I am also convinced that there is a strong expectation from savers that the pension money managed by the AP funds will go to good business and not to activities that, for example, violate human rights or destroy our planet. With this, I would like to conclude by saying that we Social Democrats in no way exclude any further changes to the regulatory framework if this proves necessary.
i-f26f10da07d287f0-36	Madam President, I would like Joakim Sandell said in his speech that there will hopefully be the same rules for the Sixth and Seventh AP Funds in terms of exemplary and sustainable investment, and that on behalf of the Social Democrats he does not rule out future proposals for change. If the honourable Member now hopes that there will be the same rules for the Sixth and Seventh AP Funds, I wonder when the honourable Member will calculate that there will be such a proposal. Right now, the AP funds have at least SEK 15 billion in fossil assets. That's 15 billion too much for me. We need to divest. The state cannot own shares or similar in companies that work with fossil energy. The same applies to the Third AP Fund, which invests in nuclear weapons companies. I did not hear it mentioned in the honourable Member's speech and would like to hear whether it is really ethically justifiable and in accordance with the rules to invest in nuclear weapons companies.
i-f26f10da07d287f0-39	Madam President, I would like I thank the honourable Member for the questions. I can begin by trying to answer the question when it comes to the word, hopefully. Surely it has not escaped anyone that the Social Democrats do not have their own majority in this House. But it is my hope that we can gather a majority for similar rules for the Sixth and Seventh AP Funds. After all, there is a proposal linked to the S giant AP Fund, and the P ension group is currently watching the Sjunde AP Fund. We will then see how the management progresses. When it comes to investments in fossil energy, it can sometimes be a little complicated. I myself come from Malmö. On the other side of the strait is a company active in the energy sector, Ø rsted. It is a company that previously managed the Danish oil and gas assets, but it has now decided to divest them and switch to producing renewable energy. Then the question is always: Should you be involved in this development as an owner or should you leave it completely aside? As far as the balance between fossil and non-fossil is concerned, it is also a good thing that the owner is involved in driving development. Just looking at the holding in individual shares can sometimes mislead you when you see the path these companies are taking. If you had been a shareholder in Ø rsted, for example, you would have been involved in a proper journey, because the market has given priority to companies that turn the development around.
i-f26f10da07d287f0-43	Madam President, I would like Should we interpret what Joakim Sandell says as saying that the minimum 15 billion invested in fossil energy by the government through the AP funds is being transformed into something else? What percentage of this is the only company mentioned by the honourable Member? Can the honourable Member comment on all the 15 billion or more? I also note that I did not receive an answer to my question on nuclear weapons. The honourable Member said that, hopefully, he also meant that he hopes that there will be a majority, and I hope so, of course. The Social Democrats and all other parties are, of course, welcome to vote in favour of the Left Party's motion and to ensure that we have a change here and now, because we really need to diverge. I am a little tired of referring to the Pensions Group; it has been referred to the Pensions Group for several weeks now. We are a parliament, and we must be able to take the initiative and make decisions without a group that is not representative. Finally, I note that this is not the first time government parties have preferred to sell fossil energy rather than put it down. During this term of office, the government has preferred to sell a coal power plant rather than shut it down. I would like to see a little more initiative from what I hope is the future government party.
i-f26f10da07d287f0-48	Madam President, I would like We Members can be tired of different things. Sometimes I get a little tired of parties that have the ability to paint everything in black and white and make it easy for themselves and in their movements go in completely different directions. Such things can easily be done in opposition. The motion demands of the Left Party include increasing the holding in unlisted companies. Unlisted companies are often associated with higher risk and higher administrative costs, and you commend that administrative costs have fallen. On the other hand, you want to reduce the risks by removing the variable benefits. The Left Party has no common thread in its exercise linked to this activity, and so, as I said, you can behave when you are in opposition. Regarding the representativeness of the Pensions Group: Last time I counted, the parties in the Pensions Group represented an overwhelming majority of Sweden's voters. In my world, the Pensions Group is therefore more representative than the Left Party.
i-25GZMJrYe8DaSkdA1EkZVM	Madam President, I would like We are now debating the Committee on Justice's report Adaptation of Swedish law to EU regulations on the Schengen Information System. Initially, I will make a general reflection on the fact that we have slightly different views on the advantages and disadvantages of free movement within Europe and more specifically Schengen. While freedom of movement simplifies the lives of individuals and enriches our countries in many ways, it cannot be denied that freedom of movement has contributed to enormous problems, not least for Sweden. Perhaps, on behalf of our committee, it is primarily a crime that can operate freely across borders, which in many ways constitutes a much greater problem for our law enforcement authorities than criminality that can be investigated more easily against its own citizens who are in our country. Not least, we also see how freedom of movement is exploited for illegal migration and the underlying interests that promote it against the EU Member States. Madam President, I would like This type of case may not usually serve as a basis for major differences between our respective parties. The main purpose of the report is to bring Swedish law into line with the new EU acquis on the Schengen Information System, with amendments to the Aliens Act and the Publicity and Confidentiality Act, among other things. However, the Swedish democrats find some reason to criticise the government's proposal for a decision, and we have a few reservations in the report about the slowness and limitations of the government. Firstly, the SIS acquis provides for increased possibilities for law enforcement control in cases of cross-border crime. In view of the current situation in Sweden, we consider it extremely worrying that the government's starting point is that only the amendments to Swedish law required for Sweden to fulfil its obligations should be implemented. We believe that Sweden needs to use all available means to counter the development of crime and therefore propose that a new investigation be set up to seize the opportunities for better control provided by the SIS acquis. Madam President, I would like The bill states that the Office's request for enhanced law enforcement based on biometric data is prepared within the Government Office but that there has been no time to prepare the proposals in this particular legislative case. In light of what the Police Authority states in its request regarding the need for a new regulation and the time since the request was made in June 2019, we believe that there is reason to address a notice to the Government about precisely the collection and use of biometric data. In the request, the police authorities also point to the fact that the destruction of biometric data immediately after verification and completion of the search cause problems and, by extension, may lead to increased privacy restrictions. The storage and use of biometric data is an important tool for controlling persons entering Sweden and staying within the country. We therefore consider it urgent that an investigation be set up and tasked with reviewing national legislation in order to allow for increased storage of biometric data. Madam President, I would like These are mainly comments that have been received in the referrals from both the Police Authority and the Swedish Security Service. The report also contains a special statement from the Moderates and Christian Democrats, which takes up roughly the same criticism. Madam President, I would like I agree with both of our reservations, but for time to come, I only call for reservation 2 on the use of the SIS acquis's means of control.
i-f26f10da07d287f0-68	Madam President, I would like I call for the approval of Amendment No 1 by the Left Party. The reason is that, for several reasons, we have a critical attitude towards the Schengen Information System (SIS). The Left Party voted against Sweden's accession to the Schengen Convention when the matter was decided by Parliament 20 years ago. The main objections we had at the time were that Schengen cooperation threatened personal integrity and threatened to restrict refugees' access to asylum and that the important cooperation against cross-border crime should have been organised in forms that did not threaten the individual's legal certainty and the right to asylum. Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, we were right in our fears. Despite the assurances to the contrary given by the government at the time, Sweden has gradually implemented changes to migration legislation and transporter responsibility, which have led to major deteriorations in the rights of refugees and the right to apply for asylum. In addition to using the evasion of rights as a means of trying to scare people off on the run or to pay dictatorships in third countries to keep people on the run, this is another way in which we see that the rule of law is at stake. Since the creation of the information system, the Left Party has questioned that the SIS is not just about persons who have committed crimes or are suspected of crimes. The SIS is used for a comprehensive alert of a so-called preventive nature, i.e. the registration of persons who are not suspects. Many of the persons currently registered in the SIS are persons from outside the Schengen area who, for various reasons, have been refused asylum applications. The importance of such an alert is that the person concerned can be rejected directly at the Schengen external border. The number of such expulsions has also increased markedly. Furthermore, the possibility for a rejected asylum seeker to obtain redress must be considered to be minimal where the person does not have access to the legal apparatus responsible for correcting any inaccuracies after renunciation. This means that persons on perfectly legitimate grounds of asylum are denied redress in accordance with the Geneva Convention, which is a very bad effect of registration. An application for asylum shall always be examined in accordance with applicable conventions irrespective of previous decisions. According to the Left Party, an alert in the SIS shall not deprive the applicant of his or her right to such review. Madam President, I would like We have previously called for the proposal to be rejected on the current basis for the withdrawal of a residence permit, that is to say, that another Schengen country has placed the person in question on a national list of alerts. In the preparatory work, the government stated that there are very strong reasons to withdraw a residence permit granted in Sweden and that only a very strong national interest in another Schengen State can be considered sufficient. However, the Left Party was already critical of the fact that it was not stated in the bill in which cases such a withdrawal could take place. Now that the government is proposing an increased possibility of withdrawing residence permits, it seems even more important that the grounds for withdrawal are legally secure, clear and transparent. Both the Asylum Centre and the Red Cross call in their referrals for a clearer explanation of the situations in which a withdrawal of a residence permit or long-term visa may be considered. The Left Party agrees with the views of the consultative bodies. The unclear regulation of this area opens up arbitrary assessments, with far-reaching consequences for those who, on unclear grounds, risk having their residence permit withdrawn. As it comes from the EU and is something that we are committed to following, we will propose that the government must define more clearly what situations are referred to in the new provisions on the withdrawal of residence permits. It is true that, according to the proposed legal text of the Aliens Act, sufficient grounds are still required for a withdrawal to take place. However, we do not believe that this is enough for the proposal to be legally secure. Therefore, the government that is now to take office should return to the Riksdag with a proposal that the situations in which a residence permit can be revoked be defined in a clear and legally secure manner.
i-f26f10da07d287f0-81	Madam President, I would like Last week, we debated from the Committee on Justice, Justice and Home Affairs, abolishing penalty rebates, strengthening penalties for violence in close relationships and more opportunities to use early interrogations. In about two weeks' time, if everything goes as it should, we will be debating the budget in our area. Today, however, we are talking about the government's proposal to adapt Swedish law to the EU's regulations on the Schengen Information System, to which I call for approval in its entirety. This shows what different areas our committee has to work with. Madam President, I would like The Schengen Information System is an information system that acts as an alert tool and, to some extent, as a search tool. The information system is a system used by the Schengen countries to exchange information with each other in the areas of police cooperation, judicial cooperation in criminal matters and migration control. The relevant regulatory framework includes both possibilities and requirements for Member States to enter different types of alerts. For example, one country should be able to assist another country in arresting a wanted person. In the information system, each Member State may enter information on persons and certain objects that are wanted or sought, together with a request for a special measure to be taken if the person or object is found. The supervision of the processing of data in the system is shared between the European Data Protection Supervisor and the national data protection authorities of the Member States. The work takes place in a cooperation body, and in order to coordinate supervision, representatives meet once or twice a year. In order for Sweden to be able to fulfil its obligations under the regulation, we need to make some legislative changes, which the bill contains. In the bill, the government therefore proposes a new law with additional provisions to the EU regulations on the Schengen Information System, as well as amendments to, among other things, the Aliens Act and the Publicity and Confidentiality Act.
i-f26f10da07d287f0-85	Madam President, I would like The four freedoms – the free movement of goods, services, people and capital – are at the heart of European cooperation and create great economic, social and cultural values for Sweden and Europe. A prerequisite for the free movement of persons within the Union is the existence of adequate external border control, the possibility of safely identifying third-country nationals entering or staying in the country, and the possibility for Member States to exchange information with each other in the areas of police cooperation, judicial cooperation in criminal matters and migration control. This exchange of information is taking place within the framework of the Schengen Information System, which we are discussing today. Since three new EU regulations on the Schengen Information System were adopted in 2018, and can enter into force at the earliest on 28 December 2021 following a Commission decision, Swedish law needs to be adapted. On the moderate side, we today accept the government's assessment to make only the necessary adjustments to Swedish law in this matter because the timeframe is tight. However, the consultation process criticises the government's limited approach, and both the Police Authority and the Migration Agency ask for a more in-depth analysis of the possibility of searching and storing biometrics. We agree with the criticisms of the consultative bodies, but at the same time we note that there is currently no basis for drafting the regulation differently in this case. But it could have been different, Madam President. The three regulations were adopted three years ago. The memorandum that forms the basis of the bill could from the beginning have been given a broader approach in order to enable more extensive changes to Swedish law. More than two years ago, the Swedish Police Authority issued to the Government a general review of the acquis on biometric data. Only in May this year did the government set up the investigation to look at the issue. For several years, we Moderates have pointed out that the current regulatory framework for biometrics is fragmented and outdated. We have also been calling for several years for the government to review the regulatory framework with the aim of enabling law enforcement authorities to make greater use of the powerful tool that biometric data can be in criminal investigations. We express our criticism in a specific opinion in the report, but given that the government has recently set up an investigation to look at the issue, we see no reason today to call for further investigations into the issue to be set up. The House will also deal later at the Parliamentary Session with motion requests from us Moderates dealing precisely with the issue of handling biometric data. We therefore intend to come back in this context. Madam President, I would like The government's handling of adaptations of Swedish law to the Schengen regulations is symptomatic of the lack of action that the Social Democratic-led government has had in the field of justice policy for the last seven years: always do as little as possible, as late as possible. Magdalena Andersson, the new party leader of the Social Democrats, says that she wants to lift every stone to overcome crime. The legitimate question that arises is why she and the government have kept these stones on the ground for seven years. With a more proactive government, it could have looked different. The government could have designed a memorandum that would have enabled not only the most necessary changes to Swedish law to be implemented. The government would have been able to set up the investigation on biometrics in the fight against crime more quickly after the Politigheten's request. Now it is likely to take at least five years from the police authorities making a request until we can have new legislation in place. Sweden is worth a better government that can get Sweden in order.
i-f26f10da07d287f0-97	Madam President, I would like Today's debate, as many of my colleagues in the Committee on Justice have mentioned, concerns the Government's proposal for a new law with additional provisions for the EU's regulation on the Schengen Information System and the proposals that are necessary in, for example, the Aliens Act and the Publicity and Confidentiality Act. The background to the change is that Swedish law should be adapted to the EU's new regulatory framework. As has been mentioned, it was adopted in 2018. The Schengen Information System (SIS) is a system used by the Schengen countries to exchange information with each other in the framework of police cooperation, judicial cooperation in criminal matters and migration control. It consists, on the one hand, of a central computer system and, on the other hand, of national computer systems in the participating Member States. The regulatory framework contains provisions allowing or requiring Member States to enter different types of alerts. Certain types of alerts are intended to inform the other Member States of a particular relationship, such as refusal of entry into the issuing country. Other alerts instead aim at other Member States assisting the issuing country with a specific measure, such as arresting a wanted person or investigating an object. Madam President, I would like The Schengen Information System is an important tool for the Swedish police's work and for border controls. At the same time, however, a need for change has been highlighted. When the Committee and the Riksdag discussed the proposal in the past, the amended provisions on photographs and fingerprints in the SIS II acquis, during the previous Parliamentary Session, the Government's assessment in the bill was that photographs and fingerprints taken for a check should be immediately destroyed when the check has been completed. However, we believe that this is an issue that needs further evaluation. The need to further examine the issue has also been highlighted by the Police Authority, both in referrals and in a request for a general review of the national regulatory framework on, inter alia, the collection of biometric data in order to strengthen law enforcement activities. This request was made by the police, as my colleague Mikael Damsgaard mentioned, in June 2019, two and a half years ago. This request to the Ministry of Justice states that the government should review the collection, storage and use of biometric data to strengthen law enforcement activities. The police report in the petition on a growing need for access to biometric data, including fingerprints, photographs and DNA. It is noted that work is ongoing at EU level on several legal acts concerning the possibility for police to use biometric data in support of the identification of persons but that adaptations are also needed in national law. The police authority thus sees a need for constitutional changes as regards the conditions for collecting biometric data and the conditions under the data protection regulation in particular for storing and using such data for law enforcement purposes. So this is what the police are asking for. Has the government responded to or acted promptly after the police request for change? The answer, like the situation in today's legal area, is unfortunately no. Madam President, I would like In fact, the government decided only on 20 May this year, i.e. a full two years after the police request, to instruct a special investigator to review the conditions for using biometrics as a tool in law enforcement. The biometric study shall report on the assignment by 20 February 2023. Madam President, I would like Once again, we have an example of the government's slow response to the need for change demanded by the legal apparatus. In this case, it concerns the police's request for increased powers and proposals for necessary changes. It takes two years to set up an investigation and another year and a half before the investigation gives an answer. Then the investigation will be referred and the government will present a proposal. If the police are lucky, there is a change in the handling of biometric data in practical function in 2024, i.e. maybe five years after the request. It is really too late and shows once again that Sweden needs a new government that prioritises the needs of law enforcement authorities higher. Madam President, I would like We Christian Democrats share the view expressed in a follow-up motion in connection with the bill that it is urgent that the issue of the storage of biometric data be reviewed. However, the issue is complex and needs to be addressed more comprehensively than this case allows. In view of this and the fact that a recent review investigation has been set up, we are refraining from making reservations. Instead, we support the particular opinion that we have with the Moderates. Madam President, I would like Biometry is a very powerful tool in law enforcement. We and many others have for several years been calling for a revision of the legislation to give the police better opportunities to collect, store and use biometric data. It is time to give higher priority to police requests and give them the tools they need and demand to ensure the security of our society. Sweden really needs a new government that takes the request of the law enforcement authorities seriously.
i-f26f10da07d287f0-112	Madam President, I would like Yesterday was a day that few others during this term of office when a great deal has happened. You were all there, and so I'm not going to focus on it in substance. But in the light of this, and I shall not sound more sentimental than necessary, I still think that what we are doing here today and will decide on here today will be even a bit more fine. Following the decision in committee last Thursday to move out the trawl line and on, among other things, a new Baltic Sea management plan, I have been thinking about how to post this debate – whether to press a little extra on the fact that the Left Party already two years ago wrote about this in our fishing movement or whether to point out that one and a half years ago we made a first committee initiative to move out the trawl line, which was then received with mumbling comments on both the wrong shape and the wrong forum. But then I thought who did what at first wasn't really the important thing. Although I think it mattered that we did, the issue kept up and pushed forward, that is not the central point today. What has happened since then in committee is that we have listened to each other. We have listened to the representatives of the fishing industry who have told us about their situation and their needs. We have listened to the scientists who have told us about a reality that, frankly, has frightened us. We have also listened to the environmental movement and associations working for the good of the Baltic Sea and the seas. And our positions have been moved, no further apart, but closer together, in a process that is politics at its best. For this I would like to take this opportunity to thank your colleagues in the committee. While I am at the point of thanking you, I would like to take this opportunity to say a big thank you to the Sport Fishermen. Without their campaign, Save Baltic herring, which they carried out last spring when they put pressure on us politicians to give answers to how we look at the issue of the trawl line, I really do not think we would have had five committee initiatives on this matter before the end of the summer. I would also like to express my special thanks to all of you who work in fishing and who are in contact with you and tell us about your reality. Without your commitment, the change we are now making would have been considerably more difficult. Now I move on to what is some kind of substantive issue. The fundamental issue when we talk about fishing, I mean, is what fishing we want and what benefits we want that fishing to contribute to. For me, the answer is not simple but quite straightforward. The Left Party wants fisheries to contribute to sustainable seas, a viable ecosystem, sustainable fishing for our fishermen for many generations as well as a continued opportunity for sport fishing. We want it to contribute to living coasts and archipelagos, where people can work in both processing and processing. But you should also be able to build activities around a coastal community where people really want to be to experience everything the good sea has to offer. The proposals we have on the table today do not go all the way, but they are a good step along the way. They are also a clear direction of will from the committee to work for these very values. It is local and regional fisheries, which land, sort and prepare in our Swedish ports and coastal communities, that should be given priority. For this we have good support from both professional fishermen as well as research and organisations working on maritime issues. It's a force we're going to take care of. The trawl line was created once to protect spawning and growing stocks on the coast and at the same time to promote small-scale, local fishing. As stocks in the Baltic Sea have become increasingly smaller and the need to protect special spawning areas has become particularly important, it is clear that this protection still needs to be strengthened. It is therefore a good thing that the committee has now agreed on the removal of the trawl line. It is also important that we have been able to agree to specify the type of fishing to be excluded from the trawl limit. Although the purpose of the trawl line has already been to promote small-scale fishing, we know that too generous exemptions have been granted to the large trawlers as well. Through our decision, we are now pressing for limited derogations to be granted to small-scale fisheries where they fish for direct human consumption. At the same time, we clearly show how important it is to have a locally-based fishing industry with associated processing and processing; it is absolutely central. A measure such as the removal of the trawl line does not aim to make life more difficult for the country's coastal fishermen. On the contrary, it is with hope, among other things, of better fishing for those whom the Left Party wants to see that measure. We have a situation in our seas that requires many measures. Today we are talking about fishing, and if the trend continues it will probably mean further quota reductions. When this happens, it is important that the quota reductions do not primarily affect small-scale, coastal and regional fisheries, but that the EU-decided reductions in quotas for herring should primarily burden pelagic fisheries. When it comes to a review of the current Baltic Sea management plan together with the government's more active role in relation to ICES, it feels a little bit like .............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. In committee, from both left and right, we have pointed out the need for this on many occasions and raised the need for additional knowledge on stocks in the Baltic Sea, in particular the different Baltic herring stocks and how it affects how quotas should be set and so on. But it's never been the right time. But now is the time, and it is very welcome. Especially in the case of Baltic herring, research shows different stocks, which we need more knowledge of. However, it also needs to be taken into account when setting and allocating quotas. Baltic herring fishing in the Bothnian Sea ended this year before it barely started. Fishermen along the Baltic coast also paint a very pale picture of herring fishing that is hardly worth carrying out. It is a warning signal that should sound loudly through all the corridors of bureaucracy and get a government to take swift action. The fact that in this context we have also managed to solve one of the problems on Eldrimner's list of problems is a bonus. It is about licensing small-scale fishermen. I would like to express my special thanks to you and the Moderates, Betty. You were far-sighted enough to take that into account. We appreciate that very much. The licences should clearly be given within the framework of what stocks can manage, but we also need to be able to see that a person who operates a coastal restaurant, for example, and wants to fish perhaps a few hundred kilograms, not a few thousands of tonnes, is not the major problem of the seas. I believe that this proposal is in line with the committee's overbuilding position: that it is the local and coastal fisheries that are to be rewarded. The Left Party is also no stranger to looking in a broader sense at the design of fishing licences. We also want to see that, in the next step, the fairly poorly functioning quota system, ITQ, is being managed in order to achieve a better balance and a change in power relations between those who want, get and can fish. Through this, the committee also takes decisions on measures to deal with both increased cormorants and seal populations. As far as the cormorants are concerned, the Left Party agrees with the committee's overall approach that action is needed. We share the assessment that there are good regional examples of management plans, including here in Stockholm, for how to deal with this that should be scaled up and used in more places. On the other hand, the Left Party does not agree with the committee's conclusion that the best way forward is to allow general protection hunting on its own initiative. We believe that the environmental targets committee's assessments and proposals for measures on this issue are well balanced, and that is something that we continue to support. Since these proposals are now being dealt with by the Government Office, we believe that this work should not be preceded. The same applies to hunting for seals. It deals with proposals from the Environmental Objectives Committee, which includes the issue of both incentives and impacts on the EU for the sale of seal products. Of course, more needs to be done for the future. Protected areas are particularly relevant. We have all received letters from the producer organisation Coastal Fishermen The Bothnian Sea, which has asked for measures for protected areas in the Bothnian Sea to protect Baltic herring. They see with their own eyes that the fish they catch decreases in both size and extent. It needs an opportunity to grow. We need more protected areas in order to have coherent networks. Today there are many where the load is low. We need a focus on coastal zone protection, and we need more areas of strict protection. Madam President, I would like What kind of fishing do we want? And what values do we want that fishing to contribute? It is in the end the two questions that we need to ask ourselves. I am pleased that we are here today, with this proposal to Parliament which will benefit coastal and regional fisheries, as well as processing and processing industries in Sweden. The committee is very clear. I expect the government party – or whatever happens with it – to implement this, no matter what the constellation will look like. And whoever's going to sit in the government will have their eyes on them. I am absolutely convinced of that. Finally, I would like to say that it has been a long journey here and the journey will continue. We're not done yet. But let's do it. I request the approval of reservation 2.
i-LSHqNrm5n8FuFumahzAcZq	Madam President, I would like We Christian Democrats are in favour of reservation 1. Today, in this House, we are debating fishing here in the Baltic Sea. It is very nice that we have that discussion and are debating the subject. This has meant that the committee has been given the opportunity to listen to and take note of what many of those who work in and live off fishing in the Baltic Sea have to say. It has been incredibly instructive and in many ways important that we have been able to take part in this, especially for me who is a real land crab. In Ödeshög we do not have much sea, even if we have Vättern. So it has been instructive and important. We are very much based on the Food Strategy when we talk about agriculture. I think we should also do that when we talk about fishing, the blue industry. We may not talk much about it, but it's very important. Fishing is an amazing asset and resource. I have had the privilege of meeting many people on site in various coastal municipalities around the country. I've met fishermen and companies who receive the fish. We have also met many people in digital meetings dealing with the Baltic Sea. We have listened to eel fishermen, sellers, anglers, fishermen, the processing industry and others. It has been incredibly important to hear what they have to say. It has also been very instructive and very interesting. The conclusion that I and we Christian Democrats have drawn is that there are no quick fixes, but there are different things that we can do and that we have to do. For example, we have been taught that herring is very small in the northern Baltic Sea. Here, perhaps, a protected zone is needed at certain times to allow it to grow. And in the Stockholm archipelago it would be a very good idea to move the trawl line out, while moving it out in Blekinge is a worse idea. We in the KD believe that the issue is not sufficiently investigated. We therefore want an investigation so that decisions can be made based on facts and not feelings. We hear here in the debate that there is talk of catching up knowledge, and I believe that it must be done before making decisions. Madam President, I would like In what we have come up with and which has been very important is knowledge of seals and cormorants. For many fishermen, this is incredibly troubling. There are hundreds of thousands of seals in the Baltic Sea. In fact, each one eats five kilos a day. They prefer to eat fatty herring, but they also eat cod. Then they only want the rum, that is, the fattest in the cod. So it takes a lot of cod to get five kilos of food. It is therefore very important that we get to grips with these things and ensure that public hunting is introduced. This also applies to the cormorants. We've seen pictures of how much they eat and what they eat. It is a lot of eel, but other things are their food. It is important that we take steps to bring down the tribe. They cause great concern, and we in Parliament really need to get to grips with this. As I said, it is very important that we make decisions about this. One interesting thing that may not usually come out so much is that the seals are so many and that in some places they are in very bad condition. In fact, there are seals that die because they get too little to eat. We need to look at what the situation really is and get to grips with this for real by taking steps to reduce the number of seals and cormorants.
i-f26f10da07d287f0-144	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 3. The Green Party proposed a committee initiative this summer. We believe that Baltic herring and herring must not crash as cod has already done. I also want to save the surströmming premiere! Today, a few fishermen with large boats make a lot of money by trawling the herring. Streaming is increasingly under threat. Most of the catch goes to fishmeal. As I said, the cod have disappeared, and it feels like the herring is next. This could lead to another effect, namely the disappearance of small local processing industries and regional fisheries. This is unacceptable. We in the Green Party believe that a reduction in quotas will be necessary. This must be borne entirely by large-scale industrial fishing. We also want to move the trawl line to 12 nautical miles. And we want to ensure that there will be ecosystem-based management in the Baltic Sea and all our seas. However, we have a long way to go towards sustainable fisheries management. The system currently used by Sweden to allocate quotas needs to be changed. It is a purely economic system that steers towards large-scale industrial fishing. If this does not change fundamentally, there will be no herring left along the coasts. There will also be no near-coastal fishing or processing industry. This is the root of what we need to take hold of. Madam President, I would like The sea is not an industry. Management of fisheries in the seas is about the fact that the sea is an ecosystem. The administration is currently heading in the wrong direction and has been doing so since the ITQ system was introduced. This is the system used by the Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management to allocate the quota that can be fished annually in Sweden. As long as fishing is primarily about a source of income for a few and the industry does not take into account ecosystems, the effect is that a few earn big money and ecosystems are impoverished. Fish stocks are becoming more threatened and disappear from the oceans. Although it is not noticeable in the agency's governance, we have politically agreed that there are several different goals of sustainable fishing and prosperous seas, but the only guiding goal today is maximum sustainable yield, MSY. MSY exists for individual stocks of different species, but if we are going to have fish in the oceans in the future, it is high time that we politicians here in Parliament raised our eyes and saw the whole picture. The different species are interrelated. There's an ecological connection. We must remind the next Minister for Rural Development of this. The unilateral focus on MSY favours large-scale industrial fishing and puts coastal fishing at a disadvantage for human consumption. It has a negative impact on the ecosystem. The Swedish Audit Office criticised the fisheries policy already in 2008 for the fact that there are many goals without clarification, ranking and guidance on how to deal with target conflicts. Last year, the environmental target preparation came up with exactly the same result. Madam President, I would like The losses we see mean a significant loss of profitability for many in small-scale fishing. There have been fewer small-scale and coastal fishing boats. The processing industry in some coastal communities has enormous challenges. The number of jobs per tonne of fish fished is significantly lower in Sweden than in many other countries. In the south of the Bothnian Sea, herring has been the dominant species for industrial fishing in recent years, causing problems for the consumption of herring, or herring, as it is called up there. The large industrial trawls often make a very large outlet locally and coastally in the spring when the herring gathers to play. Even during the winter period, industrial fishing is severely dwindling on the stocks and in some areas can hit hard on the spawning grounds on the coasts. This has meant that small-scale fishermen have acted very strongly. We see that local politicians along the Norrland coast are also currently acting strongly. The dominant part of the fish withdrawn from the oceans by Swedish industrial fishing is used to produce feed. It is feed for fish farms abroad and for animal feed. We need a development that contributes to a greater extent to local landings of consumption fish in Sweden, i.e. fish sorted on landing. This would certainly contribute to what the Member of Parliament, Magnus Oscarsson, raised in his speech on Sweden's food strategy. This would benefit the fisheries that also benefit local communities. Political decisions are needed to change the situation of both fish in the Baltic Sea and our coastal fishermen. In June, therefore, four parties presented a proposal for a committee initiative on these very issues. After all, we were in agreement with our proposals at the time, which has led to a very broad consensus in Parliament today on these issues, with the exception of the Christian Democrats. This also means that the incoming Minister for Rural Development will be able to have a very good basis that can fundamentally change the work in the fisheries sector. The EU's Common Fisheries Policy is characterised by a high degree of harmonisation and Member States have, as a starting point, handed over all the competence to regulate marine fisheries to the EU. When EU Environment Commissioner Virginijus Sinkevičius visited the Environment and Agriculture Committee last summer, the situation of Baltic herring was one of the issues discussed. The Environmental Objectives Committee points out that Sweden is not making full use of the national scope for action under the Common Fisheries Policy. So there is an opportunity to move out the trawl line, a proposal which is now on the table of Parliament for decision today. On behalf of the Green Party, we would also like to point out the precautionary principle, which exists within the EU acquis and which is to form the basis for the management of the EU's common fisheries policy. The precautionary principle is incorrectly applied in Sweden. The precautionary principle does not mean waiting for research before stopping inappropriate fishing. Nevertheless, it is precisely this that both the Maritime and Water Authority and the Ministry of Industry are constantly repeating. My colleague Elisabeth Falkhaven visited ICES a few weeks ago. It emerged that Sweden is not using its membership and the opportunity to add assignments to ICES in order to obtain better research data. That possibility must be used. That is also something that we will decide on here in Parliament today. At Eldrimner's recent meeting, which I and several other Members attended, we met with fishermen and discussed future fish processors and fishermen. The list of problems of Eldrimner has been mentioned. Here today we in Parliament take a decision that meets the demands we have from small-scale fishing in Sweden. Madam President, I would like The first fish I got to know as a child was the big stick. I lay on the bridge in Nordingrå and looked at the fish that swam there. We were looking at bigots. Today, stocks have exploded because larger predatory fish such as perch and pike have been extremely reduced. Here I would like to highlight the incredibly important work done by the Sport Fishermen together with many authorities and other organisations in order to recreate the wetlands that are needed for, for example, the pike to be able to reproduce and become more common, which in turn leads to fewer sprigs. Given that there is such an explosive development for certain species, that there are thousands of brothers, small cods perhaps, we need to build knowledge of ecosystems into our political governance. We also make a decision that the ecological importance of hydropower and fish migration routes will be improved so that hydropower will not destroy eel opportunities to develop in Sweden, for example. These are extremely important decisions that are made. However, on behalf of the Green Party, we would like to express our reservations about the proposals contained in the committee's initiative on cormorants and seals. We believe that the proposals under preparation at the Government Office at the moment about the Environmental Objectives Committee's proposals are much better to address the problems of seals and cormorants. As far as seals are concerned, it is very much a question of achieving coexistence between seal stocks that achieve favourable conservation status. It is also about fishermen and entrepreneurship and companies that use seals as a source of income through seal safaris. It's about mapping the suitability of areas for different things. It is also a question of working in the EU to create an exemption from the ban on selling seal products for those particular seal populations that achieve favourable conservation status. I would particularly like to warn against a decision being made here today about the seal. It's about hunting the cove. The coves feed their young on the ice and are very easy to hunt. I think it is unreasonable from an animalistic point of view. With that, Madam President, I would like, as I said, to endorse reservation number 3.
i-f26f10da07d287f0-169	Madam President, I would like I thank Maria Gardfjell for her speech. The honourable Member was just talking about authorities. Speaking of agencies, I want to talk about HaV and the stinging criticism that HaV has received from Statskontoret. The honourable Member knows that we had a discussion and that I was among the leaders among those who wanted to ask them to come to committee and tell us about this criticism. There are several of us who reacted to what was said and that they do not seem to take on board the criticism. It seems somehow that the rain falls but just flows off. I can't believe it could be like that. But the fact is that the traceability system is incredibly criticized. It turns out that the agency is doing much more. Above all, one takes precedence over something that would come anyway. Turns out you don't know exactly what it cost. But some people talk about maybe between 100 and 200 million just being thrown into the lake. It is clear that the Authority must take this on board.
i-f26f10da07d287f0-172	Madam President, I would like It is quite right that we at the Environment – and the Agriculture Committee had a digital visit by the Director General of the Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management together with, among other things, Statskontoret and representatives of trade and sales agents when this review was discussed. I think that the review that has been carried out is very good. I also think that there are a number of things that need to be looked at in the future. In order to make this kind of data-based solutions to be used by traders but also by processors of different kinds, the systems need to be user-friendly and useful. Given that the agency has built up a system that does not really work in trade, for example, it is clear that it is not a good system, although they have certainly done their best. I raised another question that I addressed to Statskontoret at the hearing. How do we now work on the part of society to review the data problems that occur in many authorities? Here, the government has given a mission to Statskontoret, among other things, to look at whether one can develop a joint agency work to create better systems for data management. This is something that we know the Swedish Board of Agriculture could also be helped by.
i-VADKhLXbTET3ZnXg3nMZVR	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Maria Gardfjell, for your answer! Perhaps it was not primarily computer problems that Statskontoret criticised. It concerned the way in which action had been taken at all. On point-by-point, it referred to measures that should be implemented. If the honourable Member agrees with this, it is important that we help to get to grips with it. If Statskontoret has dotted different things, we must ask government officials and Directors-General to do what they can to deal with it. Another thing that I would like to include in the last minute of my speaking time is the honourable Member's speech on the seal. I feel that the honourable Member may not agree with me in my speech that the seal is the wild boar of the sea. In fact, what we see on land with wild boar we also see at sea with the seal. That is why it is incredibly important to get to grips with it. We know measures that can be taken. Here I see that the honourable Member is not in favour of it, but is in favour of the proposal for a decision that we are putting forward here. What do we say to all fishermen who, on a daily basis, the honourable Member, when they pick up their net, see that the seal has been and destroyed it? What do we say to everyone who lives and works on the fish when your proposal does not address the problems that really exist?
i-f26f10da07d287f0-181	Madam President, I would like It is on the verge of a little brazen by the MP Magnus Oscarsson to raise the issue of traceability. It is not a matter that falls within the scope of the committee initiative at all. But I answered earlier, and I think the answer is full. I also know that we will have Jakob Granit of the Maritime and Water Authority visiting again at the committee meeting on 2 December. If there are any further questions to the Maritime and Water Authority, that is something that the honourable Member himself can ask. I myself am now an opposition politician, so I will no longer answer for the government. What is interesting about the seal is that there is a very large-scale threat and hatred of certain species. The seals, the cormorants and the wild boars end up among them. I do not think it is a good way of working at all. This requires serious work to improve the coexistence of species in Sweden's fauna and, for example, fishermen and traders of various kinds. There is also a need for many more preventive measures. It is important to work much more with the development of systems that help fishermen to reduce attacks on the nets. Of course, it is also important to have a protection hunt that is used in a good and understandable way. The seals are serious. They were almost extinct from the Baltic Sea not long ago. I think it was about 50 years ago. They run the risk of being back with the Christian Democrats' policy.
i-f26f10da07d287f0-186	Madam President, I would like We Social Democrats are safeguarding sustainable fishing in the Baltic Sea. We have worked for more gentle fishing methods, more coastal and small-scale fishing and protected marine protected areas from trawling. We are pursuing a policy that balances concern for both our marine environments and the fishing industry as economically and culturally important. Today, we are talking about measures to save fish stocks in the Baltic Sea here in Parliament by dealing with the Environment and Agriculture Committee's report number 6. The report, in turn, is based on five so-called committee initiatives, presented by five parties in Parliament this summer, with a total of 29 requests. In a relatively broad consensus, the report presents nine proposals for improving fish stocks and fisheries in the Baltic Sea. We Social Democrats support and support all nine proposals and, therefore, the report as a whole. Simply put, these nine points are about: Actually, the purpose of committee initiatives in the Riksdag is to correct minor things in the government's work or to have a very broad majority to do something about which there is a need for time. The Baltic Sea is no small matter, quite the contrary. But in this case, thank God, we're landing fairly well in unity. For committee initiatives should be used with care, as our legislation requires preparation and consultation. Madam President, I would like We have touched on the Baltic Sea and fish several times this year in Parliament's chambers. Seas, fish and our waters come into politics in many ways, for example through the EU, international cooperation, government public investigations, our common money and budget work, laws, rules and research. We need to remind ourselves that fisheries policy is about jobs, food and environmental policy. The issues need to be seen in larger contexts and on several levels. Many of us are eager, and many are concerned about the state of the Baltic Sea. It may sometimes seem that politics does not have an effect, science has no place, processes and organs do not deliver. However, many decisions on the Baltic Sea need scientific evidence, full-scale tests, consultation with other Member States and decisions in the EU. It is a practice and a system that has continuously improved, benefited us and that we must safeguard. With determination we can improve the situation with political decisions. As far as the EU is concerned, eight out of nine countries around the Baltic Sea are members of the EU. The EU is therefore a very good body for managing the Baltic Sea and finding common solutions to common problems. At the same time, Sweden, the third largest country in the EU, is water-rich. More than 20% of the EU's water bodies are here in Sweden. Since its amendment 20 years ago, the common fisheries policy in the EU has had the primary objective of achieving sustainable fisheries. In 2013, the EU agreed on a new CFP that is environmentally, economically and socially sustainable. Madam President, I would like As regards the state's public investigations, the Environmental Objectives Committee presented its interim report on the Sea and Man in January. It is a solid piece of work, with 1,600 pages of text and 100 concrete proposals, which were submitted to the government in a relatively large degree of agreement among all participating members of parliament and parties. One or more proposals are certainly on the way, and the work is currently being prepared. With regard to our common money and its distribution, it may be worth recalling that, even this autumn, the parties have presented their various draft budgets. There are sometimes differences in, for example, how parties want to invest in clean water, climate and the environment. Thus, the distribution of our common money has an indirect effect on the supply of our fish. As far as our laws and regulations are concerned, we debated fisheries policy in our own report this spring in the Chamber of Parliament, with the various choices, proposals and motives of parties. During the autumn, Parliament has also set fishing opportunities in relatively large unity for the following year, in normal order and through so-called quotas. Quotas and volumes of fishing are probably the most likely to affect much of what we are talking about in this House right now. Fishing quotas are established on the basis of sustainable levels and scientific advice from the International Council for the Exploration of the Sea (ICES). ICES consists of more than 4,000 scientists from more than 20 countries. They coordinate monitoring and research and advise the European Commission and the Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management. It is a system that favours sustainable fish stocks and a system that we Social Democrats defend. Another committee initiative on the EU Water Framework Directive debated and addressed in September environmental quality standards for water, migratory routes for fish and possible consequences of policy decisions for eutrophication, for example. Most of the lakes and watercourses in Sweden, about 60 percent, unfortunately do not reach the quality we want. They do not therefore have a good ecological status according to the assessment of the situation of plant and animal species. And much of the water in our ditches, streams, rivers and rivers ends up in the Baltic Sea. We Social Democrats are working to achieve the objectives of the EU's common fisheries policy for sustainable fisheries and stocks. We need scientific evidence. We Social Democrats are working against eutrophication. We welcome the ecosystem-based management of our seas. We protect small-scale coastal fishing. On the basis of science and in cooperation with the countries concerned, we want to move the trawl line. We work against overfishing and against environmental toxins. We are acting to improve the marine and aquatic environment. Madam President, I would like Once again, I would like to support the committee's proposal in the report and reject all reservations.
i-f26f10da07d287f0-205	Madam President, I would like These are new times, so I have to ask questions to the government party Social Democrats. We in the Green Party put forward our proposal for a committee initiative because it was urgent. We urgently need to do something so that Baltic herring does not go the same way as cod has already done, that is to say, to be crashed, to fall sharply in numbers and so on. I have a few questions for Markus Selin just about how the government views the committee initiative and the announcement that is coming here today. Will the government move out the trawl line, and when? Will the government first wait for some kind of total unity in all the countries of the Baltic Sea before this happens?
i-f26f10da07d287f0-208	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the questions. As a social democrat, I can answer: yes, I sincerely hope so. I am particularly pleased with a word of value in our report here today, and that is the word test. I know that science does not agree on the cause and effect of the complex ecosystem we have called the Baltic Sea. I know there's logs from the '40s that pick up an explosive supply on the big pipe. So this is 70 - 80 years ago. We have had strong herring periods that have been going on for a long time, and we have had the opposite in terms of a great lack of herring. As a social democrat who protects small-scale and coastal fishing and who lives here in Stockholm County, I sense that something is absolutely not right with our Baltic Sea. For me, therefore, it is self-evident to reply to the Green Party: yes, I want to see the government act immediately. We have a report here, but ultimately it is the government that is free to work on the matter itself. But, as I said, as a social democrat, I choose right now to respond like this.
i-f26f10da07d287f0-213	Madam President, I would like That it says that this is a test is just as obedient to what the Environmental Objectives Committee has proposed. It is of course good to test the models. However, with what I have heard from Markus Selin, I am concerned that it will not happen in the near future to make that move of the trawl line. Markus Selin has somewhat made himself a spokesperson and advocate of industrial large-scale fishing. I would just like to ask one question: is industrial large-scale fishing in accordance with ecosystem-based fishing?
i-f26f10da07d287f0-215	Madam President, I would like I will carefully correct the honourable Member. I do not know when, how and if I would have become some kind of spokesperson for large-scale industrial fishing. I would simply like to strongly oppose this and reserve myself against that expression. With regard to the so-called industrial fishing around the Swedish coast, we unfortunately have a problem which I very much regret. It concerns two environmental toxins, called dioxins and PCBs. Fat fish such as herring and herring should not be eaten by children, adolescents, women who want to become pregnant and pregnant. Last time I looked at the kilo price it was for west coast caught herring about 40 kroner. For eastern Baltic herring it was SEK 10. I do not think that fishermen on a large boat, as the Green Party would call industrial fishermen, want to sell their catch for 10 kilos when they could get 40 crowns. It is the environmental toxins that cause the market effects to take their toll. In other words, market forces speak out: fat fish absorb environmental toxins much more than others, more non-fat fish do. In fishmeal production, fish oil production and the like, environmental toxins can now be distinguished from the catch. These are just some of the reasons why we have the situation today. I do not want to stand here in Parliament's speaker's chair and distinguish between one type of blue job and another type of blue job. But what I can clearly say, as a Social Democrats, is that we really want to protect small-scale and coastal fisheries.
i-f26f10da07d287f0-220	Madam President, I would like I thank Mr Selin for his speech. I was going to bring this up by moving the trawl line out to 12 nautical miles. It has been interesting when we talked about this and discussed it in committee. We see that a lot has to happen and that a lot has to be done. As I mentioned in my introduction, it is also about how quickly we can do that and how. There are different parts. An interesting thing that has come to light is also what I would like to ask the honourable Member about. Tell them that we are facing this border and there will be foreign ships. After all, we have a fairly large foreign fleet fishing here. What are we gonna tell them? They're going to go in and fish here. I think of everyone who can't do it anymore. How do we respond? What has been the idea when you think about this?
i-f26f10da07d287f0-223	Madam President, I would like This is a good question, and it is difficult not to become too technical. The issue includes trade agreements with Finland and Denmark dating back 90 years. It also contains the EU's common fisheries policy, which dates back to the 1970s. What I, as a social democrat, am pleased and proud of is that, unlike the Christian Democrats here today, we have agreed that we should move the trawl line to the test. The word test gives us the opportunity to act quickly and help science to collect data and what would need to be replenished in the mass of knowledge. What is also stated in our report number 6 is that we should make exceptions for small-scale coastal fishing. It really fits the answer to the Christian Democrats' concerns, so it is also my answer.
i-f26f10da07d287f0-226	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answers, Markus! Maybe I didn't really get the answer to my question. The idea is, of course, that one must go in and really have a discussion with these countries, but there is nothing compelling. We Christian Democrats are not against moving the border. We just want it investigated. We think it's a little too thin to just make a decision and then try and see what happens. In fact, during that trial period, some fishermen may be knocked out. We think it's still important to include it. Another point that I would like to highlight in this connection is paragraph 9, which I myself think is very good and which is about developing knowledge on the ecological significance of hydropower. It is an important part, and it has also come to the conclusion that we do not know exactly what is happening. What we have heard is that the wind power in the sea outside Germany is disturbing the way the fishermen live and operate. Here it feels like we are talking very focused on offshore wind power but that we may not have the basis for developing it. That's why I think it was good that we got to this. I would like to ask Mr Selin how, if so, the Government Party will act to ensure that this really happens. I think it is very important, before we invest too much in building something, that we have a basis so that we can make a decision based on facts and not just because we emotionally think something is good.
i-f26f10da07d287f0-230	Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, this will be my final line. We could continue on these exciting issues for a long time. I will begin with the question of the European Union and the two articles. At the risk of sounding quite technical: the value word in today's report on the removal of trawls gives us the opportunity, with reference to the EU's common legislation, to act directly. That's the answer. Then we do not have to start involving other competing ships and the like. The protection of small-scale coastal fishing has already been mentioned in my first reply. Then the Christian Democrats Magnus Oscarsson becomes a little more unclear when it comes to paragraph 9, which is about hydropower. Somewhere in the middle we went over to wind power, and then I began to think about what to answer. I kindly interpret it, as it is said at school today, and believe that it is the hydropower I am expected to respond to. Here I can only refer the curious listener and viewer to the fact that we debated a special committee initiative that contained a great deal of hydropower here in September. There we Social Democrats reserved ourselves because of the risks of starting to haggle and cutting back on the level of ambition of environmental quality standards. We have had that debate quite recently, and I am also quite confident as a social democrat. We cannot begin to loosen or weaken our environmental quality standards in order to maintain or promote a certain type of hydropower somewhere with large or sometimes very large environmental impacts. This also includes migratory fish such as salmon and eel – but that, Madam President, is another story.
i-f26f10da07d287f0-235	Madam President, I would like To say that the Baltic Sea is a sea with problems is unfortunately not an exaggeration. Gemene man is probably reminded of the summer time associated with the common algal blooms, but it is only the manifestation of a marine ecosystem that is rocking. Researchers, including from the Baltic Sea Centres, and coastal residents have expressed their concern for a long time, and the international scientific organisation ICES has also seen the problems. Two years ago, therefore, they recommended that EU Fisheries Ministers simply put a stop to fishing for the unique Baltic cod in parts of the Baltic Sea. It was thought that it was urgent because the individuals had become very small and thin, while the maturity of the sexes occurred more and more earlier. Unfortunately, we now see similar signs for herring stocks, the fish that have contributed greatly to food security in our country for centuries. The situation is extremely worrying. It is therefore a good thing that we members of the Committee on Environment and Agriculture agree that several measures must now be taken to achieve long-term sustainable fishing and to safeguard both fish and jobs in coastal communities. The Moderates, like Elin Segerlind from the Left Party in particular, have for several years asked many questions to the S-MP government we had and put forward proposals for measures to better promote sustainable fishing in the Baltic Sea. But it was probably only after an attentive debate article that was signed by Ulf Kristersson and Jessica Rosencrantz that something took off. In the article, we mentioned Moderates that we intended to present a proposal to the Riksdag. Once this was written, there were then four to before the summer. Five different initiatives are therefore at the heart of this report. As we have heard, the consensus is good. After various Q & A sessions and hearings with various stakeholders and researchers, negotiations took place, which I must say were relatively easy to handle. These have now resulted in nine proposals for announcements that we want to present to the government. Now handle this and do it quickly! is our message and message. In a few questions, we have even been poaching. This applies, inter alia, to the fact that the management plan should be revised and that the EU should act there. When we spoke to the then Government, or to the State Secretary who was present, that this is an issue that we believe the government should raise at the next meeting of the Agriculture and Fisheries Council, the State Secretary replied – I know that Elin mentioned the same thing – as it used to be called: Well, now is not the time; we have to delay. This isn't right; we can't take it now. You have to understand that. However, a majority in the committee was, thankfully, in agreement, and this was also supported by the EU Board. We believe that it was important, because the current plan, which is in force, was drawn up more than seven years ago. Knowledge has increased markedly, even about the biological interaction. To ignore this is misconduct when, from the political point of view, we actually see the same problem. What research has been able to show above all is that there is not only one herring stock, or one divided into four. In the Gulf of Gävle there are three genetically unique stocks of herring, of which something plays in the spring and something in the autumn. The same type of fishing cannot be allowed on a continuous basis, but must be considered for and against in order to ensure the sustainability of all these stocks. One issue that has been much discussed, not least in the media, Madam President, is the relocation of the trawl line in the Baltic Sea. This is something that we Moderates advocate and have asked for the S-MP government to act for, but not to be heard in the past. But now we in committee have agreed that this will be a test. We support this, but in all honesty we want to express some doubt about the committee's solution to this. We do not want the relocation to result in only Swedish boats being excluded from fishing within the new border. We have therefore expressed this in a separate opinion. With regard to the removal of the trawl line, we Moderates would also like to stress the importance that the exemptions proposed for fisheries where the catch is sorted and is directly intended to become food are indeed taken into account and followed up in special order. We understand that it is very important for this to be made clear, not least when fishing quotas are to be set, so that the bones of the processing and processing industry are not thrown away, but that viable communities can be maintained along large parts of the Baltic Sea coast. Small-scale fishing today faces major challenges when it comes to generational shifts and future confidence. It is therefore important that we take particular account of this and make it easier for fishermen who choose to process their fish. In these cases, it is rarely the fish that decides whether or not to obtain a licence without the availability of professional fishing licences – the number of licences. This is a tangible problem, and Mrs HaV has also said that we politicians must go in and change it. That is what we are now doing together with this report. We see that there is a lack of local knowledge. If we get a licence with the strength of a local county fishing consultant, we get a better distribution and can also protect small-scale fishing. Today, the situation is so absurd that a fisherman with whom I spoke, who rents fishing rights, does not have the right to process his fish. He does not get a professional fishing license – he must have it first – and then he does not have the right to breed because he fish too little. As someone said, it is not the small quota that is destroying fishing in the Baltic Sea, but, of course, the larger catches. I have mentioned the committee's consensus on several occasions, Madam President. But there is one area where we have not succeeded, and that is how to handle seals and cormorants. A majority of us think that we must somehow deal with this and be able to regulate it harder. There is no doubt that seals and cormorants cause problems. Glupska cormorants eat half a kilo of fish a day each. Unfortunately, seals are now found dead on rocks because they do not have enough food. All of this must be dealt with. With regard to the seal, there is also the risk that it will continue to spread seal worms and other parasites that may affect the weak cod stocks even more negatively. We find it a bit sad that we do not get the Left Party and the Green Party on this. Reference is made to the Environmental Objectives Committee's investigation and to the fact that it is now to be dealt with. It is great that we are trying to get uniform handling of this. But the fact is that the Environmental Objectives Committee also stresses the need for a holistic approach to the management of both fish stocks and stocks of seals and cormorants. Isn't that what they call an ecosystem-based approach? It is therefore unfortunate that we are going to delay this. The major problems that exist here and now will be postponed, and we will only have to deal with the situation as it stands. However, nine proposals to contribute to more sustainable fishing in the Baltic Sea are not bad. At the same time, we would like to stress the importance of accelerating work to improve the aquatic environment in the Baltic Sea. There are encouraging data showing that a turning point has actually been seen. Nutrients such as nitrogen and phosphorus gradually begin to decline. But it took a hundred years to reach the extreme peak of the pollution curve where we are now, so it will take time to level this out and reverse the effects. To conclude, Madam President, I would like to thank my colleagues in the committee for having managed to baffle this report all the way here, but I would also like to thank the office. I would particularly like to highlight Nina Liljeqvist, who has written the report.
i-f26f10da07d287f0-251	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report. What the fish – those who fish, that is – often see as the biggest problem is the seal and cormorant problem. I'll start by talking about the cormorant. These stocks need to be significantly reduced. Skarven is a considerable population in Sweden, with many nesting couples, and this adversely affects fish stocks, creates sanitary inconvenience to outdoor life and reduces forest and nature where birds nest. Therefore, general protection hunting on cormorants on its own initiative is good both from a management point of view and from a conservation perspective. In fact, Sweden has the most cormorants and cormorants in Europe. Sweden's Ornithological Association made an inventory in 2006 – it is now 15 years ago – that revealed that there were about 45 000 nesting couples. Only Denmark was nearby with 40,000 nesting couples and 200,000 individuals. There have not been so many nationwide inventories since then, but only inventories in different counties, but I have seen data that today there can be around 250 000 cormorants. By the end of the 1800s, the cormorants were more or less gone, and in 1975 there were 340 couples in Sweden. That was before we joined the European Union. There was previously a type of general hunting. I do not know exactly how it was regulated, but it was stopped as we joined the EU in 1995. Since then, it has been the Birds Directive that has governed this, and so we now have the protection hunt to rely on. It is pleasing, however, that the committee considers that there is reason for the government to take further measures to limit the growth of the cormorants, as well as for the government to review the possibilities for multi-annual permits for protection hunting. It is also necessary to look at possible complements to protection hunting, such as oil ring and egg spotting, with a greater focus on these latter measures, which the SD has called for in the committee in previous years alone. The professional fishing of the Baltic Sea faces major challenges. The European Commission's proposal for the 2021 catch quotas, which is now a reality, reduces catches for several of the Baltic Sea's commercially important stocks. For example, herring stocks in the central Baltic Sea have decreased drastically since the 1970s and 1980s. Measures are necessary for the recovery of the Baltic herring stock. It should be possible to conduct both large-scale and small-scale professional fishing in Sweden, we think, although it is ultimately the individual contractor who chooses the type of boat, gear and port to land their catch in. It is the goal of the Swedish Democrats to preserve and develop several ports on the Swedish coast where fish can be landed and taken care of by the local food industry. Active fishing with viable fishing entrepreneurs creates living coastal communities along our Swedish coasts, creating jobs and thus life in the archipelago. There is nothing more boring than coming to old fishing villages where it is completely dead and there are no fishermen left? It hangs some nets and bullets and dangles like a memory from a bygone era. As I said, there is an intrinsic value in keeping small-scale fishing alive, as well as the ports and smokers it employs along the Swedish coast. If we move out the trawl line for larger vessels, the small-scale industry of fishermen would have more opportunity to survive, which would develop fishing as the rich industry it is. In many cases, it is about professional knowledge that has been passed on from one generation to another. The Parliament is pleased to see that small-scale coastal fishing and fisheries with regional links, where catches are sorted on landing, are to be protected. It is also pleased that the committee believes that the government should act as a matter of urgency, on the one hand, to move the trawl limit to the test and, on the other hand, to limit the trawl fishery allowed within the trawl limit. It is also gratifying to stress the importance of allowing limited derogations for small-scale coastal fisheries whose catches go to human consumption and for fisheries with regional links whose catches are sorted on landing. We see, for several reasons, a great value in maintaining a living local fisheries industry. Fishing has cultural and historical values. It is important for the identity of coastal, port and archipelago communities. It is also important for jobs, entrepreneurship and tourism in the often small local communities and thus also for the ambition of viable local communities in the countryside and in the archipelago. Licensing of bays should also be discussed in view of the precarious situation of the vendace in the Gulf of Bothnia. Available data show that the leader's predation of vendace is at least as large as the yield of commercial fishing. This is what SLU Aqua says in a referral to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency. SLU believes that restrictive conditions risk limiting the possibility of really reducing the negative effects of bays and chubby seals. If these species are still to be managed by protective hunting, hunting should also be allowed within 200 metres of fish farming, fish closure area and fish landing site. On the west coast, fishermen have the same problem with chubby seals as industries experience on the east coast with grey seals. Coastal fishing in Bohuslän, Gothenburg, Halland and Skåne grapples with the same damage to gear and catches as Baltic fishing. According to scientists, chubby seals are a major threat to cod stocks, as they eat 15 000 tonnes of cod a year in the Skagerrak and Kattegat. Even in the Gulf of Bothnia, the problem is similar, where the bay lives along the coast of North and Västerbotten. Here the vendace is threatened, and hence also the famous Kalix löjrom, which the EU has assigned to the strongest food protection Protected designation of origin. Scientists have proposed a significant reduction in fishing. At the Nobel banquet, where Sweden is in the center of the world, Kalix löjrom is a recurring starter. The industry has previously declared that there is a risk of it disappearing from the market unless the increase in bays is overcome. According to the industry, it is also more difficult and difficult to bring Baltic herring into the surströmming industry, which also threatens it in the long term if nothing is done against the seal explosion that researchers describe. On the basis of the realities described, we also want to grant licence hunting for these two species of seal. It is therefore positive that the committee believes that the government should take steps to increase the hunting of seals and that this should be done through greater licensing for seal hunting, in particular grey seal, but consideration should be given to whether bays and chubby seals should also be eligible for stock-regulating hunting, and the rules for hunting seals should be reviewed. The seal is a hard-hidden animal. Permits cost money. We need to know where the seal may be shot. Boat possession is required, and the animal must be taken care of. In order to increase incentives to reach at all the quotas allocated to protection and licence hunting, sellers may need compensation in order for more people to be able to make an effort to fill the allocated quotas. This would also reduce the risk of wounded seals and poaching. Licensing for bays and chubby seals, SD alone has insisted on in committee earlier.
i-f26f10da07d287f0-270	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating a number of committee initiatives under the heading ‘Action to save fish stocks in the Baltic Sea'. After all, previous speakers in the debate have both read out all the points aloud and pointed out that they are nine in number. I thought I'd dwell on a few aspects that I think are particularly worth mentioning. In committee, we have dealt with fisheries in recent years for various reasons, and we have a fishing group that can be linked to the EU's fisheries policy, where we highlight this in various ways. It is a good thing that we are now, in principle, a united committee, which together chooses to raise these issues in these committee initiatives. For the Center Party, our coastal areas and the role of coastal small-scale fishing and regional fisheries are incredibly important and will hopefully play in the future. They are an important part of the Swedish food strategy and can also in different ways be important for entrepreneurship and development in our coastal areas. Like some previous speakers, I would like to thank all the fishermen and organisations we have had the privilege of meeting in the preparation of this committee initiative and at other meetings that we had on our own and together. The common knowledge that we have thus acquired is reflected here in a joint committee initiative. That's good. We have chosen wordings to move the trawl limit on samples to limit the trawl fishing allowed within the limit, but we want derogations to be granted to small-scale fishing. We also write about decisions on fishing quotas. This announcement feels incredibly important, and I think we all have hopes that there will be a government that can also take the work further. Let me also mention rules and administration in this context. For the Center Party, it is important to work in various ways to facilitate this, so that it is proportionate to the activities carried out in, for example, coastal fisheries and regional fisheries. By facilitating this in different ways, those parts of Swedish fisheries can play a more prominent role in the implementation of the Swedish food strategy. Several representatives have mentioned the list of problems. As I said, we were a number who participated in a fishing seminar here. In this context, I can certainly pay tribute to our committee chairman, Kristina Yngwe, who was the one who asked for a sort of list of problems from Mr Eldrimner: help us find political proposals on what you see as a problem and which will be possible for us to work on politically! Of course it's a very important part. I think that we have all met sad fishermen who can show in various ways how sustainable gear is destroyed by seals in fishing and that the catch is partly destroyed from a human consumption perspective linked to the attacks that both seals and cormorants have made on the catch that is waiting to be taken up. It is therefore a good thing that this committee initiative has clear wordings linked to several kinds of seals but also to cormorants, so that we can really get to grips with this problem and in that way be involved in creating more sustainable fisheries. Madam President, I would like Fishing is part of the food chain, but the ecosystem that we want to protect in different ways is also important. With this committee initiative, we are not solving the problem, but we are taking a number of steps that are important to us. It is about showing how we have politically worked to create the conditions for sustainable fishing in the Baltic Sea via a list of problems and those parts or through various political proposals. We in the Center Party have sometimes received criticism from, for example, the Green Party for having put forward a number of committee initiatives. It was a bit refreshing when the Green Party itself chose to present a committee initiative this summer, despite the fact that at that time it belonged to the Swedish government. It is important, however, that practices can sometimes be broken and thus also create additional pressure on the issue of sustainable fishing. With those words, Madam President, I would like to support the committee's proposal in this report.
i-f26f10da07d287f0-281	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved. Today it makes sense when we are allowed to speak in substance. It's not every day you have that feeling. But today, on this important issue, the important things we are raising are the things we are raising. The committee's proposal in the report, which is on the table, is supported by the Liberals on all points. It is the result of our acting when we find it necessary to act. Today it is necessary. The fish first. Isn't it true that the fish, of all animals, came first? Madam President, I would like Allow me to be a little existential-- I have a knack for that. No matter what faith or non-belief you carry with you about the wildlife of this planet, the fish came first. I think of the evolution of the sea and that the fish crawled up on land or on the fourth day of the story of creation and that the first animal that was created was the fish. Think about it! The fish first. Then, according to the account of creation, man's first assignment was to rule over the animals of the sea — the fish. The fish first. Now that the report after report, news after news, reaches us that fish stocks in the Baltic Sea are becoming smaller in number and size, none of us can easily wave away just that. Within us is this: that the fish is incredibly important for our nature and our planet. The entire ecosystem of our Baltic Sea rests on fish stocks. It is like man was given a task: Take care of the fish! I'm giving you a job. Can you handle it? Take care of the fish! If we can't manage to take care of nature and if we can't even manage to take care of the fish, how can we create a government? The fish first. What we are talking about here today and in our Committee on the Environment and Agriculture, of which I am a happy and new member, is that fish are so important. And nature is so important. It provides us with a lot. I would like to express my humility in this matter. We in the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture have really had to delve into the complex challenge of how best to save the stock in the Baltic Sea. We see a low stock of fish, Madam President. That is the consequence of overfishing. The fish species most affected are those with slow growth and low productivity, often predatory fish. Hard fishing has an effect on the entire ecosystem and not just on the species that are being fished. This weekend the Liberals had their country meeting, and we made many good political decisions. Like the committee, we have a consensus today on many good proposals. I left that country meeting with many good movements that we had agreed to. Several of them had this very common denominator: to save fish stocks in the Baltic Sea. Eight clear motions dealt with this, and all were voted through with a resounding yes. It is with our party in the back that I stand here – it is time-fresh – and can say that we stand up to move the trawl line 12 nautical miles. It's important. The committee initiative launched by the Liberals stressed the urgent need for measures to save fish stocks. Today we see these nine proposals: twelve nautical miles on the test, a review of the management plan for the Baltic Sea fish stocks, Sweden's participation in regional cooperation bodies and the International Council for the Exploration of the Sea, the consideration of the important small-scale fishing and fishing for direct human consumption, the facilitation of rules for small-scale fishing, the management of the cormorant, the seal and the large sprig, and the ecological importance of hydropower. It is only possible to say that the policy delivers when these nine proposals are presented. You don't just sit on your hands. We're doing something today that matters. But it would not have been possible without a broad majority in our committee. Although in our speeches we defend and press on various points on these points, it is not possible to say anything other than that we have carried out the task assigned to our committee. Let's put the fish first. We can do this. I'll say a few words about the big shot. It is not the role of politicians to decide in the details, but, when we have been down in the details, we shall use the eagle's eye and look over the whole, get a bigger perspective and make our political decisions based on it. This is one such example. We're seeing the big shot's expansion. We were told here by Markus Selin that it has been so earlier in history. But that's the way it is again. We need to deal with that. In 2015, there were 50 times more specks in the Baltic Sea than in the whole 80's. They've grown year by year. And it is noted that the effects on perch and pike are large where the large sprig expands. Through this decision, various research groups can increase the knowledge base on how the large sprig affects the ecosystem and work for measures to limit the growth of the large sparrow. For my part, it does not require more research than that I go down to my parents in the Tjust archipelago, outside Västervik, and take the kayak out into the shallow archipelago in order for me to be able to note that the bigpeg is everywhere. Last but not least, I would like to mention the importance of the fish's hiking routes. Here, too, I have a fresh country meeting decision behind me. We have decided to work for the fish's migration from coast to mountains. Although this may be perceived as a little detailed, we know that the amount of spawning and growing up areas is a fundamental factor affecting the amount of adult fish, and this also affects small-scale fishing. More research and knowledge about the impact of hydropower on endangered stocks is needed to clarify the ecological importance of hydropower. There are gaps in knowledge that we need to fill out so that good decisions can be made, for example on the issue of different transit solutions in our watercourses. The government should therefore initiate a greater understanding of the impact it has on our uninjured species and, above all, the acutely threatened eel. As I said, we have been given a mission, a task, no more and no less. Let's put the fish first.
i-f26f10da07d287f0-302	Madam President, I would like The Committee on Social Affairs' report 2020/ 21:33 of last spring deals with vulnerable children and young people who cannot live at home, but instead need society's care for a shorter or longer period of time. It is an unusual report. A single committee has, on its own initiative, called on the government to urgently return with a report describing what should be done to improve the situation at the special youth centres. The Social Committee has been reached by recurring stories about threats and violence against and between the young people who are placed but also against staff at the special youth homes. The committee has also been reached by reports on shortcomings in the rights, treatment and cooperation of young people. Overall, this is a situation that cannot be regarded as acceptable in any way. Madam President, I would like We are now dealing with the government's response to the committee's demands. The Government's letter confirms our concerns and concerns about major shortcomings at Sis' special youth home. The letter also makes it clear that there will be a need for increased resources and a great deal of commitment for a long time to come in order for the activities of Sis' special youth homes to be good for young people. In a life situation where you can no longer live at home and instead get involved in a placement, the measure must lead to a better situation for the young person. Having to leave your home and your family is a very intervening event, and it should only happen if it is necessary for it to be better for the young person. When society makes such an intervention, it is essential that the place given to the young person, the new home, meets high standards of security and that the staff have adequate skills and knowledge. Madam President, I would like Of course, there are well-functioning youth homes within Sis, but overall the shortcomings are significant. Every child placed is entitled to the best possible care at the special youth home. The time at the youth home aims to provide better conditions for life and will give a chance to a turning point for the child. Life will be better through community care. It's our mission. The Government's response to the Riksdag describes in a fairly transparent way many different areas where there are challenges and problems. The situation is worrying. At the same time, it should be stressed that the management of Sis over the last two years has highlighted shortcomings, and they are actively working to identify improvement measures of various kinds. It is also positive that Sis itself sees the need for interaction with civil society, not least children's rights organisations, in order to be able to reform its activities properly. Successful reform requires sustained support from the state and real conditions to make the necessary changes. The question is: Is there support? Madam President, I would like The letter also sets out the ongoing work within Sis to reduce the need for sequestration and other coercive measures. The Christian Democrats believe that more effort is needed in this area. The importance of documentation cannot be stressed enough, but the aim should be to put an end to the use of coercive measures. The Committee on Social Affairs has also stated this in the notice which prompted the letter in question. The Christian Democrats would like to stress that the measures described by the Government in its letter to the Riksdag are not to be completed in this part, because they are not in line with what the Riksdag wants, namely that the goal is for the coercive measures to cease. The government should report back in special order on the measures taken to achieve the target. That is why the Christian Democrats are in favour of reservation 9, which deals with this. There must be a decision, a stated objective, that coercive measures should be stopped, so that we are already making every effort to avoid them. I would also like to say that it is not the young men with the greatest violence capital who are subjected to the most coercive measures, but the girls – girls who often have neuropsychiatric disabilities. There, coercion in the form of capture and other measures is common. We can do better than that. We can do a lot better not to use this. Madam President, I would like In conclusion, the Christian Democrats want to say that what is being done at Sis is good. It is an improvement work, and some parts are supported by the government. But in order for us to be sure that it actually leads to a real change, it is essential that the government returns to the Riksdag already this spring. Then you should come back and tell me how it has gone. Has it become better competence? What has happened to the use of coercive measures? What about cooperation between municipalities so that you get a good and functioning healthcare chain? On 19 April, we want to know how things have gone and whether there has been an improvement. If we are not then told that there is actually an improvement, we intend to contribute to the Riksdag taking more measures. This is of course about children and young people who are currently in a special youth home, young people who do not receive the care they would have needed when they came into community care. I therefore call for the approval of Amendment No 9 on behalf of the Christian Democrats. Nevertheless, I am very pleased that the committee sees the need for the government to come back in a well-aggregated way.
i-f26f10da07d287f0-315	Madam President, I would like We will now debate the Social Affairs Committee's report 2021/22:SoU6 Care of young people at the Special Youth Home of the State Department Board. It is an issue of great importance that we have debated in this House on several occasions in the past. Although a great deal has already been said on this issue, it is extremely important that we continue to raise it, not least through today's debate. For far too long, issues relating to children's and young people's safety, rights, conditions of upbringing and the right to be well cared for, whether it is the municipality or the state that has taken over responsibility, have been left aside. For far too long, we politicians have rested on the fact that we were at the forefront of the fight for children's rights for a long time and therefore did not take the necessary steps forward to improve. That is why, of course, I am pleased that in recent years we have taken a series of measures to secure children's right to a safe and secure upbringing. We have made the Convention on the Rights of the Child into Swedish law, and we have carried out a series of legislative changes, assignments and investigations within the framework of children's right to a safe and secure upbringing. The rights of children and young people have been given a completely different weight in the political debate, not least in this House. Not least in the Social Affairs Committee, the issues have been raised particularly in recent years by all parties. It is good and essential for a well-functioning society. The children are, of course, our future, but, Madam President, they are also here and now. The board of state institutions, which I will henceforth call Sis from the pulpit, is an extremely important part of our society. It is the state authority that is responsible for the individually adapted compulsory care in Sweden. Anyone placed in a youth home usually has severe problems with their luggage. It can be about abuse, neuropsychiatric disabilities, outward behaviour, violence, crime and so on. Sis also accepts young people who have been sentenced to closed youth care. When a young person is placed on Sis, most of the other support measures have been tried. It is a way for our society to say: Stop! Now special efforts are needed so that you do not harm yourself or anyone else. But Sis is not, and must never be seen as, an end point, but Sis should be the beginning of something better. Madam President, I would like There have recently been a number of shortcomings in Sis' special youth home. On several occasions serious deficiencies have been identified. There have been reports of violence and threats to young people placed, between young people placed and staff. That, of course, should not be the case. When children and young people are placed on Sis, they must not be harmed. On the contrary, the placement should lead to something better, that they get better conditions in life, that they get care, that they get treatment and support. On this issue, the parties in the parliamentary social committee and the government are generally in agreement. Closed youth services and social care for children and young people need to be strengthened and improved. That is why we are also clear. When you end up in society's care in one way or another, it should simply be better. Violation and abuse of children in community care must never occur. The safety of Sis youth homes must be high. Care and support must be of good quality, based on evidence and proven experience. It must be a good working environment for those working in Sis. It's important. The situation of girls in placements must be given special consideration and improved. Madam President, I would like I know that both the agency and the government have been working hard for some years to tackle the problems that exist within the business. A new Director General and a new Security Director have been appointed. At the same time, the new management in close dialogue with the Government Office has launched a comprehensive and important change work. There is, for example, important work going on within the authority with competence development, including through a common basic education with the goal of increased security and legal certainty and thus of course higher quality of care and treatment. There are different ways of focusing on security, and the Authority has also decided that differentiated security levels should exist in all institutions. I also know that the agency works actively and in several ways to reduce the number of separations. I cannot stress enough how extremely important it is for Sis staff to acquire basic proper competence in conflict management and for staff composition, the size of groups and other things that we know to be important to reduce the number of separations to be made possible. Such work is already under way within the Agency. I also know that various training activities are being carried out in conflict management, which we know is an important instrument in these situations. Let me now be clear, Madam President. The ambition must be to completely eliminate separations in the long term. It is necessary for those girls who are usually separated, it is necessary for our society, it is also necessary for the business and the authority that it is possible to find other ways of dealing with these situations. The government has, of course, also taken a number of other measures to increase the legal certainty, participation, security and security of Sis. In addition to large funds for the agency in the budget proposals – there are SEK 100 million for 2022 and SEK 140 million for 2023 and beyond, almost a doubling from 2014, and the requests from the authorities to carry out the change work have also been met – a number of assignments have been given. It is about children's rights in practice, integrated care, reinforced supervision of Sis' special youth homes where girls are cared for, support for defectors and so on. In addition, the Government has set up an investigation to review LSU, i.e. the law concerning special care for young people, which should look at, among other things, the periods of care – they should correspond to the seriousness of the crimes – and the extremely important aftercare. Madam President, I would like In early October, the government also set up an investigation to propose and review measures to improve the quality of care when children and young people are placed outside their own home, in family homes, in on-call homes, in assisted housing, homes for care or housing, HVB, including Sis' special youth homes. It is led by our parliamentary colleague Carina Ohlsson, and I am convinced that such an investigation is needed – a broad review of the entire social care system for children and young people, which will look at the situation of girls in particular. I am pleased, Madam President, and I look forward to the outcome of the investigation. I would like to conclude by saying that there are problems. We agree that more needs to be done, and I am glad that we are ready to tackle the problems. I would also like to say, Madam President, that we naturally support our reservation 5, and I therefore call for that reservation to be approved.
i-f26f10da07d287f0-331	Madam President, I would like I am pleased that Mr Bladelius is saying precisely what the committee has previously agreed, namely that the aim should be to put an end to the use of coercive measures. That is a great position for the committee. It is long awaited, I think, but it is also important that we live up to it. That is why I was disappointed when I read the government's response to our report. The government says that you do a lot, but you do not answer our main question: Do you also think that the goal should be that coercive measures should stop? I would like to hear how Mr Bladelius views the fact that the government does not take a position on the matter. How are the discussions in the Socialist Group going to achieve this? It is not enough to say that a lot of things should be checked unless you decide that the target should be right there. I do not think that the work will really start if we do not know that coercive measures must be removed, that we must find other ways to meet young people who feel bad where behaviour and aggression escalate. They do not start at the high level, but they start somewhere else far earlier where we could have broken the behavior in another way. I would like to hear how Mr Bladelius views the fact that the government does not accept Parliament's wishes but is waiting on the matter. How does the honourable Member view it?
i-f26f10da07d287f0-335	Madam President, I would like I thank the honourable Member for the question. I would like to begin by underlining the fact that I am extremely pleased that we in the Committee on Social Affairs are fairly in agreement on these issues, because it is important that we are and that we see the problem that exists so that we are ready to do something about it. I would also like to thank the Chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs for this. I also regret, of course, that we may not have been so clear on the issue of separation. I know that the minister responsible has made it clear that, in the long term, it wants to see separations stopped. I also believe that in the work that exists from both the Government Office and the Authority, in education efforts and in the budgets that increase the funding for the change work that is going on within the business, the ambition is that separations should eventually cease and that it is important. But it is clear that when the authority says so clearly that it needs the tools it currently has to cope with the situation, then we need to listen somewhere to the authority and what it says on the matter. Having said that, I am quite clear, Mrs Ankarberg: separations will end in the long term. It is not worthy of a country like Sweden to have separation as a method. There are other methods; they just have to be allowed and time to be implemented.
i-f26f10da07d287f0-339	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr President, for your answer. We in the committee still have to work on how to move forward. After all, it is not enough to say that perhaps the government would want this too. We must make it possible. For me, one way of doing this has been for us to say yes to this reservation, which tells us that the next time the government comes back, one must also have an answer to how to achieve this objective, for that matter they have overlooked in this first response. I also think that if you have the attitude that first everything must be in place and be perfect and then we can deal with this, then I do not think that will happen. It must first be decided that it is important that we remove the separations and other powers that are not appropriate for us to succeed in healthcare. I think that's the case. We will not succeed in building trust or trust if that threat is constantly behind it. Many who have been placed tell us that when they so often hear that threat exists, then it will not be a good relationship. It will not be good care and no good treatment. We must probably take the step ourselves and decide that in a year or two, what I know, this will be phased out of the business and that we therefore need to replenish with more skills and training and perhaps other premises and other forms of how we care – not so many in each group or something else. It takes a lot of things that I'm not competent enough to judge. Profession's knowledge needs to be involved. But we have to decide the target, I think. Is there any interest in the Socialist Group in that we are actually moving forward on this issue and pushing harder? You do not seem to agree with the reservation itself, but can the committee do so so so that we feel that we are once again taking stronger steps forward? I think it's necessary.
i-f26f10da07d287f0-345	Madam President, I would like Mr Johansson and I are in complete agreement. I am also fairly sure that the Government and the Authority agree on the case. With the measures that have now begun, i.e. the change work that has now begun with, among other things, training efforts in conflict management, as well as the differentiated forms and making it possible to have a basic education when you start but also to have a supervisor in place in the agency and so on – all the steps taken in the agency's change work naturally have as our goal that we should not in the long term see any separations. Madam President, I would like We therefore agree on the substance of the matter, me and Mrs Ankarberg. I think we just have different ways of looking at the way there.
i-f26f10da07d287f0-348	Madam President, I would like Although we support all our reservations, I would like to start by saying that we are particularly behind reservation 2, which deals with the training and skills of staff and the need for it. Madam President, I would like Children and young people in our country who are in a tough situation and who need the support of society will also get it. If there is to be no doubt, and there should be no political discord at all. The Committee on Social Affairs' involvement in issues relating to vulnerable children and young people should be well known by now. During the previous Parliamentary Session, i.e. autumn 2020 and spring 2021, our work resulted in no less than 27 announcements regarding vulnerable children. This means that the requirements for the government to work for legislative changes and improvements are growing. However, the last two terms of office have, I regret to say, in many ways been a lost time for vulnerable children. Although the Member of the Social Democrats and the representative of the Government here today, Yasmine Bladelius, say that they are ready to deal with the problems, which I am pleased to say, it has not been the truth with regard to our government. The government's disinterest and lack of commitment to these children and young people has been almost painful. Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the care of our young people at the Special Youth Homes of the National Board of Institutional Affairs. These children and young people are often in a situation where care at Sis youth homes is regarded as one of society's last measures to reverse a many times negative and destructive development. This means that Sis must maintain a high level of competence and quality in order to meet these young people where they are. In recent years, reports from Sis homes have been alarming. The media have also provided pictures of an activity that has major shortcomings and where children and young people even suffer ill despite being in the care of society. The report by the Agency for the Rights of the Child also bears witness to a situation in which there are serious shortcomings and even violations. Unfortunately, this is not news. My first and strongest impressions from committee meetings in the Social Committee a number of years ago concerned Sis. Children and young people with different needs are walled up with each other, young people who were already deeply involved in serious juvenile delinquency and gang crime walled up with young people with drug abuse, young people with severe mental ill health – often girls with self-harm – and young people with neuropsychiatric diagnoses. In addition to what particularly affected me: too many of the young people placed were as young as in the younger teens and in some cases even younger because other suitable places were missing. Madam President, I would like I've made a number of study visits to Sis-home all over our country. Too many of them look like course farms from the 50's or 60's. It is absolutely self-evident that if you are to be able to meet young people with such diverse needs in a professional way, the premises must be properly designed. In addition, Sis struggles to meet increased threats and safety requirements, for example, that people who are under forced care deviate or even be freed. Last year, there were 26 escapes from Sis. Safety problems are therefore both severe and acute. This is precisely why it is so worrying that the Government's Special Properties find it difficult to prioritise the needs of the State Department Board. The needs of the Prison Service are also great. Of course, we Moderates are pleased that the number of prisons is now being expanded, among other things, but it is extremely serious that we are not able to meet Sis needs. This makes it harder to deal with the problems. And this responsibility falls heavily, extremely heavy, upon the government. It falls heavily on Ibrahim Baylan, who was responsible for Special Properties, and on Lena Hallengren, as responsible Minister for Sis. Those who pay and continue to get hurt are the young people. Madam President, I would like It is important to say that the State Department Board has begun a large and extensive change work during its new Director General Elisabet Åbjörnsson Hollmark. My colleagues have also described this in a commendable way. These include improving safety, improving skills and establishing new functions and competences within the Agency, such as safety specialists. The 27 announcements and demands on the government are now extended by two more. A united committee called for the government to submit a letter to the Riksdag and the Social Affairs Committee assessing the efforts needed to ensure that care within Sis is safe both for the young people placed and for the staff, and for a placement to provide the young people with the necessary care and treatment. Today's debate is based on the government's response. A united social committee will not release the government with this. Among other things, the Moderates' request for periodic follow-up and reporting has been accepted, and the Government is requested to submit such a request by 19 April next year. The second announcement has been rejected by the Social Democrats and the Green Party as the only parties in the Social Committee. It is a proposal from us Moderates and from the Left Party that girls are given completely different opportunities for Sis placements, as we see that girls have been particularly often, historically, badly affected in Sis camp. Madam President, I would like Society has for too long betrayed these vulnerable children and young people. It is time for real change on the part of politics. The government's lack of interest and commitment to these children must now be accompanied by action. These children, too, need a new government that is committed and committed to improving the situation of these children and young people and that understands and respects the perspective of children's rights and, not least, the right of children to be heard.
i-f26f10da07d287f0-362	Madam President, I would like The Government has in the letter "Governance of young people at the Special Youth Home of the National Board of Institutional Affairs" reported on the actions and measures taken, taken or initiated. The letter is the result of an announcement made by Parliament this spring after several high-profile cases of abuse in youth homes. However, a great deal of work is still lacking to achieve a secure form of living with good care and care, and today we are addressing two further announcements to the government. One is that, as has just been mentioned here, the government will return to Parliament by April at the latest with a new letter on what is being done in this area. The second announcement is that we believe that it is very important that the work of prioritising girls' security and security is further strengthened. As I have said before, it is important that health care is carried out with good quality when the state and society enter, with an approach characterised by high ethics and not least with good and adequate competence. The issue remains highly topical. The reports that reach us show such grave problems that they cannot be ignored, nor should we ignore them. It is good that the committee is so united on these issues. In order for Parliament to be able to follow the Government's work on these issues fairly clearly, it is extremely positive that the committee has now agreed on another letter. If we can see that work is not progressing in the direction that we want, we are prepared to take further steps to tackle this problem. In addition to these two announcements, which we naturally support, we Swedish democrats want to increase the number of inspections and follow-ups. Today inspections are carried out mainly because there are indications of some kind of problem in an operation and not mainly to prevent any inconvenience in the future. The inspections of HVB homes, Sis-hem and LSS homes need to be increased. In this letter, we deal mainly with Sis-hemmen, but we would nevertheless like to stress how important it is that inspections of all types of accommodation are carried out. The follow-up of identified deficiencies should be consistent and the consequences of not addressing the shortcomings identified must be clear. We also want to see a thorough analysis of the business as a whole. This should be done, among other things, through an internal audit, which is something that the National Board of Institutional Affairs itself wants. There is also a need for an external audit to ensure further quality, as it has been found that Ivo has fallen and failed to monitor. We need to know with certainty that the care provided is appropriate. In addition to this, we would like to have a Commission look into the activities of examining and presenting measures to address all the problems that currently exist in Sis' activities. This Commission, Madam President, should also examine and suggest how to respond more effectively to and respond to existing healthcare needs and how to establish this. For example, the Director General of Sis has made it clear earlier this year that Sis does not have the mission or the competence to perform psychiatric care. Yet young people are wrongly placed on Sis instead of in psychiatry, where specialist skills actually exist, which affects young people. This shows shortcomings, and it is really bad. Madam President, I would like Care needs to be quality assured. Various coercive practices should be carefully analysed and followed up in such a decision. For us, therefore, it is very important for the Commission to look at all aspects of care needs and quality. In addition to this, we also want the economy to be affected and an economic review that takes into account the resources invested by the state and municipalities, so that we can find out whether they are being used properly. It is not reasonable that the costs run out and that the needs of young people are still not met. For example, we can note in the Government's letter that millions of SEK have been added between 2016 and 2020 to strengthen staffing. Nevertheless, a relatively large part of staffing consists of hourly workers with certain skills gaps. Continuity and competence are needed in such an important activity. The board of state institutions is often the authority that applies when nothing else works. It is our opinion that this should not only be, but should be, of very high quality in terms of safety, security and health care. Until we see a thorough investigation carried out, we are prepared to invest the necessary resources. We will continue to monitor this issue closely. Finally, I would like to endorse our reservation 1, which specifically addresses the issue of a Commission.
i-f26f10da07d287f0-377	Madam President, I would like Most of all, I would really like to stand here today and tell you how good the youth care that we operate in government is. I would also like to tell you about the legal certainty of our state care for children and young people, about how safe our girls feel in particular and how good our results actually are. But the fact is, Madam President, that unfortunately I am going to talk about the very opposite in many respects. Unfortunately, the fact that children and young people witness abuses at Sis is not news. For a long time we have received reports in the media and testimony from children, relatives and professionals about violence, isolation, insulting treatment and abuse. A series of packages of measures from both the government and Sis have been put in place, but the problems still remain. Member Yasmine Bladelius stood here a moment ago and told us how powerful the government has actually acted, that great efforts have been made. I certainly do not share that picture, I would say. And I find it remarkable that the government has not acted more forcefully or with greater commitment than that. It is also remarkable that it has not been followed up and called for change. Of course, there are islands of fine activities within Sis, but the problems and seriousness within the authority overshadow it. Madam President, I would like The violence and the separations that occur at Sis is something that I react very strongly to. Violence directed at children can never and should never be accepted. As I said, there are a great many testimonies and reports. The latest one that I have read from cover to cover, except for the letter we are debating here today, is the report of the Children's Law Agency and Childhood called... and I couldn't breathe. The content of the report, which is an examination of violence against children at state youth homes, is incredibly serious. Madam President, I would like Imagine that in 2021 there will have to be a review of violence against children at the state youth homes in Sweden – in the country that in 1979 was the first in the world to introduce a ban on child abuse, in the country that has actually taken on the role of pathfinder-land finding new ways in the work against violence against children. I find it both remarkable and frightening. In the report from Childhood and Barnrättsbyrån, we can read a quote from Javiera Constanza which I would like to quote here. I have experienced a lot of violence from the staff. During periods there were separations every day. It was chaos. Both violence in the form of what I might think is psychological violence. That they laughed at me or made mean comments. But also physically, all the times I was broken down. I can't describe in words how it feels when it comes in three to four people in your room and wrestle you down, holding you to the floor. The total panic. All the other girls looking at you. Shame. There are no words for what it does to your psyche. It's the worst form of violence when they wrestle you down. ..................................................... Madam President, I would like What Javiera describes really makes me shudder. What she describes is how a separation can often take place. Is this really how we should treat our children? Is this a care and treatment or care for children that we think should be allowed to occur under government control? I do not think so, and neither does the Center Party. If we are to put an end to violence, we need to put an end to the separations, and we need to train our staff properly. There is no other healthcare and care activity that uses regulated separations in the way that is done at Sis. Can you imagine the headlines that would have been if, for example, the method used in dementia care and violently separated, for example, an older demented lady and said that the reason was that she was aggressive or outward-looking? In dementia care, this is strictly forbidden. There other methods are used to divert, calm down, and comfort. How is it that we accept that such practices are being used against our children on Sis? Separation is therefore not just a matter of separating one youth from the others. When a child or a youth who is upset, angry or anxious is to be moved from location A to location B, if he or she does not want it because you know that you will be separated, there is often a need for some form of violence. Violence can consist of closure on the floor, leg locks, arm restraint and methods and grip that cause pain. Madam President, I would like In 2018, Sis was commissioned to present a plan for reducing and eventually ending the captures. Unfortunately, by 2020 we could see the opposite, as the separations instead increased. And those most affected are the youngest children, girls and children with disabilities.
i-f26f10da07d287f0-388	If you are a 12-year-old girl with a disability, there is a high risk that you will be exposed to separation and violence. If, on the other hand, you are a 17-year-old boy, a gang criminal and convicted of a serious crime, the risk of being exposed to separate disappearances is small. Separation, as you can see, must stop as soon as possible. The second part, Madam President, which I would like to mention in my speech is that we want to give children cared for within Sis an independent and independent complaint function. Usually, when you are an adult in contact with an authority, you often get a link or information that says: You can turn here if you have a complaint. Click on the link, fill in your case and wait for answers. But as a child at Sis, it's not as simple as that. There are a number of different parts that you have to keep track of. If you want to report violence, do it to the police. If you have complaints about isolation, please contact the administrative court. If you want to report violations, it is the supervisory authority that you should turn to. If you also turn to the wrong authority, you will not get a hearing, but you will get a reply that you have to turn to the right authority. For children, this is untenable. That is why we in the Center Party want to introduce an independent complaint function that can help our children and young people actually make their complaint and file a complaint. As a child at Sis, you can't take a break. Sis and the activities carried out there are children's everyday lives. They are there at this very moment, when we are speaking here in this House. It is their security that we must strengthen, and we must do so now. Of course, I support all the reservations expressed by the Centre Party, but for the sake of profit, I would just like to ask for reservation No 14 on the introduction of an independent complaint function.
i-TC36qRVsLUbSq6epEhxXtk	Ladies and gentlemen! According to 6th chapter. Section 4, first paragraph, the form of government is for me to submit proposals to the new Prime Minister for the approval of Parliament. Yesterday, the Riksdag approved my proposal to appoint Magdalena Andersson, the Social Democrats, Prime Minister. She intended to form a government made up of representatives of the Social Democrats and the Green Party. Later that day, she submitted a request for resignation from the post of Prime Minister, whom I approved. I have today consulted representatives of each parliamentary party group and consulted the Vice-Presidents and informed the Head of State. I now propose that the Riksdag appoint Magdalena Andersson, the Social Democrats, as the new Prime Minister, who intends to form a government composed of representatives of the Social Democrats.
i-f26f10da07d287f0-395	At the same time, I would like to inform the House that the proposal will be postponed a second time tomorrow and that the vote will take place at a sitting on Monday 29 November at 2.30 p.m. 1 p.m.
i-f26f10da07d287f0-396	Madam President, I would like For us in the Left Party it is obvious that every child should have the right to a nice upbringing and that we should do everything in our power to make it as good as possible, regardless of the child's background. We as a society have made a promise that, when the child's own parents cannot, we will enter and take over this responsibility and that we will give children and young people a better life. But that is not always the case today. We know that there are children who get really bad in society's care. Despite the fact that we have highlighted abuses in Sis for many years, the shortcomings have not been remedied. The consequences have been paid for all the girls who were placed on Björkbacken, those who went so badly that the whole department had to be closed down. Next time, it was the young ones on Nerebys's turn. And behind every failure is the child who has been horribly hurt and may have suffered but for the rest of his life. It is children and young people for whom the state has become a cause of their trauma. A united committee therefore called for the government to act decisively and to state what efforts it intends to take to remedy the shortcomings. Unfortunately, this did not fully deliver what we would have liked, and that is why we have this debate today. We share the picture that has been given here today that some improvement work has been done. But we are still very concerned. Madam President, I would like As we have heard here today, we have a situation where the separations are increasing for the youngest girls, that is, children as young as twelve years of age as we have promised to help. They're the ones we deal with by force. So it's not about the older guys. Although the government has previously announced that the separations must be reduced, the youngest girls were separated over 400 times last year. For the much older LSU condemned boys, the number was 42. The government's letter bears witness to a shift in responsibility. Children's exposure to violence is said to be due to the difficult target group and their complex problems. So the children with the greatest need for help and the least power are to blame for the fact that we adults are unable to help them. Unfortunately, the fact that the government has the following sentence in the letter is telling: There has been evidence that children and young people, both girls and boys, who are in state youth homes have been subjected to sexual abuse and harassment. The government is following developments in these abuses. The government says to follow developments. We believe that the abuse must be stopped. We call on the government to express in sharp terms that this will never happen again. In fact, everyone else is totally unacceptable. Madam President, I would like Last month, Childhood and Barnrättsbyrån launched the report... and I couldn't breathe. I hope that those of you who did not attend the launch have received it today. It is a solid report that has sought to investigate the extent to which children on Sis are exposed to violence in connection with separation and what this violence looks like. The result is frightening. Children and young people placed in prison are subjected to violence in connection with separation when staff use the methods in which they have been trained. It is therefore an accepted part of the work. Violence – the closures used – has often led to shortness of breath, bodily injury and traumatisation. According to the report, Sis uses methods whose purpose is actually to cause pain. That is why I am concerned when the government highlights these methods as positive. It seems that the government lacks knowledge of what these methods actually mean. Girls in Sis care often have experience of sexual abuse and violence. Being subjected to violence by personnel leads them to relive traumas, but now instead to government. It can rarely be an effective route to healing. We in the Left Party have written a comprehensive motion in response to the government's letter. With our proposals, we want to highlight the shortcomings that we see and the issues that we believe the government must do. It must be a minimum requirement that each child should receive the care and treatment to which it is entitled and that the interventions should be based on research and proven experience. Those who work with our young people should of course also have a safe working environment, which we believe they will get if the authority gives them the right assignments, tools and conditions. Our firm view is that if care is to be free from violence, new ways of working must be developed. We therefore call for work to be started to phase out separations and for methods that risk contributing to physical confrontation and violence to be replaced by new and more modern ways of working. Given that we have been receiving reports of serious deficiencies for such a long time, there must be functioning systems when something goes wrong. The institutions need more scrutiny by an external party. Children placed have a very limited opportunity to have their case tried. For us in the Left Party, it is of the utmost importance that every child has a complaint function that is adapted to their needs and provides legal certainty. Madam President, I would like No one will ever be able to say that in politics we did not know and that those of us who actually have the power to change did not know what young people in society were subjected to. We know. We've had it reported in length and cross. Years and years, cases after cases have come to light. Heavy child rights organizations such as Bris, Save the Children, Childhood and the Children's Rights Agency have alerted. IVO has alerted, the JO has alerted, the UN Committee has alerted. We know. That is why we need to act now, so that we instead have a world-class child and youth care system with which we can be safe and which gives our young people the best conditions. Therefore, we in the Left Party will not give up before we get real change. Because no one should be able to say in my name or in the name of my party that we did not try and that we did not do everything in our power to create a child and youth care that was the best possible. We in politics, those in power, are obliged to do everything we can to get young people back on their feet. Although we did not get a majority for all our proposals, we have agreed on two. One of them is that the government will return with a new letter. We've heard about that here today. I believe and hope that, until then, we in the Committee on Social Affairs can find ways of speeding up the pace of better child and youth care. Let us begin work now so that we can get through the changes needed to overcome shortcomings and ills and, instead, give our children and young people the support to which they are entitled. I request the approval of reservation 9.
i-f26f10da07d287f0-412	Madam President, I would like I support all the Liberal reservations, but I only ask for reservations 1 and 9. Now I stand here for the third time in a year and repeat the same things. But, as you know, repetition is the mother of knowledge. So now I say it again: The State Department Board is an authority that has failed, and it is the Social Minister, Lena Hallengren, ultimately responsible for. Now I will systematically and pedagogically try to go through the basis of this statement. Firstly, several departments of the Special Youth Homes of the National Board of Institutional Affairs have been shut down due to serious abuses, unprovoked violence from staff, non-legal separations and other types of violations only in the past year. Secondly, the Health and Care Inspection has made serious criticism of Sis, and last week the Ombudsman delivered stinging criticism of Sis for indefensible violence, in his presentation of the official report in the Constitutional Committee. Thirdly, the UN Committee against Torture and the UN Committee on the Rights of the Child call on Sweden to abolish separations. Lena Hallengren believes that it is naive to believe that children can be cared for without separation as a method. Fourthly, all major child rights organisations require the abolition of separations. And they do it with research and expertise in their backs. Probably what Lena Hallengren calls naive. Fifthly, the media have continuously reported abuses and violations in youth homes. Scandal headlines have been innumerable. Sixthly, in the report by the Agency for the Rights of the Child and Childhood... and I could not breathe, an examination of violence against children in state youth homes, it becomes clear that four out of five children who are separated are exposed to the use of violence and that in a significant part of the cases the staff provokes physical interventions – not the children themselves. Separation is used in a routine manner that can be largely illegal. Seventhly, a pool of expertise by doctors, lawyers, researchers and professors completely rejects the explanatory models and working methods linked to violence. Sis works with outdated methods that may lack legal support to a large extent. Finally, I would like to say that if you are a girl, twelve years old and have an autism spectrum condition, the risk is that you will be exposed to physical attachments and isolation in Sis institutions the greatest. Then the risk of bruising, panic over not being able to breathe and trauma to life is greatest. Let it sink in! It's not about gang-criminal boys and young men with a lot of violent capital. They are largely not separated at all. Madam President, I would like Repetition is the mother of all knowledge. I say again: the physical interventions within Sis involve control with physical pain. The risk of injury is high and the suffering is great. And experts in forced care dismiss the method as both unethical and ineffective. We can't have this. An authority that deals so carelessly with coercive measures is an authority that has failed. Because Lena Hallengren is responsible. Children are nobody's property, but they are everyone's responsibility, not least our responsibility in this House. I refuse to believe that in this House, which is in power and mandate, we should allow it to go on, right in front of our eyes. I want to believe better about the Swedish parliament than that the violence against these children is being defended. In this House, we must never allow inflation to take place in human dignity. The children we are talking about today should have the same rights and protection against violence as everyone else. I appreciate our cooperation in the Social Affairs Committee. We're doing everything we can to drive the government ahead of us. The Agency's report shows that a considerable part of the decisions on coercive measures may lack legal support. It is very serious and should lead to a crisis but, above all, to clear action by the responsible government and the government. Imagine a similar margin of error within the Police or Prosecution Office. It is high time to stop legitimizing separations, which lead to children having their teeth knocked out, fractures, joint injuries and psychological traumas. If a parent acts in the same way, it is reason to lose custody. Now it's in the name of the state. Separations are violence with legal support if the props are fulfilled. However, legal as it is, the Convention on the Rights of the Child and the fact that there is no violence against children are justified. How is it possible that this House does not, of course, abolish separations, for the benefit of all the unfree, powerless and vulnerable children? We in this House bear a responsibility for children on Sis, the state's, frozen accommodations to be treated with respect for the inherent dignity of man and in a way that takes into account the needs of the child. Moreover, the health and basic safety of a deprived child must never be jeopardised. No, what the government reports in its letter is not good enough. The measures are far from sufficient. An authority that has failed requires far more than that. Liberals have been clear in calling for an accident commission to be set up to investigate in depth abuses and deficiencies in Sis' activities. There's no way to patch up and fix a complete breakdown. Paralysis cannot be overpainted. Too little, too late can't be overpainted either. The vulnerability of children and young people to state care cannot be overpainted. Madam President, I would like The struggle for the vulnerable lies in the DNA of liberalism. Children and young people who are invisible to others are made visible by liberals. In Liberal Sweden there are no privileged or repressed, no pet pigs or stepchildren. Liberals fight for everyone. Where freedom is, there we are. Abolish separations! Set up a Commission of Accidents! Children's lives don't replay. Violence doesn't solve anything. I am a little confused when Mr Bladelius tells me that the government thinks this is important. After all, it is during the period after the DG for the Authority, which the government has appointed, that the separations have increased. Just take as an example what has emerged from the last report when it comes to the lack of legal support for one third. As we want to do a lot of things, it will be difficult to describe to every single child who is being subjected to this very day that we are preparing for children to be able in the future to receive the protection and support they need and to which they are entitled. I don't think anyone thinks this is okay. But it is only when we put our foot down and dare to act that a difference can come about. Several have been into it; it is not enough to have a will direction. It is unworthy of our whole country that the most vulnerable children are in that situation and with our knowledge.
i-f26f10da07d287f0-436	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mrs Blom, for your speech and for your commitment to children's and young people's right to a safe and secure upbringing! I wanted to be clear in my speech. I would like to take this opportunity to be clear, Madam President. It is and must be ours, the government, this Parliament's chamber and the Parliament's social committee's ambition to put an end to separations. As Mrs Blom says, it is not the outward-looking boys, the young criminal guys in Sis' business, who are being separated. It is the young girls who are separated. When I talk to Sis employees about this and ask why separations are used in those situations, the answer is quite clear. There's no alternative, according to them. They don't have the tools and the ability to meet the inmates in any other way. They don't know how to act. Madam President, I would like That is where I think the problem lies. We have to admit that we have not succeeded in doing so. We and the authority must, of course, ensure that those working in the business have other methods to use and use in those situations. What is being done now is not enough. That is why we are also clear that it must be stopped in the long term. Those working in the business must have the tools to handle it in other ways.
i-f26f10da07d287f0-440	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Bladelius! I believe what you're saying. I feel there's a genuineness in what you're saying. The problem is that Minister Lena Hallengren always shines with her absence in the Chamber when we are debating these issues. Then others will have to speak. I myself have had discussions with the Government on various issues relating to children. I think a lot is connected. Even before we took the committee initiative to review the legislation concerning LVU, in order to strengthen the child's best interests, it was impossible in the talks I held with Minister Lena Hallengren. I really had an appeal. After all, we had cooperation within the framework of the January agreement. At that time, it was a lot about daring to question parental rights and attach both obligations and responsibilities but above all to strengthen the perspective of children's rights. Even the boys, the young guys, who are convicted of serious crime, are an expression of an enormous failure on the part of society. It is children whose dreams are extinguished far too soon, children who grow up with domestic violence and who do not receive the necessary efforts. I do not think that any child or young person will change their behaviour, if it is perhaps precisely violence that is the major problem if they are then subjected to state violence. The honourable Member says that there are methods that can be tested and that are tried and tested elsewhere, as researchers also express. However, as long as we allow separation, I do not think it will be necessary to take the strong measures necessary to ensure that the necessary skills really exist. This is, in fact, a matter of organisation, leadership and culture, but above all of our position.
i-f26f10da07d287f0-444	Madam President, I would like I thank Juno Blom for the answer to my reply. Of course, I cannot answer for Mrs Bloms's internal talks with the Government. However, I can try to answer why the Government is not here today. This may be because we do not yet have a government and the Government cannot therefore be here to take the debate. I know that the Government is passionate about the issues and I am happy to talk about them. She has also stated that separations should eventually cease. The Social Democratic Labour Party is clear on these issues. We want separations to stop in the long term. We also want to see that the changes that have now begun and that are ongoing within the business lead to other methods that can handle these situations and help those who are employed within Sis to manage the situations in other ways than having to resort to separations. Of course, as Mrs Blom says, it does not matter whether it is young girls or criminal young men who are being subjected. It's a traumatic experience. I think it is a traumatic experience for both the inmates and the employee who are forced to resort to these measures because he or she feels that there may be no tools to deal with it in any other way. We still have a lot of work to do. I am convinced that we agree that we must continue to work actively on the issues ahead.
i-f26f10da07d287f0-449	Madam President, I would like I do not doubt the intentions of the honourable Member. The fact that there is chaos in the government again, on the other hand, is another major problem. Too much effort is being put on issues other than solving societal problems. But it hasn't been chaos all along. Although it seems that there has been chaos all along, the Government has had the opportunity to come here on previous occasions. It would be good to have a conversation with the person it concerns. Above all, this is about the way children are looked at. This also applies to children with autism spectrum conditions who are actually entitled to LSS according to the person circuit 1. They are placed on the state's locked accommodation because the LSS has been gradually dismantled. As a result, children are not given the help they are entitled to and need. They do not receive the necessary efforts to meet their unique needs. Today we are discussing Sis. Several have believed that it is a final stop. But when all other stops have failed, more and more children are placed there. Both the Government and the Director-General should love us who are fighting to give these children other opportunities. If I had been Director-General of the State Department Board, I would have stood with placards outside and asked what you are doing to enable me to run a business in the line that really respects the individual child in its vulnerability. Children's lives don't replay. That's what I said earlier. Those children who are currently in this vulnerability are not happy that we are preparing and looking for methods, but here we need a clear position. I hope you, Yasmine Bladelius, will send it to the responsible government, which did not show up here.
i-f26f10da07d287f0-454	Madam President, I would like Sometimes the heart breaks when you take note of the testimony of children who have been cared for by the state. These are children and young people who are often among the most fragile in society and who have been betrayed by the adult world many times since their early age. I would like to begin my speech by reading a paragraph from a story from one of these children. It's in the report from the Children's Law Agency mentioned earlier... and I couldn't breathe. When I got there everyone was very happy, they welcomed me even though I've been on the run for three weeks. The staff were not authoritarian people who sat over me, they gave me a chance to involve me in all the decisions that were made. They let me keep my control. It made a huge difference in the way I treated them. The way I was treated in the past meant that I didn't have any locks, that I erupted. They had power and I had no control, and they wrestled down and held me. At this youth home, they asked me, can I give you a hug? .............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. There were people who wanted me there who liked me and had longed for me. It makes a big difference. When I had a panic attack there once and broke things in my room, a staffer looked at me and asked, "Are you going to hurt yourself?" I answered, "No." OK, then I'll leave you alone. When the panic settled, she came in, comforted me, and sat by my side. It was the first time I had the opportunity to just be. Without being punished. If you haven't experienced it before, being understood and embraced, then it means everything. After that, I didn't erupt. I had no separation there in a year. They made a choice not to expose us children to it. ..................................................... Madam President, I would like I wish this story were a story that we heard from all the children cared for by the state. It shows the importance of treating children with respect and not offending them. But that's not the case. The story is a bit of a uniqueness in the report. Instead, there are reports of abuse, which have been raised here in the debate. There have been abuses within the National Board of Institutional Affairs for many years. The list of areas that need improvement in Sis is long. The list of proposals and initiatives from the Social Affairs Committee, the Riksdag and the Government is also long. There are long-awaited initiatives that will improve quality and not least lead to skills development for those working in Sis. Sis was created in the early 1940s. Some things have been the same since that time. Other things are not at all alike. A group that did not exist or not as common at the beginning of the 20th century are girls with severe self-harm behaviour, which was mentioned earlier in the debate. They certainly existed, but at least they were not taken care of by the state's locked institutions. This is a group that should reasonably receive its support and treatment and care in the region's child and youth psychiatry. Madam President, I am a strong supporter of local and regional self-government, but that does not mean that it should not be criticised when it is justified. In this case, there are reasons for very harsh criticism. The regions do not assume their responsibilities for this group of patients. To some extent, these may be political priorities, but I do not think they are. I think it is partly a question of an official government and a question of spineless directors. In 2018, Västra Götaland Region's Health Care Director took an initiative to create a national highly specialised unit for people, especially girls, with self-harm behaviour. The issue was handled and sued by SKR's healthcare director's network. Some regions felt that this was an appropriate measure, including Halland. Many thanks to them! But the majority of the regions declined, and this unity was not created. Here's the core of the matter. Each region does not have enough evidence to have these units, but this is national. The regions need to take care of it. I hope that in its future handling of this, the committee will stress the importance of Sweden's regions taking care of these children and meeting their care needs. Madam President, I would like I visited one of these homes before the debate and was met by very dedicated staff. It warmed me, too much of the key to how children manage to assimilate the treatment and care they are offered at these homes lies in the staff's competence. It is therefore important and urgent that the training and efforts to increase the training have started, that new employees, for example, receive supervisors to help them and that they have a proper introduction package. There have been some turbulent days in Swedish politics. The Green Party announced yesterday that we are leaving the government. As a result, I am probably currently giving my last speech in this speaker's chair for this term of office. I'm a substitute for a state secretary. It has been a privilege to represent my constituents here and to work with you in the committee and take note of your commitment and knowledge. I very much hope that you will continue in the same spirit and that you will receive the one who replaces me as warmly as I myself was received. Although it is stated in the committee's amendment that I and the Green Party are not behind reservation 9, I would like to say here in the floor of this House that we intend to support reservation 9, which means that we want separations to end as soon as possible within the State Institution Board.
i-8ZDk8dKRUewPqVnoFrBp5K	( ANDRE VICE TALMANNEN: Thank you for your time here in the Swedish Parliament! )
i-f26f10da07d287f0-467	Madam President, I would like In particular, I would like to address Mr Attefjord, who entered the committee in an excellent way this spring. Starting work when everything is digital is really not easy. We're glad we got to know you. Not least, you have included all the knowledge you have from your work and all your commitment from the Västra Götaland region. As a result, we have learned more. May I also thank you personally for the message you gave at the very end of your speech. It warms up that you gave this information regarding the separations and the measures we want to take in the future. Thank you very much for what you have done in committee! We wish you well in the future. We now also know that we have an ally in the Västra Götaland region. It feels good.
i-f26f10da07d287f0-470	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your warm words. In future, I will sit in front of the Forum on SVT and follow the debates that you have in the future. We'll see what happens after the election. Maybe I'll come back. We're good at recycling in our party.
