i-da07243a12d4b6e3-0	Madam President, I would like Mikael Eskilandersson has asked me whether I and the government will act concretely and more sharply against forced marriages. Sara Gille has asked me how I and the government intend to act further on the work against forced marriages. Strengthening protection against honour-related violence and repression, including child and forced marriages, is, as I have previously stated, of the utmost importance to the government, and the government has therefore taken several steps to strengthen protection against honour-related violence and repression. For example, on 1 July 2020 a specific child marriage crime was introduced, involving not only the person who moves a child to enter into a marriage or marriagelike relationship, but also the parent who allows a child to enter into a marriage. Unlike the provision on forced marriage, the child's marriage offence does not require that there has been unlawful coercion or exploitation of a vulnerable situation. The sentence is prison for a maximum of four years. At the same time, an exit ban was introduced which means that if there is a real risk of someone under 18 being taken abroad or leaving Sweden for the purpose of marriage or a marriage-like relationship or genital mutilation, he or she shall be prohibited from leaving Sweden. If someone brings a child out of Sweden in violation of an exit ban, the person can be sentenced to imprisonment for a maximum of two years. The exit ban has already been applied at least 25 times. In the case of arranged marriages, both parties may agree and accept that they enter into an arranged marriage. If, on the other hand, one of the parties has been led to enter into a marriage or a marriagelike relationship by unlawful coercion or by the use of a vulnerable situation, the penalty is compulsory marriage. An important part of the work against child and forced marriages is to help the children and young people who have already been taken out of the country to return home. The Government therefore initiated a two-year initiative in 2018 to further strengthen consular support in the area of family conflict with a particular focus on child and forced marriages. From 2020 onwards, the initiative was made permanent and incorporated into the Ministry for Foreign Affairs' regular consular activities. The strengthening of activities has enabled a more structured approach to the development of working methods and increased capacity for the foreign administration to deal with this type of consular matter. It is no longer possible for a person under the age of 18 to enter into a legally valid marriage in Sweden, and for a couple of years there have been stricter rules for the recognition of foreign children's marriages. This introduced a new general rule that means that no foreign children's marriages should be recognised in Sweden. Exemptions shall never be possible if one of the parties is still under 18 years of age during the examination. On 29 April 2021, the Government also decided to instruct a special investigator to submit a proposal for a comprehensive national strategy to prevent and combat violence against children, including honour-related violence and repression (Dir. 2021:29). The strategy will take a holistic approach and allow a coherent approach to preventing and combating violence against children over the next ten years. The assignment shall be presented by 31 May 2022. Finally, in a 7 October 2020, the Honorary Crime Investigation presented its report A special honorary crime. The report proposes, among other things, the introduction of a special offence of honour. The report has been referred and is now being prepared within the Government Office. The government will continue its work against honour-related violence and repression. No one in Sweden should have to worry about being married or otherwise subjected to honour-related violence and oppression.
i-da07243a12d4b6e3-8	Madam President, I would like I thank Morgan Johansson for his answer. Morgan Johansson here tries to paint a picture that the government is doing a lot and has taken strong measures to prevent forced marriages and to prevent criminal networks from spreading in Sweden. If you look a little closer at what the government actually did, however, it is very toothless. The introduction of the law against forced marriage seems to me to be the most telling example of the government's view of the value of young women. Thus, a law is introduced to stop cultural oppression – a law that will protect women from being married off, a law that will restore women, a law that will prevent anyone from taking away from them their whole life. This should be the solution to an upbringing of oppression that ends with a dedication to continued oppression in another family. It has taken away a person's entire life — oppression and mental abuse that have been going on for a very long time. What do Morgan Johansson and his government think this is worth in punishment? I almost think it's a joke when I hear Morgan Johansson's answer, that a maximum of four years in prison is what you risk. In practice, therefore, it is a matter of a few months' imprisonment and perhaps even a conditional sentence. For example, an individual aggravated assault brings a higher penalty value. It is therefore a very low penalty, according to the government, which, at the same time, insists that this should be a deterrent. I would like to say that the social democrats' construction of society has failed. The government is unable to protect the population from unwanted cultural expressions such as forced marriages and arranged marriages. Not being forced to marry someone should be a fundamental obvious for everyone in Sweden. During my lifetime, society has changed, and unfortunately not only for the better. I believe that it has been an active social democratic policy that has changed society from when I could read at school about honour cultures, polygamy and forced marriages as something that exists in other cultures on the other side of the world. Today, forced marriage is not only something that exists in Sweden but also something that affects a significant part of our population. I am one of the generation that may have seen the change most noticeably. We have seen how the country has been divided and how social democratic policy has destroyed the cohesion of our country and weakened the faith of the future. For the last 30 years, when forced marriages have become part of our society, the government has done virtually as little as possible. Only when you have been forced to act have you done something, and then you have done as little as possible. Morgan Johansson says, "No one in Sweden should have to worry about being married or otherwise subjected to honor-related violence and oppression. ..................................................... But why is it, in principle, totally criminal?
i-da07243a12d4b6e3-19	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. I agree with the Government that no one in Sweden should have to worry about being married or otherwise subjected to honor-related violence and oppression. At the same time, we know that it is unfortunately happening in Sweden today, 2021. It does not belong here, and the government needs to fight harder against honour-related violence and oppression. This is something we absolutely must not turn a blind eye to, but we must fight it to the full. On the other hand, I do not agree with the Government that arranged marriages do not have to be about coercion. In my view, all arranged marriages are made under duress. In my view, it is not something you choose for yourself, but it does not mean that you are going through the actual wedding act under threat. Rather, it can mean that since childhood you have been raised to decide who to marry and that it is simply something you have to accept. Coercive marriage is a phenomenon that has become increasingly strong in Sweden, which is rooted in the establishment of new cultures here in the country. This is something we have noticed clearly as a result of the government's and previous governments' immigration policy. I have several relatives who have been married to men who have been chosen for them, Madam President. It is arranged marriages, and this is much more common in Sweden than you think – unfortunately it is actually so. In arranged marriages, the woman has already learned that her body is something someone else is in charge of. Her own choice does not count, but the family decides when her body can be seen – and for whom. This makes it natural for the girl to decide who to marry. It is a good thing that the government has done some things, but that is far from enough. It should also have been done much more in the past. If that had been enough, we would not have stood here today to discuss the matter. Then we would not have had this problem in today's Sweden. Pela was murdered in 1999, Madam President. Fadime was murdered in 2002. It is shameful that the government has been in power for so long but has not made any progress on this issue. With your hand on it, does the Government really believe that it has done enough to support those who are victims of honor-related violence and oppression? With the hand on your heart, Morgan Johansson, has the government done everything in its power to prevent anyone from being subjected to these heinous crimes?
i-da07243a12d4b6e3-25	Madam President, I would like I thank the interpellants for the opportunity to discuss this issue again, because it always feels as good to be able to explain all the measures taken by the government. But it is clear that the answer to the question whether it is enough is always no. It is clear that more must always be done, and I have also explained the forthcoming legislative proposals – including a particular offence of honour – which we are now preparing in the Government Office. Nevertheless, I say that no government has done more about honour-related violence and repression than this government has done. I have lined up all the reforms we have made. But I think you need to broaden the discussion a little, because this is really about a bigger issue. Sweden is a modern, progressive country which, I say, long ago has broken with the old, conservative values underlying this type of oppression. Both women and children were often viewed as the property of the family, or the husband. It is a falsification of history to claim that arranged marriages have never occurred in Sweden, because it has been here too. However, thanks not least to social-democratic, progressive reforms, we have gradually emerged from precisely that kind of old-fashioned thinking. The starting point for our reform policy throughout the post-war period has been precisely that children are individuals with their own rights, not some kind of appendage to the family, and that women should be able to stand on their own feet with their own income. This is the starting point in our entire gender equality policy, and it has made Sweden one of the world's most equal countries today. It is no coincidence that this is the way it is, and we should be fundamentally very proud of that. However, what we are now also saying is that this must apply to everyone in Sweden – all children and all women in Sweden, regardless of which country they have come from from the beginning. Even those who grow up in immigrant families must be protected from such conservative, old-fashioned values. In my view, there is no room for compromise here, but all children and young people should have the right to develop into independent individuals wherever they come from. Therefore, the repression of honour must be combated. As I said, we have done a lot. We have made sure that no one has the right to force anyone to marry. We have introduced a special child marriage crime and have therefore criminalised it. For example, anyone who moves a child to marry abroad commits an even worse crime, where we tightened the legislation as recently as last year. Last year we also introduced the exit ban that has already been applied on 25 occasions when a child has risked being taken abroad to be married away, for example. We have reinforced the police with 350 new investigators specialised in violence and crimes in close relationships and especially crimes against children. They were recruited last year. I therefore claim that we have done more than any other government. I cannot put together the policy of the Swedish Democrats and your criticism in this area, Mikael Eskilandersson and Sara Gille. Even if you now stand here and say that you care about these young people and these children, the truth is that your policy is that they should not really be in Sweden. Had the Swedish Democrats had the power to decide, for example, Sara Gilles's relatives, whom she referred to, would never have been allowed to be in Sweden. Then they would have remained in their homelands, exposed to precisely this oppression. My question to Mikael Eskilandersson and Sara Gille is therefore: If you really care about these young people and want them to get out of oppression, why do you want to deport them from Sweden? Why do you want to throw them out of Sweden? Why do you want to put those who are victims in this situation?
i-da07243a12d4b6e3-32	Madam President, I would like That's nonsense – we don't want to throw out Saras's relatives, and not anyone else who came in the 80's, the 90's or the 00's either. Lately the sinner should wake up, it's said, and the government is now trying to give the appearance of having woken up. It claims that strong action has been taken and that action continues to be taken. However, we do not need to go very many miles from Morgan Johansson's hometown of Lund to visit Denmark, where it has gone much further than the government on every point on which the government has presented any measure. Denmark has implemented three powerful ghetto packages against criminals, the first as early as 2009. Then let us remember that even before these packages were implemented, powerful laws were in place, such as the 24-year rule to prevent forced marriages. It was already introduced in Denmark in 2002. Dual punishment, demolition of alienation areas and language tests are some of the measures in the ghetto packages. We have seen nothing similar in Sweden. Denmark has managed to fight the ghettos and has a relatively low number of shootings, especially compared to Sweden. It has consistently been under 10 killed in shootings per year, compared to Sweden's nearly 50. The question is when we will see similar measures in Sweden. If we are to talk about the truth, it is in fact that we Swedish democrats have been pointing out these problems and asking for strong action since long before our parliamentary session. The truth is that we Swedish democrats remember what it was like. When we were desperate and tried to get ruling politicians to listen, we stood with rented-in talk halls in squares around Sweden and tried to warn us, as best we could, of the development we saw and in which we lived. At that time they stood, Morgan Johansson's party friends, in virtually every place and every square in Sweden. They were quick to pull out, but it wasn't to listen to what we had to come up with. Instead, they stood beautifully shoulder to shoulder, turning their backs on the problems. While we explained that everything was not right in our country, while warning against the fragmentation created by their policies and while proposing measures to stop segregation, Morgan Johansson and his party friends continued to turn their backs on the problems. Sometimes it was not enough to show your backs, but then they tried to overpower our sound systems as well. Apparently, it was thought that the problems would not exist if you just rattled high enough with that key-knippa- then they would magically disappear. Then irresponsible politics would suddenly work; honor killings, forced marriages, and child marriages would disappear by themselves. But that was not the case. Sometimes you drove with a more timed version and blew soap bubbles, as if you seriously believed that soap bubbles would remove the problems that you had actually created yourself. It is the case that the problems that we are experiencing, and which my party was early warning against, are created by years of mismanagement of both migration policy and integration policy. Why have measures not been taken as a ghetto package to stop the problems in Sweden?
i-da07243a12d4b6e3-40	Madam President, I would like Soon the summer break will come for many school children. My daughter is 16 years old; she will turn 17 this fall. There should be swimming, sunbathing, playing a lot of ball sports and doing a lot of other fun that a normal teenager should see before school break. It's a time of recovery and joy. For others, however, this unfortunately means something quite different. Unfortunately, child and youth psychiatry is burdened with teenage girls who, in despair, do not dare to go on vacation with their parents because they are afraid of being married off. As I said in my first speech, I have several relatives who have been married away, and that is something that will probably be passed on to the next generation. This is a culture that we must stop in Sweden. No person should be forced to enter into a marriage that it has not chosen. To decide for yourself who to marry is a fundamental right in Sweden. The Government itself says that this should apply to everyone, but unfortunately it does not. Madam President, I would like Several arranged marriages entered into in Sweden have been used to give criminal networks more power. In the Gothenburg ghetto, for example, there are clans that arrange marriage precisely to expand their power. This was shown by the Amanda Commission. The Amanda Commission was created after a 12-year-old girl named Amanda was married to a grown man. She was raped, and as a result of the rapes, she gave birth to a child whom the perpetrator was given custody of. This was a 12-year-old girl who should have focused on school instead of living under a man's oppression. Madam President, I would like As a result of the Amanda Commission, the Gothenburg Municipal Board presented a study that further highlights the deep and serious problem of honorary oppression. In this study you can read about 42 known cases of honorary oppression in the municipality. Then you can also imagine how big the darkness number is. It is illegal and associated with criminal liability to deceive someone based in Sweden into a marriage, but nevertheless it does. Although few are convicted for this in Sweden, we see a development where more and more young people feel that they cannot choose partners freely. Sweden must put its foot down firmly and show clearly that it is not forced to marry against its will in this country. What the government is doing now is too little, and it is far too late. The law needs to be tightened up and the penalties tightened.
i-da07243a12d4b6e3-49	Madam President, I would like No, all people in Sweden are equal. It also means that all crimes committed, no matter who they are committed against, should be assessed in exactly the same way. This applies to everyone. As far as the problem picture is concerned, I have described exactly what we have done. I say that we have done more than any other government against this particular type of problem. We've tightened the law against child marriage. We have imposed an exit ban. We have also tightened the law on honour crimes – we did so on 1 July last year – with a special penalty for all crimes committed with honorary motives. We have ensured that the police have been able to reinforce their efforts. As a result of the major resource reinforcements received by the police, 350 new investigators have been recruited with a special focus on, among other things, this type of crime. There must never be any doubt, and there is no possibility of compromise with this type of crime – we are probably in agreement there. The problem for you in the Swedish Democrats here is that you are trying to sit on both seats at the same time. On the one hand, you say that we must fight honour crimes, as we agree, on the other hand, you say that these victims should not really be in Sweden – they should be expelled and thrown back to their home countries. I didn't get an answer to my question. If the Swedish Democrats really care about these children and young people, why do the Swedish Democrats want to deport them? Mikael Eskilandersson says that what I say is nonsense and that the Swedish Democrats do not really want this. But I can read almost every day in the newspaper when the Swedish democrats are developing their policy that this is now going out on re-migration. Mikael Eskilandersson then says: Yes, but not those who came during the 80's, 90's and maybe the 00's. But those who came later then – those who came 2010, 2011, 2012 or 2015? Are these the people to be deported back? These kids have a chance to get out of their oppression. That chance is that they have come to a country with more progressive values that give them an opportunity to get out of these family constellations and this oppression. It is a country which, to a very large extent, has been built up by social democrats over the last few decades and which is based on a policy of equality, which means that all people should be able to be independent and have an independent livelihood. It is also based on a policy for all children to be regarded as their own individuals with their own rights and not as some kind of appendage to the family. This is the chance that these children and young people have now had to emerge from oppression. The fact remains: if you in the Swedish Democrats had been able to decide during these years, these young people would never have been in Sweden. Then they would have remained in their homelands and been subjected to exactly the type of oppression that you claim you are opposed to. But is it not really the case that it is not the oppression of honour that you are opposed to, but immigration as such? It does not matter much to you if the oppression of honour is exercised, as long as it is not exercised in Sweden – as long as they are not in Sweden. No, Madam President, the Swedish Democrats actually have to answer the fundamental question. If you in the Swedish Democrats now really care about these children and young people, why do you want to throw them out of Sweden?
i-da07243a12d4b6e3-60	Madam President, I would like It is interesting to hear Morgan Johansson talking about deportation and re-migration as something that is terrible and that only me and the Swedish Democrats would stand for, especially considering that the Social Democrats themselves have now introduced temporary residence permits. They have done this because you should return if you can return – otherwise there would be no reason to have a temporary residence permit. Again, maybe we should stay a little serious. Otherwise, I guess this debate was just as expected. Morgan Johansson tries to highlight irrelevant and minor changes in legislation as if they were powerful and effective. There are strong and effective measures against gang crime. There are strong and effective measures against forced marriages. We just need to look over the sound to see practical examples of policies that actually work. Danish Social Democrats urge Swedes to learn from what Denmark has done, to take hold of the situation and to listen to concrete proposals that exist. It has gone so far that some Danish Social Democrats even urge Swedes to vote for the Swedish Democrats, while the Swedish government is allowing the criminal gangs to grow. Why does the government believe that these problems will disappear when the criminal networks have grown stronger and larger for such a long time? The government has deliberately refrained from taking the measures with which our neighbouring country has had great success. Why has the government not followed Denmark's successful example? Why does Sweden not have a 24-year rule that prevents young people from being married away? Why does Sweden not have double the penalty for gang crime? Why does Sweden not have a language test? The question is why Sweden has not launched its first ghetto package yet.
i-da07243a12d4b6e3-65	Madam President, I would like In Sweden, we must stand up for our Western values much better. We cannot allow Islamisation to continue to take over the country. This culture of honour that is spreading is a terrible boil that our Swedish government allows to grow and which we must get rid of. The criminal groups are now so widespread and so organized that they even use arranged forced marriages to increase their power. This is something that we have historically seen royal houses do. Clearly, these gangs view themselves as kings. Our streets are like their kingdoms, and the Swedish government appears more and more like their eunuchs.
i-da07243a12d4b6e3-67	Madam President, I would like I still do not get an answer to the question that I have now asked a few times in different lines, namely why the Swedish Democrats, if you really care about these children and young people, do not want them to remain in Sweden. Why do you want to throw them out? It is a deportation policy that the Swedish Democrats are pursuing. It is a return policy. I believe that the Swedish democrats are even talking about minus immigration. What I am pointing out is that the opportunity for all these young people and children to emerge from the oppression of honour is based on the fact that they have come to a country with progressive values. We have long since broken with this old conservative legacy, which Sweden was also largely characterized by in the past. We have worked against this and are now gone, as a result of the social democratic reforms that we have been pushing forward for many decades. I can assure you that we are not going to allow this progressive legacy and these profits for all really are being cheated now because there have been immigrant groups where there may be another entrance, but rather to be completely uncompromising against that kind of oppression. That is precisely why we have pushed through the reforms with the punitive measures, the efforts on the police, the exit ban and much more. I can assure you that we will continue with this work. When it comes to Denmark and gang crime – as I said myself, I grew up in Skåne and live in Skåne – there is a lot in Denmark that we can learn from. When we looked at criminal law, we therefore asked the investigator to look specifically at whether it is something that we can take from Denmark that has been effective. If so, let us do so. We have a good exchange with the Socialist Minister and the Social Democratic Government there. There are basically no differences of opinion on this.
i-da07243a12d4b6e3-73	Madam President, I would like Marléne Lund Kopparklint has asked me whether I intend to work to protect children from having to face paedophiles convicted of sexual crimes who have served their sentence. The interpellant has also asked me how I view legislation prohibiting the stay of convicted paedophiles in places frequented by children and how I see it possible to impose a ban on employers in the professions involving children to employ a previously convicted sex offender. Preventing and preventing sexual offences against children is a priority for the government. It is an area where a lot of work is going on and where major changes in criminal law, among other things, have taken place in the near future, just as Marléne Lund Kopparklint writes in her interpellation. Also, the rules on what applies after parole have undergone major changes in recent times. As Marléne Lund Kopparklint notes in her interpellation, on 1 July 2020 legislative changes entered into force which include extending the probation period after parole, extending the possibility of imposing conditions on what will apply after parole and extending the possibility of forfeiting conditionally granted freedom due to mismanagement during the parole period. The prison services can also take decisions on the electronic monitoring of the frivolous person in order to verify compliance with a regulation. On 1 May 2021, legislation entered into force which provides for equivalent control of those sentenced to probation. At the same time, it clarified the possibility of imposing a residence ban on both conditionally released and on probation. The possibility of checking this Regulation electronically was also extended. On 1 May 2021, further legislative amendments are in force allowing the parole to be suspended to a greater extent than before for those who do not participate in, or mishandle, relapse prevention or other measures that may help the sentenced person to adapt to society. Furthermore, they introduce increased possibilities to postpone the conditional release even in the event of other mismanagement during the execution period. Those who do not participate in such measures as the Prison Service considers necessary for, for example, persons convicted of sexual offences may thus be allowed to serve a longer period of their sentence in an institution. The detailed content of the enforcement plan applicable to the sentenced person and the provisions applicable after conditional release is a matter for the Prison Service, which has to make an individual assessment of risks, needs and responsiveness in each individual case. I assume that the Correctional Service will make careful assessments of these matters and will draw up enforcement plans and regulations in an adequate manner. In my opinion, the penal services, through the recently introduced regulations, have good tools to use to reduce the risk of recurrence of crime. With regard to the question of whether it is possible to introduce a ban on employers in the professions involving contact with children to employ a previously convicted sex offender, a requirement for a criminal record is already in force when they are employed in a number of such professions, including preschool and comprehensive school. The Government has recently proposed that from 1 July 2021 register checks should also cover upper secondary and secondary schools. Also in other employments and assignments involving direct or regular contact with children, an extract from the load register must be presented if the employer so requests. However, it is up to the individual employer to decide whether a previously convicted person should be employed. The employer always has a responsibility to ensure that the staff are suitable and that the activities are conducted in a safe and secure manner, so that the risks of abuse are minimised. The Government is closely following the results of the legislative changes that have been made and will continue to prioritise work against sexual offences against children and relapse into crime.
i-da07243a12d4b6e3-80	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. Before the last time I stood here in the speaker's room talking about sexual crimes against children, I actually had to say that I wavered a little. I had a spare paper under my bundle in case I couldn't take it. It was not a question of debating the matter itself, but it was because it actually left myself on a personal level and took the words out of the mouth that had been shut in for so many years. I have dealt with this through therapy, and against all odds I am actually standing in this House as a Member of Parliament. What was crucial and what gave me strength to that debate was the idea of all children who are exposed annually and of all adults who carry it with them in the heavy backpack and who never get help or redress. The consequences of being subjected to sexual abuse can be so strong that life is not affected by mental illness, depression, addiction, self-harm, long-term illness – because of diseases that can be related to traumatic experiences in childhood – and suicide. Madam President, I would like Do you know that people who have been exposed to several traumatic experiences as children are twelve times more likely to commit suicide than everyone else? There are several other serious diseases that, according to scientific studies, can be directly linked to these traumatic experiences as children and that are more likely to be affected than others who have not experienced similar events. We know that this is the case, but yet we are not talking about this threat to public health. Why is that? If 20% of children are abused, this corresponds to about 425 000 children. Then we can count on the fact that there are just as many adults who have become so. In the Riksdag it would correspond to 70 members of parliament who have been subjected to sexual abuse in their childhood. However, I promise that if I asked the question here and asked those who had been exposed to it, not many would do so. I know why. I carry that explanation myself. You don't want to, you can't, and it hurts too much to even think about it. But we need to start talking about it. We need to start putting the victims first and give them faces. We must stand up for all children and adults who become and have been subjected to the most disgusting crimes there are. All these people should have voices. All adults may not be able to get redress, but they should feel confident that children will not have to experience what they did. No child should have to experience what I did as a child or have to go the same way as a teenager with addiction, crime, self-harm and continued sexual abuse because I became an open target for several other perpetrators because my protection mechanisms disappeared in childhood. This is because there are consequences when a child is exposed and not given help on time, and that is what we need to talk about. We must protect the children and strengthen the laws so that sex offenders do not come near them and the room around them in either reality or online.
i-da07243a12d4b6e3-88	Madam President, I would like Jenny grew up thinking all the little kids are playing with Dad's genitals. As she grew older, she became aware that children have an unrestricted right to protection from sexual abuse, and it was the prelude to a long and tenacious legal process. The father hired a witness psychologist who, without ever meeting Jenny, built his case on the fact that the father was credible but not Jenny. The so-called expert had a doctorate in labour law and had no psychological ID. In this case, the father was acquitted. Many of those who work with the victims feel frustrated that it takes a lot to condemn a perpetrator. Often years have passed since the crimes were committed. DNA traces are missing, and there are no witnesses of the abuse. Children describe not in an adult way but in their own way. Witness psychologist is not currently a protected title. I read from Save the Children's Report: According to the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, children have the right to be protected against all forms of sexual exploitation and abuse. Children who have been subjected to some form of neglect, abuse or abuse have the right to support and help. States shall take measures to protect children against trafficking in children, child prostitution and child pornography. According to Save the Children, 20% of children have been sexually abused. As Mr Kopparklint said, this means that 70 of us Members of Parliament may have been sexually abused as children. Madam President, I would like The children are not adequately protected. The victim perspective needs to be strengthened. Therefore, I ask Minister Morgan Johansson : Will the Minister work to ensure that witness psychologists have the necessary knowledge to assess the parties' credibility in legal proceedings? Will the Minister review how the victim perspective can be strengthened?
i-da07243a12d4b6e3-95	I would like to remind you that the interpellation debate is about an increased ban on contact or stay for convicted paedophiles.
i-da07243a12d4b6e3-96	Madam President, I would like I share the understanding of the commitment of Marléne Lund Kopparklint and Sofia Westergren to preventing, suppressing and combating child sexual abuse. That is precisely why we have taken so many measures as we have done in recent years. Let me mention one. Last year, we removed the limitation period for rape of children. It was a Social Democratic electoral promise that we implemented. The very foundation is that the offender should be able to be prosecuted regardless of how long has elapsed between the abuse and that it is revealed. It is a hugely important reform. A preventive effect is that the offender knows that no matter how long it has passed, he can be prosecuted. The memories can also come up later in life, and then you have to be able to prosecute even if it has been a long time. It is also possible to remain dependent on the offender, which is why it is important to be able to prosecute later. We have also tightened the penalties for gross rape of children and the penalties for grooming. We have also tightened the penalties for the purchase of six children. By amending the law, we have made it more difficult for an offender to blame him for not knowing the child's age. You can judge someone for sex offences remotely over the Internet, for example if an offender requests a child to perform sexual acts on himself or on someone else while the offender is watching. We have also recruited 350 new investigators at the police with a particular focus on crimes in close relationships and crimes against children. It's a new, big investment, and the resources came into place last year. There's more coming. In a few weeks' time, I will receive a report from the investigator we appointed to review the sexual crimes further. Among other things, he has reviewed the legislation on the exploitation of children for sexual posing, and there are further proposals. The pace of reform is, therefore, important, also in terms of preventing the recurrence of crime. However, you should know what the relapses look like. Many believe that each and every other sex offenders relapse into crime, but that is not the case. Among sex offenders, the relapse rate is 3.6 percent. It is measured based on whether the person relapses into a crime and is prosecuted for similar crimes within three years of the person having served his or her sentence. It is therefore a significantly lower relapse rate for those convicted of sex offences than for those convicted in other categories of crime. At least this tells me that the prison services often do a pretty good job of rehabilitating these people so that they do not relapse into crime. That is the way I want to continue to go and develop the efforts of the penitentiary to reduce the recurrence of crime. We have also done this in recent years by giving prison services new opportunities. It is possible to put a anklet on those who are on parole on the last third of their service period, and there are increased opportunities to postpone parole if you are misbehaved and, for example, do not participate in care and treatment. In addition, there are many other things. The penal services have thus acquired new and strengthened methods to further reduce relapses in crime. This work will of course continue, because this is a very important issue on which we must work very actively.
i-da07243a12d4b6e3-106	Madam President, I would like It's protection for children from being exposed to sex offenders that we're talking about. Then stories and testimonies like my own, Patrik Sjöberg, Mia Skäringer and Elaine Eksvärd are so important. They have told us how they were exposed as children and the safety nets broke. But those who do are not enough, and here we have an important task: to ensure that more people dare to come forward and tell them so that this really becomes a public health issue and a peoples' movement. We must ensure that the space for convicted paedophiles is minimised so that they cannot get in touch with children. I believe that the government's actions are not sufficient, Madam President. I would like to see a legal review of more measures that would protect children more. These measures should not be arbitrary – on a case-by-case basis – as the Minister says in his reply. I can start by talking about the warning flag. If you have been convicted of child sexual abuse, you have, I believe, exhausted your right to work in workplaces where you meet children. You're not supposed to set foot in sports. I know that employers should check the register at the time of employment and test the suitability, for example within the school, but this is not enough. For it may be that employers, despite knowing that they are dealing with a convicted sex offender who has abused children, still think that the person seems so good that it should probably get a chance. Or it has been five to ten years and the crime mark has been removed from the criminal record. This should not be possible. I don't think I should disappear so quickly. The same applies to the prohibition of stay. Just because the person closed the door to the penitentiary behind him, I don't think the sex drive will go away. Staying in frequently frequent places should not be assessed on a case-by-case basis. We all know that under the nicest surface it can easily hide a dark interior. Stay bans should be the rule in these places, both in reality and online and digital platforms. We must not have a little bit of unsafe measures that we believe can be used. It must not be as with voluntary pharmacological treatment, or chemical castration as it is often called – that we believe it has an effect and that the convicted paedophiles carry out their treatment. According to the Swedish Parliament's investigation service, only 40 to 50 people have been treated in this way since 2018. The investigation service could not obtain if there are scientific studies showing that the treatment has a good effect. Nor was it possible to follow up on how many people have completed the treatment, for this does not follow up on the prison services. The data do not show how many clients involved in the treatment have been convicted of sexual offences against children. We can't keep doing this. We must have order in the methods against which we lean and which we believe have an effect. This is something the government must be aware of. The safety net of society has broken for too many years. The high numbers of vulnerable children must be removed. It is time to change this. It should be more important to protect our children than to avoid stepping on the toes of a potential perpetrator. Children's right not to be exposed to risks should be given priority.
i-da07243a12d4b6e3-117	Madam President, I would like Can we learn anything from animal welfare? If a person is considered unfit to handle and own animals, he or she may be prohibited from animals. Animal bans can be imposed if you do not manage to diet your tax. You get a time, and if you don't, you can't get the tax put down and the person gets an animal ban for the rest of his life. It's strange that we seem to be protecting our animals more than we are protecting our children. A ban on animals is not a punishment, but a measure to protect animals. Perhaps we can have a similar measure for those who have ever abused children? We need a protective measure to protect the children because they are defenceless. Here, famous paedophiles feed the children at the playground with candy. The police can't do anything about it because the person has served his sentence. Unfortunately, the relapse risk is high among paedophiles. Madam President, I would like Would Minister Morgan Johansson like to set up an investigation to see what can be done to better protect our children and set up a zero vision for no more children to be subjected to sexual abuse?
i-da07243a12d4b6e3-122	Madam President, I would like First of all, perhaps this debate should nevertheless point out that Sweden is and remains one of the world's best countries for children to grow up in. Generally speaking, that is the case. It is no coincidence that this is the case, but it is the result of the welfare policy that we have been pursuing for many years. I say that this very welfare policy is also relevant to these kinds of issues. Childcare is developed in such a way that we almost have full needs coverage, which means that, for example, this type of crime can be detected much earlier than in many other countries. We should be very grateful that we have such a welfare policy in essence. It is important as a preventive measure. In addition to this, strong and law enforcement efforts are, of course, needed to tackle this type of crime. Here I would like to point out everything that we have done in recent years. We removed the limitation period. It was a Social Democratic election promise that we made last year. We have tightened the penalties both for gross rape of children, for grooming and for buying sex from children. We have made it much more difficult for an perpetrator to blame that he did not know about the child's age in the event of abuse. That part has also been corrected. We have strengthened the police, so now we have more police officers than we have ever had in Sweden. And not only that– we have also, through the control of the Police Authority that we have, ensured that we have 350 new investigators who are particularly focused on, among other things, crimes against children. I would say that there is no government that has done more in this area than our government has. Then there is the possibility of monitoring. I mentioned earlier that, from last year on, it is possible to have electronic monitoring of those who are released on parole after two thirds of the time. It didn't exist before. From 1 May, we also have new legislation that says that if you do not take part in care and treatment or if you misbehave in prison, the service time will be postponed. At worst, you'll have to put up with sitting down all the time. It is also an important reform to highlight how important it is to take care and participate in care and treatment. Then, of course, there is always a balance. Sweden is a rule of law in the sense that if you have served your sentence, that is what applies. Then you should have a chance to get back to a normal life in society. There are examples of countries that have gone very far in the other direction. The United States is one such example. There are states where sex offenders are not allowed to settle anywhere, but they often gather together in similar colonies where they live. In this way they are isolated. As a result, these individuals have almost no chance of getting on with their lives. I would argue that this increases the risk of a relapse in crime. We must have a policy whereby, even if you have committed atrocious crimes against children, you still have to have an opportunity to move on, rehabilitate and get back to a normal life. If there are no such efforts, the risk of a relapse in crime will increase, and this will go out on the victims. In the end, it is a balance that must always be struck, but we will continue to focus on both healthcare and treatment, monitoring opportunities and law enforcement efforts in order to be effective in the fight against this type of activity.
i-da07243a12d4b6e3-132	Madam President, I would like Rehabilitation, says the Minister. It is the rehabilitation of children and adults that should be given priority. We're talking about the perpetrators most of the time. I am thinking of the colonies in the United States, as the Minister mentioned. It's kind of like in Swedish prisons where convicted paedophiles are allowed to sit together in the same department, because they can't be in ordinary wards because they risk being subjected to crime. Perhaps you need to look at that as well. I think there is a lot that needs to be reviewed in the rules and regulations that exist. Society's safety net should focus on children. It should be more important to protect our children than to beware of possibly trampling a perpetrator on his toes. As I said earlier, children's rights not to be exposed to risks by being confronted with people who have been convicted of gross sexual crimes against children are always the most important, in all situations. Then the perpetrator's perspective ends up in the back. I think we should focus on that. I'm not saying anything but that. But we need to have a stronger focus on protecting our children and on strengthening the laws even more. I welcome the investigation the minister is talking about. But I think that consideration should also be given to the Lanzarote Convention, the Council of Europe Convention on the Protection of Children from Sexual Exploitation and Sexual Abuse, which Sweden has signed. There is much to look at here, and Sweden may be able to do a little more to protect our children. This is an extremely important issue. I will return to the Minister with more interpellations on this issue. I do not believe that we are finished here and now. Finally, I would like to say that children are entitled to adults; adults are not entitled to children. How can it be so hard to understand when we're going to make laws?
i-da07243a12d4b6e3-138	Madam President, I would like It's probably not hard for anyone to understand, rather the opposite. That is the starting point of all the policies that we have pursued. Children are individuals of their own. They have their own rights. They're not an appendage to the family. They're supposed to be protected in all the respects we're talking about here. That's exactly why we've taken all the measures I'm talking about. We've removed the limitation period for rape of children. We have tightened the penalties in a wide range of areas. We've appointed 350 new police investigators to focus on these particular crimes. We have increased the possibility of electronic monitoring of those who are on parole. And we do a lot of other things. In a few weeks' time, as I said, I will receive another report from an inquiry into, among other things, children who are being used for sexual posing but also other types of crime. So this is only part of all the reforms that we are implementing. I can assure Marléne Lund Kopparklint that we will continue to do exactly that. Of course no one's gonna finish this. It is an ongoing work to ensure that this type of crime is combated. At the same time, however, I am saying that we must be able to do both. We must both protect victims through increased prosecution, tougher penalties and increased surveillance and a penitentiary policy that will enable those who commit these crimes to be rehabilitated. If we don't work on it, it will ultimately go out on the victims because the relapses in crime will increase. You have to have both of those perspectives clear. As I said, we are continuing with the reforms, the reinforcements of resources and the punitive measures that we are going through. I look forward to good cooperation with Parliament on the reforms that need to be made here.
i-da07243a12d4b6e3-143	Madam President, I would like Sofia Westergren has asked me if I am going to take any action on the grounds that some people who do not work at all can get more in benefits than a pensioner who has worked much of his life. Sweden has a system characterised by universalism. The whole population is therefore covered by welfare. The social insurance and benefits included have been built up for a long time and aim to facilitate everyday life for people living and living in Sweden. Swedish welfare must be protected. Everyone should be able to live a decent life. The possibility of doing without financial support differs between people, and we can all end up in a situation where there is a need for support. Sofia Wester branch suggests that it is possible today to stack contributions on each other. The purpose of the welfare system is to meet different needs and thus manage different risk situations. I agree that working should pay off. Everyone who can work is going to work. The distance of respect between people who have and have not worked must be increased. For this reason, the income pension supplement decided to introduce an important measure. It is this supplement that will lead from September to an increase in pensions for 1.2 million pensioners. The Government also considers that the pension contribution needs to be increased in order to allow for higher pensions and to reduce income differentials between pensioners and working-age workers. We hope that the Moderates and other parties in the Pensions Group will join such an increase in contributions when the conditions for it have been analysed and investigated. This would make it even more profitable to have worked.
i-da07243a12d4b6e3-148	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Sweden has a generous benefit system, which has led many people to choose to live here. Today, 20 per cent of Sweden's population is estimated to have moved in. 675 000 foreign born of working age are not self-sufficient. The Moderates propose a grant ceiling of SEK 12 000 and a clear qualification to take part in the welfare. It must pay off to work. It is a central part of integration. The Moderates see it as reasonable that a person who lives on benefits has about 75 percent of what a person who works serves. Expectations must be high that everyone is working to the best of their ability. If you can get as much money to be at home as you can to work, many people choose not to work. I want to tell you about a guy who walked from the refugee camp Tjörnbro park across Tjörnbroarna to work at a hamburger restaurant in Stenungsund. He didn't make more money working than getting a grant. But he still felt that it was right and proper and has now moved on in life to another job that pays a little more. The guy told me about his roommate who hedged him because he chose to set the clock even though he didn't make any money on it. The Moderates want to make sure that the guy who walks to work every day makes more money than his friend who chooses to stay in bed. Work should always pay off. The next serious problem is that the guy who's still in bed will never be properly integrated, but he'll end up in permanent exclusion. Outsidership is estimated to cost Sweden 270 billion per year. It is money that the government is lending to today. Large sums of money could be used to increase the guarantee pension, to care for the elderly, to schools, to police, to health care, to the environment, to roads, to infrastructure, etc. Apart from being a personal tragedy, it costs taxpayers enormous sums. Only half of all foreign born are self-sufficient. The contribution line needs to be replaced by the work line. Madam President, I would like Will the Government take any steps to ensure that it always pays to set the clock and go to work?
i-da07243a12d4b6e3-156	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Sofia Westergren, for the interpellation and the opportunity to discuss some of the issues relating to the financial security of our citizens. Madam President, I would like I'm a social security minister. I am responsible for social security, that is, for the protection of people who, because of illness and disability, lose their working capacity. I will never work to impair the conditions for these people. If you live in Sweden and are covered by our social security policies and have a workplace accident and lose your work capacity, it is the duty of the Swedish state to ensure that you receive cover for the loss of income. That is not the case today. Our social security policies have been under attack since 2008 onwards. We have a development in which health insurance for the sick and occupational injury insurance for the injured have deteriorated. What we should be discussing today, Madam President, is how we restore the security of the sick and of those who have worn themselves out after 40 years of care for the elderly. For a year now, people have stood and applauded for nurses, carers and those who have worked hard in preschool and school. It is those who have not been able to work from home but have been in the front line in the fight against the pandemic. If these people suffer illness and occupational injury today, they are no longer protected. We have flaws and holes in the health insurance. That is why the government's agenda in this area is to restore security for our citizens and make Sweden a safe country, also for those who suffer from illness, have a disability or are retired. Madam President, I would like The basic protection of our pension system offers among the lowest levels in the Nordic countries – we have it together with Finland. Somewhere around 8 500 is the guarantee pension. The problem is not that we have too high a ceiling for basic pensions, but that our pensioners need higher pensions. I call on Sofia Westergren to put aside prestige, political games, locks and accusations and to stop putting a group against a group and instead do what the Pensions Group and the parties included there succeeded with last year. We managed to put away the prestige, and now the proposal that Stefan Löfven, our Prime Minister, presented on May 1, 2018. A pension supplement will be introduced and will be paid in September. The assistant nurse, nurse, cleaner, bus driver and taxi driver who have been working hard and struggling for a full career will receive a higher pension in September. In this way we can ensure that it pays to work. Anyone who has worked for 40 years will receive an increased pension. We will not do better by turning on the sufferer by reducing sickness benefits and making it more difficult to obtain health insurance. What we can do, however, is continue to raise pensions after September. We have concrete work that will result in a basis for increasing pension contributions so that we can continue to raise pensions after September. I hope that we are able to put aside political prestige and lock-ups and together help – the government, the Moderates and all parties who want to join – to raise pensions, even after September, so that our citizens receive higher pensions and better financial security during their old age.
i-da07243a12d4b6e3-165	Madam President, I would like We agree that it should always pay off to work and that those who fall out because of incapacity need safe protection. To do that, we need more people to contribute. This was what happened during the time of the Alliance when the working-age population increased so that more people were involved in contributing to the Treasury. In this way, pensions will also be strengthened. It is those who work who pay in to the pensions that are then paid out when you are over 65 and receive a pension. That's what our model looks like. It is therefore extremely important that we make integration work well so that all those who can be included do so well and work. We have challenges in this area. The great divide in society exists between those who have a job and those who do not. A large number of people have come to our country, and we need to help them get into the labour market and contribute to the common treasury. We need to talk about unemployment and not hang on to the employment rate. Above all, we need to talk about unemployment versus self-sufficiency. More people are needed in our country who are self-sufficient in order to strengthen the security of those who need it, that is, those who need social care and who need to have their pension. The latest figure for unemployment is now at 10%. In this group of unemployed people there is a strong link to being born abroad, having a low level of education and also having language difficulties. There is also another culture at the bottom of the tradition that women do not work. There is a large group of people who are not the group the Minister is talking about, that is, people who have been knocked out of the labour market and cannot work. I am talking about another group of people who need help getting into work and integrating. We need to stand up for all the women who remain in an alienation at home because they do not master the language or otherwise do not come out into society. For them, life becomes very uncertain.
i-da07243a12d4b6e3-170	Madam President, I would like There is no conflict whatsoever, Sofia Westergren, about the need to have an active labour market policy that ensures that people get into work. Rather, the conflict should be about the Moderates having at any given time cut back on labour market training and other measures that allow people to get into work. We believe in right and duty with clear expectations from society combined with access to education so that you can take the shortages that exist. But what we are discussing today and for which I am responsible in the government is social security. What are social security schemes, Madam President? It's health insurance, sickness benefit, sickness benefit and activity benefit. Who gets it? Well, those who have suffered from illness and lost their work capacity or those who have a disability. The development that we have had in recent decades, Sofia Westergren, since Fredrik Reinfeldt in 2006 became Prime Minister in our country is that health insurance has weakened. What we are now working on and the change of law that we were fighting for and pushing through, and which is valid since 15 March, is to gradually restore the security of those who have suffered from illness or wear-out at work or who have a disability. Social security also includes pensions. Here we are talking about people who have reached retirement age. There, our work should continue to be about raising the pensions of our citizens, people who have been working their entire lives. I can remind Sofia Westergren of a tough number. The average pension for women is for the general pension in Sweden 11 800 SEK before tax. Then we're talking about people who've been working for a long time. This applies regardless of the background, whether you have immigrated or live here or have worked for a long time, perhaps in the care of the elderly, as a cleaner or bus driver. It is these professions that people have applauded as much as we are talking about. There's their pensions. The focus for Sofia Westergren, me, the government and the Riksdag should be how we raise their pensions. It should not be about how we set a ceiling so that we lower their standard of living. How do we raise our pensions? How do we ensure that you who suffer from illness and occupational injury because you have taken risks for us who can stand here during the pandemic receive a sickness benefit that works that means that you are not forced to sell your house? Madam President, I would like The other day I was reading the post-war program, which was written at the end of the Second World War, last time our country was in some kind of situation that might partly remind us of the situation we had behind us during the pandemic. What does the post-war programme say about the idea behind our social security policies, which were then extended? Well, when you get sick, you shouldn't become dependent on social services. That was the aim of health insurance, which was put through in this House in 1953. There was one party voting against at the time. That party was called the Right Party. It is sad to hear that that party is still calling into question the legitimacy of our social security systems and our social security systems and the idea of joint insurance, so that those of us who suffer from illness or have a disability do not become poor and dependent on income support. Madam President, I would like We're all vulnerable. Is there anything this pandemic has reminded us of is that we do not know. I could be the one who's sick tomorrow. It could be Sofia Westergren who's sick tomorrow. Then we will depend on this society to function and deliver security to the sufferer. Think about it when you say that it will pay off to work! What if you can't work because of illness?
i-da07243a12d4b6e3-179	Madam President, I would like I want to dwell on the guy from Tjörnbro Park who set the clock and walked these miles across the bridges to the hamburger bar, where he got his first job. At that time he did not know Swedish, but he learned the language at work. It is a good example of how integration can be done. But I get a little confused that his roommate could stay in bed and get as much money as the guy who went to the hamburger restaurant. It matters if a person has done something to get the money on the 25th or just gets money to stay in bed. I think it does something to one person. So I am not talking about those people who have worn themselves out in a working life and can no longer work. I really think that we should have basic security, so that you can feel cared for if you wear yourself out or have the bad luck of being affected by illness or other things that make you need care. Madam President, I would like I want to ask the minister what he wants to say to the guy who crossed the bridges to work at the hamburger restaurant but had a roommate who was still in bed and made as much money.
i-da07243a12d4b6e3-183	Madam President, I would like I thank Sofia Westergren for the interpellation. The difficulty in politics, Madam President, is to manage to keep two thoughts in mind at the same time: to see the need to make reasonable demands on people, to offer people the opportunity to get a job and to have a focus on their own livelihood, with labour market policies that lead people into their own livelihoods, and at the same time to see the need for social security for those who, for various reasons, cannot work, for example because of illness or disability. What the Moderates have still not seen is that we have a health insurance system that is bleeding and has serious deficiencies. The security of our sick and disabled has deteriorated. Security for those who have worn themselves out after many years of hard work has been weakened. We must restore this security. We must ensure that those who have worked for 40 years and worn out their backs or shoulders receive financial security and are not forced to reduce their pension after 40 years of work. That is the reality today, Madam President. If you are a 62-year-old nurse who has worked since the age of 19 and worn out your body, there is no financial security for you with today's regulations, which apply since Fredrik Reinfeldt changed the rules for early retirement. You will then be referred to early retirement. Then what happens to that nurse? Well, then you lower an already low pension to even lower levels, which will apply to life. That is not what our nurses deserve after the heroic efforts that we have seen during the pandemic. Instead, what they deserve is security systems that work. Away with the discussions about ceilings and the deterioration of our social security policies! Let us rebuild our social security schemes and combine them with a policy of working! These should be reasonable demands and good conditions. Thank you for the discussion.
i-da07243a12d4b6e3-189	Madam President, I would like Amineh Kakabaveh has asked me what measures I and the government will take to strengthen the children who have parents who are illiterate, whether I and the government intend to make a survey of the number of illiterate parents and adults in Sweden, whether I and the government intend to take initiatives to eradicate illiteracy, what measures I and the government intend to take to improve today's sfi education and other adult education for illiterate people, and whether I and the government intend to take steps to ensure that children whose parents are illiterate gain understanding and receive stronger support in primary and secondary schools than is happening today. Amineh Kakabaveh asks urgent questions. Education in the school system shall be equivalent regardless of where it is organised in the country in which it is organised. Equality does not mean uniformity or equal resources. Resources should instead be allocated according to the pupils' different circumstances and needs. All pupils shall be supported and encouraged to develop as far as possible. The school has a compensatory mission for pupils who are less well placed. Of course, this includes children whose parents are illiterate. Students in need of support should receive the right support at the right time. The measure guarantee, which entered into force in 2019, shall ensure that all pupils who need support already from preschool class receive individually designed support measures in order to reach the knowledge requirements that are to be achieved at the lowest in Swedish, for example. In the light of the School Commission's proposal on how to improve equivalence, the Government introduced in 2018 the so-called equivalence grant, which is distributed according to pupils' socio-economic background. Since 2015, the Swedish National Agency for Education has also been tasked by the Government to increase the results of knowledge and strengthen the quality of the schools most in need. Research shows that parents' level of education is the background factor that has the greatest impact on pupils' school outcomes. However, no mapping of the number of illiterate parents and adults is relevant, as it could be contrary to the constitutionally protected right to protection against significant breaches of privacy that occur without consent and involve monitoring or mapping of an individual's personal circumstances. On the other hand, the municipality must already today and according to the School Act actively work to reach those in the municipality who are entitled to SFI and motivate them to participate in the education. The SFI to be provided by the municipality under the School Act must be flexible and personalised and cover an average of at least 15 hours of teaching per week. A student who is not functionally literated or has a written system other than the Latin alphabet shall receive basic reading and writing instruction within the framework of the SFI training. The Swedish National Agency for Education has developed support material aimed at teachers who teach, among other things, adults in basic literacity. The support material is designed to show how adult pupils with short or no school background can be supported in their reading and writing learning. In 2018, the Government introduced an education obligation that means that a new arrival with a short education that is not deemed to be matched to work during the period in the establishment programme will mainly take part in education. The Kliva inquiry, which was set up in 2018, was also commissioned to propose how it can be ensured that municipalities offer personalised training for newcomers assigned to the education obligation. The study proposes, among other things, that these individuals be offered a coherent education with a guaranteed teaching time of at least 23 hours per week where SFI is combined with other courses. The final report of the investigation has recently been consulted and the proposals are currently being prepared within the Government Office. We need to rebuild a school system that provides a level playing field and contributes to cohesion and community. My hope is that in the future more parties in the Riksdag will support proposals aimed at counteracting school segregation so that we can remedy the inequality in Swedish schools.
i-CHEFidSazkrb41hqPBc6Wg	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Education Anna Ekström, for the answers and the statement! It is very important, as the Minister also says, that all children should receive equal schooling and education in order to be able to manage and to maintain the equality that we strive for in our country. Unfortunately, thousands of children and young people are far from the fancy and fine words of the school law and curriculum and, as the Minister in this answer says, the ambition is. It is a little regrettable that you do not dare to deal with some problems. The Minister himself has in recent days been in a windstorm when it comes to children with foreign difficulties who are at risk of delivering worse school results than other children. They're not in the last Pisa poll. It is embarrassing that no further research is being carried out into the extent of these social problems. They affect both our society and hundreds of thousands of children and young people. We are aware that a great many children in socio-economically vulnerable areas are doing well. But a lot of people also graduate from primary school without a good education. I have my own experiences with parents who are illiterate. I myself went to a real school in earnest when I was 19 in 1993 in Västerås. All my siblings did, and primarily those who had not been able to attend school because of war and poverty. Illiteracy is not something anyone chooses. When we were kids, there was war in Kurdistan. There was a long war between Iran and Iraq. This applies to Iraq, the whole of the Middle East, parts of Africa, but also parts of Latin America. Many of the indigenous peoples are poor. Their girls are married or married because there is no livelihood. In this way we have illiteracy in many parts of the world. In the modern, high-tech and democratic state of Sweden, we have, thankfully, eradicated this. But there is today. I have been paying attention to this since 2001 as a municipal politician. I was on the Education and Labour Board in Botkyrka, but I was also a school counselor. At that time, between primary and secondary school had something called the individual program. There I met over 153 children and young people aged 16 to 20 who did not have a comprehensive school grade in order to move on. There I also got a first view of the fact that many parents are illiterate. How could they keep track of this when they themselves have never held a pen in their own hand? I believe that this is a social problem, and it affects hundreds of thousands of children and young people. We therefore need to get to grips with it. Research in Sweden is based on ethics and science. It's not based on arbitrariness. I'll get back to it.
i-da07243a12d4b6e3-207	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Amineh Kakabaveh, for a post that clearly shows why we in Sweden need a school system that gives children from different backgrounds the best possible conditions to reach their full potential. This applies regardless of whether they come to Sweden as 14-year-olds or whether they were born in Sweden, and whether they are born of parents with academic education or of parents who are illiterate. This applies regardless of whether they live in an area where Swedish is spoken on school grounds and playgrounds or if they do not. After Amineh Kakabaveh's speech, it is perfectly clear why we have such a great need to strengthen the equivalence of our school system and create the good opportunities for children and students to gain the knowledge they need in schools where they meet children from different backgrounds than their own. I also think that Amineh Kakabaveh very well illustrates why we need adult education and Swedish for immigrants. This ensures that those who come to Sweden receive a language training that allows them to establish themselves in our country. This applies regardless of whether it is an engineer who comes to Sweden who may be able to write and read after childhood and who may have the Latin language with him or if it is perhaps, as Amineh Kakabaveh points out, a war-damaged person without his own written language. In Sweden we have an adult education and a SFI that aims to reach all these people. I will fight hard to achieve those aims. The post also shows what great efforts Amineh Kakabaveh himself has made on these issues. I have expressed my admiration for Amineh Kakabaveh earlier in this House, and I do so this time too. The fact that these are important and difficult issues means that we have to work even harder to make, as Amineh Kakabah says, the beautiful words of the school law and curriculum a reality. This is precisely why the government is investing so much in drafting legislative proposals aimed at strengthening the equivalence of schools and ensuring that children and pupils from different backgrounds can meet in school. That is why we have invested so much in the Reading Lift with great efforts of so cold language development methods. It is an educational method that is very successful for children who are not born in Sweden and who have a different native language. But it is also very good, Madam President, for children born in Sweden. We see in the Pisa survey that Amineh Kakabaveh mentioned but also in the Pirls survey that has been published that the Swedish knowledge results in reading comprehension have an upward trend. They've been down and turned, and they've turned up. We should be happy about that, but we are absolutely not satisfied. As far as adult education is concerned, we must continue to fight to ensure that those who need SFIs are really reached and that the many who are present in Sweden and do not have written and spoken languages are given a part of SFI that is aimed at adults who are illiterate. I found out that in 2019 we in the SFI had a pretty good use of the efforts that the Swedish National Agency for Education has made to be able to have special and special teaching by those groups that do not have their own written language. Madam President, I would like There is a great deal that needs to be done to solve the big and difficult problems that Amineh Kakabaveh points out. Legislation and resources are needed. But it also requires that we dare to take in the great school segregation and inequality that exists in our country.
i-da07243a12d4b6e3-217	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Education Anna Ekström, for the fine words! I am absolutely convinced that the Minister and the Government have a strong desire to improve knowledge of Swedish in socio-economically vulnerable schools in order for us to have an equal and solidarity education that includes all children and all adults who need it. The thing is, it's hard as long as we have a school that's not nationalized. For example, we have an SFI training in Stockholm that is more than 80 percent privatised. Unfortunately, many of the private individuals who have these schools themselves lack education as teachers. Many also lack training to specifically work with the target group that has, for example, lower education, low education or no education at all. Therefore, it is so important to ensure that Sfi, Swedish for immigrants, and the school should not be a market. Students, the people who go to school, are not customers. At the time I came to Sweden, during the 90's, it was a completely different school. Thanks to it, many of us were able to move on. Many of us would not have been able to go to school. For example, women who had been married or people who — as in my family — had not been able to attend school because of poverty and war. But we got that opportunity. It was not thanks to myself but thanks to the opportunity Swedish society gave me and many of my friends. We could go on and even get a master's degree at Stockholm University and other schools. I brought quotes from several young girls from Turkey, Lebanon and Kurdistan who have emailed me. They see this, too. They themselves are at school as curators and teachers, and they say: Amineh, teachers lack special education for children who have parents who are illiterate! They lack knowledge and competence, but also guidance. What are the expectations of a home where parents themselves cannot read or count mathematics when it comes to supporting their children? Those of us who are raised in other parts of the world have learned that the school is both upbringing and upbringing. In Sweden, we raise in the home and raise in school. That collides in many homes, whether you are highly educated or low-skilled. In the home countries, the school never calls parents to a meeting unless it is very serious. That is still the case today. But in Sweden we have huge expectations of the home. The Minister for Education also says this in his reply: In Sweden, parents' background means a great deal, because it is crucial for children's school outcomes. Everything therefore indicates that it is important to educate the people who work in school. It's not just about giving money to the municipalities. It is important to give money, but it is also important to educate people who work with these issues – the girls and women who have managed themselves.
i-da07243a12d4b6e3-225	Madam President, I would like I can almost hook up where Amineh Kakabaveh left off. One thing that we are constantly struggling with in Swedish schools and adult education is the great lack of qualified teachers that exists. This is a huge problem, which we can only solve by jointly ensuring that the teaching profession is as attractive as it should be, as it once has been and as it is actually only a few miles east in our neighbouring country Finland. Here we have a great deal of work to do together. Let us return to the role of teachers. Take adult education and SFI, for example – it is very important that we constantly ensure that the conditions exist for those teachers who have the difficult task of teaching adult students who do not have their own written language. Madam President, I would like Here we have made a historic effort in the past years when we have invested a great deal in Komvux, and especially in the kind of Komvux where SFI is combined with various forms of vocational training. This is the very best entrance in Sweden: to learn the language at the same time and to get in via a job. My ambition, which is probably also Amineh Kakabaveh's ambition, is that every girl and every boy growing up in Sweden will see a mother and a father going to work and education in the morning. That should be what children see their parents doing when they are adults, and that should be what the children themselves look forward to doing when they grow up. Preschool plays an extremely important role there. In the curriculum change that we recently made in preschool, we have entered a new concept – teaching – that we have not previously worked with as much in preschool. Here it is just an early language understanding that is what preschools have been commissioned to do, but also received resources for through the various preschool modules of the Reading Lift, to work more with. After my many study visits to preschools, not least in vulnerable areas, I can say both digitally and in reality that this is something that is used in preschool. What, then, is preschool supposed to struggle with? One thing is the segregation that we have already been into. We see that in preschools where children most need early language learning, we have fewer experienced and trained preschool teachers and nurseries than we do in preschools where children have strong support from home. Here too, Madam President, we really must work to strengthen equivalence. The role of preschool is absolutely unbeatable in ensuring that children receive early language learning. Let me say this once and for all: in Sweden, homework that requires parents to help is not given. We should not demand that parents help their children with schoolwork. The school is available to enable children to reach their full potential regardless of their educational background. This is one of the reasons why we have compulsory schooling in Sweden. Madam President, I would like We are doing a lot to strengthen exactly the mechanisms that Amineh Kakabaveh wants to strengthen. We are struggling to produce proposals that can also pass the eye of the needle that a parliamentary majority entails. We are struggling to add more resources. We struggle to invest in teachers by ensuring that they have good tools and good competence development. Thank you, Amineh Kakabaveh, for mentioning the competence development of teachers! These efforts continue, for in Sweden every man and every woman is needed in work and education.
i-da07243a12d4b6e3-234	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much, Minister of Education Anna Ekström, for the answer! This is a very important ambition. Important aspects are highlighted here in terms of children's development, schooling and language understanding, which you start with already in preschool. That should have been done 20 years ago. I know that not all responsibility lies with this government and the Minister for Education, but this has been going on for 20 years. I myself have lived 28 years in this country. For the past 20 years I have seen this change, both as a social worker and in what I actively do today when I work with women who have lived in Sweden between 5 and 35 years and have not been able to learn to read and write. And this applies not only to Swedish, but at all. Many have been married as children before they came here or when they have been here in Sweden. You were born or raised here, but you got married. It is about the oppression of honour and about certain religious private schools and preschools, where it is not advocated that the girls go on to read and study. They're going to marry and be husbands and have children. We must solve this problem hand in hand with all the things we mention here today. We must ensure that the school is nationalised and that private schools and all these private and religious preschools are stopped. I want to know why we should not be able to use Grundvux, folk high schools, SFI and other schools to map illiteracy and then better deliver. Then we can both prove that we have a problem and find these women and offer them opportunities. A lot of people don't go to Sfi today. They don't go to school, they don't have a job. Employers and trade unions could also help with this.
i-da07243a12d4b6e3-240	Madam President, I would like Women's liberation is basically about us women being just free. We should be free to choose the man we want, and we should be free to choose our way in life. The road to women's liberation is through work and education. The early women's pioneers were fighting precisely for women's right to work and to be educated. I would like to return to Amineh Amineh's description of his own history. Amineh Kakabaverh just told us about the help she received from school in getting on the school bench and finding the way to the education and work she has been doing. Let me add one thing: I am convinced that it also required very hard work from Amineh Kakabaveh. It is in this area, Madam President, that I am most critical of the market governance of our Swedish school. I know it's hard and hard to be a teacher. But I also know that learning a lot is even more difficult. It takes a lot of effort, and I want the girl and the boy who are really trying and struggling to have the chance to experience happiness. We know that those who make the most effort and struggle are those whose parents do not have a written language and can help them. It is precisely those students that I want to have the chance to experience the happiness it means to learn something really difficult after trying really hard. It's the happiness that our school system doesn't always bring to all children and all girls, and that's what I'm fighting for – morning, dinner, night. Thank you, Amineh Kakabaveh, for the questions, and thank you for the fact that Amineh Kakabaveh is a fellow fighter in this fight!
i-da07243a12d4b6e3-243	Madam President, I would like Cassandra Sundin has asked me whether I see any danger that confidence in the formation of the people will deteriorate as a result of the problems that have emerged and whether I intend to take any action in this regard. The actors involved in the training have a great responsibility to ensure that the State aid is used properly. The ownership of this responsibility by peoples' organisations is crucial for maintaining and strengthening public confidence in the formation of peoples. It is also essential that state-funded activities are regularly monitored and that control mechanisms are in place when State aid has been misused. State contributions to the formation of the population shall be exclusively devoted to activities which fulfil the objectives of the State with regard to the grant. Developing and strengthening democracy is one of these aims. The Folkbildningsrådet has the task of examining questions regarding the distribution of state grants to, among other things, student associations, and the government imposes requirements on the Folkbildningsrådet's follow-up and reporting of the state grant. The Folkbildningsrådet is now doing extensive work to tackle the fraud and errors detected. The study associations have also taken several steps to ensure that the state contribution to the formation of the population is handled with respect and used as intended. The Government has strengthened the follow-up of the state grant to the study associations to curb cheating and misreporting and to ensure that the grant goes to activities that fulfil the state's objectives with the state grant. On 14 April, the Council submitted a special report to the Government in accordance with the Government's guidelines to the Folkbildningsrådet for 2021. In the report, the Council sets out, inter alia, the measures taken and planned to be taken to ensure that the State contribution is used as intended. The Government has also decided that the Folkbildningsrådet for 2020 and the activities of 2021 will re-report in-depth assessments of the so-called democracy objective. The Folkbildningsrådet reported on the first of these reports in March. The Ministry of Education is now carefully analysing both the special report and the report on the purpose of democracy. We also continue to maintain a close dialogue with the Folkbildningsrådet. At the same time, I see that we need to work more closely to ensure that the state contribution to the formation of people is used as intended and restore confidence in the formation of people. The Government Office is now preparing the question of how external audits of public education can be met. The issue of continuing regular evaluation of the formation of an independent actor, similar to that carried out by Statskontoret in 2014– 2018, is also being prepared within the Government Office. I also welcome the fact that the Swedish National Audit Office has initiated a review of the control and follow-up of state aid to study associations. In conclusion, I would like to emphasise that people's education is important. Through study circles, reading, culture and education, our country becomes richer. The government, the Folkbildningsrådet and the study associations now need to continue to work on a broad front to ensure that the state contribution to the education is used as intended, so that confidence in the activities can be restored. The government does not rule out the possibility of taking decisions on further measures.
i-da07243a12d4b6e3-250	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. Public education has played an important role in the development of democracy and is still important today. Historically, peoples' education has been a social conservative effort to strengthen citizenship and national community. In its earlier years, peoples' education also played a crucial role in the chances of the less well-off to achieve education and personal development, which in turn was an important basis for the further process of democratisation. Free and voluntary are part of the democratic aims of peoples' education, a deeper kind of and more social-centred vision of democracy that takes into account the conditions of democracy. This is done by emphasising equality, equality, equalisation of educational gaps, increased participation in culture and the important role of peoples' movements. These factors are considered to be prerequisites for democratic decision-making, i.e. the ability of the population to volunteer for democracy – not only because education increases the individual's ability to participate in the social debate, but also as an assurance that the individual can form in subjects and areas that companies or the state consider unimportant or want to withhold from the citizens and thus can participate in shaping the social debate. The problems that exist in the education system have been present for a very long time now. More and more problems have surfaced, and seemingly never - ending problems do not seem to be taken seriously in many places. What has been the main focus of the whole discussion is the financial part of wrong payments and cheating, but the issue of trust is often forgotten when talking about different measures. Folkbildning is a Nordic cultural heritage, deeply rooted in the spirit of citizenship in our Nordic countries. It is therefore incredibly worrying to witness the decline in the image and confidence of peoples' education. It is a loss to both democracy and society at large. Democracy is also celebrating 100 years this year, and, as you know, it has not always been self-evident. That is why it must be defended every day. I very much hope that the government recognises the importance of new efforts to ensure that citizens' confidence in the formation of people does not go to the grave.
i-da07243a12d4b6e3-256	Madam President, I would like Folkbildning is part of our Sweden. It is part of that means that people who otherwise have a long way to culture and education in every municipality in Sweden, thanks to the efforts of the study associations, can participate in cultural activities, training courses of different kinds and different forms of study circles. I am very upset when the money we jointly allocate to adult education goes to cheating and irregularities. I don't want that to happen. I am very upset that this has happened, but I also note that it is to a large extent the study associations themselves that have discovered and reported the fraud and irregularities that have occurred. I would have been much more concerned if we had not taken this cheating and these irregularities seriously. For my part, Madam President, I am absolutely convinced that the best way to restore confidence in peoples is for us to build good mechanisms together so that, firstly, we can prevent fraud and irregularities; secondly, we can ensure that, if this happens, we have the means to act. The government has taken historically many measures in recent times to deal with the warning signals that have come. We have given assignments to the Folkbildningsrådet; we have also ensured that the Folkbildningsrådet makes great efforts together with the study associations to strengthen control and security around the money going right. I do not rule out, Madam President, that we may have to do more. But I am very proud of the efforts we are working on together. I also look forward, Madam President, to the proposals that may come when the so-called Democracy Investigation has come up with a final proposal. There will be proposals where we also take into account the new aspects that have emerged in the work of the Democracy Investigation.
i-da07243a12d4b6e3-261	Madam President, I would like The Secretary-General of the Education Council said a while ago that they will never accept that tax money intended for adult education is being used incorrectly or to counteract democracy. At the same time, attention has been paid on a number of occasions to how the Folkbildningsrådet has granted tax-funded funds to organisations that do not meet basic requirements for democracy and freedom of expression. It is, of course, problematic both from a confidence point of view and from the point of view of how to deal with taxpayers' money. In addition, there is a review process for which they themselves are responsible, which is deeply problematic. It is very rarely a good idea that the reviewer and the reviewer are the same organisation. As has been said, when there are errors in payments, particularly to organisations linked to terrorism, people's confidence in the formation of the population is at risk of being destroyed. In addition, however, the whole system of education and its mission is in danger of being eroded. Everyone who claims to defend democracy should recognise the seriousness of this. It is a fact that tax-funded support has been granted to organisations linked to extremism and terrorism. One example is the study association Ibn Rushd, which has a history of, among other things, inviting anti-Semitic speakers. Although the problem is lifted and information on this has reached the surface, tax money continues to flow into the League. Most municipalities around the country currently grant tax funds to Ibn Rushd despite the fact that there have been errors. How, then, is it that you do so? There are probably several answers to that question, but one that is worrying is that it refers to the fact that as long as the Folkbildningsrådet has nothing to object to, there is no reason to abolish the aid. Here we have a prime example of how dysfunctional the Folkbildningsrådet's activities are today and why the system needs to be reformed. Despite obvious and serious errors, not enough is done. They claim to do so, but given how the whole case of Ibn Rushd has been handled and obviously also handled right now, they are not doing enough. The fact remains that, in some cases, organisations that are not supposed to receive State resources still do. Organizations associated with, among other things, the Muslim Brotherhood are spreading knowledge of sharia laws and active opposition to secular and free society. It is a threat to the formation of people, democracy and our whole society.
i-da07243a12d4b6e3-268	Madam President, I would like Cassandra Sundin uses his entire speech to focus on a single study association. Cassandra Sundin is well aware that regardless of whether it was the Folkbildningsrådet as an independent organisation or a planned authority that allocated resources to our study associations, I as a minister would be prevented from speaking about how to effectively handle the state grant in relation to different organizations. That is exactly what the rules against ministerial government in the form of government intend to prohibit. I cannot therefore comment on this, however much Cassandra Sundin devotes his speaking time to a single study association. I would also like to point out that the directives for the democratic conditionality investigation that the government has been working on for some time and which we are now looking at will include various forms of evidence that will ensure that we get better control of what different law enforcement authorities think about organisations that, in order to use Cassandra Sundin's expression, fund terrorism. It is an expression that has to stand for Cassandra Sundin. I would also like to emphasise that when discussing the activities of the Folkbildningsrådet with representatives of the Swedish Democrats, they often attach great importance to the legal status of the Folkbildningsrådet. I'm old enough to remember when these questions were handled by the Royal Board of Education. At that time, I can reveal to Cassandra Sundin, there were also reports that there were errors and cheating with the state subsidy paid out. To think that an organisational change would solve the fundamentally rather difficult issue and make sure that the right money comes to the right business I think is to make it a little easy for itself. For me, the question of the legal status of the Education Council is obviously not as important as it is for Cassandra Sundin. I note that Cassandra Sundin speaks well of the formation of the people and tries to incorporate the formation of people into a Swedish-democratic history of Swedish development. Nothing could be more wrong. For 100 to 150 years, Swedish education has served Sweden to create openness and dialogue and to ensure that people of different backgrounds meet – nothing else. I also note that, against the fine words that Cassandra Sundin utters here in the speaker's chair on the importance and importance of peoples' education, the budgetary motions submitted by the Swedish Democrats seek a substantial reduction in the funding for public education of over SEK 1 billion for this year. That is more than a fifth of the total state subsidies. I also note that there have been motions from representatives of Cassandra Sundin's party here in Parliament proposing that the possibility of CSN support for studies at folk high schools should be deleted and that we want to investigate our fine Swedish folk high school with its 150-year-old people's movement link and tradition. We want to investigate possible closures. Madam President, I would like Folkbildning has served Sweden well. We all have a responsibility to ensure that peoples' education will continue to serve Sweden well. Then it is a responsibility for all of us who like Swedish education and believe in Swedish education to be involved in ensuring that every crown goes to the right purpose.
i-da07243a12d4b6e3-276	Madam President, I would like No, I have not spent all my speaking time talking about a particular covenant, but that particular example is relevant and reasonable to highlight in this context. However, I and the Minister agree on a great deal on this issue and on the importance of peoples' education. But what distinguishes the opposition from the government is that we dare to see the actual problems, lift them and propose measures that would actually help. Instead, turning the problem away, blaming others and sweeping under the carpet does not benefit anyone in this context. Everyone loses out in this process: the education of the people, those who seek out the education of the people and the whole of society. The Minister deals with motions that have been raised in the Riksdag, and the Minister himself is well aware of the difference between individual exercise and committee exercise. The Committee movements are the party's policy, but what the minister refers to are individual motions that are not party politics. I'm not going to face it any more than that. Instead of dealing with the problems properly, one chooses to discuss, among other things, the opposition making cuts in the budget. We have a reform agenda with, among other things, external scrutiny to strengthen legitimacy and trust where peoples' education can be education and education can be education. It is a classic parade for the Social Democrats to angle all questions to the fact that whoever makes the most contributions is kindest and wants the most. However, there is no similarity between high contributions and the most effective reform agenda.
i-da07243a12d4b6e3-281	Madam President, I would like I can assure Cassandra Sundin that anyone who wants to sweep problems under the carpet or blame them does not put historically extensive assignments on the Folkbildningsrådet which is about them taking action. It does not have a clear dialogue with both study associations and education councils, and it does not ensure that the Folkbildningsrådet has even clearer accounting rules. I am currently in the Government Office and working on finding a solution not if but how to ensure that there is some form of scrutiny and a sensible and appropriate audit for our education activities. I can assure Cassandra Sundin that the Social Democratic-led government is protecting the education of the people and the legitimacy of the formation of the people. Many of the representatives who have built our country, who have been sitting in this House as Members of Parliament and who have been Ministers of State, have received their first education in study associations and folk high schools. We will continue to expand our study associations and folk high schools so that they can be involved in helping those who today are far from education to enter, that there are cultural activities throughout the country and not just in the big cities and that there are study circles in every municipality and not just for those who happen to live near a university or university. Madam President, I would like I also note that the study associations we have in Sweden have a close connection with important popular movements – churches, sobriety movements and even some political parties and the trade union movement. We will protect our education, and we will do so by making high and loving demands that every penny should go in the right direction.
