i-652eafd0fe96b11a-0	Madam President, I would like Let me begin by saying that the Moderates called for this debate on the basis of the major problems we have seen with short-term lay-off aid. The government has failed to ensure that the companies that need these subsidies receive them within a reasonable time. It's risking jobs, and it's risking businesses. The government has also failed, Madam President, to keep criminals away from taxpayers' money. Criminals have been able to take this money, which was intended to save crisis companies and thus save jobs in those companies. We from the Moderates have come up with a proposal to address both the problems of the payments of crisis aid and to impose harsher penalties, a special penalty, for what is the ability of criminals to access these subsidies. The government wants to do something about this but opposes punitive measures. With this, I hope that we will have a good debate on crisis aid today.
i-652eafd0fe96b11a-4	Madam President, I would like It is now just over a year since we entered the worst, the longest and the deepest crisis we have experienced since World War II. In March last year, the pandemic struck with great force. Human life was wasted. The infection raged and continues to ravage. In parallel, we also experienced a huge economic crisis, both in our country and throughout the world. This, of course, strikes twice as hard on Sweden, which is an open and export-dependent country. For many companies it took a total stop from one day to another. I remember, Madam President, talking to the CEO of one of our major companies on Monday. He then announced that they would try to remain open. They had problems with the supply of inputs from other countries, especially in Asia, but they tried to solve them. On Thursday, he called me and said, "We're going to close tomorrow – total shutdown." Now France and Belgium have decided to lockdowns, and then we will not get inputs out of there. Tens of thousands of people were told they didn't have to come to work the next day. In addition, there was a great deal of uncertainty, Madam President, about how long this would last and whether it could even become permanent, as we saw in the financial crisis for a great many in industry. We are now aware of this, Madam President, both the speed and the power of the pandemic. The government responded quickly, Madam President, by introducing a whole series of completely new aid in our country, aid aimed at mitigating the impact on entrepreneurship and jobs in our country. We introduced lay-off aid, conversion aid and turnover aid very quickly. We cut employers' contributions. We helped with the sick pay. We introduced rent subsidies and, Madam President, also deferred payments and credits of hundreds of billions. To date, Madam President, the total amount of direct aid from taxpayers to our companies to overwinter this situation – and then we are talking payments – is nearly SEK 100 billion. These are, of course, enormous sums of money, but we do so because we need to stand together. We do it because we really need to overwinter and, now that the vaccination is underway, hopefully come back to a new normal state. Madam President, I would like When you handle so much of taxpayers' money, it is also very important that you do it carefully. In view of this, both the need to do this quickly and the enormous amount of money involved, we asked former Chief Police Officer Stefan Strömberg to investigate the risks in the systems. He came back with a report during the summer, and that report we put on pretty fast to try to minimize the risks. Madam President, I would like The result of these grants is that we have fewer bankruptcies in 2020 than in 2019, which is of course extremely gratifying, and fewer bankruptcies in the first quarter of 2021 than in the first quarter of 2020. These subsidies have thus proved to be effective, and we will continue to do so as long as they are needed.
i-652eafd0fe96b11a-13	Madam President, I would like Let me remind those who listen to the debate that a large number of the aid listed by the Minister for Economic Affairs is aid which, among other things, the Moderates have been driving forward and the Parliament has told the government to implement. Sometimes it sounds almost like the government has done this itself. We could wish that were the case, but that is not the case. During this crisis, the Minister for Industry has devoted most of his time to making the most of the serious situation for entrepreneurs. In repeated debates in this House, the Minister for Economic Affairs has been here telling us that there are no problems with emergency aid. I had such a debate with the Minister for Economic Affairs just before Christmas, when the Minister for Economic Affairs stated that, in principle, there are no problems and that the payments of short-term leave payments are made very quickly. Finally, the mission review programme came and was able to show the complete breakdown that the short-term lay-off aid has actually meant. That accident is so great that when the Finance Committee met the business organisations this week, Madam President, one went so far as to say: had we only known how bad this would be, we would never have recommended our companies to apply for these subsidies. It would have been better if the staff had been laid off and tried to survive. What has happened, Madam President, is that thousands of companies have ended up in a limbo. Money has been borrowed — first in the tax account, then by friends, acquaintances, and relatives. In every place you could borrow money. And the government has said, "The money is coming." Borrow so you can make it through until the subsidies come! Three months goes by, four months goes by, five months goes by and in the worst case – we have met entrepreneurs who have waited so long – it is possible to have the matter handled up to eight months. During that time, wages have been paid to employees in companies. What happens to some companies, Madam President, is that you fall into insolvency when you can no longer borrow money. This means that we will no longer be eligible for these emergency aid measures. Time and again, companies are being squeezed, which means that employees lose their livelihoods and jobs. The Minister for Economic Affairs is responsible for that, Madam President. In fact, it has gone so far that our Minister for Economic Affairs has been notified, not for what he has done, which is the usual, but for what he has not done during the crisis with these crisis aid. We need to get faster payments from emergency aid. The Moderates have now put forward proposals on this. We must also prevent criminals from accessing this money. Whatever the Minister for Economic Affairs says, one has opposed a specific penalty that the government's own investigators have stated is needed. We have been opposed to what we Moderates have said about the need to raise the penalties sharply for those who cheat on these subsidies. In Denmark, the punishments quadrupled. The first one to be convicted did so last August – it was a criminal who tried to access the subsidies – and was given a year and a half in prison. There is more to be done, Madam President.
i-652eafd0fe96b11a-20	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Edward Riedl, and the moderate parliamentary group, for calling for this debate which is very important! Madam President, I would like In 2008, Sweden was struck by a financial crisis. I was then working in the staffing business, and we had just started a branch for a Stockholm-based company. It was a tough time. One could say that the pancake went down before the sun could rise. It wasn't exactly a success story, because consultants are the first thing you get rid of when you go into a tough time. In 2020, we entered a new crisis – a crisis with a completely different character from the one we saw in 2008, largely because of the state restrictions with which this crisis is linked. Yesterday, Skop presented a report asking entrepreneurs how they have experienced the support packages during the pandemic. About half of them feel that applying for aid is too complicated, and about half of them feel that the rules are unclear and difficult to assess. It says quite a lot about the support measures. The market is twitchy and unpredictable during a pandemic. Then it is particularly important that the government is not also twitchy and unpredictable, because then it will be twice as hard for companies, for natural reasons. These are the effects of what we see a lot of today. Aid has in principle been changed from month to month. One example is the government's requirement for the turnover step in order to be able to take part in the conversion aid. Keep in mind: it started at 30 percent and then went to 40 percent and then went to 50 percent and then went back to 40 percent and finally landed at 30 percent. The lay-off aid has also been twitchy, ranging from 60% to 80% to 60% and now back to 80%. How will a small company that spends all its waking time trying to save its business be able to keep up with this number bingon? In the latest conversion aid, conditions are even changed in such a way that the companies that have actually done everything right cannot benefit from the aid. As Mr Edward mentioned, loans have been taken out to cope with liquidity. This shows a lack of understanding of the daily lives of entrepreneurs. During this crisis, the market is incredibly unpredictable for business. You do not know how the demand for products and services will be, and it is difficult to know how much you should spend on supplier costs, to take an example. In a crisis, leadership is needed that is the stable point when the pandemic and the outside world are difficult to predict. Is it reasonable for companies with a pressing need for aid to wait eight months to get their money? The Swedish democrats do not think so, because then it is no longer a crisis aid. For the Swedish Democrats, small businesses are the new working class. They make a big contribution to society every day and deserve the security they should have.
i-652eafd0fe96b11a-29	Madam President, I would like On behalf of the Center Party, I too would like to thank you for the initiative for this debate. This is an important subject we are debating. We think it is so important that we proposed exactly this kind of debate as early as February. Now, however, it came into place – better late than never. We are now about a year into the management of the corona and the more acute events of the pandemic. There has been full activity in this House since then. We have broken a new record in terms of both the number and scope of additional amending budgets to try to secure key societal functions and not least jobs and businesses. The Center Party has something of a middle position in both Swedish politics and in this matter. As part of the January cooperation, we have pushed and negotiated hard to get aid packages in place and to get them as early as possible, to be as well-designed as possible and to be as powerful as possible to save as many jobs and businesses as possible. We are proud of that work and will continue to push forward as long as that work needs to be done. However, we are also critical of the things that have not worked. Although there is nothing to overcome the frustration of the entrepreneur who is losing his life's work, I can tell you that when you have worked hard politically for a support package or support system to be put in place, you feel a certain frustration when it is then handled inadequately by the government or by the government's authorities. There have been problems with too long pay-out times. There have been problems with different support systems colliding. It was well assumed in advance that problems would arise because of the speed with which these support schemes came in place. But it was also important, which was not done, to keep asking: Do adjustments need to be made– yes or no? If yes, make sure to get them in place as quickly as possible! There's been a break. We have seen problems with long processing times. We have seen problems where small mistakes, such as deadlines missed by a few hours, have meant that you have lost a total amount of support that you have otherwise been entitled to. That's not how it works. It is under any criticism that it has worked that way. We continue to work on how to solve these problems in the best possible way. I will come back to you during the debate on how we are moving forward. It is just to say that a lot of work is done, but a lot still remains to be done to pilot Sweden through this very deep and serious corona crisis.
i-652eafd0fe96b11a-36	Madam President, I would like We've had a rough time. It was hard to imagine that the pandemic would extend over time and space in this way. As a party, we share and support some of the crisis measures and other changes that the government, together with the Riksdag, has presented to keep society afloat and to save jobs and businesses. To name a few things that the Left Party has been involved in pushing forward together with, among other things, the Moderates, I choose to highlight the event support for culture and sport. Yesterday I met Fryshuset to talk about young people's future. They highlighted the need for this support, as culture is a tool for activity and jobs among young people. Many young people get their first line in the CV when they work to organize a concert or another event. Culture and sport are joy, feeling and faith in the future; it unites. I also choose to lift up the change in the rules for private entrepreneurs. In the past, entrepreneurs were not allowed in any way to maintain their websites, for example, when they had unemployment funds. It doesn't make any sense. Individual entrepreneurs must be able to keep the information on their website alive and update it for their customers. Otherwise, there is no company to run when they can resume work. We need to think about society from a sustainable perspective. It must be socially sustainable and sustainable entrepreneurship. The money needs to be used responsibly. Despite the fact that we as a party are behind several of the crisis aid, we believe that there is a system error in crisis aid. We cannot allow companies to receive state aid, sometimes in the billions, which then goes to bonuses. The rules for the beneficiary companies should be tightened up. The Left Party proposes that the dividend freeze and the bonus ban after the months of support should be set at one year. This money, our common money, should simply go to nothing but saving jobs. We have a great need to invest in society, to create jobs, to reset, to cover resource shortages in the care of the elderly and to be better equipped to face a crisis.
i-652eafd0fe96b11a-43	Madam President, I would like For Swedish entrepreneurs, the last year has been a steel bath that none of us could have predicted. Of course, we should be humble; it is easy to make mistakes when new and unexpected problems arise. But then it is all the more important that those who have the power to make changes really listen and understand what an entrepreneur's everyday life looks like right now. The other day we were able to read an entrepreneur's diary of the corona problem. It takes us on a journey into Byråkratisverige that never seems to end. A lot of administration and time is spent trying to do everything right according to the rules and guidelines that exist. The frustration is that the applications have not been simplified and that the information has not improved sufficiently in the meantime, but rather the other way around. About this, several industry organisations, such as Visita, Svensk Handel, transport companies and others, testify. Madam President, I would like It is not for fun that I have, on several occasions in the last year, asked the Swedish Agency for Growth and the Swedish Tax Agency to come to the Committee on Economic Affairs to provide information about the long and prolonged processing times and explain more precisely what is happening and what is not happening. The answers given are that they are recruiting more employees and setting up new routines and that they are aware of the problems. According to them, they have also received all the resources they have asked the government for. With that information in your back, it is extremely regrettable that the authorities have not been able to do better. In the crisis support model that exists today, it needs to be screwed on some parts. For example, there is a need to listen to the most vulnerable sectors and reduce the gap between them and the departments, so that measures can be taken. You need to treat businesses with respect and confirm them with at least one reply that the application is received correctly. Another example is the proposal, on which we Christian Democrats seem to be the only one, to reduce employers' contributions in sectors close to contacts, which are the most vulnerable. Then no applications need be made, but it would help the most vulnerable, who are increasingly small businesses, so that time and resources can be spent on other things. The government's own investigator Stefan Strömberg, who has been tasked with proposing measures against corona-related crime, visited the Committee on Economic Affairs this week. Co-mails I take with me from him is that the Swedish Agency for Growth should not have been given the task of managing short-term support from the beginning and that they should be provided with more funds and resources while at the same time getting better management. I still wonder if the government does not see that there are things that could have been done differently. There is still a chance to improve, but it needs to be done urgently.
i-652eafd0fe96b11a-50	Madam President, I would like I would also like to thank you for this important debate and for its initiative. The Corona crisis has been an unpredictable crisis, of course for health care and society as a whole, but in this case perhaps above all for our economy. It is a crisis that has worsened, in economic terms, for many of the entrepreneurs we are talking about here today, precisely because of political decisions. It is therefore incredibly important that there is support from the state and that they work – precisely because it has been pushed by political decisions. Liberals are proud to have been the engine of the January agreement in pushing forward and pushing forward many of the important support that has actually come into place. I am also pleased that, in the Swedish Parliament, in the committee and in this House, we have had broad agreement on the support and the strength with which the support has come, Madam President. On many important issues, we have been able to end up as an entire parliament. Madam President, I would like However, I and the Liberals are critical of the management of the government and the authorities responsible in many cases. We have given the government what it has asked for when different measures have been needed, various additional funds and support for these subsidies to come out properly, for the processing times to be shortened and for the bureaucracy to be smoother. That's what you've got. Yet, there are major problems. That is why we are here today debating. Madam President, I would like In such an exceptional situation, when we make exceptions to all sorts of rules, all sorts of things that we as a society take for granted, it should also be possible to make the bureaucracy roll a little faster. It should also be possible to shorten the duration of proceedings. It should also be possible to save more companies by paying out the existing aid on time. Madam President, I would like The Liberals have this week demanded that the government report a plan to reopen Sweden after the crisis. I think we need to tell Sweden's entrepreneurs, those who are on their knees financially, that the subsidies will be paid out and that it will go quickly. We don't need any more trouble. We do not need long processing times. We need to save jobs and entrepreneurship. I also think we need to be clear that the crisis actually has an end. We need to hold on now. But there is an end. There will be a dawn when all the wheels of the economy can return to work. That information needs to come from the government.
i-652eafd0fe96b11a-57	Madam President, I would like A year ago, when we started all the work to create support for Swedish business, we did not know what we were getting into. We could not then review the magnitude of the crisis. But when I look back on this year, I am extremely impressed, not least by the fact that our authorities were able to reset incredibly quickly, increase the volume and bring in brand new support, which they did not know they would be allowed to do. Several things can be true at the same time. What is said here that many companies have had to wait too long to get their support is also true. But I do not think that we should forget that our authorities, even if they have not succeeded in every case, have made an extremely impressive effort in general. They have received a lot of support and saved many jobs and many companies. It has in no way been perfect. We've been working while we've been running to create brand new support. In a normal situation, we had spent years weighing everything back and forth to develop systems like these. The system that we already had in place was designed for industry and has suited the industry better than the smaller companies in the service sector; that is true. If we can do things better, we'll do it. When we summarize this year, I am particularly impressed by the resilience that Sweden's economy has shown as well as by the public Sweden's ability to quickly switch to a new situation and do its best to save companies and jobs.
i-652eafd0fe96b11a-61	Madam President, I would like When you end up in the midst of such a crisis as we did, it is of course the way Karolina Skog brought up, i.e. that you run and work at the same time. As a result of the need for speed, we quickly needed to get s a ker in place. Both Joar Forssell and Emil Källström have every right to be proud, because together we have done something unique. Although the Moderates are now beating their chests when they are in opposition, it is a fact that in the recent crisis – the financial crisis, which Alexander Christiansson also mentions – there was no such support. There was no lay-off subsidy. Despite demands from the Riksdag, the moderate-led government refused to introduce such support. As a result, tens of thousands of jobs disappeared from Sweden to Belgium, which had such systems, and to Germany and other countries. We have now introduced such aid. However, it will always be a balancing act to do so as quickly as possible when you find yourself in a deep crisis, Madam President. You have to be humble and say that. I really understand the companies that suddenly experienced the loss of revenue and customers. For many of them, the situation remains broadly the same. For the tourism industry, the cultural sector and the travel industry, the situation is still very difficult. As I said, we have spent almost 100 billion in direct payments under various schemes. However, we who deal with taxpayers' money need to find a balance. We must be in control so that the money does not end up with organised crime and scammers. It is against this background that we have gradually tightened the controls. The reason for the delay is often that the application is incomplete, and the authorities will have to follow it up. That's the way it should be. Yet we have seen examples of crime. Only this week we could hear about drug smugglers who had come over support. Unfortunately, we will see more examples. Madam President, I would like When you are aware of this, it becomes very strange to hear the Moderates now come up with proposals that we should remove all controls. The only thing that should be required is that you submit an incomplete application and then stay away from questions for four weeks. According to the Moderates' proposal, you will then benefit from billions of taxpayers' money. It's very strange. Then they say that the penalties should be tightened. For what? The money will be gone. Do they think they can be picked up from organised crime afterwards? Tjoho! It won't happen. Madam President, I would like It's awkward, yes. It will continue to be until we can get the opening that Joar Forssell is talking about. However, we will continue to stand together, because we are going to winter together and in the best way during this crisis.
i-652eafd0fe96b11a-68	Madam President, I would like Before addressing the Minister for Economic Affairs, I would like to thank the other parties in Parliament. Many have been up in the speaker's chair and told us that a large part of the support that the government is now taking credit for is support that has been developed here in the Riksdag. Then the government has been given the task of producing them. It is good that the listener is told. Many thanks to all the parties in Parliament for this! The Centre Party requested a debate similar to this, Madam President. I just want to confirm it as the Government of Ardalan ShekarabiS). We thought it was good. I hope that we can now solve the problem that we have before us and that the government does not want to solve. It is about the problems of paying out support money to companies in acute crisis in order to save jobs. It is not possible to wait three, four, five, six or up to eight months for such aid to be paid. I do not understand why the government does not want to tighten the penalties. If you want to get to crime, you have to tighten the penalties.
i-652eafd0fe96b11a-72	Madam President, I would like From March last year to this year, we have introduced a dozen subsidies. In addition, many authorities have built up the business from scratch. Take the Swedish Agency for Growth as an example! There, zero people worked on these issues last March. Now they are over 700, which the agency has been given the resources to hire. Of course, this has meant that many companies have received the necessary help. It's help that didn't exist when the Moderates ruled the country. That's it. I shall return to my question, Madam President. The Moderates are now proposing that we do not have controls. All it takes is for you to send in an incomplete document and then stay away for four weeks to get the taxpayers' money. Hopefully, the money will go to honest companies who will have it. But what if they fall into the hands of organized crime? According to Edward Riedl and the Moderates, how many billions of taxpayers' money is it reasonable to pay to organised crime and scammers in this crisis?
i-652eafd0fe96b11a-74	Madam President, I would like To the listener, I would just like to express my regret at the rhetoric of the Minister for Economic Affairs. Of course, the Moderates do not suggest that there should be no controls. Of course, the application must be complete and so on. One can of course have a debate like this. But the Minister for Enterprise has been reported to the KU not for things he's done, but because he hasn't done his job. He has not ensured that the companies that need the money get it and thus can save the jobs or that the criminals cannot get to this. Madam President and you who are listening! The government's own investigators have proposed special penal provisions. The government is doing nothing about this. The Moderates are proposing strongly increased penalties to get the criminals out of support. That is the problem today. It is with the government's policy that criminals get their money. We, together with the other parties in Parliament, want to resolve this, Madam President.
i-652eafd0fe96b11a-77	Madam President, I would like The absolute best thing is to have controls so that organised crime does not get in line or take part of it. Yet some will slip through. Then, of course, they will be prosecuted. We take such crime very seriously. Edward Riedl, however, does not answer the question. The proposal from the Moderates looks concrete like this: If, after submitting your application, you have not received a reply within four weeks, the agency will have to pay out the money. That is what the proposal looks like, Madam President. Looking today at the applications that have been submitted, one of the reasons why there have been such long queues is that half of the applications are not complete. The authority must then check that it is the right company to receive the money. It'll take some time. This presupposes a great deal of bureaucracy, something we would have liked to have been without. However, controls must still be carried out. Therefore, I would like to ask the Moderates once again what they think is reasonable when they present their proposal: how many billions of taxpayers' money will be allowed to disappear into organised crime? ( ANDRE VICE TALMANNEN: Unfortunately, there is no way to answer the question because the line is finished. )
i-652eafd0fe96b11a-81	Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats have been the driving force behind the support that has come during the period. As mentioned earlier, we have also been a driving force in the Committee on Finance and Parliament's initiatives. Cooperation has been constructive, which is a good thing. Two weeks ago, I and the Minister for Enterprise and Industry stood here debating the situation of small businesses following the pandemic. Beating me then was the answer to that interpellation. That is why I would like to put the same question again to the Minister for Economic Affairs, because I did not feel that I had an answer. What is the government's plan for restarting the smallest companies after the pandemic? The answer I got then was that support has been launched during the pandemic and an investigation has been set up to simplify the rules. However, proposals for regulatory changes have been on the table for decades. What more concrete proposals are there for the smallest companies affected by the pandemic?
i-652eafd0fe96b11a-83	Madam President, I would like As I replied to Alexander Christiansson, we stop the infection and ensure that the vaccination comes out, so that we can get our society going. This applies to both small and large companies. The main problem today, especially for small businesses in the service sector, where there are a great many of them, is that you do not have any customers or at least you cannot act as you normally do. I will return to my question, which I did not receive an answer from the Moderates, because the Swedish Democrats support the moderate proposal to always pay out money within four weeks unless the authorities have managed to deal with an application. Then it may be enough for the documents to be incomplete, as we see many examples today. It may be enough to deliberately send an incomplete application and then stay away for four weeks. Then my question to Alexander Christiansson will be: How many billions of taxpayers' money does Alexander Christiansson and the Swedish Democrats think it is reasonable to disappear into organised crime in this way?
i-652eafd0fe96b11a-85	Madam President, I would like The answer to that question is that it is not incomplete documents we are talking about here. We are talking about complete documents that are to some extent examined in order to then be able to be paid out. What the Minister for Economic Affairs has put these small businesses into, as we mentioned earlier, is eight months' waiting time. Pest or cholera-- how are we going to act in this situation? According to the rhetoric of the Social Democrats, it seems that the best thing would be if there were not even any companies to which we could pay aid. Companies are selling their furnishings today in order to pay their salaries and invoices. I want respect for that, Madam President. Another differential that we experience is linked to bankruptcies. Is the Minister of Economic Affairs aware that we are lagging behind in the reporting of bankruptcies? When the Minister for Economic Affairs says that we did not have as many bankruptcies in 2020 as in 2019, it is not a correct description. Is it deliberate from the Minister for Economic Affairs, or is it unconscious?
i-652eafd0fe96b11a-88	Madam President, I would like There are official statistics, Alexander Christiansson, and that is what I am referring to. It is usually both Tillväxtanalys and Tillväxtverket that follow up on this. Next comes SCB. Of course, it's not something that we sit and make up ourselves. I think this is strange, Madam President – there is no government in this country ever, either during the financial crisis that the honourable Member talked about or before, which has introduced so much support for Swedish business. We do it because we are to stand together under very difficult circumstances. We will continue to do so for a very simple reason: that we are not out of the crisis. Much of our business, especially in the service sector, still has a very difficult time. They can rely on us to continue with these subsidies as long as they are needed. We will also be on the bureaucracy so that it goes as quickly as possible, but always with control.
i-652eafd0fe96b11a-90	Madam President, I would like We could read today about Volvo's bonus distribution. The Left Party has presented policies to curb such bonuses when companies have received state aid. But it does not seem that the government is as interested in stopping companies from enriching our tax money in that way.
i-652eafd0fe96b11a-91	Madam President, I would like This is an important issue. When we introduce such large amounts of aid and spend nearly 100 billion in various direct payments and several hundred billion more in the form of various guarantees and credits, it is of course important that we also make demands. One of the requirements has just been that you should not pay dividends if you have taken advantage of these subsidies. I also know that the regulations are being followed up by, for example, the Swedish Agency for Growth, so that this is done within the framework of the rules. The regulations have of course also been applied to AB Volvo, according to the information I have.
i-652eafd0fe96b11a-92	Madam President, I would like One of the proposals is to supplement the rules on the distribution of profits with the obligation to notify the distribution of profits in order to be able to keep track of this. I would like to hear what Minister Baylan has to say about that proposal. On the matter of the time guarantee, I would like to support the Government. I simply think that we need to ensure that our tax money goes to the right things. We can't spend the money just like that.
i-652eafd0fe96b11a-94	Madam President, I would like One of the reasons why the review of, for example, short-term aid control stations is delayed is to check, for example, whether there have been any dividends in breach of the existing regulations. It is an obligation of the Swedish Agency for Growth as an authority. That, Madam President, is also one of the main reasons for sometimes demanding back money – it is discovered that the regulatory framework has not been complied with. It takes time, because we're talking about nearly 100,000 applications. This is also one of the reasons why we have called for the Swedish Agency for Growth to streamline and automate its work, so that companies that behave themselves should not end up in the back of the queue. They have presented an action plan which, of course, we are following up very closely, so that honest companies get the support they need to overwinter in this situation.
i-652eafd0fe96b11a-96	Madam President, I would like In the light of today's debate on the disbursement of crisis aid, we can see that many of the parties in Parliament see these long processing times as something untenable. But when we listen to the Minister here today, he seems to be focusing on the fact that entrepreneurs somewhere are criminals. I think it's a little rude. There are measurements and statistics from, for example, Visita. It shows that only 3 per million of applications are suspected of being criminal offences in the tourism industry. My question to the Minister for Economic Affairs is this: would not some kind of time guarantee be a way of overcoming the long processing times while respecting companies, which are not criminals?
i-652eafd0fe96b11a-98	Madam President, I would like Europol, the European Commission, our own investigator, who is the former head of police, and the Swedish police have all warned against the same thing, namely that organised crime, which is already a cancer of the community body, is appropriate during crises. That this is the case should also be understood by the Christian Democrats, the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats. The vast majority of our entrepreneurs who are currently having an extremely tough time are honest. That's why we're here to help each other. They do their best to handle this. However, if we are to maintain this type of support programme, Madam President – so far at EUR 100 billion in direct aid – then there is also a need for popular legitimacy. What you are doing right now with the Moderates is undermining it by saying that after a certain time limit the money is just going out. Should it turn out that they end up with organised crime, the popular legitimacy of this type of support programme will be reduced. It would be detrimental to the business community.
i-652eafd0fe96b11a-100	Madam President, I would like There is no talk of organised crime. I don't think there's any party in this Parliament that would like to give funds to these companies just like that. Of course you shouldn't. There must be review mechanisms. There must also be more stringent penalties for those who commit the crimes. But there are an incredible number of companies in which we have invested this $100 billion. If we do not ensure that these companies survive, what has happened to taxpayers' money during this time? It is an obligation for Sweden to stand up for entrepreneurs. Without entrepreneurs, Sweden will not be able to afford any welfare in the future. What's the government plan?
i-652eafd0fe96b11a-103	Madam President, I would like The government's plan is from the very beginning on 16 March last year until today that we stand together and that we support. We've done a dozen different types of support to overwinter. It is still a very tough situation, especially for those companies in the service sector which, of course, have been subject to restrictions but also to the general pandemic. The revenues are very low and are in some parts not at all. That's the answer. We will continue to stand together. The vaccination, which is now in full swing, hopefully we can also get started and open up society in a way that is infectious. We all see that light. Madam President, I would like I'm still not getting it straight. If you introduce an automatic deadline so that money has to be out after four weeks regardless, the risk is quite high that organised crime is lining up. Do the Christian Democrats not see that risk?
i-652eafd0fe96b11a-107	Madam President, I would like What if the Minister for Economic Affairs spent as much time and commitment on solving the crisis support problems that we have as the Minister for Economic Affairs put on embellishing reality and trixa with numbers? That would have been amazing. Then I think we could have solved a large part of the problems we have. Madam President, I would like We have two problems. At one end there are serious, responsible companies which, due to the fight against infectious diseases, do not have sufficient turnover and customers and which, in order to retain their staff, need to receive these emergency aid. At the other end – and let me be clear to you who are listening – that money is stolen under this government by criminals. The government's own investigators have stated that a special penalty should be introduced in the lay-off aid in order to better address this. In the Moderates' proposal, it is not a question of incomplete applications or anything like that. It is a debate that does not belong in this House, Madam President. Of course it is about complete applications. Checks shall be carried out. We believe that during a crisis, an authority of four weeks should be able to see whether it is organised crime that is behind the application or whether it is serious entrepreneurs. If you can't do that, you have to replace the authority and ultimately this government. That is my view, Madam President. This should be achieved within that time. At the other end, we need to tighten the penalties. Denmark, for example, has quadrupled the penalties. There you send cheaters with corona support in prison. We should also do so in Sweden. This government is in the process of both solving the problem of saving jobs and businesses and of setting up criminals. What if the Minister of Economic Affairs had the same commitment to solving these problems as to beautify them?
i-652eafd0fe96b11a-114	Madam President, I would like Ever since we entered this deep crisis, I believe that we all, the government, the parliament and the authorities – and I do not doubt Edward Riedl – have done our best to deal with this crisis. I believe that, in addition, we will have learned a great deal from both what has been done and the mistakes that have been made in the meantime. One of the things we quickly did, just after Stefan Strömberg's proposal, was to introduce controls to ensure that the money ended up right with honest entrepreneurs. These are the controls that take longer. Half of all applications received by the Swedish Agency for Growth, for example, were not complete. Now the Moderates, with the support of the Swedish Democrats among others, propose that if the agency has not handled an application for four weeks, the money should be paid out. What is it if not freely for those who are rogue to also be able to take part in taxpayers' money?
i-652eafd0fe96b11a-117	Madam President, I would like Let me be clear with both the Minister for Enterprise and you who listen. This is a non-debate. The Swedish Agency for Growth itself, a government agency, says that you can handle the payment of emergency aid in between three and ten days. What the Moderates propose and try to gather the Riksdag around is to have a guarantee that a complete application can be handled within four weeks. At the time, Madam President, an authority should be able to sort out the serious criminals from the serious entrepreneurs with fairly simple means. If you can't do that, you have to change the working method. It can't go on like that. Madam President, I would like I am glad that it is not this minister who is organising these subsidies, who thinks it is reasonable for companies to have to wait six months and up to eight months, or to organise emergency care where there are acutely ill people with, for example, heart attacks or to organise the fire defence if there is a fire in any house. The money has to go out to the companies that need it.
i-652eafd0fe96b11a-120	Madam President, I would like These subsidies were introduced last March. Short-term aid, which is the largest aid, was introduced on 16 March. Then there were zero people working on this, because there wasn't before. There wasn't when the Moderates led the country, and there wasn't before. There were zero people. Today it's over 700. They handle nearly 100 000 applications. Madam President, I would like The average last year was five weeks for a first application, i.e. longer than the four weeks the Moderates are talking about. If it is now an automatic time limit where the authority has to pay out the money regardless of the application, do the Moderates not look at the risk that the gender of just rogue and dangerous people becomes quite long? There is free money to be collected, taxpayers' money. Should not controls be reasonable before paying out taxpayers' money?
i-652eafd0fe96b11a-123	Madam President, I would like The Minister for Industry repeatedly points out that the Alliance Government did not have pandemic crisis support in place many years ago, almost eight years ago. Of course he can if he wants to. I'll answer the question. If what the Minister of Economic Affairs says were true, then that would be a problem. But the Minister for Economic Affairs has painted a straw doll that doesn't exist. It argues against a proposal that does not exist. Of course there should be checks. We think that we should be able to carry out a great deal of checks in four weeks to ensure that organised crime does not get to this money. Madam President, I would like What I do not understand, and what you who listen to the debate should think about, is the following: if we now want to get to these criminals, why does the government refuse to do what the investigator that the government has appointed says, namely to introduce a special penalty so that we can get to those who cheat on the subsidies? Listen to the Moderates, who want to be severely punished so that we can put those who cheat in prison. Why does the government not want this?
i-652eafd0fe96b11a-127	Madam President, I would like I would like to say briefly that the initial aid during the pandemic came into place and was paid out quickly. It was good handled by the government. Many and I too felt that the government had the attitude that it would be easy to do the right thing and that it would rather be free than convict. The large companies were supported and helped. That was fast. I remember that in the first amending budget – which I think came on 17 March 2020 – the aviation industry was the priority. There's nothing wrong with that. We were absolutely behind it. It wasn't weird at all. But what was forgotten was the small companies, not least in terms of turnover aid, which came into place much later. The small individual traders were forgotten. During the autumn there were individual traders who had had to go to unemployment insurance during the spring. When it was autumn and they were going to take part of the grants they did not get it because they had had unemployment benefit during the spring. This is just an example of a detail that creates enormous problems for small businesses. We presented an initiative to the Committee on Finance. Normally, the messenger is more important than the message, so it didn't go through. But someone else had to present the initiative, and it went through. And, of course, we support it, for the benefit of small businesses. Let's look ahead. How are we gonna fix this? We have companies that really live on the brink of ruin. What are we gonna do? What proposals are we going to find to get the support out in the best possible way? What are we gonna do after the pandemic? What measures should we have in place? You can't start thinking about it when the pandemic is over and we're too late. That is the re-initial question that I put to the Minister for Economic Affairs earlier and to which I am so keen to have an answer. I hope that we can continue to work constructively in the future to find these proposals so that we can quickly get them in place.
i-652eafd0fe96b11a-134	Madam President, I would like It is just as Alexander Christiansson describes; we were very keen to get support in place as quickly as possible. And no, the support was directed to the whole of the business community and not only to a few parts because the entire business community went into a crisis in a way that we have never seen before. But as I said earlier, we worked in parallel with this proposal on how to prevent cheating. I think that Christiansson also sees that when so much of taxpayers' money is in circulation, it also requires control. It is against this background that we have introduced a large number of controls to prevent fraud and crime. Unfortunately, as early as this week we have seen drug dealers who have found support, and we will certainly see other examples. My question is once again: why do the Swedish Democrats want to support a proposal that would open up the entire aid system to fraud?
i-652eafd0fe96b11a-137	Madam President, I would like In fact, I do not even know how to respond to this, because we have repeatedly in this House and now, during the debate, explained to the Minister what it is that he misunderstands in the proposal. It would be tasteful if he could read through the proposal and understand what it means before he comes to build this kind of straw doll. If our Minister for Economic Affairs had put half of his energy into making sure that the support for those companies that currently do not know what to do with themselves and are turning themselves in to try to survive and save their life projects, we would have avoided a great deal of the problems that we are facing right now.
i-652eafd0fe96b11a-139	Madam President, I would like I have spent the whole term of office and very much my energy since last year to ensure that we can help each other and overwinter. It is against this background that we have so many support. It is against this background that we will continue until we know that we have come out of it and can get the restart that the honourable Member talked about earlier. The Moderates are now making a proposal, which the Swedish Democrats support, which means that if an authority, in this case the Swedish Agency for Growth, does not have time to deal with an application for four weeks – and as I said, the average time to date has been five weeks – the support will be paid out. It will be an automatic deadline; that is what the proposal looks like. Then my question is again: how can we ensure that money does not end up with the wrong people and with organised crime? I see a great risk that they will get in line because there is free money to collect.
i-652eafd0fe96b11a-143	Madam President, I would like In Sweden, every legal person and individual entrepreneur is linked to a personal identity number to some extent. We have a good control system in Sweden, and that is something that I naturally think is very good. We have a well adapted system to keep track of much of what is happening in our society. As the Swedish Agency for Growth itself says, they do not need this time to review the documents. This is what the Swedish Agency for Growth says, at the same time as it takes so long. So the small businessmen with whom I have spoken and who have been waiting eight months for support will have to listen to the authorities who say: we do not need that long. We have this time as our goal, and we have this time cut. Fine! Then I guess it's good. Then it's great! Why not just pay out the subsidies? What's the problem? These are companies that need help. It's companies that pay taxes and make sure people go to work every day. They need help in a time of crisis. Make sure the support comes out!
i-652eafd0fe96b11a-146	Madam President, I would like One year into the pandemic we are where we are, and it became as it turned out. We can't influence that. What turned out well was good, and what became bad needs to be improved. What we choose to focus on is what we can actually influence, namely what is happening forward. For the Center Party, we have two important priorities. Firstly, continue to ensure that work on paying out and dealing with crisis policy is carried out as quickly and as efficiently as possible! Here we will in every way lie on the government and the government authorities and ensure that you get up and down the processing times. Not least, it is about the work of ensuring that the various support schemes are playing with each other and ensuring that the details that need to be corrected there are corrected. Secondly, get in place what happens after last June! It's an important job to do. A number of the systems that now work and are in place have a farthest parentheses. It is important, not least for the affected sectors, that there is early information about what applies for the summer – and in fact for all the time until we can put a distant parenthesis not only for crisis policy but also for the impact of the pandemic. There's a lot we don't know. Although vaccinations look good at the moment, we do not know how quickly and well that process will go. Nor do we know how the pandemic and the corona virus itself are affected by various mutations and the like. There's a lot we don't know, but what we know we have to act on. We know one thing, namely that Sweden's companies need the best planning conditions possible. Let us act on it, and let us focus on what we can change!
i-652eafd0fe96b11a-152	Madam President, I would like For almost my entire adult life, I've been a small business. I grew up in a small business family. I love running a business, and I love small business. That is also a great reason why I am standing here today. According to several measurements, the Swedish Democrats are the largest party among small businesses today. There are several reasons for that, as I see it. The government has shown a slowness and almost an inability to help the most vulnerable companies in crisis. I think that picture is shared by myself and Mr Källström. However, my view is that the Center Party is very often closer to the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and us on these issues. Therefore, my question to the honourable Member is why one chooses to act as a support party for a government that acts in this way on small business issues. This is particularly true of those companies operating in the tourism industry, which are suffering so badly today.
i-652eafd0fe96b11a-156	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Christiansson, for the question. The Center Party also has some things to be proud of when it comes to our position in small businesses. If we take certain categories of small businessmen, Sweden's farmers, the Center Party would have a qualified majority in this House and implement constitutional changes itself. Unfortunately, this is not the case in the other electoral groups yet, but we are happy about what we have. As far as the honourable Member's question is concerned, it is clear that on certain points the Center Party is much closer to M, KD and SD than the government parties. We have used this middle position to improve crisis policy. Sometimes we have been part of the majority in the Riksdag to ensure that things come into place, and sometimes we have used our role as a negotiating partner in the January cooperation to ensure that what Parliament wants is also delivered and becomes concrete policy. We will continue to do so. The middle position has proved very successful over the past year, and there is no reason to believe that it will not work so even forward.
i-652eafd0fe96b11a-159	Madam President, I would like A couple of weeks ago the Swedish Association of Small Entrepreneurs came out with a report prepared by Nima Sanandaji and Erik Sjölander. It shows that, during the pandemic, 8% of enterprising enterprises, i.e. those that actually generate jobs, have been destroyed. It rhymes very badly with the image that the bankruptcies have declined during the pandemic year. I say it's a numbers trick. My question to Källström is: What are the Centre Party's concrete proposals to restart the economy and small businesses after the pandemic?
i-652eafd0fe96b11a-161	Madam President, I would like Thank you for a very important question. The important thing now is really two things. It is about ensuring that the clean crisis policy continues in the best possible way and refines, reinforces and prolongs where necessary. But then we also have to get to the situation that Alexander Christiansson is talking about, namely the situation where we are equipping Sweden stronger. And it must be a business and investment-driven recovery of the economy. Here we did some things already in the last budget – we still had the hope that it would be part of the restart. It was reduced taxes, investment in infrastructure and also steps in terms of regulatory simplification. I really think that's pretty much what it has to look like. It is about reducing taxes on jobs and entrepreneurship. It is about investment, important social investment, not least in infrastructure, which also creates jobs and contracts in companies. And this is about the very important work on regulatory simplification. On the three points, we need to move forward.
i-652eafd0fe96b11a-164	Madam President, I would like I choose to raise the young people, who have had to put their youth on break, who have had changes in education and who may have chosen to wait with their studies. I lift the singles who have had to take more vab days. Grandparents cannot support because of isolation, and the cost of food has run away after the children have stayed at home. And of course I lift the health care professional, who has worked hard since day one, nonstop. Many people have been affected by the pandemic, and we need to pool our forces to get out of the crisis well. We need to create jobs, change and improve conditions so that we can be well equipped for the next crisis. It is therefore provocative that Volvo, which has laid off thousands of employees and received over 1 billion in crisis support from the state, pays out bonuses – a total of 118 million. And they're not alone. In addition to this system error, lots suggest that, for example, the conversion aid should be paid with a time guarantee. That may sound good, but the truth is that it will lead to companies not being fully checked before paying out. This may, in turn, result in the wrong company being favoured and the wrong amount being paid out. It'll be hard to get that money back, not to say impossible. We have much to learn from this crisis, including what we need to reinforce. Here, too, companies have a responsibility. People need secure employment. We do not need jobs that should be jobs but have been replaced by self-employment, for example. Many have suffered it in this crisis.
i-652eafd0fe96b11a-169	Madam President, I would like There were probably many of us who on Wednesday 31 March saw the Mission Review program Corona Support that disappeared and felt a rather large lump in the stomach. The fact that more than 5 000 entrepreneurs' appeals have been collected at the Swedish Agency for Growth is unacceptable. It feels like this is an authority that has swelled and that the management has lost control. Errors have been committed, and the administrative court has ruled in court. But the money hasn't been paid out. Those who get caught are Swedish entrepreneurs. Madam President, I would like The reinforcements and extensions made to the aid have often been made for a month or a few months at a time. We have heard it said several times today. This, in turn, has made it a patchwork of different rules and requirements for companies. Add to this the restrictions that have been announced, very often with poor foresight! This puts an entrepreneur in the restaurant business, for example, in an extremely tricky situation. The situation is difficult to navigate, but it can be improved if you want. Madam President, I would like Companies need better support for wage costs. Any company that has been affected for a long time, and continues to suffer, by partial closure in the form of a ban on serving and restrictions, reduced opening hours or restrictions on the number of customers allowed on its premises, is still not in a position to receive a reasonable remuneration for its salary costs. So allow near-contact industries to receive targeted support in the form of reduced employers' contributions! The opportunities for start-ups to benefit from aid also need to be improved. Now they are limited by the fact that the comparison period for, for example, the turnover step is one year back. We must never forget that every chandelier is created by companies that pay taxes and whose employees pay taxes for our common good. Without companies, we have no welfare.
i-652eafd0fe96b11a-175	Madam President, I would like When you listen to this debate, it sounds – and it may seem a little strange – like four weeks to get support would be a short time. Madam President, I would like Nevertheless, I have to say that it can probably be quite a long time in the activities of many small businesses. Maybe four weeks in itself isn't that long. But now we are in a situation where the Corona crisis suddenly struck. It is unpredictable and continues to be unpredictable. In fact, it has been quite a long time, and bureaucracy and slowness continue to slow down the support that we want to see paid out. Then four weeks is quite a long time. I just want to make it clear. Then I want to make another point. We're talking about crime and stuff. But, Madam President, it is entrepreneurs and people who work in the business sector, in industry and in the private sector who pay in all the taxes we use to hire police officers, to make sure that vigour works in hospitals and so on. If you do not have enterprising people and if you do not make sure to support that part of society, you have no law enforcement. Then there's no welfare left. The essence of the whole welfare building is that we have enterprising people who create value. Madam President, I would like The support needs to go out. The bureaucracy must be reduced. Time must be shortened. And the government needs to present a timetable for how we will ensure that Sweden reopens and remove the restrictions that actually harm entrepreneurship in this country. Madam President, I would like I would have liked there to be greater respect for entrepreneurs and enterprising people, and I would have liked us now to have the support that we agree on as much as is needed.
i-652eafd0fe96b11a-180	Madam President, I would like For many of the country's entrepreneurs, the last year has been characterised by sleepless nights. We have heard many stories about uncertainty because none of us have known where the pandemic should go, how long it will last and how it will affect us. The main strategy for Sweden has been the right measure in the right place, and this has meant that we have changed the restrictions and thus also changed the company support. They were supposed to be connected. It has not been possible to give long-term answers at a time when we simply do not know. I have made it clear that we understand that it has been a difficult thing for companies to deal with. Anyone who has ever participated in a business debate knows that it is long-term information that the business community wants, and now we have given the opposite. This has been particularly difficult for smaller companies. They insist on being different. They operate in different sectors and in different ways, which is why it has been more difficult to find a large system that simply suits everyone and meets the criterion of getting out quickly without making a wage contribution to organised crime. We have also imposed restrictions linked to dividends and bonuses, so that the money will end up right. Madam President, I would like This has been difficult, and many companies are still worried about their business and are waiting for support. What we can do is to work as hard as we can just to get the subsidies out and to the extent that we can adapt. But what we are not supposed to do is promise things that cannot be fulfilled so that companies do not jump on something that cannot be implemented.
i-652eafd0fe96b11a-184	Madam President, I would like I have two questions for Karolina Skog on the basis that she represents one of the two government parties. The first question is simple. Why does the government not want to introduce a specific penalty in the short-term leave aid, as proposed by the government's own investigators? Today, fraud legislation must be used, among other things, which makes it much more difficult to prosecute those who cheat on subsidies. Why does the government not want to increase the penalties for those who cheat on subsidies, like Denmark, for example? There, criminals are being sent to prison instead of having free drawing rights from taxpayers' money. Is it really reasonable, Madam President, to have to wait over six months to get crisis support when there is a crisis?
i-652eafd0fe96b11a-187	Madam President, I would like As the Government has described, the Government appointed a review of the risk of cheating with support. It was one of many things that were important to do. Everyone has taken part in that review, and the government has acted. The most important thing, as the investigator stresses above all, is that when aid has been paid, it is difficult, and we are talking about organised crime almost impossible, to get the money back. It's been the investigator's most important contribution. This has guided when aid has been adapted to reduce the risk that it goes to the wrong hands – without, for that matter, suspecting anyone who just wants it quickly. No! Of course, it is not okay for someone to wait six months for the support. To the extent that this happens, it is obviously working extremely hard to correct it.
i-652eafd0fe96b11a-190	Madam President, I would like I'll ask my first question again. Why does the government not want to introduce a special penalty? That's what the investigator's suggesting to make it easier to get to cheating. There are such provisions for other parts of the crisis aid and, as I understand, they work and that is less cheating. Why doesn't the government want to do that? Why does the government not want to raise the penalties properly so that organised crime is deterred from cheating with the Corona subsidies? Denmark sent the first person to prison last August, but this government does nothing. Madam President, I would like If it is not reasonable, as Karolina Skog says, to wait six months for crisis support, I wonder what the government's plan is and why nothing has been done to speed up the disbursement of crisis aid.
i-652eafd0fe96b11a-193	Madam President, I would like The claim that the government has done nothing is completely absurd. The government has provided the authorities working on these issues with all the resources they have requested. What is quite incomprehensible, however, is that the party claiming to have the fight against crime as its main issue, when we have learned that aid paid cannot be withdrawn, proposes that a guarantee be introduced for companies to obtain their support after a certain period of time. It doesn't make any sense. It's like putting a sign on the Growth Agency's door: Organized crime! There's money to be collected. I cannot understand for my life that the Moderates are making such a proposal.
i-652eafd0fe96b11a-196	Madam President, I would like We're a little over a year into the pandemic. It is a time unlike any other, either for people, for our society, for our economy or for that matter for our world. We have stood together in many respects, and we shall continue to do so. We will help each other because the situation is tough. It is for people in general because we feel such enormous frustration, and we would like to come back to the opening that several Members are talking about – normal life. There is an extremely tough situation for many of the employees who have lost their jobs. We're talking about hundreds of thousands of people. There is enormous frustration for many entrepreneurs who are unable to carry out their business in a normal way and thus not getting the income they are used to. I understand that. To them I have the message that we should do our utmost so that we can help to overwinter through the pandemic. To date, this has meant that nearly 100 billion of taxpayers' money has been spent on various subsidies. It is well-invested money, and then they should also go to honest, honest entrepreneurs and not end up in the pockets of organised crime.
i-652eafd0fe96b11a-205	Madam President, I would like Björn Söder has asked me how I feel that Sweden's neighbours and partner countries within NATO view Swedish participation as an observer in the UN Convention against Nuclear Weapons, which I will henceforth call TPNW, and in what way a Swedish observership in the Convention promotes a security policy line that is stable and predictable. Disarmament and non-proliferation of nuclear weapons remain a central foreign and security policy priority for the government. The NPT is the cornerstone of the global disarmament and non-proliferation architecture, and Sweden is actively contributing – not least within the framework of the Stockholm initiative – to disarmament progress within the NPT framework. The government's position on TPNW from 2019 is solid. A Swedish signature of the Convention in its current form is not relevant. In connection with the announcement by the Government, it was also pointed out that Sweden intended to become an observer to the Convention. Thus, the observation was originally part of the overall position on TPNW. The letter of intent in this regard has since been confirmed in a number of different contexts, most recently by me in a letter to the UN Secretariat in connection with the entry into force of the Convention. The purpose of our observation is to actively monitor and seek to influence the further development of the Convention. The Swedish line on the TPNW issue as formulated in 2019 – observership but not membership – is still valid. That is a line that I understand is well-known and respected among our neighbours and partners, including those who are members of NATO. Sweden's various security and defence policy collaborations continue to develop and deepen. Sweden for an ambitious and results-oriented policy for nuclear disarmament – a long-standing important element of Swedish security policy.
i-652eafd0fe96b11a-210	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister for Foreign Affairs, for your answer. The nuclear weapons of the world, by their number and spread, their charge force and the ability to deliver at large distances, pose a very serious threat to humanity. It is therefore very important that we take this threat seriously and address it with the seriosity it requires. Sweden is also particularly vulnerable because we have a nuclear weapon-armed, non-democratic and aggressive superpower as our neighbour: Russia, a country with the largest possession of nuclear weapons and an overwhelming possession of tactical nuclear weapons – tactical nuclear weapons that reach Sweden and pose a direct threat to our country. This clear nuclear threat needs to be raised and addressed constructively. Experts need to be involved, and this is an issue that is very inappropriate to make placard policy out of. Unfortunately, this is precisely what we see the government doing with the nuclear issue. First, we will have Sweden's access to the Nuclear Weapons Convention examined. It is given answers, not only in the 234-page inquiry but in principle in all consultation bodies, that in several independent areas it can have very serious consequences for Sweden and Swedish security policy. The Government then proposes that Sweden should accede to the Convention as an observer, despite the fact that the investigation has established that the following should be added to the balance sheet, in addition to the costs of this, also how a Swedish observership would be interpreted in the outside world. ..................................................... An interpretation of Swedish access as an observer to the Convention would hardly be welcomed by our main allies in NATO and among our Nordic neighbours. Madam President, I would like A few weeks ago, we debated in this House the various defence policy cooperations that Sweden has. In this context, I noted that the collaborations are good and that it is to the benefit of Sweden and Swedish security that we have such a broad palette of collaborations. It is also to the benefit of Sweden that there is agreement on these collaborations, although we disagree on the direction and how they should be developed and prioritised. These cooperations with other states are in danger of opposition by the government through an observership in the Nuclear Ban Treaty, which several of our main partners are actively opposed to. The consequence can be devastating for Swedish security when one day we say we want to cooperate and demand help from NATO states and the other day want to support a convention that undermines their security. Madam President, I would like In addition to these negative aspects, it is very difficult to see the positive aspects of accession to the Convention. No nuclear state has so far joined, nor has any NATO state. Ambassador Lundin's investigation is also very critical of how the Convention has been drafted. Many of the Swedish improvement proposals have not been incorporated into the Convention. There is no secretariat attached to the Convention, such as the Chemical Weapons Convention, where there is a secretariat with hundreds of employees. Without the control that disarmament really takes place, how should you know it's happening? Madam President, I would like Instead, let us build on and strengthen the ways in which real disarmament can take place! The NPT is one example. The NPT Convention entered into force in 1968, and since the end of the Cold War there has been a very sharp reduction in the world's nuclear weapons. The United States and Russia have been heavily disarmed, and this is a very positive development. In today's strengthened security policy situation in the world, where the further proliferation of nuclear weapons is one of the main threats, let us instead focus on strengthening the NPT Convention, which has actually produced clear results! I would like to know from the Minister for Foreign Affairs what the cost is for Sweden, not only financially but also in relation to the outside world, given what Ambassador Lundin writes in his investigation.
i-652eafd0fe96b11a-225	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Björn Söder, for the interpellation in an important area! We from the Swedish side continue to be a driving force for global disarmament and non-proliferation of nuclear weapons. The Stockholm Nuclear Disarmament Initiative is a key expression of this and is specifically about the NPT Conference. It is also our board membership in the IAEA and our commitment to a more peaceful and secure Korean peninsula. The entry into force of the Convention on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons (TPNW) is a major event in international disarmament. Through the observership, Sweden will have the opportunity to follow the work on the Convention and contribute to its further development. However, as I have already made clear, an observation should not be confused with membership. The fact that we intend to be an observer at the TPNW State Party meetings does not mean that Sweden will thus become party to or otherwise be bound by international law by the Convention. As is well known, Sweden participated in the negotiations leading up to the Convention in 2017. Our aim was to contribute to a convention text that met the requirements for a convention of this kind. Unfortunately, the result was not what we hoped for. Instead, the text contained a number of key shortcomings and ambiguities, including the relationship between the Convention and the NPT, inadequate wording on enforcement – so-called verification – and the lack of clear definitions. Prior to its position, the government had a good basis at its disposal, including Ambassador Lars-Erik-Erik Lundin's investigation. In the light of the shortcomings of the Convention and in the context of an overall assessment, Sweden chose not to sign the Convention. The government's policy linked to the issue of TPNW has consistently been characterised by commitment to the substance, accuracy of analysis and clarity of the position. It is an attitude that I feel has been met with great understanding and respect, even by our most important security policy partners. When it comes to Björn Söder's question about how much it costs, it is still unclear. It depends on how many countries choose to become state parties and observers to Tpanw. In accordance with Article 9 of the Convention, the United Nations Grant Calculation Model is to be used to determine the contribution of each State Party and observer. The more countries share the costs, the less for each country. This means that costs may change over time.
i-652eafd0fe96b11a-233	Madam President, I would like However, Ambassador Lundin writes in his investigation: The question of participating in the meetings of the State Parties as an observer should also be examined when the conditions for this are clarified. In addition to the costs of this, we should add to the balance the interpretation of Swedish observation in the outside world. ..................................................... In her reply, the Minister for Foreign Affairs says that she understands that the line Sweden has is well known and respected among our neighbours and that it would not affect. The question then is: has the government actually carried out a proper investigation of what this sends out to the outside world, or is this based only on individual opinions? And another question: how does the Foreign Minister think that this convention can bear fruit at all, given that no nuclear states have signed it but have rejected it? For me, it is quite incomprehensible that one should think that one should continue to push for a convention that is of no interest to those concerned at all. There's only going to be one blow in the air. A secretariat is not tied to this either. The question then is: how can we follow the work and the development of the Convention at all, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs says? How can you control this? I take it that, in 2017, when Sweden voted in favour of this convention, this was an issue that was pursued by the then Foreign Minister, Margot Wallström. But she met resistance in her own government, from Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist, and then came the observation as some sort of compromise within the government. I would like to ask these questions once again to the Minister for Foreign Affairs: how can we follow the development of the Convention when there is no secretariat attached to it? And has the government made a proper investigation of what signals this sends to our surrounding world?
i-652eafd0fe96b11a-239	Madam President, I would like I can start with the last question. We will probably find out what the secretariat will look like on January 12 - 14, 2022. Then Austria has called the first meeting of the State Party. Until then, I do not think we will have any proper answers, but then we will have more answers as to what the secretariat should look like. It is not that the NPT and the Non-Proliferation Conference are not important; there is no conflict here. We think this is very important. Any attempt to promote disarmament and non-proliferation and build consensus and commitment to this is important. That is why TPNW is also an important aspect of disarmament architecture. However, the current geopolitical tensions, where Russia and China, for example, are modernising and further developing their arsenals, contribute to increased uncertainty, and this may have a negative impact on the overall global security situation. Britain's recent announcement that it intends to increase the numerical ceiling for its nuclear arsenal is also a sign of the times. Our focus now is therefore to contribute to the Non-Proliferation Treaty Review Conference, which is supposed to take place in the UN in August – we will see if the pandemic allows. It helps to strengthen the Treaty. Our objective is to make progress on all three pillars of the NPT: disarmament, non-proliferation and peaceful use. The existence of TPNW at all should be seen in the light of the prevailing climate and the limited implementation of disarmament measures by nuclear weapons states. The NPT Review Conference is a very good opportunity for all state parties to reaffirm their previous Convention commitments, including those relating to direct disarmament. We all have a responsibility to contribute to the desired outcome of this conference. But I would like to say that the nuclear states have a particular responsibility. For the NPT to become a cornerstone of the global disarmament architecture, progress needs to be made. Here we have been very active. The Stockholm Nuclear Disarmament Initiative is an important part of the work. It covers 15 other partner countries, all representing different geographical and security policy contexts. NATO members are in. We continue our efforts to reduce tensions in the world, increase confidence and transparency and counteract the negative trends towards a strong polarisation that has characterised disarmament diplomacy in recent years. In fact, the initiative has become the key contribution to future change by having an inclusive approach and process.
i-652eafd0fe96b11a-246	Madam President, I would like I think it is a little strange that it has been decided that we should be observers in TNW, but we do not know how the secretariat will be designed or how much this will cost Sweden. Nor is it known how it would affect nuclear states because they are not interested in attending. I share the Foreign Minister's view on the importance of the NPT. I think we should continue working in the NPT and further develop it. But to create a new convention, which cannot bear any fruit at all because those concerned do not even want to be involved and have rejected it – how will it bring about disarmament? There must, of course, be a plan for that if you join, either by ratifying the Convention or by joining as an observer, as the government wants. Once again, how can you decide to become an observer in something that you really do not know anything about, whether it will look like, what it will cost or how it will achieve any success at all? Nevertheless, I would like to thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the debate and take the opportunity to do so now.
i-7aQMhkqQeH3MDPX7rNqdzG	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Björn Söder, for the interpellation! Madam President, I would like It appears that the interpellant sees a contradiction between NPT and TPNW. We don't see it that way. We see it as part of a disarmament architecture where different agreements are concluded. For example, it is very gratifying that the Start-up Agreement between the United States and Russia can now be continued, which was unclear until the last. As I said earlier, we are now and for some time now putting most of the power in the field of disarmament on the NPT. That is why we are the leader in this work, together with Germany and Jordan – but 15 other countries are also participating. It includes 22 concrete steps for disarmament, so I believe very much in putting all the time and effort into it. But with the entry into force of the TPNW – it happened when 50 states ratified – we have to deal with it. I think that choosing to ignore the Convention and refrain from monitoring how it will go and from trying to influence it would be a mistake. Other like - minded people have made the same assessment. It is because of the pandemic that we do not know what the secretariat looks like; it has been considered that it is not reasonable to bring together all the political parties. But, as I said, in January we will see it. We also have the distribution key and know how much it would cost if it were, as it is now, 50 states and how much it will cost then. It's not about a giant sum. I've seen what it is if it's frozen exactly like today. So it is not so unclear.
i-652eafd0fe96b11a-255	Madam President, I would like Lotta Johnsson Fornarve has asked me how I intend to stand up for and lift the convention against violence against women internationally, from which I intend to work on the convention bilaterally and through the EU vis-à-vis Turkey, whether the government will strengthen Swedish support for women's rights organisations and other civil society organisations that are fighting for equality and women's rights in Turkey and from which I intend to work as Chairman of the OSSE in order for the countries that are approaching leaving the convention to ratify it instead. Turkey's decision to withdraw from the Istanbul Convention is deeply regrettable. Preventing all forms of violence against women and ensuring full enjoyment of human rights by women and girls remains a priority for the government. The government is a driving force in the EU and in international fora to draw attention to human rights violations. Sweden's feminist foreign policy means that the foreign administration consistently works to pay attention to and contribute to gender equality and a better situation for women and girls. Stopping all forms of violence against women and girls is a central objective of feminist foreign policy. In line with this, the Government has publicly recognised Turkey's withdrawal from the Istanbul Convention. We have also addressed this issue within the framework of EU cooperation, in dialogue with like-minded people and with organisations working for women's human rights in Turkey and in international organisations, most recently in the Council of Europe. The Government of the OECD, the EU, the UN and the Council of Europe have participated in several statements on Turkey's decision to withdraw from the Istanbul Convention. The Swedish foreign authorities in Turkey promote greater respect for human rights, democracy and the rule of law as an important part of the diplomatic mission. Within the framework of Sweden's bilateral reform support, we support civil society, with you and other change actors, not least in order to improve the situation of women in Turkey. For example, Sweden supports the Association for Struggle against Sexual Violence, which works to pay attention to and combat sexual violence and harassment in Turkish society. Both human rights, democracy and the rule of law and gender equality are priorities for the Swedish Presidency of the OSSE. This is something that Sweden highlights in different ways during the year. As Chairman, we call on the participating states of the OSCE to implement the commitments and principles agreed jointly. This also applies to this area. Sweden also supported a declaration in the OSCE Permanent Council in March on Turkey's withdrawal from the Istanbul Convention in its national capacity.
i-652eafd0fe96b11a-261	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister for Foreign Affairs, for the positive answer to my interpellation! I am fully aware that both the Minister and the Government are actively working on gender equality, and I am also pleased that Sweden has already acted against Turkey's unfortunate decision to leave the Istanbul Convention. However, I think that the Istanbul Convention is so important that we should raise this to debate in this House. I also hope that the Minister and the Government will continue to strengthen their work on the Convention further. When the Council of Europe adopted the Istanbul Convention in 2011, it was a major step forward for women in the world. It was a victory for equality and women's rights. The Convention aims to protect women and girls from all forms of violence and to prevent, prosecute and eliminate violence against women and domestic violence. It states that violence against women is an expression of historically unequal power relations between women and men. Finally, there was a legally binding agreement banning all forms of violence against women both at home and in society – a long-awaited convention that focuses on the fact that women and girls in the world are often subjected to various forms of violence, harassment and oppression just because they are women. According to UN Women, one in three women in the world during their lifetime are subjected to physical or sexual violence. Violence against women is a serious violation of human rights and affects women regardless of their religious or ethnic affiliation, social status or geographical location. Madam President, I would like Turkey's decision to leave the Istanbul Convention is, of course, a great betrayal and setback for all women in the world and especially for Turkish women. Turkey was involved in initiating the Convention and was also the first country to ratify it. The Convention has been signed by the entire EU and a large number of countries including Sweden. Turkey is now opting out of the Convention and is thus further alienating itself from European cooperation. Turkey chooses to leave the Istanbul Convention in a situation where oppression of women in Turkey is increasing. That is remarkable, to say the least. Violence against women is constantly present in Turkey, and during the pandemic violence has increased. According to WHO, 38% of the country's women are subjected to violence from a partner. It's hair traveler! The situation of women in Turkey is difficult. Only in February this year, 33 women were murdered by men. The Turkish Government does not show any signs of trying to reverse the negative trend, but on the contrary, it is increasing and legitimising violence and repression. This is done, for example, by arresting women's rights activists who demonstrate for women's rights and by legitimising in state media violence against women. Politicians in conservative parties, including the AKP, argue that the convention undermines Turkish family values. Sweden must continue to stand up for and defend the Istanbul Convention wherever possible. Sweden must also express its criticism even more strongly to the Turkish regime about the decision to leave this important convention. We must make it absolutely clear to the Turkish regime that it is completely out of the question for Turkey to apply for EU membership as long as it does not respect fundamental human rights in all areas. The Istanbul Convention to combat all forms of violence against women is, of course, a fundamental part of these fundamental human rights.
i-652eafd0fe96b11a-271	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lotta Johnsson Fornarve, for raising this issue in an interpellation! I fully agree that there should be a debate on this in Parliament. Sweden has a strong commitment to gender equality and women's rights in Turkey. We have noted that developments are now going in the wrong direction. We have raised the issues directly with our Turkish counterparts and are working with organisations that are working to strengthen women's full enjoyment of human rights. During my visit to Ankara last autumn, I met UN Women, the UN Unit for Gender Equality and Women's Empowerment, to discuss specific challenges regarding respect for women's human rights in Turkey. When I met Minister for Foreign Affairs, I also, of course, mentioned the importance of respect for human rights and women's rights. When we were informed of Turkey's withdrawal from the Istanbul Convention, in our bilateral dialogue both in Stockholm and Ankara, we expressed our concern about the decision and stressed the importance of the Convention. We will continue to do so. Our foreign authorities in Turkey have for many years been committed to paying attention to and contributing to gender equality and the full enjoyment of human rights by women and girls. Among other things, they do so through political dialogue, communication and cooperation within the EU and the UN on the ground in Turkey. Sweden cooperates with several actors in the country who in various ways work to strengthen democracy and human rights. Cooperation takes place not least through our bilateral reform support, which prioritises independent civil society organisations. In a situation where the scope for civil society is limited and continues to shrink, this work becomes even more important. The reform support has a strong gender profile, enabling advocacy as well as concrete support for the most vulnerable through civil society organisations. Sweden cooperates with organisations that support violent women and girls in Turkey, including through advice and sheltered housing. During 2020 Sweden also supported the development of a special manual that addresses men and raises issues of masculinity and gender-based violence. Another example is support for an organisation that regularly publishes statistics on the murder of women in Turkey on its website. These tasks provide an important reference point for actors working with the enjoyment of human rights by women and girls.
i-652eafd0fe96b11a-278	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his answer, and it is clear that we are in agreement on this issue. It is good that the Minister has had direct contact with the other party. It is also good to meet the various organisations working against violence against women and gender equality on the ground in Turkey. I have also visited Turkey on several occasions and met this type of organisation, and I know how important it is for them to be told that they are not alone and that they have support. This work must therefore be continued and intensified. Turkey's decision to leave the Istanbul Convention has upset a whole world, and protests have come from a number of countries and international organisations, including, of course, Turkish women and their organisations. Right now, a criminal trial is under way against 108 politicians from the Left Party of HDP, 50 of whom are women. Today there are thousands of political prisoners in Turkey. HDP estimates that more than 4,000 are members of HDP and that more than 1,500 of these are women. Women politicians feel that they are more vulnerable. It seems to me that Erdo中an believes that women should not engage in politics and should preferably not work at all. Erdo中an believes that women should instead stay at home and have children, preferably five. Mr Erdo中an simply wants to introduce a more conservative Islamic society, where the Istanbul Convention does not fit in. The Left Party HDP has for decades consistently worked for a more equal Turkey and is often called the Women's Party. HDP has in its statutes that a man and a woman must be elected to all leading positions. HDP's work on gender equality and women's rights is seen by the Turkish regime as a threat and is one of the reasons why the party has been targeted by the regime. Women's organisations in Turkey are becoming increasingly difficult to operate and are often subjected to harassment. About a hundred women's organisations, it is difficult to say exactly, have been shut down. Many still continue despite threats of imprisonment and harassment. Fewer and fewer women are working. Turkey leaves the Istanbul Convention when it is most needed from the perspective of Turkish women. Violence against women in Turkey is increasing every day. Last year, over 300 women were killed by men, and, as I said earlier, according to Amnesty and women's rights organisations in the country, 33 women were killed only in February this year. It is clear that Turkish women need more protection, not less. However, if the regime gets its way, Turkey's women will lack effective protection. But Turkey's women do not accept this. Following Turkey's withdrawal from the Convention, large demonstrations have taken place in several parts of the country with thousands of participants. At the same time, although it is hopeful, there is a risk that violence between demonstrators and the police will increase. Several of the demonstrators believe that the Istanbul Convention is a matter of life and death or not. I am pleased to see that several opposition parties have appealed against the decision to the Supreme Court in the light of the fact that the Turkish Constitution says that the country can only give international commitments with the good memory of Parliament. The decision to leave the Convention was made without Parliament being consulted, and this is most remarkable. It is incredibly important that Sweden supports the forces in Turkey that stand up for the Istanbul Convention, gender equality and women's rights. The parties and women's organisations that dare to defy the regime deserve all our support, both politically and economically. It is good that Sweden already has support for women's organisations in Turkey, as the Minister explained. But does the Minister think that this support needs to be increased in the light of the serious situation of women in Turkey and the fact that Turkey has left the Istanbul Convention?
i-652eafd0fe96b11a-291	Madam President, I would like We agree on developments in Turkey, and I have just outlined all the contacts we have in Turkey, not least with women's organisations. There is broad agreement on this. In our feminist foreign policy, we are constantly working on the issue of the elimination of violence against women and girls. It's not just about individuals, it's affecting society as a whole. We aim to draw attention to violence in close relations and to promote the accession of more countries to binding conventions such as the Istanbul Convention in order to achieve this objective. Then we must work to ensure that it is not undermined or questioned and use cooperation with local UN actors and political dialogue, and so on. When the Istanbul Convention is called into question, and not least when Turkey decides to leave the Convention, we must act, and we have done so. For example, we have contributed a strong statement in the Council of Europe, and we were driving Europe for a strong reaction. The European Council made it clear in its dialogue with Turkey in March that respect for human rights is central to the relationship between the EU and Turkey. The fact that Turkey has a duty to respect women's human rights was specifically emphasised. I can also tell you that on Wednesday I gave a speech to the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe in Strasbourg. I also had a long talk with Secretary-General Marija Burić, who was previously my fellow Foreign Minister in Croatia, and we talked a lot about the Istanbul Convention and how to get more countries to ratify it. There are a couple of countries that need to push a little bit more so that they really do. In fact, she said that the saddest day so far in her role as Secretary-General of the Council of Europe was when she received this communication, so I know that the Council of Europe has an extremely dedicated Secretary-General, particularly on this issue. Our commitment to the Istanbul Convention is part of a broader perspective on Turkey, which deals with human rights and democracy. As far as HDP is concerned, I note that Lotta Johnsson Fornarve calls it a left-wing party. HDP means People's Democratic Party, and I know they're not happy to either be called Kurdish or left, but let's go. Social Democrats, liberals and surely center parties also cooperate with the People's Democratic Party. In any case, all these imprisonments are totally unacceptable. It is purely political processes that are going on, and we should also protest against this.
i-652eafd0fe96b11a-298	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister for Foreign Affairs, for your answer. It is excellent that the Minister has discussed with the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe because this is the Council of Europe Convention we are talking about. The Istanbul Convention is the most comprehensive Convention on Women's Rights developed and ratified by almost all European countries. The strength and potential of the Convention lies in the fact that it contains provisions and requirements on measures, legislation and prevention to which a State is responsible. In the end, the Convention aims to eliminate all forms of discrimination against women and to promote effective equality between men and women. This is amazing. Now, unfortunately, we see gender equality returning in many countries, especially in countries where right-wing nationalist regimes have come to power. Turkey's decision to withdraw from the Convention has, of course, extremely negative consequences for women throughout the world, but especially for Turkish women. I am deeply concerned that the Turkish example is spreading to more countries so that we can see more countries leaving this important convention. It is therefore extremely important that Sweden and other democratic countries continue to stand up for the Istanbul Convention with full force, strengthen the work of defending the Convention and move more countries, not less, to ratify it. The OSSE Presidency is an excellent opportunity to step up work on the Istanbul Convention and other gender issues. To the fighting women in Turkey and to those parties and organisations who continue to defend the Istanbul Convention to stop violence against women at home and in society and stand up for women's rights, I would say that you are not alone. There are many of us behind you. Thank you for the debate.
i-652eafd0fe96b11a-307	Madam President, I would like Combating all forms of violence is an important issue for the government. As regards the fight against men's violence against women and violence in close relations, the Istanbul Convention is a key instrument. Our commitment to the Convention involves continuing to contribute to the impact of more countries ratifying the Convention. Turkey's withdrawal from the Istanbul Convention is very regrettable. We have brought this to Turkey, and in the international context we have worked to pay broad attention to the decision. On the ground in Turkey, we will continue our long-standing commitment to the full enjoyment of human rights by women and girls. Unfortunately, we are seeing negative developments in several areas of democracy, human rights and the rule of law in Turkey. Sweden will continue to work for the EU to make appropriate use of the tools at its disposal. The government believes that it is through dialogue, including clear criticism, that the EU can best influence Turkey. Sweden will continue to promote the full enjoyment of human rights by women in multilateral fora, including as Chairman of the OSSE. I would therefore like to thank the interpelllan for the debate and wish you a pleasant first May.
i-652eafd0fe96b11a-312	Madam President, I would like Lars Adaktusson has asked me whether I and the government intend to act in any way against the Chinese regime in relation to the information on ongoing genocide in Xinjiang province. Furthermore, Lars Adaktusson has asked me whether I am prepared to define the abuse of the Uighurs as genocide, as happened in the United States, Canada and the Netherlands. Finally, Lars Adaktusson has asked me what conclusions I draw from the fact that some fifty experts in the report The Uyghur G enocide : An E xamination of China As I have pointed out several times before, the Government takes the human rights situation in Xinjiang very seriously. The Ministry for Foreign Affairs' recent report on the situation of human rights, democracy and the rule of law in China from 2019 stated that restrictions on the enjoyment of human rights by individuals are particularly common in Xinjiang. Given the gravity of the situation, on 22 March the EU imposed sanctions on four individuals and one entity for human rights violations in Xinjiang. It is important that the EU now continues to act in a united manner. The maintenance of international law, including human rights, affects the entire international community. Therefore, Sweden and the EU have on several occasions addressed the situation in Xinjiang in meetings with Chinese representatives. Both Sweden and the EU have repeatedly expressed concerns about the human rights situation in Xinjiang, most recently at the UN Human Rights Council in March 2021. It is of great importance that the international community should have access to Xinjiang in order to obtain detailed information on developments on the ground. Sweden therefore supports the EU's request that the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights be granted meaningful access to Xinjiang by China.
i-652eafd0fe96b11a-317	Madam President, I would like Two weeks the Government and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs have had to answer my interpellation, which contains three questions. None of the questions were answered in what we just heard. To put it mildly, this is remarkable, partly because it is a matter of deeply serious abuse of hundreds of thousands of innocent people, and partly because a minister is expected to respect the right of Members of Parliament to intervene and to receive relevant answers. Madam President, I would like What is happening in Xinjiang province in north-west China is a major human rights violation of the Uighur population. These are systematic and targeted atrocities for which the dictatorship regime in Beijing bears full responsibility. The Christian Democrats do not hesitate to state this clearly and to define what is going on as genocide. In the autumn of 2014, I had the privilege of meeting Uigurian human rights activist Rebiya Kadeer. Her struggle for the rights of the Uighurs has largely taken place in silence. Too few international media and political representatives have listened to what she has to say. Yet it was a hopeful Rebiya Kadeer I met. Her message was that genocide cannot be hidden and that one day the world will see. She was right – over time the insight has increased. Under both the former and the present White House administration, the United States has classified the crimes against the Uighurs as genocide. The same decision has been taken by Canada and the Netherlands. Only last week, Parliament in the United Kingdom took the decision to define the abuse of the Chinese regime as genocide. Madam President, I would like The most comprehensive survey of what is happening in Xinjiang so far was published just recently, in early March. Behind the report is the American Newlines Institute for Strategy and Policy together with the Canadian Raoul Wallenberg Centre for Human Rights. Some fifty international researchers and China experts are involved in personal testimonials and other data that have emerged. The report refers to the UN Convention on Genocide of 1948, which lays down five criteria for the definition of genocide. According to the 50 researchers, the abuse of the Uighurs meets all these criteria. In view of this, I would like to reiterate the question I put in my interpellation: does the Foreign Minister think that the Uighurs are the victims of genocide?
i-652eafd0fe96b11a-323	Madam President, I would like Whether or not to judge abuse or violation as genocide includes both international law, constitutional, criminal law and political aspects. Another important, but not decisive, aspect of such an assessment is whether, for example, a national or international court or tribunal has examined the matter. Although reports published on the human rights situation in Xinjiang are grounds for great concern and criticism, it is a fact that China has not yet made possible an independent international review in Xinjiang. It is therefore essential for the international community to have meaningful access to Xinjiang in order to form an understanding of the situation on the ground. Sweden and the EU will continue to urge China to give meaningful access to the region to the international community, preferably to the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights. It is also of great importance that journalists and media workers are given the opportunity to report regularly on the situation. It is regrettable that there is so much scope for journalists, media workers and others reporting on conditions in China. Freedom of expression and the security of media workers is an issue that the government is following closely, including with regard to China, as reflected, among other things, in the Ministry for Foreign Affairs' reports on the human rights, democracy and rule of law situation in China. It is important to emphasise that the question of how to label the abuses committed does not affect the government's work on human rights issues. Sweden continues to act clearly and tirelessly in the forums at its disposal to end violations of human rights. Among other things, the government is working to ensure that the situation is recognised internationally. Sweden has on several occasions addressed the situation in Xinjiang in international contexts and in meetings with Chinese representatives. The EU has also addressed this issue in direct talks with Chinese representatives, including in the context of the two EU-China summits in June and September 2020. Both Sweden and the EU have on several occasions expressed concern at the human rights situation in Xinjiang, most recently at the UN Human Rights Council meeting in March 2021. In a meeting of the Third Committee of the United Nations General Assembly last October, Sweden joined a joint speech expressing strong criticism of China's actions in Xinjiang. In addition, the EU adopted a recent unanimous sanction against four individuals and a unit responsible for gross violations of human rights in Xinjiang. A number of non-EU European countries also supported the EU joint decision. The EU has an important role to play. The government is working towards continued clear EU-wide action.
i-652eafd0fe96b11a-330	Madam President, I would like Even a non-answer can be telling. The fact that the Swedish Foreign Minister is unable to state that it is a genocide that is going on before our eyes shows what this is about – a foreign policy without values. On the one hand, to say that the government takes the human rights situation very seriously and, on the other hand, to refuse to call it what it is does not make sense. It's not credible. Madam President, I would like The government returns to the fact that genocide is a concept to be defined by lawyers and courts, not by parliaments and governments. It is fundamentally wrong. Around the world, the genocide issue has been dealt with politically for a long time. The reason for that is simple: words mean something, and words make a difference. American professor Gregory Stanton, co-author of the Rome Statute and founder of Genocide Watch, has confirmed this in his research. Stanton shows that it was only when the concept of genocide began to be used about what happened in Srebrenica in Bosnia and Rwanda that the inaction of the outside world was replaced by political action. The same research shows that international efforts are usually absent as long as rewrites for genocide are used. The condemnations and the EU sanctions that the Minister for Foreign Affairs mentions against the Chinese Communist regime for the atrocious treatment of the Uighurs are welcome. But that's not enough. Madam President, I would like In the debate last week in the House of Commons on the situation of the Uighurs in Xinjiang, Member of Parliament Stephen Kinnock explained why he and his party support the recognition of genocide. He said: Genocide can never be met with indifference or passivity. Stephen Kinnock is Minister of Labour's Shadow Government. His party colleague, the MEP and lawyer Yasmin Qureshi, explained that Parliament's genocide decision is a turning point. No one can deny the extent of the abuse taking place in Xinjiang Province any longer, she said. Why does Ann Linde not see what her Social Democratic party friends in British Labour see?
i-652eafd0fe96b11a-339	Madam President, I would like This really is not about what you see or do not see, but it is about the fact that it is a very serious human rights situation in Xinjiang. We are acting against it in several places. But as usual, Lars Adaktusson chooses to concentrate only on one concept and not act against what actually happens in Xinjiang and is totally unacceptable. This has been demonstrated in the Ministry for Foreign Affairs' recent report on human rights. We have also noted with concern the statements made by a number of UN Special Rapporteurs and experts on the situation in Xinjiang, both in June 2020 and March 2021, on the very serious human rights situation in Xinjiang. The independent audits carried out by these special rapporteurs are an important part of the work carried out to review the situation. Furthermore, the Government has received information from human rights organisations on forced sterilisations, arbitrary detentions and undue restrictions on the right to freedom of expression, religion or belief in Xinjiang. In other words, it is very clear that the situation is very serious. The government is and will continue to be consistent and clear in raising the issue of the serious human rights situation in China with Chinese government representatives, including with China's ambassador in Sweden. In order to influence this development, Sweden is doing a long-term and wide-ranging work to safeguard human rights in all areas of our relations with China. We support the work on human rights carried out within the framework of the EU's relationship with China, and it is through the EU that Sweden has the best impact. Of course, the work of strengthening human rights in the EU's various policy areas does not only affect the situation in China. One example is the ongoing work to strengthen human rights with common EU human rights rules in business. Sweden has a very important role to play in achieving human rights, democracy and the rule of law in many countries, not least in China. This is just one of many aspects of the work that bears on human rights and how we work for human rights in Xinjiang.
i-652eafd0fe96b11a-345	Madam President, I would like It is doubtful whether Ann Linde's party friends in the British Labour Party would appreciate what the Minister for Foreign Affairs has just stated, or for that matter the representative of the new Biden administration in the United States. Through the unwillingness to see and acknowledge what is the worst and most abominable crimes of international law, the Swedish government is bringing its case. And it's not the first time. The same calculating real policy that we now see is behind the refusal to recognise seyfo, the Armenian genocide in 1915, and the Islamic state genocide against Christians in 2014. The former calls the Foreign Minister a mass assault. She's not talking about the latter at all. Madam President, I would like This, however you turn it around, is to compromise with fundamental values of human dignity and humanity. But it is also to betray the weakest and most vulnerable, namely the victims of genocide and their families – all the thousands of people around the world who have the right to redress and the right to full and undivided support from the outside world.
i-652eafd0fe96b11a-349	Madam President, I would like It is of great importance that the international community should have access to Xinjiang in order to obtain detailed information on developments on the ground. Sweden therefore supports the EU's request that the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights be granted meaningful access to Xinjiang in China. Sweden's and the EU's efforts to highlight the issue in various international contexts continue with clear messages to the Chinese leadership. The fact that the EU agreed on 22 March to impose sanctions for human rights violations in Xinjiang demonstrates the seriousness with which the EU and several other countries view developments in Xinjiang. China's strong reaction to the EU's decision on sanctions indicates that the EU's decision was a strong signal to the Chinese leadership. Sweden will continue to be a clear voice for human rights in international contexts, as well as in meetings with Chinese representatives.
i-652eafd0fe96b11a-353	Madam President, I would like Mats Green has asked me whether I am prepared, in the course of my duties, to take any further initiatives with regard to the Dominican Republic in order to clarify what has happened in the present case. He has also asked whether I believe something could have been done differently in our handling of the matter and, finally, whether I intend to take any general measures to improve the handling of this type of consular matter. Mats Green in his interpellation addresses two consular cases concerning deaths in the Dominican Republic that occurred in March 2020. Let me begin by emphasising that deaths abroad are among the most sensitive cases that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has to deal with within the framework of the consular mission. I can assure you that we are always trying to provide the help and support that is possible in the individual case. In any case, careful assessment is made of the possibilities for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to assist. I would also like to emphasise that we are always in favour of consistent and legally sound management, regardless of how much attention or publicity the individual case receives and that we always take our contacts with relatives very seriously. The mission of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs when a Swedish person dies abroad is initially to ensure that the identity of the deceased is established and ensure that the closest relatives are informed if this has not already been done. In addition, one of the main tasks of the foreign authorities is to send this to the Tax Agency once the death certificate has been drawn up by local authorities, which can then register the person who died in the population register. It is understandable, of course, that family members want to know as much as possible about the death that occurred, not least in the case of unclear circumstances. Foreign administration can assist in requesting documentation from local authorities and hospitals. However, it is not the task of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or the foreign authorities to verify the accuracy of autopsy reports or to review police reports. Neither the Ministry of Foreign Affairs nor the foreign authorities are charged with investigating possible crimes related to the death. Here the relatives must contact the local authorities directly. In many countries, it may take a long time before the investigations are completed, and it may take time to obtain documents. I understand very well that it can be frustrating for relatives not to know what has happened, not least with regard to something as terrible as death. It can also be noted that the confidentiality of information in consular matters applies if it can be assumed that the individual or someone close to him suffers harm or if the information is disclosed. That is why, as a rule, we cannot comment on or comment on individual cases in detail. However, I would like to stress that, in this case, we have repeatedly pointed out to representatives of the Dominican Republic the importance of dealing with the death cases as a matter of urgency and that the facts are being investigated. We will continue to do so. The Foreign Service handles around 1,800 death cases annually. I can assure Mats Green that we take our consular mission very seriously and that we work professionally and in accordance with current regulations and guidelines.
i-652eafd0fe96b11a-360	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Minister for the answer he has read. Unfortunately, it did not answer the questions in the interpellation, nor did it answer the questions of the relatives. Madam President, I would like Time does not permit a review of all the circumstances of the tragic case of the sudden and inexplicable death of the Silva, 48 hours apart, during a holiday trip to the Dominican Republic in March 2020. Circumstances are clearly remarkable both during and after the deaths. One death occurred within the walls of the Dominican authorities and, among other things, it may be added that large sums were collected from a debit card belonging to one of the deceased several weeks after his death. It is also a credit card that has always been in the custody of the Dominican police. If you want to take part of all the circumstances in this case, you can read the interpellation on the Riksdag's website. The reason for the interpellation is the Minister for Foreign Affairs' lack of action on even the most grave questions about the actions and statements of the Dominican authorities in relation to Sweden and the sudden deaths of two Swedes. This contrasts, for example, with the behaviour of the United States in similar circumstances in the same country. Madam President, I would like After the interpellation was written, the Ministry for Foreign Affairs has had to hand out 200 pages of material about the case to Jönköpings-Posten. The Ministry for Foreign Affairs first refused to disclose anything at all but has now had to do so after the newspaper began an appeal process. This material confirms all the information presented in this interpellation, as stated by Jönköpings-Posten for more than a year. It also raised a number of new questions that will need to be answered. I shall return to the questions I have put to the Foreign Minister. The request of these has been approved by the President; that is why we are having this debate today. The Government needs to clarify and develop its answers, otherwise she will have to answer more interpellations on this issue. Above all, relatives need answers. Madam President, I would like The only contacts with the Dominican Republic that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has had for more than a year have taken place at official level. The circumstances surrounding the death of the Silva must, of course, now be addressed at the political level, since there has been no evidence of a millimetre in just over a year. I should therefore like to clarify and repeat my question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs: is she prepared to take the initiative in this matter after just over a year?
i-652eafd0fe96b11a-366	Madam President, I would like Let me begin by saying that what happened in the Dominican Republic just over a year ago is an extremely tragic event, which resulted in the loss of two Swedish citizens' lives. Receiving a notification of a death always means a great pain and sorrow for the relatives. Of course, the fact that death occurs far away, on the other side of the earth, also makes a loved one feel even more vulnerable and vulnerable. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the foreign authorities' mission when a Swedish person dies abroad is initially to ensure the identity of the deceased and establish through the Swedish police that the closest relatives are informed if this has not already been done. The foreign authorities can also help the relatives to obtain the necessary documentation for the repatriation of the deceased and also help to register the death with the Swedish Tax Agency. In cases where there is valid insurance, the insurance company takes over much of the practical arrangements. This was the case, for example, in the cases referred to by Mats Green in his interpellation. The insurance company's emergency services are then, for example, in contact with the local funeral home and also ensure that baggage and other belongings are sent home to Sweden. It is understandable, of course, that family members want to know as much as possible about the death, not least if it has happened in unclear circumstances. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs may assist in requesting documentation from local authorities and hospitals, but it is not the task of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or the foreign authorities to check the accuracy of autopsy reports or to review police reports. Neither the Ministry of Foreign Affairs nor the foreign authorities are charged with investigating possible crimes related to the death. Here the relatives must contact the local authorities directly. In many countries, it may take a long time before the investigation is completed, and it may take time to obtain documents. I would like to emphasise that conditions and regulations in different countries differ, and this can sometimes affect the conditions for the consular mission. I have great sympathy for the fact that the relatives may be frustrated at not being fully aware of what has happened, not least with regard to something as terrible as death. Should you need legal assistance abroad, the Ministry for Foreign Affairs can help you with a list of local legal representatives. You can also contact your insurance company to find out if you are entitled to legal protection through your travel insurance. However, I would like to make it clear that neither the Ministry for Foreign Affairs nor a foreign agency can act as legal counsel on these issues. I can assure Mats Green that when there are deaths abroad, the Foreign Service gives this top priority. The handlers of the Ministry for Foreign Affairs' consular services are doing everything they can to facilitate family members with the necessary practical management, which is covered by the consular mission.
i-652eafd0fe96b11a-374	Madam President, I would like I note that the Minister for Foreign Affairs does not in any way wish to answer my question. I do not expect – and no one expects – for the Foreign Minister to do something that is not within the framework of her duties. All we are asking is for the Minister for Foreign Affairs to step in, within the framework of his duties, and take action. The Secretary of State has been pushing this away for a year now. As was noted on an editorial page last month: nothing indicates that the alleged signal has reached the Dominican authorities – quite the contrary. It is clear that there is no intrinsic value in the fact that the Foreign Minister and the political level go into a matter if it is not necessary. But this is where it needs to be. This is what it takes. After all, the Ministry for Foreign Affairs has not got anywhere on the matter for more than a year – not a millimetre, Madam President. This is made quite clear by the Ministry for Foreign Affairs' own extradited documents, which we could read about in Jönköpings-Posten yesterday. The Foreign Minister also said in his reply that it will continue to point out to representatives of the Dominican Republic that the circumstances surrounding the death of the Silva need to be further investigated. That is interesting, Madam President, and I would like the Foreign Minister to explain how this will be done. Again, is the Minister for Foreign Affairs prepared to take the initiative himself in this matter in the exercise of his duties, after trying to keep the matter aside for more than a year? Valuable time has largely been wasted. Madam President, I would like It is now high time to stop the reference circus that the Ministry for Foreign Affairs and some other Swedish authorities have engaged in in the tragic case of the Silva couple. There are a number of undisputed facts here that I would like the Minister for Foreign Affairs to have a problem with and a number of further questions that actually need to be answered. One of these facts is that the Dominican Republic was first placed 137 out of 180 – place 1 is the best and place 180 is the worst – in the Transparency International index, which measures the extent of corruption and more among the world's countries. So we are talking about one of the 50 most corrupt countries in the world. The foreign minister's confidence in Dominican authorities is therefore, frankly, something difficult to understand. Above all, the unwillingness to act against the Dominican Republic on this matter is incomprehensible. In particular, a question that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has left out needs to be answered and not mentioned at all. In the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' own regulations on measures in the event of death abroad, the following is stated in Section 5, under the heading If possible, consent shall be obtained from the deceased's relatives before an autopsy is carried out. My last question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is: has the Ministry of Foreign Affairs done all this?
i-652eafd0fe96b11a-383	I remind you of Parliament's competence, which we have every reason to look at.
i-652eafd0fe96b11a-384	Madam President, I would like Mats Green asked me if I thought we could have done something different in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' handling of the matter. Let me begin by emphasising that deaths abroad are among the most sensitive cases that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has to deal with within the framework of the consular mission. I can assure you that we are always trying to provide the assistance and support that is possible in the individual case. In any case, careful assessment is made of the possibilities for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to assist. I would also like to emphasise that we are always in favour of consistent and legally sound management, no matter how much attention or publicity the individual case receives, and that we always take our contacts with relatives very seriously. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs handles around 1,800 death cases per year abroad. Thus, we have extensive experience in the practical handling and in having conversations with relatives who are in grief and shock after losing a loved one. Our consular service is based on the Swedish consular acquis and must be provided in a consistent, equivalent and legally secure manner regardless of where in the world you are. I can assure Mats Green that we take our consular mission very seriously and that we work professionally and in accordance with current regulations and guidelines. I understand that Mats Green cares for the loved ones and cares for their welfare. Believe me, so have I. However, it is important to mention something about how we can communicate information to the public in consular matters. It can be concluded that the confidentiality of information in consular matters applies if it can be assumed that the individual or someone close to him suffers harm or if the information is disclosed. This includes deceased persons. That is why, as a rule, we cannot comment on or comment on individual cases in detail, and that also applies in this case. Madam President, I would like I would like to stress that Mats Green's claim that in the performance of his duties I am not acting in the wrong way. I would like to stress that my department, the Ministry for Foreign Affairs, has acted on a number of occasions by pointing out the importance of the urgent handling of death cases and the investigation of circumstances on behalf of representatives of the Dominican Republic. We have raised this both on the ground in the Dominican Republic and with the ambassador here in Stockholm, even recently, and we will continue to do so.
i-652eafd0fe96b11a-391	Madam President, I would like I note that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has not acted on his own initiative at all and, obviously, which I hope will change, is not prepared to do so either. No matter what questions I put in this debate, the Minister for Foreign Affairs is reading inside from a pre-written text which in no way deals with the questions that are being asked here now. The Foreign Minister says that it is committed to the case – allow me to express doubts about this, Madam President. It would have found out more, because it has had a number of weeks before this interpellation and a little over a year to act more on the matter. Again, no one expects the Foreign Minister to go beyond what is possible in the course of her duties. The only thing that I think is right to expect is that the Minister for Foreign Affairs should act in the exercise of his duties, but the Minister for Foreign Affairs has certainly not done so. I also note that this will not be either the first or the last time that the Minister for Foreign Affairs will be able to discuss the Silva case in Parliament's pulpit, but we will come back with questions and interpellations, because this should not be forgotten and messed up. Once again, I would like to appeal to the Minister for Foreign Affairs to start taking the initiative in this matter, naturally in the course of her duties. In particular, the Minister for Foreign Affairs should be involved in the case and take initiatives as possible in the performance of her duties. For the future, I also have a recommendation and a wish, Madam President, and that is that she is familiar with something more in the case in which she has had a good time to understand, for more than a year.
i-652eafd0fe96b11a-397	Madam President, I would like I would like to emphasise once again, as I did at the outset, that deaths abroad are among the most sensitive cases that the Ministry for Foreign Affairs has to deal with within the framework of the consular mission. The handling of these cases is always done promptly in cooperation with our foreign authorities and with the responsible administrators of the Ministry for Foreign Affairs' consular services. In case of death, as in other emergency cases, we provide consular assistance when needed, 24 hours a day, every day of the year. The Ministry for Foreign Affairs has a great habit of meeting relatives who are in grief and shock after losing a loved one. I can assure Mats Green that we take our consular mission very seriously. We work professionally and in accordance with applicable regulations and guidelines. At the same time, it is important to make it clear that there are circumstances outside the consular mission. For example, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs cannot review autopsy reports or police reports. It is a task for law enforcement authorities. Nor can we act as legal advisors or representatives of individuals or intervene in legal proceedings abroad. However, this does not prevent us from underlining, through our diplomatic contacts in certain specific cases, that Sweden expects an urgent procedure in which all circumstances are investigated. We have also done so in these cases in our contacts with representatives of the Dominican Republic, and we will continue to do so.
