i-51db44cb4f1bd3ee-2	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I must say that it feels good to see a little more Members back in the Chamber. After all, we have not quite made it through the pandemic yet, but there are still reasons for optimism. It is not time to make a full statement yet, but after a year and a half of covid we can still start to draw some conclusions. One obvious conclusion is that when the crisis strikes, when it really comes to it, we can trust each other in Sweden. Around our country, people have been involved in doing their part. First of all, I think of all those who have worked hard and are still working in health care and care for the elderly to both protect and care, on all 70-plusers and others in risk groups who for many and long months have had to stay inside and refrain from meeting loved ones, on the students in school who have had to put their lives on hold and sacrifice all the fun that belongs to the youth, on all those who, with small decisions in everyday life, have taken their share of the responsibility, washed their hands, kept their distance and helped neighbors to act – and, of course, on all those who are now inoculating themselves. Right now there is a mass vaccination that is unprecedented in Swedish history. Millions and millions of Swedes have rolled up their sleeves, and for each needle stick Sweden can start living a little more as usual again. Now we also see the light in the tunnel, because in less than two weeks we can finally lift the restrictions. As we have longed! Another conclusion is that Sweden's politicians are able to gather when the crisis strikes. When the pandemic swept over Sweden, we put political differences aside in the Riksdag to jointly take responsibility and decide on historically comprehensive crisis measures. We have decided on an extensive supply of resources to the welfare that has enabled workers in health care, care for the elderly and disease protection to work on without concern for lack of money. Tax-funded financial support has supported many viable companies and saved Swedish jobs. Only by short-term lay-off has more than 600 000 Swedes been able to avoid the risk of becoming unemployed. Security has also been strengthened for the unemployed and the sick, and a strong green economic start is being made. These measures have obviously had an effect, for now the economy is recovering. Many come back to work, and that creates more room to solve social problems. This is positive, but of course the government is not leaning back. On the contrary, we are going to move forward. We will use the strength of the Swedish economy to build Sweden both stronger and more sustainable than it was before the pandemic. We therefore point to four clear priorities in this year's budget: the climate, jobs, welfare and crime. Mr President, I would like to The latest report from the IPCC warns that climate change remains the destiny of our time. The government has made major investments in climate change year after year, but there is no doubt that the pace must continue to increase. Of course, Sweden should take its share of responsibility and not live over the resources that our planet has to offer. But it is also the case that climate change is one of today's great opportunities. It is time to settle once and for all with the idea that we must choose between economic prosperity and sustainable development. At the moment, instead, there is a green industrial revolution going on in Sweden. Not a week goes by without us reading about new green investments that create jobs somewhere in our country. We are now following up from the government with a powerful green start-up of the economy with further new investments. The transition of industry will be accelerated, transport emissions will be reduced and electrification will be speeded up. The goal is fixed: Sweden will be the world's first fossil-free welfare country. Mr President, I would like to In Sweden, a larger proportion of the adult population is working than in almost any other country. Unlike in many other countries, people have not given up and continue to look for work. We should be proud of that – but not satisfied. One of the great risks we have to deal with is the persistence of unemployment, especially among young or foreign-born people. Thanks to the government's crisis response, long-term unemployment has not risen as much as during the financial crisis. Now, too, we should not repeat the mistakes of the financial crisis and tighten up too early. We will continue the job policy that allowed Sweden to enter the crisis with 350 000 more jobs and a policy that had halved the start-up period for new arrivals. We will continue to create jobs by investing in what builds Sweden strong and sustainable. But we must also continue to pursue a job policy with many different paths leading to jobs, because the unemployed are not a homogeneous group. Some need to replenish their skills or completely change and learn a new profession. Therefore, in accordance with the Parties Agreement, a completely new system of conversion is introduced, while the expansion of the Knowledgelift continues. For some, it may be that you need to take that first, important step into the labour market. Therefore, more resources are added to increase the number of extra posts, introductory jobs and internships. For others, it is simply a matter of getting in touch with the right employer. That is why we are adding new resources to labour market policy while increasing the number of matching services, because we are not leaving until everyone who can work Sweden out of the crisis.
i-51db44cb4f1bd3ee-19	Now the first steps are also being taken to introduce a family week. I understand from reports in the media that the opposition has some doubts. I think this is a strange debate. In fact, in Sweden there are not many people who can come and go a little as they want to at work when the children have development discussions or preschools are closed for planning days. And it is not reasonable for an ambulance nurse, a police officer or a fireman to have to take vacation days because it is planning day or study day. Let's do something about it. This is a freedom reform that can make it a little easier in everyday life for all parents who work and work in Sweden. Mr President, I would like to The pandemic has also demonstrated the strength of a common welfare that we all share and contribute to when we can and that we all share when we need it. Day after day, doctors, nurses, nurses and carers have gone to work and worn long shifts to protect the elderly and risk groups and to care for those who have been infected. But the pandemic has also put many of the welfare problems into lightning and also created new ones: patients who have had their care postponed due to corona and the hassle of coming into contact with healthcare and care for the elderly. We also know that employees have precarious jobs, poor working conditions and too few colleagues. In the long term, this risks deterring young people from entering the welfare professions, and this at a time when we need more welfare workers than ever. That is why the government changed its policy in 2014 from major tax cuts to large investments in welfare. That is why we compensated municipalities and regions during the crisis with subsidies that covered their reduced tax revenue several times over. And that's why in this year's budget proposal we are paying a total of SEK 23 billion – for the coronaköerna in healthcare to be grazed by and for working conditions to be better and colleagues more. We all win that!
i-51db44cb4f1bd3ee-24	Mr President, I would like to For many, the pandemic has become a painful reminder of the importance of strong social security. It has also become apparent to more people that there are breaks in our security systems that need to be fixed. Now we are taking several important steps for a safer health insurance that provides the financial security that people need in order to be able to focus on getting healthy and getting back to work again. But the security of a person with a disability, a chronic illness or a serious injury that makes it impossible to work should also be strengthened. That is why we need to make a substantial strengthening of the conditions for those who need sickness or activity compensation. In addition, we are finally removing the unfairly higher tax on the disabled imposed by the Moderates during the alliance years. It should never have been introduced – if Parliament wants this to finally become history!
i-51db44cb4f1bd3ee-26	Mr President, I would like to There are many pensioners in Sweden who have worked and done well, but still receive too low a pension. Now they finally get to take part of the new pension supplement. But there are also those who have worked and worked a long career but whose bodies say no before retirement age. At the same time, the system says to keep working. This is not reasonable and therefore a new security pension should be introduced to enable those who are approaching retirement age and have reduced working capacity to have a economically reasonable standard of living. This should be obvious to everyone. Those who have been involved in building the country we are so proud of should be able to look forward to an old age in security, not in poverty. Mr President, I would like to Sweden should be a safe country for everyone, but we are not there today. Shooting, blasting, drug trafficking and gang crime are currently putting terror in entire residential areas. It is also about men's violence against women and the shameful culture of honour, which restricts, harms and, at worst, kills. There is no room for compromise here. The crimes are to be removed from our streets, the shooter is to be locked in and gang crime is to be broken with the full power of the democratic rule of law. And men's violence against women must be stopped. Next year the police will receive SEK 2 billion more, and we are more than halfway towards the target of 10,000 more police employees. This is also met with a strong commitment to the whole judicial system, which has got more to do now that the expansion of the police force is having an effect. The pressure is also being increased against cheating and black money, and a new agency for joint payments is to be set up so that we can detect more cheating. Many police officers, however, bear witness to the comfortlessness of the fact that for every gang-criminal imprisoned, someone younger stands ready to take his place. That's why we're continuing to strengthen our efforts to stop gang recruitment. Every twelve-year-old on slide that society can catch up before it becomes too late, a potential recruit becomes smaller for the gangs. We're gonna listen to the police. The whole of society must be involved in order for us to strangle the influx of young people into crime. Mr President, I would like to Just as we were able to deal with the pandemic together, we all have the opportunity to face other societal problems together. The government wants to take that opportunity, because we're not just going back to what it was like before. We will take Sweden forward and build our society stronger and more sustainable than it was before the pandemic. Thank you for listening!
i-51db44cb4f1bd3ee-32	Mr President, I would like to How could this happen? Record numbers of people are now long-term unemployed and most of them left completely in passivity. Every other immigrant is not self-sufficient. It is 675,000 of working age; it is Malmö times two. How could it be that half of all women feel insecure in their own neighborhood? Almost every day there is a ride in Sweden. We have the most shootings in the EU. Parents bury their children. Little kids end up in the line of fire. Mr President, I would like to I wonder: what is the Minister for Finance's answer? After seven years in government, seven years in charge, is the answer the big initiative of the budget and the Social Democrats' parade question, family week? Is that the answer to all those parents who are afraid to let their children go to soccer practice? Is that the answer to all the mothers who have seen their children shot to death?
i-51db44cb4f1bd3ee-35	Mr President, I would like to I have just put the budget on Parliament's table, so I understand that Elisabeth Svantesson has not been able to go through all the budget lines yet. However, I can welcome Elisabeth Svantesson's fact that there are more reforms than family week in the budget, although family week is a reform that will make life easier for the police officers who are also parents of young children. The government is working on three areas when it comes to breaking the gangs. The first is about taking a hard shot at crime. We are continuing the expansion of the Police Authority and the entire judiciary. We're going to build more prisons and prisons. We have increased the penalties, and we are now moving forward with additional resources to implement new legislation that is further tough on those who are part of gang crime. The second part is about stopping recruitment to the gangs. Here it is a matter of clarifying the municipalities' responsibility to work crime prevention. It's about helping more people out of gang crime and strengthening the municipalities so that they can have more social secretaries – because someone has to answer the phone when the police call and have found a 14-year-old in the wrong company at 4:00 in the morning. The third is to go for the money. Money is often the aim of crime, and here we have launched further measures to build on a major effort that we have made for a longer period of time to tighten the penalties for those who are trying to misapprove our tax money or transfers that would go to the weakest in society as well as those who engage in tax evasion. So we are working on all three areas: tackling gang crime harder, stopping recruitment and spending money.
i-51db44cb4f1bd3ee-40	Mr President, I would like to It's all about priorities. A couple of years ago, the government put a proposal for a free year on Parliament's table. It was removed by several opposition parties, and we instead spent money on welfare. The government is now proposing a week of leave. I realize that there are certainly many families who want to be free a little more. But I meet a lot of parents around Sweden who are very worried and can no longer send their children out to the playground. They dare not let the children go to practice themselves. Those parents want to see a strong fight against organized crime. They want to see investments in the police and the justice system. In fact, the family week thus costs the state budget about seven times as much as the effort on the police in this budget. Those are facts. That's a priority.
i-51db44cb4f1bd3ee-43	Mr President, I would like to Politics is about priorities. I note that this government has invested twice as much in the police as the alliance government did in its eight years. In fact, next year we'll be spending more than the police themselves have requested. We have invested EUR 12 billion in these two terms of office. The Alliance government invested 6 billion at the same time as reducing the tax by 140 billion. It says something about the priorities of the Moderates once you're in charge. You can also look at what it's like in Stockholm, where the Moderates rule. It lowers taxes and invests in electric scooters instead of expanding social services, curators and field assistants who could support young people who are at risk of being involved in criminal gangs. That's what the Moderates' priorities look like when they rule.
i-51db44cb4f1bd3ee-45	Mr President, I would like to The Government proposes in the budget bill that Sweden's international aid next year should amount to well over SEK 50 billion. In my world, this is money that would have been needed at home, i.e. in Sweden, to strengthen health care, care for the elderly and, not least, the pension system so that you can ultimately raise pensions. Afghanistan has long been the single largest recipient country in terms of Swedish aid. The government has also announced its intention to continue aid to Afghanistan in particular – this also after the takeover of the Taliban. Only last month, a report from the Expert Group on Aid Analysis came. The group has studied the aid and concluded that aid funds, i.e. Swedish tax money, have been used to a large extent for bribes. In practice, aid has contributed to precisely the corruption that has made the authorities in Afghanistan, for example, so weak and fragile. My question to the Minister for Finance is: how on earth could it be in the interest of Swedish taxpayers to give their tax money to the Taliban in Afghanistan?
i-51db44cb4f1bd3ee-49	Mr President, I would like to Of course, aid to Afghanistan will change with another government in Afghanistan. Having said that, I can continue to see points in, for example, supporting girls to be able to go to school. Swedish aid money is currently very useful in the world. They benefit the people living in the recipient countries. In fact, it is also in our own interests. During the coronapandemy, countries with weaker economies have not had the same opportunities to support their economy as Sweden and other developed countries. As a result, their finances have taken a lot more beatings than ours. Millions of people have been thrown back into extreme poverty. After decades of poverty reduction, we have now seen a clear break of trends, and millions of people are now living in extreme poverty. Then, of course, we have every reason to support these people as one of the richest countries in the world. This is also in our own interests. The Coronapandemine is not something that is only going on in Sweden, but it is all over the world. If we cannot support countries so that people around the world can be vaccinated, we risk getting new mutations that the vaccines may not be effective against, and they can come to Sweden. It is therefore in our own interests to ensure and support vaccination around the world, and that is something that I will be working on very much in my role as President of the IMFC, the International Monetary Fund. It is a question of ensuring that those countries that have economic conditions help to support those countries that do not have it in relation to vaccination.
i-51db44cb4f1bd3ee-53	Mr President, I would like to Now it is not primarily vaccine that we have given in aid. I took Afghanistan as an example because it is the largest recipient country. After all, it is money that we have given – money that has diluted corruption and other problems. The Minister of Finance says that the aid will change. We get to hear a little different things depending on who among the government representatives we talk to. Let's see what's gonna happen. But the fact remains: Sweden is internationally at the highest level when it comes to giving money to countries on the other side of the world. It does not come from the fact that this is basically a matter of priorities. Our line is about a gradual but not a complete phase-out. There will well be a halving of international aid, from today's quite exactly 1.0 % of Bni to 0.5 % of Bni according to our proposal, i.e. a halving. Then we have made a saving of approximately SEK 27 billion in the short term. That is more than it would cost, for example, to increase pensions by an average of SEK 1 000 per month for every pensioner in Sweden. That kind of comparison has to be made anyway, I think. This reflects the priority of the Social Democrats. I would also like to make it clear that we do not share that priority. We think it is better to give the money to the country's pensioners by strengthening pensions than to give it away to countries on the other side of the world.
i-51db44cb4f1bd3ee-57	Mr President, I would like to Timing, Oscar Sjöstedt, is central to politics. It is about making proposals at the right time. Of course, there may be times when the world's countries become richer and more are lifted out of poverty. Then you can discuss the size of the aid. But right now, when millions of people are thrown from a decent life into absolute poverty, is the time for Sweden, one of the richest countries in the world, to strangle aid? We have a pandemic where millions of people are at risk of becoming ill and there is a risk of new mutations because vaccination cannot be affordable – is it the time to halve aid? In fact, it seems to me just as bad timing as when the Swedish Democrats proposed doubling the VAT for restaurants in the middle of the pandemic, when the restaurateurs fought for survival. Timing, Oscar Sjöstedt, timing!
i-51db44cb4f1bd3ee-60	Mr President, I would like to Sweden may be coming out of the pandemic crisis, but we are still in a deep unemployment crisis. According to the latest Labour Force Survey, 454 000 people are unemployed and probably over 190 000 are long-term unemployed. Most assessors– yes, most of the people you talk to in the country, I would say – say that small businesses must now have the chance to hire. It is small businesses that create four out of five new jobs. Now we need to focus all our power on people getting their jobs back. My question to the Minister for Finance: does she share the view of the Center Party that it is still possible to reduce record taxes on jobs and entrepreneurship and on hiring, despite all the cuts made by the Alliance and by this government, so that we can get more jobs and more resources for welfare?
i-51db44cb4f1bd3ee-63	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by welcoming Martin Ådahl to the budget debate. It's very nice to see you here. I appreciate Martin Ådahl's very genuine interest in more people getting into work, in overcoming long-term unemployment and in more entrepreneurs being able to grow and hire. That is an ambition that I fully share. The Government's budget also includes important efforts to increase the number of long-term unemployed. It's about us expanding the matching services, which I know Martin Ådahl thinks is an excellent policy. It is also about increasing resources for introductory jobs, new start-ups and extra services. There will be more opportunities to educate yourself to be a shortage profession. It is part of the policy for more people to get to work. The second part is the fact that we have a budget that is very large – 74 billion – and which is a vitamin injection into the Swedish economy and allows the wheels to start spinning faster. The green investments that we are making, the fact that you will be able to employ in school, health care, care for the elderly and the police along with the consumer incentives that come from lowering the tax on low and middle income earners, means that when the wheels start spinning, there are customers, for example, for those who run a small café and who can thus also have the opportunity to hire.
i-51db44cb4f1bd3ee-66	Mr President, I would like to I thank you for your answer and for all these warm words about entrepreneurship. It was nice to hear them from the Minister of Finance. But I didn't quite get the answer to my question. Is it the case, Mr President, that you can reduce taxes on jobs and entrepreneurship and thus actually get – through more jobs – more resources for welfare, to the core of welfare, to the police, to health care and to care?
i-51db44cb4f1bd3ee-67	Mr President, I would like to It is about working on effective measures. Here there are good opportunities for small businesses and all other entrepreneurs to hire the long-term unemployed at very subsidised costs. The state takes a not insignificant share of employers' contributions and wage costs if you hire someone who has been unemployed for a long time. So there are very good opportunities here. I very much hope that Sweden's entrepreneurs will take these opportunities. In spite of the fact that we have been in the midst of a pandemic, where there have been many unemployed in, for example, the hotel and restaurant sector, we see that unqualified staff have been brought here to work in those sectors. But I really hope that Sweden's entrepreneurs take the opportunity to employ the long-term unemployed who are here in Sweden.
i-51db44cb4f1bd3ee-69	Mr President, I would like to Yes, you can continue to reduce taxes unfunded and thus increase economic inequality, continue to underfinance welfare and contribute to a policy of mass unemployment. That rope trick has been going on for many years now, and the result is very clear. But, Mr President, I was going to talk mainly about health insurance. With Reinfeldt, the hunt for sick people began. Then the Social Democrats were very upset. Then, when they came to power, they made the decision to make the situation worse. Sick people were left in the lurch. They were not covered by the sickness insurance they had paid into year after year. When they got sick, health insurance didn't apply. The sweat was hard and cruel. A basic requirement for us to support, with the mandate of our constituents, a budget that we have not even had to negotiate, has been the fixing of health insurance. That has been the demand for us to be motivated to abandon practice and vote on a different budget from our own. It is good that the government has largely complied with our demands. Finally, 14 years of struggle, along with many others, have produced results. Now the regulations are changing. Reimbursement levels are increased. Older people who are worn out may be covered by insurance rather than early retirement. The governance of the Social Insurance Agency is changing. Now we have finally reached a turning point, where the view of the responsibility of society and of the security we can expect changes. That is absolutely necessary. Confidence in politics is eroded by the betrayal that has been. But another betrayal I can see in this budget is that the cuts in welfare continue. The supplements you give are far from sufficient. This is, for example, much more in tax cuts than in general state grants for health care, school and long-term care. This means that it will continue to go on a sparring flame out there.
i-51db44cb4f1bd3ee-75	Mr President, I would like to I appreciate Ulla Andersson's commitment to having a good and safe health insurance for everyone working and working in Sweden. I think it is good that the changes that are included in this budget, and which are the result of an investigation that the government has set up because we did not think that health insurance worked as it should, can now become a reality. We could also lead some of them in connection with the Corona crisis. And one of the first measures we took was to abolish the backlog in health insurance. As far as municipalities and regions are concerned, both before and during the Corona crisis and now in the budget, we have made temporary efforts to deal with the crisis, but we have also increased overall state subsidies in the long term and permanently. Municipalities and regions have coped with the crisis with good economic results. The assessment is that it will look good for the local government sector next year as well. But then, of course, it is a question of what kind of government it will be after the next elections, whether it will be a government that gives priority to ensuring sufficient resources in schools, health care and care for the elderly, or whether it will be a government that will give priority to tax cuts for the richest.
i-51db44cb4f1bd3ee-77	Mr President, I would like to One can say that it took 14 years for the Social Democrats to come to some kind of understanding of health insurance. It is welcome, but I can say that it would not have happened if very many people had not fought together for that change. I also note that this budget contributes to the continuation of the cuts. The Social Democrats have as a matter of priority continued with the Center Party's tax cuts rather than giving priority to welfare. It will affect home care, health care and school. In fact, every crown in tax reduction is a penny less for grandma's care, for the care of the cancer patient or for the student in school. Actually, that's what it looks like. Magdalena Andersson knows very well that much more resources are needed. There is very good evidence to take part in this. My last question, Mr President, concerns the poor pensioners. Why should they continue to live in poverty? Why don't you raise the guarantee pension? Why is it more important to keep the Pensions Group together than to invest in the poorest pensioners?
i-51db44cb4f1bd3ee-80	Mr President, I would like to I would like to remind Ulla Andersson that, as I said, one of the first changes we made when we came into government was precisely to abolish the backlog in health insurance. In addition, we did so in cooperation with the Left Party. I think it was a good reform. We have also set up investigations to repair the rifts that have been found in health insurance. And proposals in this budget include that 1.2 million more Swedes should be able to get 80 percent of their salary when they get sick. It's a reform that I'm very, very proud of. I am also proud of the large contributions we have made to municipalities and regions. This means that they will have great opportunities to have a good business both this year and next year. But, of course, we come in a situation where priority needs to be given to elections. There the priorities of the Social Democrats are clear. We will always put welfare first. That's what we've been doing in the last few years. We will continue to do so.
i-51db44cb4f1bd3ee-82	Mr President, I would like to With trouble pipes in the back of the car and sent difficult-to-read and disparate shopping lists from Lööf and Dadgostar, the Finance Minister responsible for renovation has filled a large loan trailer in the building goods store for budget issues – with little, or rather much, of each. The surface layers are given priority over the foundation. The reform tools are missing, and the different renovation tastes don't get married very well – to put it cautiously. But it does not seem to concern the Finance Minister, who seems to be most keen to increase private and public consumption by 74 billion and to retain power. But if so much borrowed money is to be used, it should not only provide incentives today but also equip Sweden strongly for tomorrow and fix basic problems. Despite the fact that so much is spent on all kinds of things, there is no clear reform plan for jobs. There are no proposals for increased incentives to work and employ so that long-term unemployment is broken or that an extra passport pays more. Instead, we get an erosion of the work line. Nor is there a sufficiently powerful package to crack the gang crime that is now shooting the groundwork for security. And the necessary grips are lacking to cut off the care queues that have become almost insurmountable and that hold people back in painful waiting for surgery or specialist care. It's hope money in dysfunctional systems that apply. I would like to ask the Minister for Finance who, in her view, is most to blame for these shortcomings in my view. Is it the government? Is it the Left Party? Or is it the Center Party?
i-51db44cb4f1bd3ee-87	Mr President, I would like to Jakob Forssmed says that we do not take care of the basic problems, but I think it is a problem that the police and the justice chain do not have enough resources and that it is important that we make those efforts. I think it is a problem that we do not reach our climate targets. We need to reduce our emissions, and we are dealing with this budget. I think it is a problem that almost 200 000 are long-term unemployed, and that is why we are making great efforts to get people to work. I also think it is a problem that we have corona queues in health care and that working conditions in care for the elderly are not good enough. We also have major reforms for that in this budget. Jakob Forssmed is particularly concerned that we are eroding the work line. I suppose he is thinking of the fact that we are removing the tax gap between sickness benefit and salary that was introduced when the Christian Democrats were in the government. My question to Jakob Forssmed is: Will the Christian Democrats support the removal of this tax gap, the so-called functional tax, which is paid, for example, by people who have an inborn disability that makes it impossible to work, or will you remove it in your budget?
i-51db44cb4f1bd3ee-93	Mr President, I would like to In fact, the police are underfunded in year three of this budget. You are not making long-term efforts so that the police will dare to grow even in the coming years. It's problematic. There are also authorities, such as customs and coastguards, which are heavily underfunded in this budget and receive far too little to do their important work. As far as jobs are concerned, it is a historically high rate of long-term unemployment. It is not enough to note this and to think that 200 000 unemployed people are a problem. Reforms must be brought about. It's not enough to say that the jobs, the jobs, the jobs, it's not enough. Reforms must be implemented, work made pay, driving forces increased and a simple measure such as the Employment Service is now calling for, namely to strengthen and possibly bring forward new start jobs. There is a lack of measures for those who have been gone for eight months but not twelve months. Here we have a great risk of long-term unemployment getting stuck. To answer the question: Yes, the Christian Democrats' budget will also include reinforcements for those who have sickness and activity benefits.
i-51db44cb4f1bd3ee-96	Mr President, I would like to When the Alliance government talked about the work line, it was above all the job tax deductions it meant, and this particular tax gap was one of the big ideas behind how to increase the driving forces for work. I am very pleased that the Christian Democrats have reconsidered and also see this injustice introduced by the Christian Democrats in power. It's been going on for too long. As far as the police are concerned, I can only say that next year the police will receive more than they have requested. They also have good planning conditions when we give them additional resources for 2023 as well. It is clear that these are priorities, and this government has given priority to the police. The truth is that we have spent twice as much on the police over the last eight years compared to what the Christian Democrats did when they were in the alliance government. Politics is about priorities.
i-51db44cb4f1bd3ee-100	Mr President, I would like to The Minister of Finance has now been Minister of Finance for seven years, and many of the problems that we see in Sweden with clan and gang crime, poor results in school, problems in health care and electricity crisis, the Minister of Finance has a huge responsibility for. It is seven years of a policy that has not led Sweden in the right direction and, above all, with a government that has not been able to deal with the problems that Sweden has. The most important effort we can make to solve some of the problems of dependency and crime is to invest in school and education, to ensure that all our children and young people have a really good school that makes you feel safe about the future you have. At school today we see that it's messy. Too many people can't read, write, and count. We see a corona generation at school with students sitting in front of the computer instead of meeting a teacher in the classroom. We hear about teachers who are desperate about the situation and who talk about saving requirements in schools around our country. Every sixth student is not eligible to enter high school – every sixth student! This has been constant throughout the years that Magdalena Andersson has been Minister of Finance, so it's not specific for this particular year. One student in six is therefore not eligible. In this situation, the government chooses to lower the requirements to enter upper secondary school. You lower the bar that the students should be able to skip to get into high school. What problem does that solve? Why do you want to lower the knowledge requirements in school? Why do you want to reintegrate the flum school?
i-51db44cb4f1bd3ee-105	Mr President, I would like to I appreciate Mats Persson's commitment to the school. Here we have also been able to cooperate well during the term of office with important investments in schools, such as the equivalence grant. Here, the Liberals have really contributed to the policy and the efforts we have made at school. I'd like to bet even more on the school. Perhaps we should make a deal here at once, Mats Persson, which we can get with other parties on. It was extremely important for the Liberals to abolish the military tax, and we have done so. That was a precondition for the January agreement. Instead, 6 billion people could have invested in school. If Mats Persson now thinks it is so important to have more resources for the school, which I also think, can we at once make a deal and try to get the others with us to reintroduce the defense tax and spend every penny on children learning more in school?
i-51db44cb4f1bd3ee-108	Mr President, I would like to Now we saw Social Democratic art again. After seven years in power – always blame someone else! Seven years in power, it's always someone else's fault. That is the melody we have always heard, and that is the melody we hear once again. Having just read a little bit of this budget today, I can find a number of areas where I think the government is scattering money that would be much better to have in school on other things. We can take the so-called family week as an example or, to take another example, that taxpayers should subsidise those who choose to join the union. There are plenty of resources in Magdalena Andersson's budget that we should invest in school. What worries me is that you want to lower the high jump ribba when we should make sure that no child leaves primary school without being able to read, write and count. But instead, you want to lower the standards and introduce the flue school again. How does it make Sweden better?
i-51db44cb4f1bd3ee-111	Mr President, I would like to Perhaps it is time for Mats Persson to take responsibility for his policy and for his priorities, for what was most important for the Liberals when it came to the end? What was the most important thing when negotiating the January agreement? Were the kids at school? No, it was that the high-income people, the Swedes with the highest incomes, would have a substantial tax cut of several thousand a month. That was the priority. Take responsibility, liberals, for your politics! It is high income earners, not the children at school, that you are giving priority to when it really comes to it.
i-51db44cb4f1bd3ee-114	Mr President, I would like to There are many of us who love Sweden. We feel grateful to live here and thank you for the freedom we have. We are delighted with the teachers who lift students every day. We are impressed by the health care professional who very often makes a difference between life and death, and we appreciate all those police officers who often put themselves at risk to protect the rest of us. We are proud of Sweden – and proud of those entrepreneurs who, a hundred, fifty or five years ago, dared to believe in their idea and hire others. In many cases they have become world leaders. Mr President, I would like to Sweden is basically one of the world's best countries to live in and a home country to be proud of. But I am deeply concerned about what is happening in Sweden now, Mr President, and I am not alone. In my conversations with men and women, boys and girls around the country, I hear the anxiety – sometimes the anger – and also a dissipation that often takes over. Many of the beautiful and amazing things that Sweden is is threatened now, bit by bit. The most important task a government can have – to protect its citizens – is the task with which this government has failed most. People are being shot to death. Children are shot to death. It is a bottomless tragedy, and for that development this government bears a very great responsibility. There's no way to blame anyone else. Mr President, I would like to We Moderates see that there must be order on Sweden again. The other month the Brå report showed what is no surprise, namely that immigrants are over-represented in crime statistics. However, what does not give so many headlines is that many immigrants are also victims of crime. It's about women and men living next door to murderers and gang criminals. It is about people who risk getting the car burned up or the store broken down. It's about kids waking up in the middle of the night, terrified, 'cause it's being shot outside their window. It's about parents having to bury their children. That's where we are now, in Sweden 2021. Fatima, who lives in Järva here in Stockholm, was interviewed on television. She told me that she no longer feels any security at all. She doesn't dare let her daughters play alone, because she's so afraid they'll end up in the line of fire. We're a lot of moms and dads in here; I can see that. Try to put yourself in her position! Then I think you should answer this question: If she can choose, is it a family week she and the other mothers in Järva want? What should parents around Sweden with a leave for if their children cannot even go to the playground or football training themselves? I am convinced that most people choose security before more leave. However, the Minister of Finance makes a different assessment in this budget. The Moderates have put a lot of proposals on the table of the Riksdag that could reverse this development and make Sweden safer, and whatever the Minister of Finance says in his speech and his lines is the proposal that the Social Democrats have voted against. For example, we have put forward proposals to stop gangs, but they have voted against doubling penalties and voted against allowing the police to intercept preventively. We have voted against anonymous witness systems, and we have voted against search zones. It also votes against making it a criminal offence to be part of these criminal gangs. The Social Democrats and the government have voted against all that is needed to get Sweden in order. Mr President, I would like to The budget we are debating here today does not even have the ambition to solve societal problems. It will not get Sweden in order. The ambition seems to be mostly to get some cooperation problems in order. With a budget of 74 billion, it should still be expected, as a taxpayer, that the government will give priority to the biggest social problems – to stop the brutal gang violence and push back record long-term unemployment. Mr President, I would like to Reality is the worst enemy of the Minister of Finance. It is not possible to get away from the fact that Sweden has been one of the two countries in the EU where unemployment has increased since 2014. In all other countries it has declined. Instead of the lowest unemployment rate in the EU, we now have one of the absolute highest. Never have so many people been long-term unemployed in Sweden as they are now. These are people who pay a high price for the government's failed job policy. Unemployment costs. First of all, it costs those who are unemployed, of course – those who are left in passivity, who do not have their own pay and who are not allowed to enter the labour market. But they also cost public finances. I have said it before, Mr President, but I would like to repeat it in this House: had unemployment in Sweden only developed as the average in the European Union since 2014, public finances would have been SEK 42 billion stronger. That's 88,000 nurses. Unemployment costs. One might wonder if there is someone in here who thinks that now, with the eighth budget, we are going to get Sweden in order in the end. Does anyone seriously believe that one more year of exactly the same policy – the one that has led to the situation we are now in – will turn things around? Of course, this is not the case, and especially when the biggest item in the whole budget goes to pay more money to those who do not work instead of ensuring that more jobs are created for those who are outside the labour market as well. The work line is dismantled, and we know this is a very good recipe if you finally want to dismantle the welfare as well. It is unemployment that threatens welfare. Mr President, I would like to Recently, in one of the evening newspapers, we were able to read about a mother of six from Somalia who previously made a living on grants. Then she got 32,000 kroner a month. Now she works with forest clearing, and in the end she gets as much money as when she didn't work. It's admirable that she still works, and a lot of people do. But it is not surprising that every second immigrant of working age is not self-sufficient. The benefit systems have been derailed. That is why we Moderates want to introduce a premium ceiling. It should not be possible to stack different contributions on each other to the point that it does not pay to work. That's right, and it's fair. It's a matter of morality. But the government says no. It lets this go on. Mr President, I would like to In a few weeks' time, we in the Moderates will present our budget, and I can promise you the following: The tax money that the government spends on more leave for some we intend instead to use for greater security for all. We will put forward proposals in this House that can halve long-term unemployment in three years. We will put forward proposals on language requirements, premium ceilings and demands to make themselves employable. We will put forward proposals for reducing the cost of hiring. We will ensure that Sweden can grow from north to south and that it is possible to be an entrepreneur in both Stockholm and Haparanda. We will reduce taxes on businesses so that jobs increase, and we will of course ensure that taxes are reduced for pensioners. Mr President, I would like to The Moderates are the party for the one who works, the one who wants to work and the one who has worked. The Moderates are the party that wants to establish security in Sweden again. We are convinced that it is possible to get Sweden back in order.
i-51db44cb4f1bd3ee-131	Mr President, I would like to In the budget, the government proposes improved financial security for pensioners and single parents. At the same time, we raise the ceiling in health insurance so that 1.2 million more Swedes get 80 percent. In addition, we give a substantial boost to everyone in Sweden who is disabled, chronically ill or has a serious injury that makes them unable to work. It is about people who live with very small margins and cannot indulge themselves more than the most essential. It is also the case that the Moderates, when they ruled, introduced a tax gap for these very people, which means that some disabled people have to pay thousands of SEK more in tax than employees. Now we are proposing a substantial increase in sickness and activity benefits, while proposing that the unjust Funkis tax be abolished once and for all. At Elisabeth Svantesson it sounds like the Moderates will try to stop these necessary and long-awaited supplements. I must therefore ask Elisabeth Svantesson a few questions. When we went out with this, it was a moderate Member of Parliament who dismissed all disabled people who are unable to work, chronically ill and people who have suffered serious harm that makes them unable to work as beneficiaries. Is Elisabeth Svantesson behind this statement? I would also like to ask whether the Moderates will propose that disabled and chronically ill continue to pay higher taxes than ordinary wage earners. Elisabeth Svantesson says that the Moderates should be the party for those who want to work. Does a higher tax with that logic mean that the Moderates believe that the problem with the disabled is that they do not want to work?
i-51db44cb4f1bd3ee-136	Mr President, I would like to In this budget, proposals amounting to just over 10 billion are added to people who do not work. I think it's quite reasonable that the very tax that the Minister of Finance raises is changed, because these are people who probably won't be able to work – they have retired. It doesn't bother me. What concerns me is that, on point after point in health insurance, we are going back to a policy that we saw at the beginning of the 21st century. We remember when 140 people were retired every day – 10 of them were under the age of 26. It eroded welfare and government finances, leaving people completely passive. People were hidden and forgotten in the statistics. One might well wonder who was the architect behind this policy. The architect behind the policy in which 140 people were retired every day is in this House. Magdalena Andersson then worked as Secretary of State for Göran Persson. She is one of the architects of that policy, and it is perhaps no wonder that this policy is now coming back. That worries me, Mr President.
i-51db44cb4f1bd3ee-139	Mr President, I would like to I understand that it worries Elisabeth Svantesson. After all, it was an important reform for the Moderates that the early retirement – i.e. those with sickness and activity benefits – should have poor conditions and low remuneration and pay higher taxes. It was also important that people should be thrown out of health insurance. It was called the work line, but in practice it was about reducing taxes for high income earners and letting ordinary people pay the bill. I understand that Elisabeth Svantesson is concerned when we now want to strengthen the protection of ordinary people. It goes against Moderate politics to only benefit the strong, healthy and well-paid.
i-51db44cb4f1bd3ee-141	Mr President, I would like to It was important for the Moderates that people who were hidden and forgotten in the statistics became visible again and that people who were long-term sick would be given rehabilitation and help to come back. This was – and is – important to us Moderates. It is also important that we protect the systems that we have. It gets a little strange with a finance minister who during his own time has ensured that very many have been secured – many more than during the time of the Alliance. I note that the Minister of Finance likes to talk about the alliance years. I am concerned, once again, that the architect behind the early retirement of 140 people every day now wants to go back to health insurance in this way. Finally, if this tax – the so-called funkis tax, which I basically think it can be quite reasonable to change – is the most important thing for the Minister of Finance, should she not have given priority to removing the military tax before it itself?
i-51db44cb4f1bd3ee-145	Mr President, I would like to I wasn't going to ask Elisabeth Svantesson any questions about what everyone did in the 90s, but I was actually going to stick to what's happening here and now. I listened carefully to Elisabeth Svantesson's speech. There was a little entrepreneurship at the beginning and maybe a little entrepreneurship at the end. But what has happened to Moderate faith in entrepreneurship, small businesses and the opportunity to build Sweden again now that it is needed most? So many companies have been destroyed during this pandemic. Now they need to grow again. They need every opportunity to take back their jobs. Where has this faith gone? Where is the belief in small businesses in rural areas that will lift small towns? I heard a lot of sad words, and they were true. But I also heard a complete lack of faith in the many small businesses out there that are going to save us from this crisis. I also wonder, Elisabeth Svantesson, whether there is now an end to cooperating with the Left Party against one bourgeois proposal after another simply because the proposal happens to come from a different coalition than the one you are currently seeking to switch to or because you want to come to power at all costs. Is it ready to vote again and again with the Left Party when they ask you to go against your line? I have one more question. There is a lot of talk about the work line and about subsidies. There is a party, alongside the Left Party, in this House that is almost equally fond of contributions, and that is the party you are now to cooperate with. This party has other aspects of its policy from which there is every reason to reject it. How do you intend to stand up to the non-bourgeois and pro-contributive policy of that party?
i-51db44cb4f1bd3ee-150	Mr President, I would like to That's a lot of questions. I'll do my best to answer some of them. Today we are discussing the government's budget. My criticism there is that the priority is not to push back long-term unemployment and to push back insecurity. We will of course return with our own budget for how Sweden can grow, how the long-term unemployed can return and how companies can grow and contribute to growth. But I wonder a little where Martin Ådahl has been for the last two years. During the pandemic, the Moderates have been a driving force in the Riksdag to save as many jobs and businesses as it has just gone. Sometimes we have done this together with the Center Party, and sometimes we have done it with others. Our focus has been to ensure that companies and jobs are saved. We stand up for companies, whether small or large. I mentioned at the beginning of my speech the pride of all the companies that have emerged – 100, 50 or 5 years ago. They've hired a lot of people. They have done a great deal of good and are still doing enormous good, both in Sweden and in the world. We'll always be on the job creators' side; Martin Ådahl doesn't have to be concerned about that at all. I understand, however, that it is difficult now. It is hard to be a center party when you have decided not to talk to all parties. You don't want to talk to the party with which you have actually released this government. Now it is a budget to be presented. You don't really know which button to press. I can only give a tip to the Center Party and Martin Ådahl : There will be a budget that has the right focus in terms of jobs, entrepreneurship, rural policy and security issues. Martin Ådahl and the Center Party are very welcome to join that budget.
i-51db44cb4f1bd3ee-156	Mr President, I would like to I note that it was not possible to answer these questions. It's good that you've been working with us through the whole crisis-- it's amazing! But one can really wonder why it is so impossible to cooperate across the block even after and on the way out of the crisis to help companies and actually – as in Germany – to reach out and agree on this big and important turn of events in the Swedish economy. Instead, it is settled with the Left Party to stop bourgeois proposals that benefit companies and employment and apparently settle with SD – we do not know in what way and in what form – that are not at all behind the line as we are prepared to do. I do not understand why it is so difficult to answer those questions, Mr President.
i-51db44cb4f1bd3ee-159	Mr President, I would like to Martin Ådahl may refer to the fact that in January 20 2 0 we stopped the free year together with the Left Party, the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats and spent the money on welfare. Among other things, we said no to an entry deduction that the Center Party at the time was running, and no other party supported it for very clear reasons; it was bad politics. Martin can rest assured that, what I am thinking now, we are not going to negotiate the budget with the Left Party, because they have, as I see it, decided to vote for the Social Democrats. Martin Ådahl seems more reluctant to vote on their budget. Therefore, of course, I would like to welcome him to read carefully the budget that we are drawing up and see if it is not a better policy for Sweden.
i-51db44cb4f1bd3ee-161	Mr President, I would like to One can well calmly conclude that a national conservative policy for Sweden would be absolutely devastating. In Sweden, chronically ill and disabled people have been poor for a long time. The ideological entrances to this seem to be that if the chronically ill and disabled are not financially well off, they will not want to be ill or disabled, but will instead start working. You can hear how crazy that sounds, but that is actually what has made politics. It is in the mind world of the Moderates and in their politics. Recently we could hear an upset Elisabeth Svantesson on television. The reforms called for by the Left Party and included in our budget mean strengthening the economy of chronically ill and disabled people, including by raising sickness benefits and removing the devastating tax gap. Elisabeth Svantesson says that if you do this, the work line will be eroded and long-term unemployment will increase. And you probably think that if you've swallowed the neo-liberal economic theories. Over the years, the Moderates have presented reform after reform to hunt sick, disabled and chronically ill. It's side up and side down with savings and cuts. Not a single reform has been put forward to make the wealthy more of a contribution to the construction of society. I wonder why. Will the Moderates now remove the improvements for sick people included in the government budget? If so, what does Elisabeth Svantesson say to the ME-sick, the mentally ill or the one who has been worn out in her work and cannot be covered by the health insurance?
i-51db44cb4f1bd3ee-166	Mr President, I would like to As I have said in previous lines, I am concerned about the overall picture of this budget. We're going to go through every single piece. However, spending more than 10 billion more on working people who are not working, without actually having a plan for how people should come back, get rehabilitation and have clear deadlines, worries me. It is a policy that we have tried, and it did not work. I note that Ulla Andersson is not very critical of the Social Democratic Government's policy, which in recent years has made an enormous number of people secure, far more than before the government took office. I believe in a policy that sees people, helps people back, gives people the support they need and where authorities work together. They're not doing that now with this government. That's a problem.
i-51db44cb4f1bd3ee-170	Mr President, I would like to I don't know if Elisabeth Svantesson might not have listened to my reply to Magdalena Andersson's speech, but it can certainly be downloaded, so to speak. Elisabeth Svantesson says here that the Moderates want to help people. That sounds beautiful. But what does that mean in practice? I think there were 12 billion cuts to sick people in your bid. Isn't that what you presented last fall? You would also abolish the temporary derogation from the withdrawal of the withdrawal, which meant that sick people would not have to go to work during the pandemic. So were you. You proposed major cuts in unemployment insurance in the middle of a period of mass unemployment. Elisabeth Svantesson, like me, knows, moreover, that major tax cuts are a much more inefficient policy than large public investment to push down unemployment. Hunting sick people, disabled and chronically ill seems to be the priorities of the Moderates, and the wealthy are to be fattened wildly.
i-51db44cb4f1bd3ee-174	Mr President, I would like to I don't know if Ulla Andersson has listened to me either. I guess we'll just have to listen to each other a little bit later, as I said. For me, people will always be the focus of politics. People who have the ability, the ability to work, little or much, should be allowed to contribute according to that ability. Right now we have almost 200 000 people who are long-term unemployed. Two thirds of them are in passivity – no activity. Right now we also have people on sick leave who do not get the help and support they need from the authorities. There are a lot of evidence of that. I will not leave and forget people in statistics. I want people to be helped to come back on the basis of their abilities, whether they are long-term unemployed or long-term sick. That is my focus, Mr President.
i-51db44cb4f1bd3ee-178	Mr President, I would like to Climate policy has got a bad reputation. It is often perceived as something heavy and boring, when it is actually full of joy. It is now becoming apparent in politics that climate policy is popular when it comes to openings. Representatives from all the parties in Parliament will flock. For example, when we now have the first stone steel without coal in front of us, everyone naturally supports the Industriklivet, which has made this project possible. One party that has now gone out on the climate policy scene is the Moderates. In view of this, I have two issues, both of which are about efficiency – a subject that I perceive Elisabeth Svantesson to appreciate. One question is whether aid to businesses is more or less effective depending on the size of the enterprise. The second is a very simple question: is CO2 tax an effective measure or not?
i-51db44cb4f1bd3ee-181	Mr President, I would like to When it comes to Industriklivet, I don't really know what Karolina Skog is after. It is an initiative that we have supported from the outset. I think it is very good and positive that the industry in Sweden is so at the forefront of a green transition. Here politics can contribute and make a difference, so from the beginning we have been positive to and in some budgets even, I think, strengthened more than the government has done. Global emissions must definitely be reduced. They also need to be reduced in Sweden, and we fully agree on that. Then we need an effective policy. I do not know if that was the answer to the question, but it is definitely so. There's a follow-up question, I suppose. It looks like Karolina Skog is on its way with it, so please!
i-51db44cb4f1bd3ee-184	Mr President, I would like to That many parties like Industriklivet is clear. It was presented by the Green Party, and then many have joined. It's nice. But the strange thing is that the support that we are targeting smaller companies, the companies that are emerging and do not yet have a dominant position on the market, for some strange reason that I do not understand, but that Elisabeth Svantesson might explain to me, is classified as ineffective. That is to say, money for large companies is good, that money for smaller companies with exactly the same design is bad. I would like to understand this. My second question is clearly to specify. I would like to hear whether a national policy tax is to be considered effective environmental policy or not.
i-51db44cb4f1bd3ee-186	Mr President, I would like to We have a tax on emissions in Sweden, but it would be better if it were global. I am not a climate nationalist but I believe in a policy in which the whole world is helped to reduce emissions. In fact, I do not understand the first question. It may be that I have missed something that Karolina Skog has read somewhere in any of our budgets; I do not know. I think it should be effective all the time; that's my basic attitude. Climate policy generally needs to be more effective. That's why I'm so surprised by the Green Party. You want fossil-free electricity but say no to nuclear power, you want electric cars but build far too few charging poles, you want to electrify the industry but refuse to shorten the permit processes, you want batteries but absolutely no to mining minerals and you want biofuels and build houses in wood but not use the forest. I think this is an ineffective climate policy.
i-51db44cb4f1bd3ee-189	Mr President, I would like to It has not been long since the government was deposed by the Swedish Parliament, as the Riksdag declared that it lacked confidence in the government, but with the support of its Lydpartiet Center, they managed to return with the least possible margin. In connection with this, the Head of Government put a threat and asked a so-called cabinet question about the budget bill. If he doesn't get his budget through, he'll resign one more time. That's the threat. In my world, a threat is associated with something significantly negative. But the resignation of the Head of Government is for all healthy thinking people associated with something extremely positive, so how effective this threat was can be discussed. Now the head of government has chosen to resign anyway, and eventually we will see if the Center Party wants to continue to be a Social Democratic vassal party. Mr President, I would like to Now that the government has submitted its budget proposal to the Riksdag, I would like to inform my willingness and the willingness of the Swedish Democrats to bring it down, and thus possibly and hopefully also the government, in the direction of the key. As soon as possible, we must replace this harmful government, which has completely lost control. Let me take an example from this summer's news agency: Cementa on Gotland. Cementa's lime mining, which basically provides the rest of Sweden with cement and concrete, is threatened by total closure for the simple reason that the government has no sensible industrial policy. Officially, it is said that it is a permit process that is handled by the court and that the government cannot object, but everyone understands that it is a political process, not least by the Green Party. In the same way, although completely inverted, the government was absolutely able to intervene and change decisions to allow the expansion of Preem's refinery in Lysekil quite exactly a year ago. Then you had that opportunity; now you don't have it. It is not a question of legal or constitutional formality but of political will. A number of questions arise, not least regarding the role of the Green Party in the Swedish government. If we are not going to have any cement production in Sweden and do not use the forest because it is to be protected, how are we going to live? Apartments, houses and villas are normally built of concrete and wood. How will we live if we remove the production of concrete and timber? Are we going to be hobbits and live in little holes in the earth? It's really weird. LKAB, which breaks 80 per cent of all iron ore in the EU, is also affected. You can't operate far down in a mine if passages and shafts are not secured with concrete, among other things, so no concrete, no new iron ore. The Green Party's government involvement thus jeopardises Sweden's production of both steel and concrete. By the way, do you know what a wind turbine consists of? Steel and concrete, yes, men. It has therefore laid the hook for its own policy with its own policy. Add to this the inability to take decisions on the final disposal of spent nuclear fuel, which in practice risks destroying almost half of the country's energy production. The referral bodies, in the form of state-owned Vattenfall and Swedish Nuclear Fuel Management, SKB, say that the consequences of this action are not transparent and risk leading to extensive electricity shortages in Sweden. You're indescribable. Can't you just stop playing politicians? For the rest of us are all paying the price of your delusions. It will be both dark and cold in Sweden with your policy. It will also be poor, at least for the country's 2.3 million pensioners and in particular for the 700 000 poor pensioners who receive guarantee pensions. Sweden has concerns about an underfunded pension system. All forecasts point in exactly the same direction. The problems will be strengthened and accelerated as time goes on. When the situation becomes sharp for the individual, i.e. once you retire, many people get a shock in the form of a really bad pension, despite perhaps 40 to 45 years in the labour market. If we are to have a public pension system in Sweden, and I think we should have that, it should also deliver, at least in parity with our fully comparable Nordic neighbours. This means that we must increase pension contributions and, by extension, pensions, at least by SEK 1 000 per month for an average pensioner. Mr President, I would like to This strengthening of the pension system will be included in the Swedish Democrats' budget options, which we will present within a week. Let me be clear with regard to the remaining opposition: if you want to include in some way the parliamentary mandate of the Swedish Democrats in a budget or PM vote, in the near future or a year from now, you need to deal with the question of the funding of the pension system. The pension group, which includes six of the eight parties in Parliament, is and has been completely dysfunctional, and it must be dissolved. In addition to this, you should of course have the opportunity to save yourself. We should not, of course, set a ceiling on how much money an individual can have in pension savings, as the Minister of Finance wants. Having the will and the opportunity to take responsibility for your own pension is, of course, excellent and not something to be punished. Other government representatives have gone considerably further than the Minister of Finance and spoke warmly for Karl XI's reduction, i.e. when the sovereign king confiscated large private property towards the end of the 17th century. I am not going to review Karl XI in a budget debate, because there are indications that he was partly right. My point, however, is that Sweden cannot be compared in the 1680s with Sweden in the 2020s. If you have made a fortune illegally, let us take Allra as a fairly recent example, you will not only be liable for compensation but will also get acquainted with the inside of the penitentiary. But if you have started a company, paid tax and followed the law to the letter, the state should be a guarantor of private ownership, not a threat to it. It is a core task of the state to safeguard and guarantee private property rights. That is why it is distressing to listen to some of the government's representatives. Mr President, I would like to What this government needs to learn is to prioritise. Of course, taxes must be increased and new taxes introduced if tax money is to be given away to other parts of the world instead of being allowed to go to the needs at home. If you give away SEK 150 billion of taxpayers' money in contributions to the EU instead of ensuring that we have a fully funded pension system, a fully funded justice system and a fully funded healthcare system here in Sweden, it is clear that the money is not enough. It's obvious. For years, billions of Swedish taxpayers' money have been given to Afghanistan, for example, a country that is completely corrupted, and this should continue, despite the fact that it is now governed by the Taliban, which has values and a view not least of women's rights and freedoms, which are at best medieval. How on earth could it be in the interest of Swedish taxpayers to give tax money to the Taliban? I don't understand it. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Democrats are prepared to make the necessary priorities. Swedish tax money should go to Swedish needs, nothing else. We will give priority to efforts in the judicial system, we will give priority to long-term improvements in welfare and, not least, we will give priority to raising pensions.
i-51db44cb4f1bd3ee-216	Mr President, I would like to Oscar Sjöstedt complains that the government's climate policy is ineffective. The Swedish Democrats have not yet presented their budget motion, but last year they proposed substantial cuts in climate policy. It was the abolition of climate bonuses, the abolition of climate investments, the abolition of energy efficiency improvements of multi-residential buildings and reductions on solar cells. In total, the Swedish Democrats wanted to save more than 6 billion on reduced climate ambitions. I would like to know, Oscar Sjöstedt : Sweden is not going to solve the whole world's climate problems, but we are going to take our responsibility for our emissions. What is the plan of the Swedish Democrats for Sweden to be able to do its part of the job and meet the Paris Agreement's requirements for climate heating well below 2 degrees?
i-51db44cb4f1bd3ee-218	Mr President, I would like to It is quite right that I consider the government's climate policy to be extremely inefficient and expensive and, in some cases, even counterproductive. There is quite a lot happening on this theme in our part of the world and in other parts of the world that is quite exciting, but you are constantly laying the hookbones for yourselves, Magdalena Andersson. We're going to electrify the entire fleet of vehicles, but we're not going to break cobalt, we're going to import it from Uganda or anywhere from Africa. We have huge cobalt reserves, which is a necessary ingredient in an electric battery, but we will not break it in Sweden. You wonder what the working conditions are like in those mines in Africa – you don't want to think about that. We will electrify the vehicle fleet, but we will also close down the only stable energy production that we have in the form of nuclear power. Your policy is not connected. There is an appropriation in the government budget called Protection of a valuable nature. That sounds amazingly beautiful. There's no one who doesn't want to protect valuable nature. Isn't that what everyone wants? But if you cave down a little bit, you can see that the grant actually means that the government will buy forest from private foresters. Why? The private forest farmers in Sweden are fantastically talented and have been so for generations after generations. The state is not a more able manager of the Swedish forest than the private users, but it wants to spend several billions on the state to sit and own a lot of forest. The best thing is that the forest is managed, because nothing is so effective when it comes to tying CO2 as a growing forest. These were some examples. We have the conditions in this country to be independent when it comes to the production of batteries for electric cars, but then we must provide the conditions for, for example, cobalt mining.
i-51db44cb4f1bd3ee-222	Mr President, I would like to I tried to listen very carefully, but I didn't hear anything about the Swedish Democrats' plan for how to reach the 2-degree target. I heard we're going to have fewer nature reserves and we're going to break cobalt. Possibly, to interpret it kindly, Oscar Sjöstedt says we should have more nuclear power. Companies are free to build new nuclear power. You can invest and build new reactors in Sweden, but nobody has done so because it is not economically viable. If the answer is more nuclear, I have to ask: how much will the Swedish Democrats put in their budget for us to build new nuclear reactors? How many billions will it be spent? We know from Finland that the construction of nuclear reactors takes a long time. So Oscar Sjöstedt gets the opportunity again: What are we going to do in Sweden to achieve the goals before we have new nuclear reactors in place? There were two questions.
i-51db44cb4f1bd3ee-224	Mr President, I would like to You can't measure input instead of output and say, "Look, we spent a lot of money on some action, how good we are!" It must be output that counts. The government is shutting down fully functioning nuclear power. Let's start at that end. Stop shutting down fully functioning nuclear power! That's a good start. It's up and running and it's already there. This is a typical red gentleman that the Minister of Finance runs with a close look. Wind power and solar power have been heavily subsidised. If you have completely different conditions instead of a level playing field and competition neutrality in a market, it sends a number of signals. With another government that is tangible or at least reasonably nuclear-oriented and nuclear-positive, it is clear that the conditions for market conditions are changing. Nuclear power certainly has a future in this country – I am absolutely convinced of that.
i-51db44cb4f1bd3ee-228	Mr President, I would like to I am grateful that in this budget debate, at least from the SD, we do not have to hear distinctions between intelligent and unintelligent immigrants. But that's not what I was going to ask you this time. Speaking of being a vassal party, as the SD puts it, Mr President, I will just inform you that the Center Party will never be a vassal party to the SD. When it comes to what exactly you are supposed to submit to the Moderates to finance the hugely long list of promises, Oscar Sjöstedt, the Moderates can, after all, count in their budget motion. All the items that magically give revenue when you want zero or guess negative migration will not appear in a real budget. I note that aid is to be cut, but are you also going, as you planned last year, to shock up the VAT for all café and restaurant owners, right now when they are going to get out of the pandemic and start hiring? Will you begin to shock up various employers' contributions for a kind of fictitious giant reduction in employers' contributions at the other end that you have not funded anywhere? What exactly is it that you, when you line up promises and demands that will never be met, will demand your new political budgetary partners, if I understand correctly?
i-51db44cb4f1bd3ee-232	Mr President, I would like to I don't know if the smartest thing is to start demanding things. You can take it a little piano and see that you are reasonably agreed already in the starting position. It seems smarter. Okay, so I'm going to sum up in two minutes the whole budget option that we haven't yet presented, but which will be in about two weeks. But, fair enough. As far as international aid, which I believe is at SEK 52 billion next year, is concerned, we have a halve. You get pretty far along with that. It funds well – by far – the whole reform that I intend to present shortly in terms of strengthening pension provision. When we make the reform with pension provisions and thus raise them in order to get the desirable consequence, which is higher pensions, obviously the bill should not go to the entrepreneurs, but it should land on the state. That was an example. I think it's a little strange to talk about shock increases in VAT. There is an ordinary VAT rate of 25%. Now we see, for example, that the restaurant industry has had a very hard time, and then there is no point in speeding up such a reform. But the fact that a normal industry, whether it be goods or services, pays the regular VAT rate, which is 25%, is hardly a shock increase. I think we should find ways of harmonising the entire VAT system. I do not like this type of differentiation. They lead to inefficiency and losses. Let citizens decide what they want to consume. The State shall not subsidise one of the goods or services. The citizens themselves are capable of deciding this.
i-51db44cb4f1bd3ee-236	Mr President, I would like to It is interesting to hear from the SD that somewhere there are thoughts about taking all these proposals into reality now and bringing them into future budget negotiations. Now SD has finally gotten to what the whole world admires Sweden for. Step by step, for once, it is within the framework of long-term and solid funding of the pension system – Oscar Sjöstedt says that it is underfunded – now possible to increase guarantee pensions, reduce taxes on pensions and do so in such a stable and secure way that it lasts long-term. Now you are going to go into this with extremely far-fetched proposals for funding and without an idea of how pensions can be secured in the long-term and stable way that the whole world admires us for having done. You want to do that instead of making reinforcements for those who are the toughest.
i-51db44cb4f1bd3ee-238	Mr President, I would like to It was good consumer information from the Center Party, that is to say that we are satisfied with this as it stands today and that we do not need to strengthen pensions. First of all, I have not even presented exactly how we will do this. Therefore, I cannot quite understand how far-fetched it is. I will, together with Jimmie Åkesson, present a very elaborate and thought-out model for this that strengthens pensions and the pension system in the long term. We will present this as early as next week. But it was good consumer information to voters that the Center Party is satisfied with today's pension system and that we do nothing about it. I simply do not share that view. I am absolutely convinced that we need to strengthen pension provision. And we're not going to send the bill to the entrepreneurs, but that bill is going to stay with the state.
i-51db44cb4f1bd3ee-242	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Democrats have had a decisive influence on several key issues over the years. The Swedish democrats claim to be on the side of ordinary people. But if you look at their policies, you can see that it is not quite where their loyalty is, but in completely others. I was going to give you some examples of that. When the law on public procurement was to be amended, the Swedish Democrats had a decisive casting vote. There was a legislative proposal to make demands on collective wage agreements, but the Swedish Democrats condemned this proposal. There was a suggestion that pension payments could be made so that people would actually receive their pension money. And who rejected it? Yes, the Swedish Democrats did. We are the only country in the Nordic countries that allows low-wage competition through public procurement, thanks to the Swedish Democrats. The Swedish Democrats could have abolished the pensioner tax but chose to vote for the budget from KD and M which instead increased the tax gap. The Swedish Democrats also had a decisive vote when we voted on profit limitation in welfare. In fact, the Swedish democrats had even gone to elections to abolish the prize hunt in school but changed their mind after a well-known brandy meeting. We therefore also have the most extreme school system in the world. School companies go like a rocket on the stock exchange, but village schools and municipal schools are forced to cut back. We all pay the price. We also saw during the pandemic how elderly care was impoverished and how Attendo did not even provide the cohort care to be given to the elderly. The relatives were lied straight to the face, according to the information available. At the same time, Attendos's management picked out big bonuses. Oscar Sjöstedt, how come you always end up with the wealthy and the privileged when you actually have the chance to decide in a completely different direction?
i-51db44cb4f1bd3ee-247	Mr President, I would like to There were a lot of things, so we'll see what I can do in the first line. With regard to the Public Procurement Act, a proposal came from the Government. We saw clear flaws in that. One aspect of the proposal presented by the government and which we stopped was that it was not possible to impose certain conditions and certain requirements on posted workers vis-à-vis domestic workers. Ordinary Swedish employees would thus have a competitive disadvantage vis-à-vis posted employees. It is a model that we absolutely cannot support. That shouldn't surprise Ulla Andersson. Of course, we stand up for ordinary Swedish employees in their competition with the posted workers. There the government was given homework and had to go back to the drawing board and remake this proposal. Then they came back with a new proposal that was modified. Then they received our support, and then it was voted through in this House. That's what happened. Since we entered the Swedish Parliament in September 2010, we have had in each individual budget option the abolition of pensioner's tax. That's what happened. The last thing Ulla Andersson mentioned was freedom of choice in schools, care for the elderly and other things. The explanation is that we simply like freedom of choice. We have confidence that people can make choices that suit them and their children, and so on, based on their situation. This is also something of a good thing, so there is some example of a private welfare player who has not done well or who has done a bad job in the first place. It is a problem, but it is not a bigger problem than the failure of the public operator. It's just as big a problem. Here we need to have incredibly tough quality requirements aimed at both private and public actors.
i-51db44cb4f1bd3ee-251	Mr President, I would like to I hear that the Swedish Democrats are trying to embellish reality. In fact, it was not quite what Oscar Sjöstedt says. You have just prevented legislation from being passed that it would not be possible to compete through low-wage competition. You prevented pension contributions from being imposed. You did not think it was important for Swedish employees to be able to receive their pension money. Oscar Sjöstedt knows very well that this is not about freedom of choice. This is about paying billions in tax money which, instead of going to granny's care and to children's education, goes to the owners of the companies. They buy hunting castles and stylish apartments in tax havens. The money goes to this instead of to what they are intended for. In addition, the Swedish Democrats have landed in another issue that chronically ill and disabled people should pay more in tax than those who are lucky enough to be healthy and have a job. Why have you done that, Oscar Sjöstedt?
i-51db44cb4f1bd3ee-254	Mr President, I would like to When the government came back with its modified proposal for the LOU, i.e. the Public Procurement Act, they received our support. Why would they have made such a suggestion if it was so bad? The new and modified proposal, which gained a majority in this House, was better than the old original proposal. Public procurement – Ulla Andersson talks about billions in tax money – covers at least 700 billion SEK per year anyway, what do I know? We're buying up a lot of stuff. That doesn't mean the money doesn't go to what they're supposed to go to. We can apply it to something completely different. Now we're talking about school, but we can apply it to infrastructure as well. Should the state build all the roads? But it is private companies that build roads after procurement from the state. That doesn't mean the money doesn't go to what they're supposed to go to. They definitely go to what they're going to do. However, we must have strict requirements and strict quality controls. I hope we can work on that in the future.
i-51db44cb4f1bd3ee-256	Mr President, I would like to The description of Swedish justice system and Swedish courts that Oscar Sjöstedt made in the pulpit just now was really nasty. I hope that the representatives who are considering joining forces with Oscar Sjöstedt and his party listened carefully to what was said. But there may be room for interpretation. I would therefore like to give Oscar Sjöstedt an opportunity to correct himself. Was it not that he stood here and said that the decision made by the Environmental Court of Appeal on the permit issue concerning Cementa was a political decision? It can't be true that the honourable Member said that, can it?
i-51db44cb4f1bd3ee-258	Mr President, I would like to I drew a parallel to an earlier occasion, quite exactly a year ago, but then the decision was taken in reverse. Preem was then allowed to expand its refinery. It was down by Lysekil. The Green Party did not like that and pushed on to tear up the decision. These are totally opposites, but in some sense they are the same type of case. Here first land – and the Environmental Court decided to allow the extension of Cementa's permit. Then something happened, and the Supreme Court intervened and tore up the whole decision. Something in that story that's suspicious. The first instance sees no worries or problems but clubs through the case. Then comes the next instance and says that it is completely substandard. One wonders which of the bodies is right and which is wrong. And now the government is working on some kind of special solution, specifically targeted at a single company. To say that things like this are completely independent of political will, I think, is completely wrong; I am sure that is completely wrong. It is clear that we, as elected politicians and ultimately the government, have the opportunity to influence things. Of course it's that way.
i-51db44cb4f1bd3ee-261	I would remind you once again that this is a budget debate.
i-51db44cb4f1bd3ee-262	Mr President, I would like to I respect that. But I find what was said in the speaker's chair so remarkable that I would like to dwell on the matter. What is said here, what is now stated in the Swedish Parliament, is extremely remarkable. It is suggested that we have made political intrusions into the decisions of independent courts. I don't want to deny it because I'm so upset. Of course, this has not happened. That Oscar Sjöstedt lives in such a world, that he believes this about Sweden's courts, should make many in Sweden really upset and really scared. There is a need for a longer explanation about the difference between different permit processes and how they can, on the proposal of a court or authority, land in a review with the government – that is how it is. It is very clear and part of the environmental code. But the decisions taken by the courts are independent. If it weren't that way, something would be really bad in Sweden.
i-51db44cb4f1bd3ee-265	Mr President, I would like to Criticism is not directed at the Swedish judiciary. My criticism is directed at Karolina Skog and the Green Party. As the honourable Member has just stated, the government can go in and take over the handling of a permit process. I do not understand what is so upsetting about saying that this is the way it is. It was done with Preemraff in Lysekil. The government went in and said, "Now we take over the process instead." And they said, "No, you're not getting a permit, because this is not a good business." So it has already happened. I don't understand what's so weird. But there was no criticism of the judiciary. I have full confidence in the Swedish judiciary. However, I have no confidence in the Green Party or their government colleagues.
i-51db44cb4f1bd3ee-268	Mr President, I would like to I am grateful to be in this first budget debate after the coronapendem. Just because it is, I would also like to start by saying: Thank you! As I stand here today, I think of the couple I know who run a café and restaurant. While we in this House have fought hard to save businesses, they have fought so insanely through this crisis. They've almost had an employee left, even though almost all their money ran out. Thank you for staying out! I am thinking, as the Minister of Finance began by saying, of the nurses who have changed the sheets, of the nurses who have come with medicines, of the health workers and of midwives – I happen to know you quite well – as day after day during these months and actually years have met patients, despite the risk of infection. I think of everyone who has gone to work every day and has met people despite the pandemic. I am also thinking of the unemployed whom I have met and who have fought. They have submitted the application after the application, despite the fact that for many long months there were hardly any jobs to apply for. Thank you to all of you who made it through this, the biggest health crisis and the largest single bnp case since World War II! Then I think: what do all of you who have fought through the pandemic by us politicians in this House deserve, except for a thank you? Of course, you deserve that we now invest in the core of welfare, in health care, in the police and in rural areas – I come to that. But most of all, you deserve us to be able to turn this around all over the country. Now that the opportunity is finally opening up, we will make it possible for Sweden to make up for all the jobs and all the growth that has been lost. In this difficult situation, we must dare to do what is right in the long term, what creates jobs and growth and thereby strengthens welfare. Mr President, I would like to As has been mentioned, we have 450 000 unemployed in Sweden according to the latest AKU. I'm sure we already have over 190 000 long-term unemployed. Many of them are born abroad. Many of them are also people with disabilities. Those that our society has put in the back of the line to work must have the chance to find an employer where they have the opportunity to show what they are capable of. It is now that they have to get that extra competence through komvux, yrkesvux, yrkeshögskolan that we care so much about or through Swedish for immigrants who really work and help them across the threshold. Above all, more people must now be given the chance to become employees in the first job, even though they may not have a degree, even though their Swedish may not be perfect, even though they may be young and do not really have a line on their CV. Mr President, I would like to We need to get better here. Never in our economic history has such high unemployment and labour shortages existed in parallel. Matching, the help to match, must be better and focused on results. The unique efforts in further training, the large agreement and the LAS transition must continue the upgrading of skills. The tax wedges at work, why do we nag so much about them? Because they are among the highest in the world, especially on low-paid jobs. Although we have repeatedly eased them, with the Alliance and with this government, Sweden is still the highest in terms of low-paid jobs. There are literally hundreds of thousands of small businesses that need to continue to create four of the five new jobs until we break the trend of unemployment until we break the integration problems. There's so much left to do. And we've still shown that it's possible. Youth unemployment is now, since we reduced the tax on hiring young people, on the way down. In a historic agreement, trade unions and employers managed to agree that it will be easier to hire and train throughout life. But it is not enough that it turns around for some but not others, here but not there. There are regions where more than 1 in 10 people is unemployed. There are suburbs where every five or three people don't have a job. Madam President, I would like Now, at last, it is time to invest in the countryside. Perhaps we can finally get broad support for the Center Party's long struggle to invest in rural regeneration, to pull in broadband, to renovate the individual road, to give the local health centre security and to give the green industries the chance to grow and meet the huge demand for locally grown food we have in Sweden today. It is also now that we must bring order to the suburbs. Let us not turn a blind eye to that! It is time for it now to be safe in public places. No one should even have to think before you go out to the square or run your shop. Everyone should know that the police are in the corner, not only today, tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, but also next month, next year and in the future until it owns the street, until school, social services and society can recover the areas piece by piece and until the violence ends. But, Madam President, if we are on our way out of the covid crisis, we are not on our way out of the second crisis we have. We have extreme drought, fires and floods in the near future. In Dalarna the road did not pass. The threats outlined by the UN Panel on Climate Change are near now. As many have said, the most frustrating thing now is not how far away the solutions to the problems are but how close they are. The companies and technology are ready. We see the green industrialisation wave rolling forward with fossil-free steel and huge battery factories screaming for labor. We see how the enhanced bonus for electric cars makes them top the sales lists. This applies to both family cars and small cars – no Teslor, if anyone thought so. Wind power companies stand ready to roll out offshore hydro power corresponding to nuclear reactors. When, if not now, should every person feel that the incentives are such that they want to buy an environmental car at all costs? What if the charging poles aren't going up now? And when, if not now, are we going to start removing carbon dioxide using bioenergy and put it back in the ground? Madam President, I would like I know it is not this kind of optimism and visions of the future that apply now. I know we have another era. We are expected – even in budgetary debates – to blame immigrants and the evil capitalists. But this is not really what Sweden wants now after the crisis. Sweden wants solutions, constructiveness, cooperation and correct answers when it comes to care queues, crime and rural problems. Today came the budget. I will read and consider it and assess its entirety. I listened to the Minister for Finance, who could become Prime Minister; it is not ready yet. She said wise things about the importance of investing in green industrial revolution and building on in rural areas. Maybe it wasn't enough, but it was good stuff. I listened to the Moderate Elisabeth Svantesson, who wants to become Minister of Finance. She said wise things about the need for security and about people not having to live on benefits throughout their lives. When we present the first budget after the pandemic, however, I appeal to hear about the visions and the ideas on how to make the engine in the Swedish economy strong again so that the whole country can live again and really get the climate change done. All of you who have fought your way through the pandemic deserve a new era of something that can be called economic sense in Sweden. This is Sweden. It is the country that through structural reform after structural reform, through entrepreneurs and through hard work and toil has created one of the most amazing and awe-inspiring economies in the world. We can do better. To all of you who have fought you through the pandemic: You deserve it to pay off to hire, work hard and turn to green. You deserve us to take this challenge seriously and for Sweden to regain faith in itself after the pandemic.
i-51db44cb4f1bd3ee-290	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Martin Ådahl, for your post! I note that there are several things where Moderates and center parties have very broad consensus. This applies, for example, to rural areas: that the whole of Sweden should live, that growth is created throughout the country, that broadband should be available in Dikanäs as well as Stockholm, Umeå and Malmö, and that the roads should be of high quality instead of low speeds. The last I added; Martin Ådahl did not say that. I believe, however, that many in the Center Party would agree with that. We will present a budget that has a strong rural impact, because we think that the whole of Sweden should live and because we need growth throughout Sweden. I want to add a question that I know the Center Party and the Moderates have previously enjoyed very much the same. I think we still do. When Martin Ådahl has commented on this budget, he has said a few things that I would like to quote. The priority for grants is to devote all resources to Sweden's recovery. We have made it clear that we do not think it is the right priority to invest in increased subsidies. ..................................................... I understand that Martin Ådahl and the Center Party think that much of what is in this budget is dismantling the work line, and I share that picture. It is still the line of work, that all people who have work capacity are involved and can contribute, that we lower taxes on both jobs and entrepreneurship and that we ensure that jobs become more that are very important for building Sweden strongly in the long term. If you have a vision of the future, this is what it's supposed to be about. My questions are therefore: how important is this to the Center Party? Is it going to say yes or no to the budget that is now on Parliament's table? Will it continue to keep a social democratic government under arms, even though it undermines the line of work and we do not really know what is happening to rural areas?
i-51db44cb4f1bd3ee-295	Madam President, I would like With all due respect, however, we know little about what is going to happen to the countryside. This bidding is absolutely fantastic in order to give the countryside better conditions, Madam President. Finally! I guess Elisabeth Svantesson is trying to invite the government here, but those of us who have been following and monitoring the issues for a long time– I think she was referring, for example, to individual roads and road maintenance in rural areas– note that what we could not get from the Moderates at all yesterday we are getting today from the Social Democrats. True, it is not enough, but it is amazing with this focus. I don't know why. Perhaps it is because everyone in Stockholm has got to go out in the countryside and get acquainted with their summer houses? However, it is a very positive development that we welcome. There is a completely different understanding of the conditions that have been bad for so many years: the disadvantaged infrastructure and the possibility of joining the digital society and the in many ways hopeless conditions for starting and building up small businesses in rural areas. As for the situation where the work line and the belief that work should pay off are eroding, it depends on things from many different directions. I mentioned the fact that you are to cooperate with a party that has a completely different view of this at the bottom, in addition to other populism about migration and immigration. I think everyone will have to make an effort to keep their focus on these efforts in the future.
i-51db44cb4f1bd3ee-299	Madam President, I would like If Martin Ådahl has read the Moderates' movements over the years, he knows that there is a very strong ruralist. I am also convinced that we could agree on many good things for the countryside, if it were not because it is more important for the Center Party to support a left-wing government than anything else. Martin Ådahl mentions that the Center Party gets a lot of things. Personally, I think that Sweden will be better if we put forward good policies. It's not about what parties get or don't get. I live in the countryside myself, straight into the forest in Bergslagen. I know how important it is to have a good rural policy. My basic question, however, was about the work line. I am concerned when I see that we are moving towards a policy that will soon put us where we were at the beginning of the 21st century. I do not get any real answers to the question of whether the work line is important for the Center Party in this budget or not. Is it true that the Center Party is saying one thing in the media but will actually vote in a completely different way when this is decided in this House?
i-51db44cb4f1bd3ee-302	Madam President, I would like No, it will be extremely important for our decision that we strengthen the driving forces for job creation and entrepreneurship throughout Sweden, in relation to the discussion about rural areas. I continue to welcome Elisabeth Svantesson's rural perspective. Perhaps she is now prepared to increase in her opposition movements the appropriations that we never managed to increase in government together at these levels, even though we fought extremely hard for it. Then I can guarantee that in all the contexts where we will act, we will stand firm that it will pay off working in Sweden. We will reject the proposals of the outer parties which do not support them.
i-51db44cb4f1bd3ee-303	Madam President, I would like Rust up the individual road in the countryside, I think Martin Ådahl said. I thought that was nice. Then I thought to myself that it would be even nicer if people could afford to go on these roads too. This budget proposal proposes additional taxes on motorists in the country, in this case by increasing vehicle taxes. In addition, the government has made constant increases in petrol and diesel taxes. Not only has petrol taxation been indexed in parity with inflation, but it has also been over-indexed – historically in any case. In my world, it is obvious that the government lacks understanding of people's needs for their car. The car has been turned into a class issue, when it should be a question of freedom. This is true for everyone, but it is all the more true for those who live a little more in rural areas and perhaps have a few miles to the nearest store. I've got a few miles to the nearest Ica store myself. It's a little hard to walk the whole distance every day. My question is of course: will the Center Party contribute to a budget decision that will lead to additional tax burdens on the country's motorists, or will one way or another attempt be made to stop that part of the budget bill?
i-51db44cb4f1bd3ee-306	Madam President, I would like This is an important question that deserves to be answered seriously. The question that we are actually asking ourselves, all of us who are concerned about rural conditions and those who depend on the car, is how best to get all those who depend on the car into the new fossil-free society, knowing that everyone really can't afford to buy even any of the smaller new electric cars. How are we gonna do that? Then the idea has been that we have to shift over to always pay more and more to make the right choice for the new cars you buy, whether in cities or in rural areas, instead of punishing those who are already dependent on the old car. In fact, like many others in this House, I think we should do something there too to give rural areas opportunities. Together with the government, we have proposed a conversion to ethanol, which is very good. Then you can cross over on the other side of this, even if the supply is still too poor. But that too is not enough. You should not choose the track to just shock-raise, shock-raise and shock-raise the petrol tax. As Oscar Sjöstedt well knows, Madam President, the impact of the Centres, although we are so much concerned with climate change, has been about slowing down those increases and not accelerating them. We will carefully note whether this continues in this budget, because it has been our way forward, well understood that there is a real conflict for ordinary people who depend on the car in the Swedish countryside: I am dependent on the car and can not afford to buy a new one, but I want to join the climate transition. Our answer to that is that we will do everything we can to give you as much chance as possible to do so without being affected.
i-51db44cb4f1bd3ee-309	Madam President, I would like Well, we'll just have to wait, in other words. I have full respect for the fact that the Center Party needs its internal process when it comes to such heavy things as budget decisions. Martin Ådahl will have the time he needs to anchor this before the vote. There are a lot of things in the budget proposal that can be raised, but I am thinking now of something that was mentioned in a previous change of line, namely the appropriation called Protection of a valuable nature. It's very nicely packaged, you have to say. But what is hidden in this grant of several billion SEK is that the government will buy forest from private foresters. I just wonder whether this is something that the Center Party intends to support or whether it has confidence in private users rather than the father state.
i-51db44cb4f1bd3ee-311	Madam President, I would like On this particular issue, it is reasonable that even Oscar Sjöstedt should not be in any doubt as to where the Center Party puts all the pieces. The whole of Sweden talks about how we protect the ownership of the forest and the management of the forest, even when some do not understand how important it is for the climate work. We have made this a basic condition for this government. I note that you in the Swedish Democrats make it a basic condition for a government that refugees should no longer be helped on the ground. I don't know how to do that. Now you should not help on the ground in Afghanistan or other countries from which people can be refugees, but you should not accept them either. That is obviously your basic condition – you are to remove the aid for the Moderates to receive their coveted prime minister's post. In this case, we have laid down completely different basic conditions for the government, in addition to what we have been pursuing in the January agreement: a major transformation of the Swedish labour market, protection of property rights in the forest and enabling a beach protection reform.
i-51db44cb4f1bd3ee-313	Madam President, I would like I was actually going to start by telling Martin Ådahl a story: It has always paid off to work. I understand that it may be difficult for a party far on the right that is driven by neoliberal theories and ideologies to understand it, but that is indeed the case. In fact, when a neoliberal party like the Center gets to influence politics, it is also a high price that ordinary people have to pay. The under-financing and thus the cuts in welfare have become everyday. Small municipalities with large exodus may continue to tap the nail edges that remain, while private welfare companies cut gold with a soap knife and owners' wallets become thick and fat. There are major unfunded income tax cuts, while those who Martin Ådahl says deserve better – the health workers and those in care for the elderly – must forget more colleagues, better salaries and better working conditions. There was just applause. At the same time, full-bodied well-managed urban residents receive a checkout allowance because they are unable to clean themselves or even drive the laundry to the dry cleaners. That's how the Center Party prioritises. The chaos privatisation of the Public Employment Service is being completed. The Center's own councillors protest loudly, small rural municipalities as well, because it is their economy that is being burdened. But now that the January agreement is gone, the Center Party also realizes that the Left Party's votes are needed for a budget to go through. That's why health insurance is being fixed now. At last, there will be security! Chronically ill, sick and disabled should have that right. Then what does Martin Ådahl do? He screams loudly about contributions. I thought the Center Party was behind the Swedish model, but apparently not. Why does Martin Ådahl call the insurance systems that are the basis of the Swedish model for contributions?
i-51db44cb4f1bd3ee-316	Madam President, I would like If anyone wonders why it is not a good idea to negotiate with the Left Party, I can say that you always get reminders of it. In this line I just missed the reference to billionaires in Danderyd and Djursholm in relation to something completely different so that the picture would be complete again. Seriously, the Centre Party, in cooperation with the Alliance and now with the government, has proved that it is possible to reduce the hugely high taxes on labour, not least low-paid work, to employ low-wage people and to get a low wage. That's what it's all about when it's gonna pay off to work. I am very aware that we have a high level of participation in the labour force. A lot of people want to work. I have met so many people who really want to work in this country, Madam President, although it does not always pay off in relation to subsidies. People struggle extremely hard to get in. I have no doubt about that. It's about what they get back from it in order to manage in everyday life, Ulla Andersson. We have shown that it is possible to reduce the internationally record-high taxes on low and middle-income earners and, at the same time, tens of billions in real terms go into health care. That is why we have been able to respond better to the corona than many other countries with full force together here in Parliament with great resources. That is why we have not gone on the left-wing socialist line and have no money left in the account, a massive public debt and no place to turn. Stop driving with job creation resists a nurse! It's just the opposite. If we create jobs in the private sector in small companies, we can also hire nurses.
i-51db44cb4f1bd3ee-321	Madam President, I would like I understand that Martin Ådahl is upset. I guess that's what happens when reality turns out, because that's exactly what it did during the pandemic. It was about the poor working conditions in the care of the elderly and how the nurses tore everything they could and still were not enough. It was about the spread of the disease. There wasn't even any protective equipment. It was about how you tore up hospitals and how you will still get to work in the same way because the cuts continue. Tax cuts have always been a priority when the Center Party has been involved in influencing economic policy, so also now. I note that the Center Party does not seem to be behind the Swedish model. Martin Ådahl continues to talk about contributions. When people wear themselves out in a job and want to use the insurance they have paid in to, Martin Ådahl says: No, we should not have any subsidy here! What is this view of people? Does Martin Ådahl think sick people are sick because they want to? Or what is it that drives a neo-liberal party in this way?
i-51db44cb4f1bd3ee-325	Madam President, I would like Seriously, isn't it time to get some sense of rhetoric? It goes without saying that all those on sick leave and long-term sick leave have been huge in focus. Getting them back to work, among other things, as I mentioned at the outset, has been an enormous focus of the Center Party. It is all about these moral arguments. You don't have a monopoly on justice. You don't have a monopoly on heart. You don't have a monopoly on compassion for people who are having a hard time. It's just that you don't understand that resources have to come from somewhere, and they have to grow in order for us to do more. That's what I want them to do, too. When we talk about grants, we mean grants, okay. In this case, it is actually the unemployment fund which, although it is necessary, is a contribution, and that cannot be avoided.
i-51db44cb4f1bd3ee-328	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by welcoming Martin Ådahl to the budget debate. It was very interesting to listen to Martin Ådahl's speech. I want to thank you for that. At the same time, I must admit that I do not really know the premises for the line shift. That Martin Ådahl carries this government under his arms is known for a long time, and the government's failure in terms of health care, jobs and security is thus also the Center Party and Martin Ådahl. But how can one now understand the budget and the correct answers that Martin Ådahl himself called for in the speaker's chair? Sweden needs real answers. One indication could be how the Center Party views the budget that has now been put on Parliament's table. It is clear to me that we are not engaged in taking down the tax wedges that Martin Ådahl is talking about in his speech. Of the 74 billion in investment, it is not increased driving forces for work that are prioritised in tax policy. However, there are a number of changes in benefit and benefit systems that undermine the work line. I believe that there are no proposals that greatly strengthen, not least, the ability of employers to employ the long-term unemployed, for example by strengthening new start-up jobs. It is also a question of increasing the drive to work. Both me and Martin Ådahl know that if we do, the jobs will also grow. It is not a zero-sum game, but it is possible to create more jobs through smart and real reforms and tax cuts. But then it is also necessary to put forward such proposals and vote on them. Therefore, the question is how Martin Ådahl and the Center Party view the proposals that are on Parliament's table from the government.
i-51db44cb4f1bd3ee-335	Madam President, I would like I understand that not only Jakob Forssmed but many people want us to get on the train right away. The budget came a few hours ago, and you ask whether yes or no, up or down. This is a very large and important decision with many implications and parts. We need to take that very seriously as it requires. We have been put in an impossible situation by the fact that our long-standing working party, the Liberals, dropped out of budgetary cooperation and thus stood in a situation where we did not have a working majority for any reform budget in Parliament. Although you believe that the SD will be able to stand behind reform budgets, I do not think anyone is very convinced of it outside the circle that has fallen on that train. Madam President, I would like I do not think, by the way, that Jakob Forssmed has so many supporters among the Social Democrats regarding the image that we are some sort of vassal party that carries them under its arms. I don't think that's how they experience the Center Party. In the years we have worked together, we have driven the government to make wise and important structural reforms. I am very grateful that, among other things, you and your colleagues, the Moderates, have supported it. Together, Sweden's trade unions and Sweden's employers have made major changes. These are important structural changes and changes in employment opportunities. In line with this, I do not intend to go in defending the budget that has just been presented. But it is probably one-seventh, one-tenth, depending on how Jakob Forssmed counts, which goes to tax cuts on jobs and entrepreneurship and on low income and average income. I do not quite understand that there would be such a total vacuum there. It's not a coincidence. These are things that we have been pushing for a long time that the government continues to do.
i-51db44cb4f1bd3ee-341	Madam President, I would like I was thinking about what Martin Ådahl himself mentioned about tax wedges and increased driving forces to work, which Ådahl himself was into. Then it matters how to design tax reliefs. The Minister of Finance has described tax relief as, in particular, a stimulus to consumption. It is made equal regardless of income. It is not made any greater if, for example, you have an income from work, so it does not increase the driving forces of work in that way. There I suppose Martin Ådahl would like to design it differently if he himself is to respond to his own rhetoric. The question is really: if there is another budget on Parliament's table that contains increased incentives for work and relief for employers so that they can hire more long-term unemployed, will Martin Ådahl vote in favour of that budget or not? If that question is not answered today, it will have to be answered in due course.
i-51db44cb4f1bd3ee-344	Madam President, I would like It was a rhetorical question from Jakob Forssmed. It will receive a rhetorical answer. Yes, there will be such a budget at Parliament's table. It will be presented by the Center Party within the general period of exercise. Jakob Forssmed, Elisabeth Svantesson and you are all welcome to vote for that budget so that we have a sensible, classic reform policy in this country of the kind we have had for so many years so that not everyone just falls into populism and puts it at the top who should sit on which government post. You are all welcome to vote for it. If that offer is not received with the same warm hand as I had hoped, perhaps those living in the countryside had hoped, those who believe in a green transition had hoped and Sweden's small businesses had hoped, we will also have to deal with that situation and be constructive for Sweden's future.
i-51db44cb4f1bd3ee-347	Madam President, I would like A warm welcome, Martin Ådahl, to the debate! The Center Party last summer chose to support the Social Democratic government. You had the chance to vote for a bourgeois government, but you chose the left side. I very much regret this, and I regret the left turn that the Center Party is now making. But I hope you will return to the bourgeoisie. You have some things in common with the Red-Green Government on certain issues; it concerns migration and, not least, energy policy. I'd like to hold on to it for a short while. It's about the electricity crisis we're seeing around Sweden right now. The oil power plant in Karlshamn was launched a few weeks ago despite the fact that it was a hot summer day. It is a plant that is only used when it is winter and cold, but now it is running and vomits carbon dioxide into the atmosphere in the middle of a hot summer day. The electrical crisis is here. Prices in Värmland have increased by 250 per cent. At home in Skåne, where I live, the price of electricity is at historically high levels. In Robertsfors in northern Sweden, in Västerbotten, 2,000 new jobs are turned down because they do not have sufficient access to electricity. Martin Ådahl lives in Stockholm, but I guess he has a commitment to other parts of the country as well. We are getting rather tired of this situation, and the Center Party bears a very great responsibility for it. You have consistently voted against all the initiatives that the Liberals, the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and other parties in this Parliament have pushed forward to facilitate the situation and to avoid electric crises. We say we should have more nuclear power in Sweden. Why do you say no to that, Martin Ådahl?
i-51db44cb4f1bd3ee-351	Madam President, I would like First, I would like to discuss what Mats Persson indicated as a bourgeois government and a bourgeois alternative. Mats Persson and I are liberals. We believe in the freedom of the individual, and we believe in the equal value of all human beings. We do not blame immigrants, and we do not blame individual groups. We are, in fact, urged by our conviction to stand up when xenophobic forces threaten and protect people from such prejudices. It is our responsibility if we believe in what it means to be liberal. And then I'll tell you that a party like the Swedish Democrats will never be part of a bourgeoisie of which a liberal party is part. As far as nuclear energy is concerned, you are in the difficult position of persuading those who are not entirely married to and fascinated by nuclear power. I can understand that one can be, but then one must either subsidise a hopeless renovation after the renovation of works that are breaking down or wait for subsidised money – as in Finland and as in the UK – far into the future when the climate crisis is already acute to come to nuclear power stations that are new. Instead, without a single subsidy, one can provide an opportunity for the 130 terawatt hours of offshore wind that the companies are prepared to deliver here and now in the Baltic Sea and in good wind conditions through the energy agreement we have made with connection of the like. Why? It is a completely incomprehensible debate if you do not just angle it politically.
i-51db44cb4f1bd3ee-356	Madam President, I would like It's not about ideology. It's about me not wanting us to have an electric crisis. I don't like that electricity prices are this high, and I get very worried when we vomit carbon dioxide into the atmosphere on a sunny summer day in August in Sweden when we should have an electricity system that is completely carbon-free. That's what worries me. If we are to take responsibility for the climate and if we want companies to invest in the new technology, we must have plenty of energy. And I don't want that to mean that we become oil-dependent, as we are right now. Madam President, I would like The Center Party has a very great responsibility for this, and Martin Ådahl himself admits it. He says that the Center Party has voted against these proposals. That's the problem. The Center Party bears a great responsibility for the electricity crisis that we are seeing in Sweden right now. That responsibility must be assumed by the Center Party.
i-51db44cb4f1bd3ee-359	Madam President, I would like There are indeed attempts to confuse the debate completely. Over a year Sweden is currently exporting a huge amount of energy. So this is about the times when it dips, where we have problems and where we need control power, as it is said. It's kind of hydroelectric power plant in Norrland. We need basic power, where nuclear power is an alternative. There are also other options. We also need transmission, and that is usually where the electricity crises occur. I do not know whether the Minister for Energy, or the former Minister for Energy, is still in the Chamber, but this has been the big problem during the period when we have had a shortage of electricity. The transfer has not worked. All these problems we have really wanted to be involved in solving. And nuclear energy is not a solution to this. But whatever one thinks of nuclear power, it has Mats – thatPersson exactly right – to do with SD being a bourgeois party for us who have a liberal conviction. It's not.
i-51db44cb4f1bd3ee-363	Madam President, I would like We are so incredibly happy to have Martin Ådahl here today, and there are many who want to ask for a reply. My question is actually partly answered because Martin Ådahl with such joy and pride told me how to keep the environmental taxes down in Sweden. It is a truthful description, but I thought of staying a little more around environmental taxes and the green tax exchange. When it is time for the election movement and we are out meeting people and campaigning, the Green Party and the Center Party are in complete agreement on the idea of a green tax shift, which means raising taxes on the environment and climate and lowering them on, for example, labour. At the beginning of this term of office, four parties agreed to carry out a powerful green tax exchange during their term of office. Then a lot has happened. One thing that happened last summer was that the Center Party changed its attitude and its relationship with the government. A number of requirements have been set out to support the budget. One requirement has been no tax increases, i.e. no green tax changes and no environmental taxes. At the same time, I read in the newspaper that Martin Ådahl is still very enthusiastic about the green tax exchange. I can't get this together. Maybe that's something I don't understand, so I want to give Martin Ådahl the opportunity to explain: Does Martin Ådahl want to raise environmental taxes here and now in Sweden or doesn't he want to?
i-51db44cb4f1bd3ee-368	Madam President, I would like I think that something was lost in the line with the Swedish Democrats in the sense that I tried to explain that we have chosen another way of exchanging the tax– which you yourselves, incidentally, have embraced with wool and hair after we drove it. It's about bonuses and malus on new cars. But above all, you should not sell off your own profits in the January cooperation. It is one of the biggest tax exchanges between taxes on emissions and reduced taxes on labour and entrepreneurship that we have had historically during this period, and we have done so together. Now we have a situation where I think it is the government that has stopped the chemical tax because it was not finished and because it is a bad situation in the economy. I read in the budget that you have stopped it, so you cannot be happy to accuse us. We are absolutely not sure that we will support this budget. Excuse me, Madam President, but it is difficult to accuse us of something in the budget that you have just adopted. On the question of whether we want a green tax change in the future is the answer: Absolutely! Much of this will certainly happen at EU level because the price of carbon dioxide, which is put together for all countries, is so effective in getting the increase across Europe and triggering the big change. There is much behind, for example, the fossil-free steel, the battery plants and the electric car development that is taking place in Europe. You can see that we are constantly moving the fort there. But this must be done, as you yourself say, with wisdom, wit and sense. No, we must not forget all the truly magnificent things we have done together.
i-51db44cb4f1bd3ee-373	Madam President, I would like The information about the tax change that came was very typical: Forward! That's the key word – going forward, not now. It's hard, because there's a lot of voters getting pissed off. It's pretty tough to push forward environmental taxes, no matter in which constellation and in what collaboration you try to do it. It has been slow to get the green tax exchange we agreed on at the beginning of the mandate on the ground, again this time. We're not surprised at all. My question was whether Martin Ådahl here and now works for and wants increased environmental taxes in Sweden, or whether what his party leaders say if no tax increases have really been and will be a condition for the Center Party when they take a position on this budget. What's the deal? You're communicating with a split tongue.
i-51db44cb4f1bd3ee-375	Madam President, I would like I don't know how split the tongue was, seriously. I'm kind of having trouble seeing this. There are a lot of studies that show that if you can change the purchase price with bonus malus this has four five times more effect than if you just raise the petrol price for the same amount. It's pretty simple: People are stuck in their car addiction, but when they change cars, things happen. I think it's great that we've switched to it. I do not think that the road is just to raise the petrol price crown after crown and that it will solve the climate crisis for us in Sweden when we have the big change we now have. But that doesn't mean there's nothing else we can do. It was we who originally proposed the chemical tax on clothing and shoes, which has now been paused by these various reasons. There is a great ambition here to do this. But it should be done wisely and cleverly, as we have done with the cars.
i-51db44cb4f1bd3ee-378	Madam President, I would like Early this morning, many alarm bells rang. Of course, it would have been nice to sleep for a while, but people got ready to get to work. It was the Korsnäs worker who took the bike to the factory. It was the preschool teacher who wondered if all the children would be able to attend during the day. It was the caretaker who is still working with the consequences of the floods in Gävle. After work there is homework, children's driving, cooking and laundry, and then the energy is exhausted. During the pandemic, many have worked extra hard. Months of overtime, toil and too much work on too few employees have obviously been tiring. The body aches, and the brain is like cotton. I am thinking in particular of those in care for the elderly and in care. They are too few, they work very hard and many of them also have so low pay that they can't afford to treat themselves to that little extra. It is these people's work that builds the country – day after day, generation after generation. So it is not bankers, financial puppies or welfare capitalists who build it, but it is they who have benefited over the years at the cost of insecurity for those who work. Because once they have worn themselves out in the job, they can no longer trust that health insurance is there. The heath hunt on the sick and the unemployed has been running politics for decades. The right calls it the line of work, disguised neo-liberalism, and says that if people are poor enough, they also get well or get in the collar and take a job. If the system of social security systems is tightened so that as few people as possible can qualify, the systems are questioned and can then be dismantled piece by piece. The suspicion and identification of those who cannot or must not contribute to the construction of society has guided politics. It's your own fault, they say. System faults are individualized, and you're screaming a grant. Economic policy has been guided by neoliberal thinking. Tax cuts for the well-off should lead to new jobs, investment and increased productivity but have in practice led to mass unemployment, constantly increasing economic inequality, insecurity and under-funded welfare. Many are those who, year after year, have had to carry their welfare on their shoulders. Many women have had their bodies and brains worn out, while the owners of the private welfare companies – mostly men – have taken the tax money and instead bought themselves a hunting castle or a fancy apartment in some fine tax haven. They will be happy to drink there and thank the political parties who have given them the taxpayers' money. Regardless of the color of government, these privatisations have continued, taxes have been reduced, inequalities have increased and welfare under-financing has rolled on. The solutions of the Right have also become those of the Social Democrats. In recent years, Annie Lööf has been running and running. Every whim has been satisfied by Stefan Löfven. Market rents would be introduced. Yes, sir. Löfven. LAS shall be eroded. Of course, the answer was. The Arbetsförmedlingen will become a neo-liberal playhouse, said Martin Ådahl. Of course, the Social Democrats said, and shut down the Employment Service all over the country. There are, of course, parts of this budget that go in the right direction. I am thinking above all of health insurance, which is now finally to be fixed after 14 years of struggle by very many. Our requirements are largely met. Now the rules are changing, so is the Swedish Social Insurance Agency's governance. Compensation is increased, and people who have been working for a long time and have grown older may be covered by insurance instead of early retirement. The tax gap for chronically ill and disabled people will be eliminated, and benefits will be significantly increased. Revor is being fixed. It is hoped that sick people will no longer be referred to social services, family and friends in order to survive. They shall instead be covered by sickness insurance. That's how it's supposed to be. At last, we have reached a turning point where the view of society's responsibility and the security we can expect change. However, this budget also obliges all so-called poor pensioners of the country to continue living in poverty. The Left Party had as one of its demands that their guarantee pensions should be increased significantly, because you should not have to turn over every penny if you are an old lady. Similarly, despite the consequences it has on the spread of the disease, the withdrawal of the withdrawal will remain. This is something that says about this budget. It only succeeds in slowing down a small part of a negative trend and is not the necessary turnaround. The under-financing of welfare continues, the market experiments and the privatisation chaos remain and the tax cuts are considerably greater than the contributions in the form of general state subsidies to municipalities and regions, to health care, school and care for the elderly. The Social Democrats should well have seen the consequences of the constant tax cuts. They're screaming on the right about how dangerous it is, but they're walking in the same track as a pale copy. But every unfunded crown in tax cuts is a penny less for grandmother's care, for cancer patients' care or for schoolchildren's teaching materials. This leads to continued under-funded well-being, where staffing is always on the low end and where working conditions and wages scare away instead of attracting. Sure, our investment in care for the elderly that we have pushed through with the Moderates and Christian Democrats is included, and that is good. But very many of the bets made are temporary. This is not how you raise wages, improve working conditions or hire more people in welfare. It seems that you have to keep living on these applause, and the stress continues. Madam President, I would like The reports on the consequences of climate change stand as rods on the slopes. No one should do anything but worry, demand action and demand responsibility. Back in Gävle, we had huge rainfalls. People toiled in the darkness to save what was saved in their homes. The water stood as fountains from the street wells, sewage sprayed out of the floor wells in the cellars and water came in through the ground. People had to be evacuated, and they had their houses damaged and their memorials and possessions as well. During the viaduct, the water level was 41⁄2 metres. Climate change feels like nothing but skin. Certainly, this budget has many necessary and good investments in climate and the environment, in biodiversity, in green change in industry and in the protection measures of municipalities. However, public transport, which should be expanded and made more accessible, will instead have to pull in bus routes and raise fares. Maintenance on the railways continues to lag behind, and maritime transport, which should be significantly strengthened in order to reduce road transport and emissions, may continue to be exempt. The left-wing budget movement will include major investments in climate change – the biggest investments. It provides jobs and builds a more modern, more sustainable country. We want to remove the housing shortage with energy efficient housing, invest in small industrial businesses, in cities built accessible and green, in rural services and in an expanded welfare with improved quality and improved working conditions. It is a budget that seriously tackles economic inequality so that slip-fried directors and financial speculators are allowed to give up in order to give poor pensioners a dignified life and for the welfare to have its long-term funding. It is a budget that simply creates hope and faith in the future for many.
i-51db44cb4f1bd3ee-395	Madam President, I would like No one's safe until everyone's safe. It has bearing on the uneven distribution of vaccines in a world where covid is a continuing plague and a source of uncertainty. But that also applies to the violence and gang crime in our country. No one's safe until everyone's safe. There are blasts and shootings. Mothers and fathers bury their sons and daughters. Lifespace t decreases where fear spreads. Families are changing their lives and their children's lives. When this basic shot to safety hits someone, we all suffer. Madam President, I would like When Sweden is about to get a new budget, it is in an economic situation with considerable uncertainty, but despite that it is, or should it be, clearer than in a long time where the focus must be: Gang crime must be broken, care queues hijacked, care strengthened, climate emissions slowed down and long-term unemployment broken. But where is the government's focus? Yes, according to Magdalena Andersson at Harpsund, one of the government's focus is to find a balance between the disparate wills from the Center Party and the Left Party – and a good balance for the Swedish people, she added. Madam President, I would like Surely it is the result of a balancing act on a slender budget line that we are now seeing. The tax should be reduced but increased. Jobs, jobs, jobs are said to be a priority, but the work line is being eroded. The forest should be cultivated but preserved. Anyone who has tried to walk on the line knows that all force must be used to maintain balance – the pace is dropping and the force ahead is waning. We have a Minister of Finance with a ban on negotiations which has had to charge both one and the other expensive and contradictory reform on the balance sheet in order to stay in power. Madam President, I would like Spending 74 billion is not difficult, but to do it structurally right with leadership and reform force to solve social problems and equip Sweden cannot cope with the government when considerable effort is devoted to this power-building. This is bad for Sweden. What if all the government's proposals that prune from the work line, limed from the debate articles of the Left Party, were instead about measures to increase the drive to work and to employ people in long-term unemployment? Sure, each of the government's proposals for changes to the compensation systems is not wrong in itself, but the direction and focus are wrong. The feeling is that Sweden is on its way back to the situation that prevailed before 2006, i.e. that people are hidden and forgotten in benefit systems and compensation. So perhaps it will be when the Social Democrats have failed their most important promise: the promise of jobs. Sweden is getting further and further away from the EU's lowest unemployment rate – almost the furthest from it in fact. For those who become unemployed or ill, there should be security, but there should also be a way back to work community for most people. You may not always be able to work 100 percent of full-time, but you can work 100 percent of your ability. Now we need to break long-term unemployment with a broad reform programme with double job tax deductions on low incomes for those who go from exclusion to work so that jobs pay off and more jobs grow. Strengthened, early start-up jobs so that more employers can hire the long-term unemployed are a measure that the Employment Service has also called for. Requirements are needed in the supply support so that anyone who can do it can carry out work or equip themselves for work. Reforms are needed to increase the opportunities for people with disabilities who have reduced working capacity to get a job. A new, simple company form without VAT and annual report is needed to ensure that it is not an entire company to run a business. Proposals are needed for entrepreneurship and growing companies, for transition and more training to shortage jobs in parallel with SFI so that the goal of a job becomes clear. We Christian Democrats do not go an inch away from everyone who can work getting the chance to have a working community and to be able to stand by a coffee machine with colleagues and complain a little bit about the coffee – just things that many of us who have jobs have longed a little bit more for. Madam President, I would like The same need for real, substantial reforms applies in the area by area. When it comes to the judicial system, last year's breakdown when the prosecutors got zero crowns in increase must never be repeated. Now the prosecutors get more, but then others get too little. Now we need to expand the entire judiciary with more courts and penitentiary positions. We need to equip Customs and Coast Guard. We need more cops, but we also need police support assistants so that the police do the right thing. We need to recruit back experienced investigators who have retired so that we can quickly shift our strength in the investigation work and the risk of getting caught increases, fewer are victims of crime and justice is done. But we also need more preventive action to strengthen families, schools and local communities so that security and hope return to places where they have been hunted on the run. The same is true of the climate: there is a need for substantial reforms that seriously reduce emissions and shift and go beyond symbolic policy. Madam President, I would like Illness is a huge challenge, and we have high rates of sick leave, record-long care queues and a care that is not available when you need it. Now we're gonna have to cut off the care queues. Hope money is not enough in a dysfunctional healthcare system, but we must also have more of national leadership and governance. In the short term, there is now a need for strengthened primary care and a national care agency that can help us use the available capacity and ensure that it benefits the patients. We also need to implement a comprehensive health reform, because the 21 regions do not manage all the abilities of health care well, and new approaches are needed. We must also see that ill-health is linked to relationships or lack of relationships. When loneliness is the only companion of the home service sent out lunchbox, ill health follows in its tracks. There will be more depression, more dementia and more pain – a chronic stress that affects the immune system and leads to more heart attacks and strokes. That is why we need to build more adapted housing with Community opportunities for the elderly. We need to ensure that older people do not meet more in the home service than get to know everyone, and staff need to have secure jobs with schedules that enable jobs and family life so that they can perform their wonderful efforts with perseverance. Madam President, I would like After the pandemic, we need a re-launch of the Community in Sweden. We need those who reach out a hand to the one in need, who sees our children, break loneliness and allow good values to spread. Good values are not primarily opinions but actions, and they get oxygen in civil society communities – in the meetings between people that are needed more than ever. In a country where many children believe that their parents or other adults do not have time for them, reforms are needed for the community of civil society. Madam President, I would like When we face a crisis such as the pandemic, it is easy to turn inwards, but we also need to be able to lift our eyes and see that world poverty is now increasing sharply – for the first time in 20 years. These are countries where there are no recovery packages or lay-off aid, where children have not only lost schooling, but also their only real meal a day and where hunger is increasing. We cannot live comfortably in such a world. We don't want that. Sweden must stand up, do better and do more so that aid fights poverty and does not fall into the wrong hands. In the long run, it also benefits us. Madam President, I would like There's a lot of data. It is possible to reverse developments in these areas, but it is urgent. Unfortunately, the government lacks the necessary leadership and reform force. Now a new leadership is needed for a society where what we have decided to fix together really works – for a society where no one is held back but no one is left behind either.
i-51db44cb4f1bd3ee-417	Madam President, I would like Sometimes in this House you ask for a reply because you do not agree with what is said in a speech, but sometimes you ask for a reply because you agree – because that is actually what you think. Among many good things of the Christian Democrats, Jakob Forssmed mentioned here a vision that I have sometimes missed in the debates, namely that they fully defend Swedish aid. I can really understand that we are doing this at the moment when we are in international post-covid situations, with acute poverty, war and many people living in extreme distress in different places. However, earlier in this budget debate, we have heard from a party that wants to use aid as an ATM to finance all sorts of initiatives. They want to take from the most vulnerable people in the world, and they put it against all that we need to do in our own country—like we would abandon all that we have stood for over the years, namely to assist the most vulnerable of our fellow human beings out there in the world. The obvious question, Madam President, is: is this something on which the Christian Democrats and Jakob Forssmed stand? Among other things, it is about funding a pension reform, or how the Swedish Democrats had planned it all.
i-51db44cb4f1bd3ee-420	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking, Martin Ådahl! We Christian Democrats believe that there are huge needs in the world, not least right now. In the past, there has been a very positive development in terms of poverty, for many reasons: aid has been a component, but also openness and trade have lifted people out of poverty – and institutions have grown strong. School and education have, of course, had a tremendous breakdown during the pandemic, and we know that far more girls get married because they are not in school. We know that poverty is increasing and that more people are starving today than in many, many years. It is clear that aid is needed in this situation. Good aid is needed, and it needs to be effective. It needs to be assessed better than it has been historically, and corruption in aid needs to be combated harder in order for each tax chandelier to have the most impact on poverty. There is also very interesting research on how direct payments can reach populations directly without going through corrupt regimes and other things. So there is much to be done not only in terms of the structure of aid, but also in terms of things such as ensuring that the world does not lose out now. This applies not only to covid vaccines but also to vaccines against easily cured diseases that prevent development, prosperity and growth in the world. I am convinced that a world in which we fight poverty is a safer and safer world for those of us who live in Sweden.
i-51db44cb4f1bd3ee-424	Madam President, I would like In a way, this speech was also a good answer – it revealed a genuine commitment to aid and to the vulnerable people that I know Jakob Forssmed is both interested in and knowledgeable of – but unfortunately it was not the answer to the urgent question that is being asked right now and right here. There is one party that wants to completely stoop down the aid we are defending and instead use it for all sorts of other purposes. Is that something that is morally acceptable to the Christian Democrats and Jakob Forssmed? It is, in fact, more an appeal than a question.
i-51db44cb4f1bd3ee-426	Madam President, I would like I can speak for the Christian Democrats, and we have no ambition to do the way Martin Ådahl describes– really not. If you want to take responsibility in the world and do not stop, I think you have to see that this is also linked to how people flee. If people are in a worse situation, if we are not able to fight oppression and spread democracy, and if we are unable to fight poverty, then there will also be more refugees in the world. This leads to problems and vulnerability, both for these people and for countries that are to receive refugees. That is why aid is also needed from this point of view. I am therefore speaking on behalf of the Christian Democrats, and we want aid that comes through, which fights poverty and, at this point, not least combats hunger and ensures that both boys and girls can receive education.
i-51db44cb4f1bd3ee-429	Madam President, I would like Let me begin by agreeing with the importance of keeping the aid budget. We seem to agree on that, both the Center Party and the Christian Democrats as well as several other parties, which is a good thing. However, there are explicit threats to this; that is the case. I was going to talk a little bit about the tax gap that exists when it comes to those with sickness and activity benefits. If I am not mistaken, the person who has 10 000 guarantees pays about 1 000 SEK more in tax per month – that is, about 12 000 SEK more in tax per year – than the person who is lucky enough to be healthy and have a job with the same amount of income. That was introduced when the Christian Democrats were in the government, and I wonder why. What was the purpose, Jakob Forssmed? Why would chronically ill and disabled people have a higher tax rate than the one who was lucky enough to be healthy and have a job? It also applies to people who have very low remuneration. What was the purpose of this?
i-51db44cb4f1bd3ee-432	Madam President, I would like The purpose when the Alliance introduced the employment tax deduction in 2006, if that's what Ulla Andersson thinks of, I thought was known to most – but obviously not to Ulla Andersson. The aim was that it would pay better to work in Sweden. By prioritising increased opportunities to work, we would also get more jobs to grow. It is not a zero-sum game, as it is in the world of the Left, but it matters how taxes are designed. It matters how compensation systems and other things are designed. This is very important. It has also proved to be a great success. Jobs have been created and more have come to work thanks to these reforms. That is also why the Social Democrats have not abolished this in all the years they have been in government, I guess. They have seen that this matters. So the idea was not to make things worse for anyone but to improve for those who go to work. Then, in several budgets in recent years, we Christian Democrats have seen that the group that Ulla Andersson points out has a tough and difficult financial situation. In many successive budgets, we have proposed improvements for those who have been substantially greater than the government has proposed. I'm glad. I also think it is reasonable that this tax gap can be closed. This is, of course, about people who, in many cases, lack the capacity to work and who will not be able to regain the capacity to work. I do not think it is particularly problematic that this tax should be reduced for these people.
i-51db44cb4f1bd3ee-438	Madam President, I would like It is nice to hear that the Christian Democrats have come to realize that chronically ill and disabled people should not pay higher taxes. I guess the idea has been that if they were to have reduced taxes, they would suddenly just get into the collar and get into the labour market that did not accept them. That must still have been the way things went – otherwise I understand very little of the Christian Democrats' reasoning. These are people who have very low remuneration. I remember when we pushed through a tax cut during the last parliamentary term. Then the Christian Democrats went out and protested loudly. Then we had to back down because the disability movement in particular went out and protested very clearly against the position of the Christian Democrats. It is good that the Christian Democrats have come to new insights. However, I regret that for 16 years we have been dealing with chronically ill and disabled in this, I would say, unworthy ways.
i-51db44cb4f1bd3ee-441	Madam President, I would like I think it is a good thing that these people have an improved financial position. We have proposed this in many budgets, although we have worked more to increase the minimum compensation – the so-called guarantee scheme. It is above all where our focus has been, but I really don't mind lowering the tax and thus improving for these people. I wish the Left Party could put the same commitment on getting people back into work, so that those who have a chance to come back get their rehabilitation, so that the care queues are hijacked and so that people get proper driving forces into work. It is also a question of encouraging employers to hire more people who actually have a small capacity to work, so that people are not hidden and forgotten in benefit systems rather than getting the chance of a working community. I believe that there are shortcomings in the policy of the Left Party and in the policy of the government. I would like to contribute to giving more people – the people who can – the chance to come back.
i-51db44cb4f1bd3ee-444	Madam President, I would like I would like to address myself directly to the hardworking middle class – people who go to work every morning, who are fighting for their children to be better off than those themselves, who take responsibility for the housing association or the local football club, who take responsibility in the climate transition and who stand up for important values, if you do your duty, demand your right. All that stuff once built our country. I meet many Swedes who feel enormous frustration that no one is dealing with social problems. These are people who see that society is torn apart. It is people who feel a frustration that politics gets stuck in pie throwing and that politics is too much about political games and too little about solving Sweden's problems. These are people who wonder what they actually get for their tax money in a country that has the world's highest marginal taxes on labour but not the world's best welfare. It is people who wonder how it is possible that 50 adult men have time to fight and murder each other in the city of Lund on a Monday morning instead of being at work. To these people I have a very clear message: Sweden needs change. We need a liberal bourgeois government that tackles the problems of our country. We need a policy that clearly states that honest people will have great freedom to live their lives as they wish and that the state will protect honest people from dishonest people. Madam President, I would like Nothing is more important than investing in our children and young people. Many of the problems we see in society today, such as gang crime, dependency on benefits and unemployment, are due to the fact that far too many people do not pass school. Every sixth student leaves comprehensive school without upper secondary school qualifications. We see a corona generation at school. These are children and young people who have sat behind a screen instead of meeting teachers and classmates in the classroom. It is clear that this will be reflected in the results. Clearly, this means learning less. We see students who are easy at school and who are not challenged. Not least, however, we see too many students who need support but who do not get it. We see messy and outwardly acting students who create disorder for the others in the class and who should instead receive instruction in specific teaching groups. We see growing differences between the one receiving school support from home and the one leaving school in the afternoon to support his parents at home. In this situation, the Red-Green Government chooses to skimp at school. It lowers the knowledge requirements and wants to introduce the flum school again. This makes me incredibly concerned and – indeed – disappointed. We are many parents of young children who are concerned about the development of the Swedish school. The red-green government does not seem to hear the desperate atmosphere in the teacher's rooms and around the country's schools, where teachers talk more often about saving requirements than about knowledge requirements. Instead of having the Family Week of the Social Democrats, the Liberals want to invest in knowledge and education. When the red-green government now wants the hard-working middle class to pay more for their student loans, we say exactly the opposite: It should always pay off to educate itself. We stand up for study in the classroom when others want to see the flum. We stand up for children and young people to learn to read, count and write. Madam President, I would like Over the last few years, we have seen terrible events in which innocent people have been affected by violence. Our fine country – our fine Sweden – is seriously challenged by gang crime, shootings and youth robbery. For far too long there has been a lax mentality and a lax attitude towards this crime. It can be said that it does not happen to you yourself, that it is only the criminals who are fighting with each other or that the population is growing and that it is not really so dangerous. But that's not true. No one is immune to crime. Young people are being robbed on their cell phones. Young people take the detour home to avoid violence and do not put on the nice jacket for fear of someone attacking them and stealing it. My own hometown Lund is a city known for its historic university, innovative company and a cosy city centre. Believe me – visit it if you have not been there! But since a few weeks back, Lund has also been known for clapping targets. Fifty grown men fought and murdered each other on the street in the city. Let me be very clear: parallel legal structures and criminal clan communities are completely incompatible with our liberal democracy. But a few days ago, the spokesperson of the Green Party, Märta Stenevi, who is also Minister for Equal Opportunities, was in the Parliament's pulpit and tried to make fun of the word. It's nothing to joke about. This fight, described by the police in terms of attempted murder, took place near my son's preschool. It's about denial, relativization and passivity. If you don't even admit the problem, how can you solve it? Madam President, I would like The climate challenge is a crucial issue for the future. To meet it, we need to switch from fossil to fossil-free. Swedish companies will develop the most modern technology available to solve the climate issue. This is happening around our country right now. If they are to be able to do so, they need access to electricity, but instead Sweden has an electricity crisis. The oil power plant in Karlshamn was forced to start on a sunny late summer day last week. At the same time, electricity prices broke new records, even though winter cold is many months away and we almost had summer or early autumn. The acute electricity crisis is self-inflicted. One of the problems is that fossil-free electricity production in the southern and central parts of the country has been phased out while we cannot get access to the electricity produced in the north. Since the closure of the reactors in Barsebäck, Skåne's electricity demand is about four times greater than that produced in that part of Sweden. And Robertsfors in Västerbotten had to turn down 2,000 new jobs, corresponding to about 400,000 new jobs in Stockholm as the Business Director of the Västerbotten municipality put it. We had to turn down the electricity crisis in Sweden. That's not good enough. Madam President, I would like I believe that we can create a society in which enterprising entrepreneurs create new jobs, where equality is increased by school functioning and where we create a sustainable society by reducing climate emissions. I think we can create a policy that says that honest people will have great freedom to live their lives as they wish, but that the state will protect honest people from dishonest people. Madam President, I would like This requires change. It's time for change. We need a new government. We need a liberal bourgeois government. We Liberals will do everything in our power to ensure that next time there is elections, probably in a year's time, there will be a change of power. We'll stand up for the school. We will in all our budgets and in all our work ensure that Sweden is equipped for the problems we have. But above all, we will not turn a blind eye to Sweden's problems. Above all, we will not engage in political games. We will do what is best for Sweden. And we will look the hardworking middle class in the eye and say: We are doing everything we can to solve your problems that you face in your everyday life.
i-51db44cb4f1bd3ee-469	Madam President, I would like With the budget that is being put on the table today, we are taking the direction of the society that we want to look after the pandemic. The Green Party wants to build Sweden for the future. We want both to reduce emissions and to create a just and equal society. We are now making major investments to combine a green transition with radically reduced emissions, a secure welfare, increased gender equality and more justice. Madam President, I would like Many Swedish companies want to play their part in the climate change transition. And the support that is in place for Swedish companies to dare to invest in new technologies and solutions – the climate category, Industrikliv and the green credit guarantees – are successful. That is why we can greatly increase them. The credit guarantees, which came into place this summer, will enable investments for unimaginable SEK 80 billion, which reflects the willingness of Swedish companies to invest. That is quite a lot of money, and it is fully in line with the demands that have come from industry through the Fossil Free Sweden initiative and from the Climate Policy Council. However, quite a few companies are now warning that skills shortages can become a narrow sector for climate change, and we cannot allow that to happen. Therefore, in addition to the training effort developed by the parties, there is a special upgrading of skills for the climate, because it is people who make the transition possible. We are many who love the forest, but we are also many who are concerned about what is happening in the Swedish forest. We go there to recover and to socialize. But what we see terrifies in many cases. Therefore, we are now making the greatest effort to protect Swedish nature that has ever been done. We must have a forest that simmers with life. We need that for nature, for us and for the sake of the climate. Other important environmental initiatives include massive investment in rail and maritime transport, new support for the use of biogas waste and support for electrification of heavy goods vehicles. We sharpen the bonus malus system and make it clear that heavy hybrids are not environmental cars. Madam President, I would like I can't believe we'd want to be squeezed! Actually, I do and, I think, a lot of people with me. Now cultural practitioners and audiences can meet again. After the pandemic, we focus on the re-launch of culture. A new film production subsidy is introduced. Sweden will bubble with creativity and movement. Children's and youth sports and outdoor life also get the proper supplements. The pandemic has been a tough reminder of the fragility of life and how important it is that our common safety net works. Now we are finally repairing health insurance after the destruction of it by the bourgeois parties. We reduce poverty in Sweden when we remove the unfair tax gap between employees and those receiving sickness and activity benefits, and the right to assistance is strengthened. Sweden should be a safe country for everyone. As long as a single woman is murdered by the man she lives with or has lived with, we cannot be satisfied. We are now finally giving the country's women's and girls' shelters long-term opportunities for their important work. I would like to thank all those who have worked all these years to protect vulnerable women. Finally, you will receive the long-term messages that you have long been asking for. Madam President, I would like Just today 40 years ago, the Green Party was formed. For a very long time now, we have been working on the climate change of Swedish politics that is actually being implemented. We see a green industrial revolution, electrification and renewable energy. It is thanks to us, and we are extremely proud of it. Much hard work is behind this, but we roll up our sleeves, too much hard work remains.
i-51db44cb4f1bd3ee-481	Madam President, I would like Let me begin by congratulating the Green Party on the big day. Otherwise, I'm going to talk a little bit about the skewed recruitment to higher education. It has long been a problem, a problem throughout history, but it does not happen so much with the misrecruitment, unfortunately. The children of the working class often refrain from higher education for various reasons, but one is the risk of debting, of taking student loans. Politics should then work to break down barriers and barriers that exist, because it is very important that everyone has the opportunity to have higher education and study. But in this budget the student loan rate is raised very much. 2 billion more per year should be paid in interest on their student loans. The student organisations have, of course, protested loudly and loudly, quite rightly. It is believed that today's students should not be involved in paying for those who are now in the labour market and have received their income to be able to change their work later in life. It is believed that this funding could have been found elsewhere.
i-51db44cb4f1bd3ee-486	Madam President, I would like With this budget, we will have an enormous amount of training effort in place. It is a competence development opportunity for Swedish workers who are developed by the parties, and it is good. If it had been developed by a green party, it might have received various nicknames and been stopped. It is fascinatingly similar to our years of freedom and our period of development. But now everyone is happy, and we are also happy that it is in place. It's big. But it costs quite a lot of money and needs to be financed. When it comes to the structure of Swedish society, higher education is an extremely important part. This is an important thing in order to be able to get to their right in the Swedish labour market. It is therefore reasonable to expect that many of those who will need and take advantage of the opportunity to learn in the meantime will be in the group that has a higher education and a student loan. Then it is reasonable to look in that group when we are going to find parts of but not the entire funding. The Green Party considered this to be a reasonable balance. However, we take the issue of unfair recruitment to higher education very seriously. It is a complex issue that deals with many things, such as the structure of Swedish universities. This work must, of course, continue.
i-51db44cb4f1bd3ee-490	Madam President, I would like What Karolina Skog refers to is part of the LAS agreement that undermines the security of employment in the Swedish labour market and it significantly. A conversion aid could have been introduced into the state budget anyway if the political will had existed. These two parts are clearly linked. I believe that many wage earners are deeply presumptuous about undermining job security. In addition, it should be financed by raising the interest rate on the student loan. For people who have low wages or difficulties in coping with their studies with the economy they are allowed to live under, it will now deteriorate further. It's hard to understand. You had 74 billion, and yet you squeezed the students. It doesn't make sense.
i-51db44cb4f1bd3ee-493	Madam President, I would like I am convinced that Ulla Andersson and I agree that we could have introduced conversion aid completely independently of this agreement. The Green Party has taken several such initiatives, but they have been voted down in Parliament, which I regret. Now I saw that it can be implemented within the framework of this partnership agreement. Then, of course, I am happy that it comes in place and is powerful, because there must be the opportunity to educate themselves during life. Society is changing very quickly, and we cannot allow people to fall behind when companies, for example, change. It's extremely important. Let me point out that it is not the students who will pay for this. It is about the reimbursement of student funds, that is, the group that has studied, has a job and pays back. It is a strong group in Sweden that will also have the opportunity to take part in the new reform on access to education during working life, so it is reasonable.
i-51db44cb4f1bd3ee-496	Madam President, I would like I would also like to congratulate the Green Party on its 40th birthday. We will have to see if there is a crisis or not, but should it happen, there is, as in any crisis, the opportunity for development. However, parties do not exist for their own sake. I shall raise a serious matter which Karolina Skog partly touched upon by her call for more funding for women's and girls' shelters, which I support. In addition to men's violence against women, we have a massively escalating deadly gun violence in Sweden. Last year 48 people fell victim to it, and this year we are about to beat the gloomy figure when 36 people have already died from gun violence. According to Brottsförebyggande rådet, Sweden is almost at the top when it comes to this type of violence. At the same time, we are in third place by the most powerful countries in Europe. So we have fewer police officers per one hundred thousand inhabitants than almost every European country. You have now been in power for seven years, and we have a lower police density than in 2014, while at the same time we have this development of crime. How has this happened with the Green Party in power?
i-51db44cb4f1bd3ee-500	Madam President, I would like I think it is strong-minded of a person who had a heavy position in a bourgeois government who did not expand police training when it was really necessary to throw stones in glass houses. This government has invested and continues to invest heavily in the Swedish police to be present in people's everyday lives and to be able to work effectively. We have also given the police considerably better tools to prevent and solve crimes, which is extremely important. We are also making important investments in prevention, and part of the statistics that are important to have with us is that the number of people seeking away from gangs is increasing. Among other things, they look for the drop-out activities that exist. Here's the solution. We need to get the criminals out of the gangs and find a new way to live. It is also important to stop recruitment to the gangs and save the young boys who are not yet involved in the gangs. Here we do important things, but we need to focus even more forward. I understand that we in Parliament fully agree that the Swedish police should grow. However, we do not agree on the balance in criminal proceedings. There's been a crazy tip-off that the police can handle this on their own. But when you listen to them, they say on the contrary: We cannot solve this ourselves and must have the support of social services, security work in the municipalities and other authorities in place. Society must tackle this issue jointly. It's not a simple question about just cops. That's not the whole answer.
i-51db44cb4f1bd3ee-506	Madam President, I would like I agree that that is not the whole answer. I have also heard the chief police officer talk about the investments required in school and social services. The role of parents and family in these discussions is often forgotten, and more needs to be done to support and help and to provide tools to deal with difficult situations. In my world, however, a key crime prevention measure is that you get caught when you commit crime. We can talk a lot about tough penalties, but if you don't get caught, it doesn't matter because you don't get any punishment at all. I believe that this is crucial for us to reverse today's developments. Karolina Skog thought it was strong enough that she should have to reflect on the fact that there are fewer police officers per one hundred thousand inhabitants today than when the Green Party took office. I think it's a bit bleak to keep blaming what the Alliance did in 2009 or so. You have been in the government for seven years, how can you be satisfied with this development? Why haven't you done more? What are you going to do now?
i-51db44cb4f1bd3ee-509	Madam President, I would like I find it a little hard to see where Forssmed wants to come with this line change. No one can be satisfied with a situation where people are shot in the open street. I lived with a mass murderer in my neighborhood when my son was a baby, so I know what terror such a person can put in an entire area. I feel a great deal about those who are affected and who live where these shootings take place. No one is satisfied with this situation, so I do not think we need to put the discussion there. Instead, the question is what we need to do and how society can jointly mobilise to face this all the way. It's both about nailing the shooters and offering a way out of the gangs and stopping the recruitment. This must be the common response of society. I understand that all parties in the Riksdag want the Swedish police to grow, and it is growing.
