i-c126f70a37ba3541-24	Madam President, I would like Lars Hjälmered has asked me how I see the government considering itself regularly using impact assessments of industrial policy when the Swedish National Audit Office states that this is not the case. Furthermore, Lars Hjälmered has asked me whether I can guarantee that the tax money used to support companies is used effectively and whether I intend to take any steps to ensure that the government knows which industrial policy proposals have an effect and not. Madam President, I would like To begin with, the Government welcomes the Swedish National Audit Office's review report, which constitutes an important knowledge base in terms of impact assessments of industrial policy. In a letter in the spring, the Government will develop its assessment of the report's conclusions and recommendations and explain what possible measures the Government intends to take in response to the report. In the budget proposal for 2020, the government stated its intention to continue working to improve the conditions for evaluations, as has been done. For example, the Swedish Agency for Growth Policy Evaluations and Analysis – Growth Analysis – SEK 2 million in 2021 was added to the budget proposal for 2021 and is expected to contribute SEK 3 million in 2022 and SEK 4 million in 2023. The funds will be used to carry out more impact assessments, but also to contribute to Growth Analysis's long-term goal of developing a comprehensive database to support the evaluation of public interventions in growth policy. The Swedish National Audit Office's review covers the period 2015– 2018. Since then, the government has shifted its efforts in the area of impact assessments in order to increase the accuracy of industrial policy support. In recent years, the Council has also been working on the development of the performance report in Category 24 Enterprise in order to establish a clearer link between the objectives of enterprise policy and the efforts made.
i-c126f70a37ba3541-28	Madam President, I would like Quite recently there was a report from the Swedish National Audit Office. Enterprise policy and impact assessments had been examined. A little simplistically, the Swedish National Audit Office said that one cannot say with a hundred percent certainty whether nutrition policy is really effective. I think this calls for reflection on how we use taxpayers' money effectively. Madam President, I would like Let me start at another end. Nutrition policy is about people being able to have a job to go to, creating new businesses and transforming and developing companies. It is about being able to secure the financing of welfare through the economy, as the wheels spin. Not least in this ongoing coronapandemia, we have been able to see what kind it can give when thousands, even tens of thousands, of people are laid off almost during the day in hotels, restaurants, shops and many other important employers. Industry policy, which can be both national and local, is therefore extremely important for facilitating, supporting and helping the country's entrepreneurs. I mean not only now in the crisis, but in general and in general. It is quite reasonable, of course, that we take tax money properly and use it in areas such as research, such as demonstration of new technologies, so that we can work together. Madam President, I would like For example, in my own hometown of Gothenburg, there have long been major investments in vehicle research to gradually develop new technology, not least in areas such as electrification, hybridisation and the like, and to reduce environmental emissions but also, of course, to speak clearly, to secure jobs out at Hisingen at AB Volvo and at Volvo Cars. We can see in research proposals over time from both red and blue governments and broad in business policy with annual decisions that totals tens of billions of dollars, depending on how you count, in various forms of support to companies and entrepreneurs. Then it is important that this money is spent in a cost-effective way. The report from the Swedish National Audit Office is not the first criticism or point of view that has come. Already four or five years ago, the so-called Entrepreneurship Investigation came up with a number of proposals on how to better monitor and evaluate industrial policy. Unfortunately, Ibrahim Baylan's representatives left these proposals on the desk without moving on with them. In 2017, I believe, the Swedish National Audit Office came with criticism. This prompted the Riksdag to make a decision to give a mission, a so-called announcement, to the Government with a focus on monitoring and assessing the impact of business policy and support. In a budget bill the other year, the Minister for Economic Affairs chose to state that this was completed, i.e. that everything had been done according to the demand and the wishes of the Riksdag to better follow up on how taxpayers' money was spent. Now the criticism has come. Madam President, I would like My first question is: how does Ibrahim Baylan view this chain, where one has felt that one has done what one can and what one should but then there is renewed criticism? Finally, one of my main questions to the Minister for Economic Affairs was: can he, on his honour, guarantee that taxpayers' money is spent in a cost-effective way? I note that he does not answer that question in his answer. That, I think, is an answer.
i-c126f70a37ba3541-38	Madam President, I would like As I point out in my reply, this report is about impact assessment 2015– 2018, and that is a few years ago. After that, a number of measures have been taken, and I have explained some of them. Lars Helmered says that the report says that you can't say anything about the effects with 100 percent certainty. I'm terribly sorry, Lars Helmered, but if it's 100 percent security that you're after, you'll probably never be able to get anything done. Because there is almost nothing that is 100% certain, and certainly not when we talk about such a complex area as nutrition policy and its effects. Of course, we will do our utmost to continue developing tools. It is against this background, in order to develop these methods and be able to follow up on this, that we are providing additional resources for Growth Analysis. The reason I'm saying this is because it's just like Lars Helmered says. Innovation policy and growth policy are one thing. But if he asks a question to a company, they might as well say that it is infrastructure policy, housing policy, education policy and research and development, as Lars Helmered talks about, which is very central to how a company can establish and grow. I think, Madam President, that for the vast majority of those who are watching this debate, what we are discussing seems a little vague. What are we really discussing? Let me take an example that I myself have been involved in from the very beginning of what can be nutritional policy. In 2015 or 2016 I met a representative of a company that has since established itself but was then completely new. It was a startup. By the way, I had the privilege of talking to this man again this morning. I'm talking about Peter Carlsson, the CEO of Northvolt. We were just discussing business policy and what we can do to enable the company to develop further. But then, five years ago, it wasn't a label. It was an entrepreneur with a conviction and an idea, and the idea was about starting battery production in Europe and doing it in a way that no one else managed to do it, with the cleanest batteries and a comprehensive value chain. For this they wanted some support, in that case in order to be able to conduct a feasibility study. That's what you got. More specifically, they received 45 million from the Swedish Energy Agency in order to be able to complete this. Could we then be sure that something would happen? No, of course not. But we went in with that support because it was in time and was also necessary. We could already see before us a large-scale electrification of our societies. Then batteries, preferably as clean batteries as possible, become very important. This 45 million we went in to support this company was not just about money. The fact that the company could get support from the public could also be a signal to other entrepreneurs but also financiers that this was something serious. This morning when I was talking to the CEO of Northvolt, he told me that today they have 1,100 employees and are planning to at least double, perhaps triple, that number in the coming years. They invest tens of billions and have very many customers in the European automotive industry. Then the question is, if we are talking about impact assessments: did Northvolt get rid of it without this support? Yes, that is very possible, because Peter Carlsson is a driven entrepreneur who, together with his employees, has pushed this forward. Had it been done in Sweden? It is not at all certain, because many other European countries are also supporting this type of development. Madam President, I would like It may sound a little diffuse when you talk about nutrition policy or evaluations. In essence, however, we are making efforts that are far from 100% safe, but which, when they succeed, provide thousands and thousands of jobs and export revenues to our country.
i-c126f70a37ba3541-48	Madam President, I would like There are many of us who cherish the possibilities of Northvolt and have been engaged. I have a couple of friends who work there, I'll tell you. The problem in this case, Madam President, is that the Minister for Economic Affairs does not really know whether the money given to support Northvolt, among other things, is effective or not. There are, like, no processes to follow up and evaluate. I am delighted with Northvolt's success, and I am delighted with the success of other companies. But this discussion and the criticism that the Swedish National Audit Office has directed against the government is about the government not having processes to follow up and see if you get the bang for the money, so to speak. We are talking about billions of dollars being set aside in different ways. Madam President, I think it is wise for the government to devote more money to Growth Analysis so that that authority can work more with monitoring and evaluation of enterprise policy. It's a good initiative. But if you take the criticism seriously, you can also note that what the National Audit Office says is that you can't at all see whether money from a number of financiers has had an effect or not. If money had not been given, would it have the same effect in terms of new jobs and new businesses? Or was it precisely this effort that boosted and developed the business community? I won't call it a lottery, but Ibrahim Baylan is quite right that sometimes you don't know what innovation it is that flies and doesn't. That is the case, but I mean that you can take heights in this type of follow-up and evaluation. And that is not really what is at the heart of this, but the essence of it is that, through parliamentary decisions on a proposal from the government, billions are spent each year on research, innovation, demonstration, development, collaboration and initiatives, and that there is a lack of efficiency in this or at least questions are raised about it. I think it is quite decent to be able to look taxpayers and citizens in the eye and say that we can guarantee that we are doing what we can and have systems, processes and decisions on the ground so that it is done effectively. I hope the government takes the criticism very seriously. I may also find it problematic that the Parliament has taken a decision on an announcement, a call, and the Government believes that it has done so, but we can see that there is renewed criticism. I wonder if Ibrahim Baylan can stand here today and guarantee that he has done what is necessary to ensure that the money is spent effectively. I note, Madam President, that the Government does not answer that question in his reply. The Minister for Industry goes on to say that we can never guarantee 100% that every penny will be right in this. No, I think most people understand that. But what I asked was whether the Minister for Economic Affairs can guarantee that the tax money used to support businesses is used effectively. That was the main question. Can the Minister of Economic Affairs guarantee that this is the case?
i-c126f70a37ba3541-56	Madam President, I would like Now there was an animated discussion about something I think we basically agree on – that we should always do our utmost to use taxpayers' money as efficiently as possible but also develop methods to be able to follow this up as effectively as possible. It is against this background that the government provides additional resources to develop methods and so that there are conditions to follow up. Having said that, Madam President, it is a little naive to think that nothing can be done until you are completely and 100% sure. It will not be much done when it comes to innovation policy, research policy, etc., or, for that matter, industrial policy. It is the case, Madam President, that if you only invest in what is absolutely clear, then it is often that you invest in what is already there. For us in Sweden, a country that lives very much on its competitiveness because it is a foreign trade-dependent country, our innovation power, our research and our infrastructure are extremely important. Then we must also be prepared to invest in innovation. Innovations are by definition something that does not exist today. It innovates to find new solutions and products. Madam President, I would like I have to say that much of what is the government's innovation and industrial policy today focuses on digitalisation and transformation, both for the climate and for people. We can see that this bears fruit. We are currently seeing huge investments in our business community, sometimes entirely within the business community and sometimes together with the public – locally, as Lars Helmered points out, but sometimes also nationally. Take, for example, the northern part of the country, which I know very well, where billions after billions are invested today and is a completely different spirit than it was only 15 years ago, when the migration pad went quite close because there was not enough jobs. Today it is exactly the opposite. Now we have labour shortages in large parts of northern Sweden. We have the lowest unemployment rate in the north of Sweden. Why? Yes, it depends very much on the establishment we are talking about. We are talking about Northvolt, but it is also about LKAB, about Hybrid, about SSAB and so on. Is that a coincidence? Would that have been the case even without industrial policy? Yeah, I'm sure that's true in some cases. It's impossible to say. But we live in a very competitive world. We have a large number of countries – not least our closest neighbours such as Denmark, Germany, the Netherlands and others – that are making quite a lot of efforts to attract investment. I'm pretty sure if you're not on, if you're not active and make sure you have a very close collaboration, then you risk losing investments that, like Northvolt, start with an idea but now are about investments of tens of billions and thousands of employees both in Västerås and in the north of Sweden, in Skellefteå. Madam President, I would like Of course, we should do our utmost to improve our methods. That's why we're shooting at extra resources. Of course, we take on board the audit reports that are being made. We go through them properly and will return to Parliament in due course with a letter, as should be done. That is always the case, Madam President, both when announcements are made and when we receive this type of audit report. What, then, is the effect of this industrial policy? I will come back to that in a moment, Madam President. It can sometimes sound like political bickering when discussing something that sounds diffuse. But there are also concrete results, and I will come back to what they look like very soon – especially in comparison with many other countries.
i-c126f70a37ba3541-63	Madam President, I would like We see a need to contribute to the development of business in the future. There is a need for many new jobs after the coronapndemine. There is also a need to continue developing important sectors of society, not least broad industrial sectors. I agree with much of what the Minister for Economic Affairs said about the fact that this is happening very positively. However, the main point I am trying to make in this debate is that the government should know what it is doing and that the efforts it proposes can really have an effect. It may seem petty, but I choose to highlight the rather serious criticism that the National Audit Office comes with when it is pointed out that there have not been structures to show that many of the economic policy instruments really have an effect. As regards the so-called collaboration programmes, the Swedish National Audit Office has pointed out that there is poor documentation in the Government Office and that it is difficult to follow up afterwards what decisions have been taken and what was the purpose of some of these innovation initiatives. This is important in order to be able to see afterwards whether the political objective was met or not. We can also make a comparison with the labour market, Madam President. There is IFAU, which looks at evaluations – normally impact assessments – of the labour market. It is not always easy, but it is done to look at different types of policy initiatives to increase employment and reduce unemployment. I think that there is a great deal of room for – and a great desire – to do this also in broad economic policy, where, in general, we need to be more able to follow up to see that we are making better use of taxpayers' money than we are today. This, Madam President, is not in contrast to the expression of political visions, the desire to make efforts or to welcome the fact that industries are doing well at the moment. However, it is a question of making sure that you really know what the proposals are.
i-c126f70a37ba3541-68	Madam President, I would like That's it. However, I will tell Lars Helmered that I unfortunately believe that this work will never be finished. You always need – continuously – to develop your methods. Reality is changing, and we also have access to new technologies that can be used. AI is an example of this – we know that AI, combined with more data, provides completely different insights than previous methods have done. It is against this background that the government is now providing additional resources to improve our methods. Madam President, I would like When I hear Lars Hjälmered, I understand why the Moderates together with KD and SD are cutting down on nutrition policy, because they do in their budget options – the levels are slightly different, but they cut back. I would say that this is quite dangerous for a country as competitive as Sweden is. Lars Helmered criticises the collaboration programmes. They are extremely popular among business representatives, because we work together to do good things for our country. We develop new methods and sometimes develop policies and other things. This I think is A and O for the Swedish model. Madam President, I would like This is going to be a little diffuse. What, then, are the effects of this industrial policy? Yes, it is easy to say that it is good or bad, depending on whether you are government or opposition. But what does it look like when others make the assessment of Swedish economic policy? The World Bank makes an assessment every year. In the World Bank's Ease of D oing B usiness index, where you check the business and business climate, Sweden came ten of 190 countries. When the World Economic Forum did its Global Competitiveness Report to check competitiveness, Sweden came eight out of 140 countries. When well-known Forbes made the Best Countries for Business assessment, Sweden came second out of 161 countries. The European Commission, Madam President, every year goes through innovation in all Member States. Sweden came one of the EU Member States. This does not mean that we are satisfied, but we must continue to work. But we have nothing to be ashamed of.
i-c126f70a37ba3541-76	Madam President, I would like Thomas Morell has asked me if I see a risk of people receiving different treatment in Swedish hospitals depending on party affiliation and what measures I take to ensure that this does not happen. He has also asked whether I otherwise see a risk of political considerations affecting the activities of the country's hospitals in a negative way for the care recipients and what general measures I take in that case. I would like to begin by emphasising that the situation described by Thomas Morell in the interpellation did not relate to health care. Health legislation is based on the equal value of all people and that care should always be provided as needed. These are important principles that I am convinced that regional and local authorities are fully aware of and fully support. Regions and municipalities are also subject to the Local Government Act and must, according to the principle of equality, treat their members equally if there are no objective reasons for anything else. It is the employer's responsibility to ensure that employees comply with the legislation in place, and it is the employer's responsibility to take any disciplinary measures that may be relevant. The inspection of health and long-term care carries out supervision of health care and its staff. If IVO becomes aware that healthcare professionals are failing to comply with their obligations under the legislation applicable to healthcare activities, the Authority shall take measures to ensure compliance with those obligations. IVO can also report certified healthcare professionals to the Health Care Board for measures such as withdrawal of a licence or limitation of prescription rights. In conclusion, the legislation in place states that care should be provided with respect for the equal value of all people, regardless of, for example, the patient's skin colour or political affiliation. Care should be given as needed.
i-DcmdEnLNr8VXoNo8v55qu6	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister Lena Hallengren! I will give a brief background to this debate. Last autumn, a major campaign was launched with more than 2,000 drivers and road hauliers on the initiative of a driver named Christer Thynell. Each driver would donate 1 crown for every mile it drove to the Childhood Cancer Foundation. This brought in more than SEK 2 million. It is a fantastic result and a welcome contribution to helping children with cancer. In connection with this, several companies also donated a large amount of gifts to distribute to children currently under treatment. In connection with the presentation of these gifts in various hospitals, there were a number of artists in place to volunteer for the children, but when you came to Astrid Lindgren's hospital in Solna it was stopped. A nurse took Peter Jezewskis manager and girlfriend Anneli Strand a few meters aside to question himself about the artist's party membership. The nurse's question to Anneli Strand was astounding – she wanted to know if Peter was still a Swedish democrat. The message was that if Peter Jezewski had been active in the Swedish Democrats, the children would not be allowed to come down and take part in the performance. The whole party was, of course, surprised by the question because it was completely irrelevant. After all, it was a performance for the cancer-sick children, not a political meeting. In the surges of this, I have been contacted by several people who testify that they have been denied employment in health care because they are members of SD. Others testify that they do not dare to reveal where they stand politically in fear of reprisals. This is therefore happening in a country that introduced free and democratic elections 100 years ago. The Swedish Parliament, where we are right now, celebrates the memory of the introduction of democracy throughout this term of office. Then it is astonishing, to say the least, that health professionals are going beyond another person's constitutionally protected rights. In violation of the Constitution, people are also denied employment because of their party affiliation. The Government said in its reply that she wanted to stress at the outset that the situation I described in the interpellation did not concern health care. It did, however, very much so, as Peter Jezewski was in the hospital and would appear for children who were under treatment. The artist's right to perform, as well as the children's right to receive the gifts that were donated to them, were overruled. That is very remarkable, I would say. I can understand that the Government cannot go into disciplinary action against an employee at Karolinska University; of course, the employer will have to deal with that. However, the question arises as to whether you are in danger of being treated differently depending on the party's affiliation. What criteria should apply? In the answer, the Government says that there should be equal care for everyone, regardless of skin colour and party membership. However, we can see that there are still people in the healthcare sector who deal with people differently. That's how far we can get. I am interested in knowing what the Government intends to do to ensure that we really do have a care that is equal to everyone.
i-c126f70a37ba3541-90	Madam President, I would like I strongly maintain that the situation of behaviour in a hospital, which Thomas Morell devotes time in his speech to describing, is not health care and is not regulated by the Health Act. It is not something that I think belongs in Parliament's Chamber, but it is an appropriate discussion to take, if you think it is necessary, with responsibility for the activity. Thomas Morell also talks about constitutional rights and mentions the artist's right to perform and the children's right to receive gifts. I hardly believe that this is what is seen as human rights in this context, but it is to have access to care and to receive care based on needs, regardless of the background. This is what is regulated by the Health Act. I do not see what Thomas Morell says speaking against it, although I would like to emphasise what concludes my reply to the interpellation: I can also mention gender, socio-economic affiliation, economic background and so on. This is regulated by the Health Act.
i-c126f70a37ba3541-92	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. Medical care is so much more than just syringes, pills and care in connection with surgery. Healthcare has a lot to do with the fact that the patient, child or adult does not matter, is well and feels secure in what is happening around. Performing for the children is extremely important, because then they get a break from something that can be very eerie for a child. They're not in their home environment, they're in a hospital, with everything that that means. If they are then able to take part in a behavior and have a small break from what is happening in connection with the care, it has a positive effect on the patients. I asked two questions in my interpellation and cannot say that I have received a clear answer to them. The first question was whether the Minister sees a risk of people receiving different treatment in Swedish hospitals depending on party affiliation and what measures the Minister takes to ensure that this does not happen. The answer I get from the Government is as follows: a health legislation is based on the equal value of all people and that care should always be provided as needed. These are important principles that I am convinced that regional and local authorities are fully aware of and fully support. Regions and municipalities are also subject to the Local Government Act and must, according to the principle of equality, treat their members equally, unless there are factual reasons for something else. ..................................................... But the incident at Karolinska Hospital shows that this is not the case. The nurse asked the specific question whether Peter was active in SD or not. It still shows that there are currents in health care-- I'm not saying that it's that everywhere-- that puts some kind of epithet on people. First of all, what was Peter's possible political commitment to the matter? That's not why he was there. The local Society would give gifts to children with cancer and play some songs so that the children would experience some joy in the tough treatment they are undergoing. In short, it was as far away from politics as you can ever get. I did not receive an answer to the second question either. The question is this: is the Minister otherwise at risk of political considerations affecting the activities of the country's hospitals in a negative way for the care recipients, and what general measures is the Minister taking in that case? The Government responds in the following way:- the legislation in place states that care should be provided with respect for the equal value of all people, regardless of, for example, the patient's skin colour or political affiliation. Care should be given as needed. ..................................................... Yes, you might think it's a matter of course. But what would have happened if we turned the question a little bit, if Peter had come in as a patient? If he had been sorted as number one or number two, how would it have been? This is an extremely relevant issue, because there are clearly those who put political values on those who come to the hospital.
i-c126f70a37ba3541-101	Madam President, I would like Thomas Morell! We need to discuss healthcare on the basis of what healthcare is. The right to perform at Karolinska Hospital is not a question of whether the requirements of the Health Care Act are met. It is well appropriate to have a discussion with Karolinska Hospital if you want an answer to that, but it is an impossible question for me to stand and discuss in the Parliament's pulpit. Towards the end of the speech, Thomas Morell asks a relevant question: what would have happened if the same person – if it is a Swedish democrat or not clearly stated – had applied for care? Had the person then been denied treatment? My answer is no. If you, Thomas Morell, or anyone else, believe that the staff who triage in the emergency room are asking for party membership to decide whether to receive care or not, I ask for a new interpellation, then we will discuss that question. But I actually think it is irrelevant to stand in the speaker's chair and draw conclusions about whether the Swedish Health Care Act means healthcare on equal terms with an example about a performance at Karolinska Hospital. This must be answered by Karolinska Hospital. I do not think there are any comparisons to be made here with people who otherwise receive care based on party affiliation. I assume that everyone will receive care as needed.
i-c126f70a37ba3541-104	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. The issue is extremely relevant. In the surges of what happened, a lot of people have followed this. It is people who testify – I can leave phone numbers when we get outside the premises – that they have been denied employment in health care because they have a certain party affiliation. It is serious, because then you start to value people according to party affiliation, and it does not belong in a country that should be democratic. After all, we are celebrating 100 years of democracy in this country. We may well continue this discussion outside the Chamber. And I can hand over phone numbers, and the government itself can talk to people who have actually happened to this. Medical care should be the same for everyone. And I do not understand why the question of party membership was raised in this context, where it was a matter of behaviour for children. I don't understand that question. The Government should also be concerned, because it shows that there are some in healthcare that do not comply with democratic principles. This is serious. I now hope, and I assume, that this debate will lead to changes in health care, so that there will be no sorting in any way and that those seeking services in health care will not be valued by political affiliation, regardless of which party it is. Everyone should have the right to apply for a job and get a job in health care, and anyone seeking care should receive care based on the needs and disease for which they are applying.
i-c126f70a37ba3541-109	Madam President, I would like Excerpts from the Health Act, Chapter 3. Section 1: The goal of health care is good health and care on equal terms for the entire population. If you do not receive treatment on equal terms, you should of course report it to IVO. But I think that Thomas Morell draws very long shifts on the situation at Karolinska Hospital that he describes. I cannot comment on why someone might have asked a specific question. This is not about care, but about behaviour, as far as I understand from the one thing I have read, namely Thomas Morell's own interpellation. I do not think that there is any justification for standing in the Parliament's pulpit and concluding that this would probably have the consequence that they would not receive the care they needed if they applied for care either.
i-c126f70a37ba3541-113	Madam President, I would like Alexandra Anstrell has asked me how I intend to act in order to obtain an appropriate vaccination certificate for Swedes who want to travel to the world in the near future. She has also asked me if I can explain whether I and the Swedish Government have been driving the issue internationally and proactively to produce a vaccination certificate that works well for most countries and, if not, why not. A third question she has put to me is whether I and the government are merely monitoring the international discussion on vaccination certificates or taking a more proactive role. Let me begin by saying that the government, the relevant state authorities and the regions are working intensively to ensure that vaccination against covid-19 is carried out as widely as possible. I take the interpellant's questions as a receipt that she sees the results of that work and therefore wants to know more about the vaccination certificate. That is, of course, welcome. Let me then state, as the interpellier himself does, that more journeys between countries are likely to occur only when the situation so permits. The same applies to different types of arrangements where people gather. It is important that a vaccination certificate can be in place as soon as possible. However, it is at least as important that the solution be effective and work internationally. I hope that the interpellier will agree with that, as well as the need for careful preparation and development. With regard to Alexandra Anstrell's first question, work on developing common European specifications has now come to the point where concrete national work is taking place in Sweden. The Government Office, our authorities and the regions are involved in developing a good solution. In this context, I would like to mention some of the issues that need to be resolved. One of these is that the vaccination certificates will contain personal data that needs to be handled in accordance with current regulations, which places high demands on the technical solutions. It is this issue, among other things, that the regions and some of our authorities are looking at. Another challenge is the legal significance of a vaccination certificate because vaccination does not necessarily exclude the fact that it is a carrier. The risk of inequality in the population if some people have rights that others do not, although vaccination is voluntary, is another issue that is being discussed in Europe. Because of these two issues, the Heads of State or Government of the European Union, at the Council meeting on 21 January, concluded that it was too early to decide on vaccination certificates to facilitate international travel. On the other hand, the Council agreed to draw up a standardised vaccination certificate for medical purposes. With regard to Alexandra Anstrell's second and third questions, I would like to say that Sweden has from the outset placed great emphasis on the fact that the forms of vaccination certificates are being discussed internationally, not least within the European Union. Our assessment is that there is broad agreement on taking forward work on vaccine certification, but that there are also challenges that need to be addressed before an international system is in place. Now it is a question of solving these. In conclusion, the Government is pushing ahead with vaccination certificates, both nationally and internationally. I thank you for the opportunity to present that work.
i-c126f70a37ba3541-123	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. As the infection situation improves, countries all over the world will want to open up for more travel from other countries. When this happens, many countries are also expected to require travellers to prove that there is no major risk of infection. Many organizers will also want guests to show evidence of vaccination in order for the arrangements to be carried out in an infectious manner. In the past, in a written question on the subject, I have received a reply from Minister of Social Affairs Lena Hallengren that the development of an international system for vaccination certificates is being discussed within the EU and internationally. Furthermore, I received a reply that Swedish vaccination certificates should be issued in accordance with international standards and that the government monitors the discussion on vaccination certificates closely. No authority appears to have yet been given the task of producing a vaccination certificate, or vaccine passport, but the previous information was that the E-Health Authority has been given a coordinating role. Now, in his reply, the Minister says that the process of developing common European specifications is now so far advanced that concrete national work is underway in Sweden at the Government Office, all the authorities and so on. The question then is: Who is responsible for and directs this work, and when will we learn more about it? The Minister also says that there is a risk of inequality within the population if some people are given rights that others do not, even though vaccination is voluntary. Madam President, I would like Did I really hear that right? If you choose not to take a vaccine, you do not get a certificate, but you have to take the consequences of your actions – just as you have to take the consequences if you choose to take a vaccine. I guess the point of vaccines is to protect yourself from the infection. If you stay healthy, there will be fewer people burdening health care, more people who can work and live on and more who can restart Europe. Does the Minister, when the whole population is given the opportunity to vaccinate and, by extension, obtain a certificate, mean that it would be unfair for those who choose not to take vaccines because they do not receive a certificate? The difference will probably be that they are allowed to travel but must take a test before and be quarantined. I think we all have to stand for the choices we make. A vaccination pass can only be perceived as unfair as long as vaccination is not available to everyone. But in Sweden it should be. Madam President, I would like It is really time to look forward and take action to ensure that Sweden does not lag behind when travelling gets started. My questions in the interpellation to the minister were whether the minister and the Swedish government have been driving the issue internationally and proactively worked to produce a vaccination certificate that works well and further if the minister and the government only monitor the international discussion on vaccination certificates or take a more driving role. I think you understand what I'm after. I do not feel that I have received an answer, Madam Minister, and then I take it that the Swedish Government is not or has not been the driving force on the issue of vaccination certificates. Then the supplementary question is: Why?
i-c126f70a37ba3541-137	Madam President, I would like The pandemic has meant great limitations and pressures for many, and many feel bad. There are also many industries on their knees. The travel industry is one of the hardest hit. It is therefore strange to say, as in the answer, that it would be too early to start looking at vaccination certificates. I have a concrete example. Iceland is in itself a relatively small country outside the EU, but it is expected to have vaccinated all its inhabitants in April. From then on, vaccination certificates will be required. Iceland will certainly be at the forefront of the process, but nevertheless many tour operators will risk cancelling trips because people from other countries are not certified. Let me hang on to what Alexandra Anstrell said about inequality. To me, what the Minister says makes no sense. All in Sweden will be offered vaccines. If you choose not to take it and are thus excluded from things that require a certificate, you can stand your throw. It is a choice to make, as well as that the person taking the vaccine may experience side effects. Sweden is one of the world's most digitised countries. The government also has high goals that we will be the best in the world and exploit the opportunities of digitalisation. This is an excellent opportunity to show that you are serious. There are digital mailboxes where you can identify yourself with bank IDs and other things, and it could become a platform for vaccination certificates. So you don't have to start from zero and invent the wheel entirely on your own. I note a certain amount of self-righteousness in the answer. I think it is completely unjustified given that vaccinations have just started. It is far too early to beat your chest and say that it has been a success. It remains to be seen when we start with mass vaccinations if there is an organisation that really works. I also see very little concreteness in this response in terms of objectives, timetable, missions and pushing ahead in Europe. It is not about us all being interested in going on holiday but about getting the economic wheels going – and above all about giving an industry that is basically completely down now, the travel industry, a chance to get up after the pandemic.
i-c126f70a37ba3541-143	Madam President, I would like It wasn't my intention to be self-righteous. But it is perhaps also too early to judge and to constantly base with criticism and a feeling that Sweden cannot do this and that we are far behind. Let me underline what I tried to say in my reply: Sweden is not behind. Sweden is pushing ahead. But it is not about writing and submitting motions, but Sweden is involved in the forums that exist. It is about the European Council and the Council of Ministers in the European Union and, of course, internationally, the WHO. In the dialogues at EU level, Sweden is an extremely active party. To those who listen to our discussion and wonder if you cannot know if you are vaccinated, let me say: yes, of course you can. I refer to this so that we can separate the issue of a vaccination certificate when travelling to other countries and a certificate of vaccination. Such a card can be obtained when you are vaccinated to know which vaccine you received, when you received the first dose and when to have the next dose. It's one thing to have that knowledge. It is something else to have an international standard like when you come to another country. It is not easy for other countries to know all the vaccinators that help vaccinate the Swedish people. Only in the Stockholm region are there several hundred. We need an international standard. When it comes to producing this standard, the state and the regions agree that we should not work out something that could be valid as a medical certificate in Sweden but that has no value abroad. I believe, as both the interpellant and Maria Stockhaus say, that this is a lot to think about. You don't want anything in your hand that's not like in other countries. I would like to have the opportunity to emphasise that the issue I described, that perhaps not all people have vaccinated themselves and that some rights are associated with it, is an issue that has been discussed in Europe. I'm not telling you how to deal with that. I agree that it is clear that we are giving everyone an opportunity. I think it is an argument that falls, especially when everyone has the opportunity. I just want to say that there are many issues that have been discussed in Europe, and this is one of them. More relevant is the fact that we still do not know what it means for how infection can be carried on. Then it matters how to react both in many countries and jointly to someone having a vaccination certificate. Do we think it is enough to travel to a country, and from when? Again: Our ambition is to have vaccinated the Swedish population who accept and want this by the summer. Some countries are about as far ahead. Maria Stockhaus mentioned Iceland. I have not heard that example, but I have heard that many are around the summer or in September somewhere, depending on how the deliveries are going to be. Everyone has been given the opportunity to vaccinate themselves, and it is of course important that we have a vaccination certificate in place. When you are then allowed to travel is a matter for yourself, but in order for countries to dare to open up to travellers, we need to have a vaccination certificate that we know is up to date. We are not interested in standing at the Swedish border where someone is waving a paper saying that the person is vaccinated, but we want to know that it is a paper that really holds and that means that the person in question is vaccinated. Again, there are many issues not only in Sweden but also in the EU and the WHO. We make sure that we prepare ourselves to be able to use the technical platforms that exist so that we can give people a certificate that they are vaccinated purely medically. If it is to give other rights, we must be sure that it has a status that is accepted in other countries.
i-c126f70a37ba3541-153	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for some clarification. Sweden needs to be at the forefront in order to restart Europe. Several countries, as we have been to before, will probably continue to require test or vaccination certificates against covid-19 during this year. Long-awaited border openings require measures that make it easy to travel and work. Leading representatives of the travel industry, Transport companies, Swedish Maritime, Transport companies Flyg och Sveriges Busföretagen writes together in Gothenburg-Posten that they shout for the government's action on the vaccination certificate issue. They suggest that you may be able to print out your certificate via 1177, for a certificate should of course not have to burden the care further. Iata is working on producing an app that in some form could be a covid pass. The Minister says in his reply to me that the Heads of State or Government of the European Union decided at the Council meeting on 21 January that it was too early to decide on vaccination certificates to facilitate international travel. But the latest information is that the Commission is working on producing a certificate. It was written that the Commission is working with Member States to produce vaccination certificates in full compliance with EU data protection legislation, which can support the continuity of care. By the end of January 2021, a common methodology will be agreed so that Member States' certificates can be used quickly in health systems both within and outside the EU. It's about being at the forefront. It's about having a very good preparedness – readiness to be ready as soon as we can. Several countries, including Denmark and Finland, are reviewing the possibilities for certification. We should at least be able to agree on a certificate in the Nordic countries, Madam President, to make it easier. We must not slip behind and be last on the ball again, as we were last spring. I am thinking of the proactive work that I asked for in my interpellation. That is what is needed if we are to be able to restart Europe quickly. Sweden has good digital security, so we really should be a good party in the EU that shares this knowledge with us. Madam President, I would like It doesn't matter who I'm talking to: Everyone has a craving to travel. You might want to travel to get some sun on your body, you might want to travel to your sick mother in Germany or you might want to go abroad and work when you graduate from high school or just be able to go somewhere. In social media, different memories of previous journeys are shared every day. There is a damp need for travel. There is also what Maria Stockhaus was into: an entire industry that stands in the starting pits and sees the vaccination as a light in the dark. The travel industry is severely pandemic-affected and has been grounded for almost a whole year. When society eventually opens up, it must be easy to get a certificate so that you can get away. It feels like the Minister and the government are a bit counter-emergency in this and see the problems instead of the opportunities. So my question is again: why are the Minister and the government so passive on the issue of vaccination certificates?
i-c126f70a37ba3541-162	Madam President, I would like I think that something that is symptomatic for the government is often to follow developments and participate in processes but to very rarely push and try to ensure that results are achieved. It is not that we can say that the pandemic has been handled particularly professionally and well when compared to many other countries, and we are not at the top in terms of vaccination rates either. When it comes to management in relation to companies, there are often arguments that it is too little, too late and too complicated. It is almost a little bit of a debate that you have with many entrepreneurs. This is particularly true of the travel industry. Their activity is completely down, and it is difficult for them to bring people anywhere at all. It is clear that our desire to travel is important and that it means a lot to well-being, but here we are talking about companies that depend on it coming into place. Not only can you follow developments and be part of the processes in Brussels, but you may have to push and be a little more aggressive in your image towards the European Union. It's going a little too slow. An official certificate produced in Sweden could go a long way for, for example, many tour operators, airlines and other countries. We're a small, export-dependent country, and we're a people who like to move. To produce a vaccination certificate, although it is initially just a vaccination certificate prepared for Sweden, I think it would go a long way and be a clear sign that the government actually cares about entrepreneurs and entrepreneurship for once.
i-c126f70a37ba3541-166	Madam President, I would like I've been trying to answer the questions. I'm not sure if I'm unclear. Of course, you can print out a paper, a certificate or proof that you are vaccinated, but not many in other countries know what Svea Vaccin, for example, is. It is one of hundreds of actors who contribute so that we can vaccinate the Swedish people. Therefore, an extract from the medical record system or the card that can be obtained from the vaccineator is not enough. I think it is very important that we distinguish this. It is not difficult to prescribe that you are vaccinated. Perhaps what Alexandra Anstrell was a little behind when she said something about the end of January was that the European Commission then went out and said that EU certificates would be drawn up. It was precisely EU certificates for medical purposes that were agreed on 28 January. But again: This does not mean that there are other parts, but it is a medical certificate that shows that a person has been given a syringe and will be able to take dose two and that it is a fact. What we want is for the certificate to really be accepted and given a meaning. It doesn't matter if Sweden lets someone print out from the journal system if other countries don't accept it. It's not about waiting, not wanting or not pushing. Maria Stockhaus and Alexandra Anstrell can hardly emphasize how slow the government is, but I think they are fundamentally wrong. I hear the opposition speaking, and it is their opportunity to describe it that way. But we cannot have our own certificate, and the whole point is that if it is to be of interest to travel in Europe, the Nordic countries and the rest of the world it must be an international standard. No one accepts an extract from the journal system, which you will be able to get when you are vaccinated. Nor is it opening up now across Europe, but it is still a very serious situation. In this serious situation, where a vaccine has been in place for four or five weeks, we must ensure that we have an international standard so that, when the opportunity to travel comes, we have the same opportunities as others to travel. I would like to say very briefly that it is also impossible to ignore the knowledge of the importance of the vaccine in order not to spread the infection further. At present, we are confident that the approved vaccines prevent severe disease, but not that they prevent the spread of the disease. Many countries are rightly very concerned about this. You want to know a little more before you say that a vaccination certificate means that it is free to come to specific countries. We need to learn more about the protection factors, but above all we need to have an international standard. We are not waiting, but are involved in that work. When the WHO or the EU comes up with this, of course, we are involved. We will follow the standards that will then be added and prepare ourselves well to be able to use them. We have an agreement between the state and Sweden's Municipalities and Regions when it comes to vaccination. It is not only about the sum per dose, but it also says: The issue of vaccination certificates is a task for the vaccineator but is not considered to be part of the exemption for covid-19 vaccination as described in this Agreement. ..................................................... To the extent that we need to do further to ensure that the vaccination certificates are in place, we will do so. However, an international standard should not be underestimated when the purpose for many is precisely to be able to travel.
i-c126f70a37ba3541-175	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Minister for her perhaps a rather ludicrous answer. Why is it that so many different test results are still accepted in other countries? I know a person who went to the Canary Islands not long ago and had done a test in Sweden. It was okay to show in Spain. Why does the government only see the problems? It is important that Sweden push ahead in the EU, but I do not feel that the Swedish Government and the Minister have done so. By summer, when more Swedes want to and hopefully will be able to travel on holiday or return to their relatives abroad, the demand for vaccination certificates is also expected to increase. Then we need to be at the forefront. Then we need it ready. In addition, it is important for the business community to be able to travel in a simpler and safer way. A vaccination certificate that can be presented at the airport, at the port or at any border crossing would greatly facilitate. It is necessary for us to be able to restart Europe. All transport must be able to function. The travel industry, the tourism industry and all other industries must be able to function and restart. Business bans have been in place for almost a year. Although many will have digital meetings in the future, travel will continue. Will the Minister stop traveling? I'm not gonna do it. Sweden needs proactive work. Come on, Minister! Take the lead shirt! Do it for Sweden's travel industry and for the Swedish population! I think it is important for us in Sweden to take a leading role and share our knowledge in the European Union, so that we can come forward with this more quickly. I think it is important that Sweden has good preparedness, and I think it is important that we are proactive in order to restart Europe. I do not know if the government thinks so, but I hope that we can move forward quickly on this issue.
i-c126f70a37ba3541-181	Madam President, I would like Finally, I can reassure Alexandra Anstrell and say that it is clear that we should have vaccination certificates. But the questions are always about why we are not there yet. In a number of posts, I have tried to describe that a paper certificate from a Swedish vaccinator is not what we think opens the border. That paper will be available to Alexandra Anstrell, myself and others once we have vaccinated ourselves. But we want an international standard, and we are working hard to get one. By summer I am absolutely sure that we have vaccination certificates. Until then, we need to work at international level both in the WHO and in the EU to ensure that the certificates that the Swedish people receive after vaccination really mean something and that they actually open the doors for travel to the Nordic countries, to Europe and to the rest of the world, because it is clear that we are going there again.
i-c126f70a37ba3541-183	Madam President, I would like Johan Hultberg has asked me if I am prepared to deprive the State Department Board, Sis, of responsibility for young people who have committed violent crimes and other serious crimes. He also asks whether I see that the measures taken by Mr Sis and the appropriations provided by the Government to increase security within the SIS are sufficient or whether I intend to take the initiative for further action. Finally, he asks me if I see a risk that the care and treatment that Sis will provide to young people under the law on the care of young people will deteriorate or be made more difficult by the authority being responsible at the same time for serious criminal young people who are sentenced to closed youth care. In Sweden we have a long tradition of not condemning people under 18 years of age to prison. D a closed youth care system should be strengthened and improved. The adapted efforts within Si's operations are currently lacking within the Prison Service. These include, for example, the fact that there are special youth homes, but there are treatment methods and programmes specifically adapted for young people, but also the existence of well-functioning school activities. At the same time, it is clear that safety in S is needs to be improved. The violence capital that we see in society and among certain gang-criminal young people today did not exist ten fifteen years ago. In recent years, the government has provided substantial resources to strengthen the quality and safety of its operations. Furthermore, we have commissioned the Agency to take security-enhancing action in the departments where convicted high-risk young people are cared for. The security-enhancing work at Sis has begun, and we will carefully follow this work. An important step in the direction no one was taken on 18 January, when it was decided that youth homes in Södertälje and Kalix get a higher level of security than previously existed at Sis. On 18 January, it was also decided that LSU and LVU departments should be broken down throughout Si s. Young people who have been sentenced to closed youth care should not be in the same department as other children and young people cared for. Distinguishing LVU and LSU also provides increased opportunities for a level of safety that is adapted to the respective investment base and leads to increased security for both young people and employees. The Government intends to shortly set up an investigation that will review the regulatory framework for the closed youth care system. Care periods should correspond to the seriousness of crime, and the possibilities for strong support and control measures after the release from youth homes need to be strengthened. The return rate should be reduced, and the targets of the special youth homes should be safe and secure for both young people and staff.
i-c126f70a37ba3541-187	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for Social Affairs for the answer to my interpellation, which I find extremely urgent. The background to the interpellation is a twofold concern that I have. I am concerned about the very inadequate security of the National Board of Institutional Affairs, with a great many escapes by people who are under forced care or sentenced to closed juvenile care. I am also concerned that Sis's business as a whole is not of sufficient quality, that Sis does not manage to shoulder and fulfill her mission of providing important care and treatment to young people on the run. We should remember, Madam President, that the vast majority of young people cared for in Sis are not condemned. The lion's share of young people are there for other reasons. If they do not receive help and support, they may develop a criminal life - style. They often have substance abuse problems, serious psychosocial problems and challenges, but they are not condemned. A small minority is doomed. My concern is that the small group that is cared for under the law on closed youth care steals focus from the need to develop the care of those who are cared for under LVU. In 2019 there were 663 seats within Sis for LVU but only 68 for LSU. Then there is the substance abuse care that Sis provides for adults. It is important to be clear that only a small part of Sis mission is to provide care to young people who are convicted. It is quite obvious, I and the Moderates, that Sis is not able to fulfill the mission they have to give sentenced youths a care because so many are freed and deviate. Madam President, I would like A prerequisite for successful care is, of course, that those who are there remain. Last year, there were 26 escapes. It's supposed to be related to the 68 places we're talking about. The Moderates have for a long time been pushing for the responsibility of the very young people who have committed serious crimes to be transferred from the National Board of Institutional Affairs to a special unit within the Prison Service. The Moderates also do not think that you should mix young people with experienced jailers. It is quite obvious that Sis is not – as the Minister was actually in his response – equipped to deal with the clientele that is now coming with very criminally active young people. They have a large amount of their own violent capital, but also violent capital in their backs, which comes from other criminal networks. We've seen escapes. It's extremely serious. It is not just that young people have deviated for a walk or the like. It is better to give Sis the opportunity to develop its activities to provide care and treatment to young people who have psychosocial problems and that they can focus on it by transferring responsibility to the authority that has knowledge and competence in terms of safety, namely the Prison Service.
i-c126f70a37ba3541-196	Madam President, I would like Social development in recent years has gone in the wrong direction. Crime has escalated and gone down in the ages with the tragic result that we have 15-year-olds who commit cold-blooded murders. Criminal gangs are recruiting younger people, and the legislation is not adapted to curb developments. It is clear that the Sis institutions are not suited to dealing with young people who commit serious violent crimes. The violence capital that these young people possess makes them belong in the Prison Service. The fact that today's debate is taking place with the Minister for Social Affairs and not with the Minister for Home Affairs is also telling. There is a need for a paradigm shift in which serious criminal minors are punished in proportion to the crimes they commit. Madam President, I would like Last autumn I asked a written question to Minister of Social Affairs Lena Hallengren. It was about the use of mobiles and tablets at Sis-hemmen. I got an unclear answer then. I hope now that the Minister will be able to clarify himself. In connection with the spectacular release of an 18-year-old and a 19-year-old convicted of murder and attempted murder from Råbyhemmet outside Lund, it was discovered that the inmates have unlimited access to mobile phones and tablets. It is therefore perfectly possible for them to keep in touch with other criminals, to continue with criminal activities, to order drugs and even to arrange and plan their release. As the Convention on the Rights of the Child became applicable as a Swedish law, it has been interpreted as meaning that Sis-hemmen staff are not entitled to restrict their right to privacy and contact with relatives. In other words, it is not possible to limit their use of mobile phones and tablets. It is unreasonable that convicted of such serious violent crimes should have access to mobile phones and other communication equipment while they are in an institution where they serve sentences and should be prevented from having contact with their criminal network and committing new crimes. The Minister replied in his reply: a child's best interests and the interests of society as a whole prevent children and young people from maintaining contact with criminals. Security must not be jeopardised, while the rights of the convicted must be safeguarded. ..................................................... It is precisely the last sentence that is very unclear. It is not only for me but also for the staff who work at these homes. The trade union ST, which organizes employees at Sis-hemmen, wants nothing more than a change of law that is very clear that young people should not use communication equipment during the time they are at home. I wonder whether the Minister intends to initiate such a change in the law and, if so, when.
i-c126f70a37ba3541-205	Madam President, I would like I think I usually commend Johan Hultberg. I think he is very balanced in his speeches. So is Johan Hultberg today. I feel just like Johan Hultberg and I think a lot of others are very worried about the business. Are Sis homes and institutions able to deal with increasingly difficult cases and situations? It is the staff who go to their work that should feel safe in that it cannot happen anything. It should feel safe and secure. This also applies, of course, to the young people who are there. They vary greatly in their needs. To answer Boriana Åberg's question about electronic means of communication, it is possible to limit them. You can't be personal as Minister of Social Affairs, but I really think they should make use of the opportunity they have at Sis-hemmen. I know that this view is shared by the Director-General, who is very clear to the employees and says that it is not something that says that one has the right to use means of communication unlimited. On the contrary, there are opportunities to remove them. It should be done for two weeks. It may seem administratively challenging to have to justify two new weeks again. But, of course, you have to do that when you think there is a reason for it. What is important in this context is that it is not the case that the Prison Service today has the competence to receive these young people. It does not really have treatment programmes, health care programmes or school activities that are adapted to the right young people, which may be said to be those up to 18 years of age. It's something Sis has. Then the Correctional Service has a safety thinking that Sis needs to learn from. This is also the reason why it is precisely Elisabet Åbjörnsson Hollmark who is Director General. She comes from Correctional Services and takes a lot of that safety thinking with her. I know that there is an ongoing dialogue in between with a Security Director appointed. What I really want to come to is that the two institutions that exist in Södertälje and Kalix and that should have a higher safety class than the one that you have today should be precisely for the LSU young people. You should be able to have security measures that are proportionate to both the sentences that people serve and the fact that Sis is only locked operations. That's why they're there. Unfortunately, escapes as well as escapes are not just a matter of LSU youth. Unfortunately, this sometimes also applies to young people who are cared for according to LVU. Notwithstanding the attitude of LSU young people to serve their sentence on Sis or in the Prison Service, the Sis institutions must improve their security thinking and raise it. Therefore, the two institutions in Södertälje and Kalix will be much needed precisely for LSU young people. Then you should divide up so that people who are there according to LVU and LSU are not in the same department. It is very recent – and perhaps it is a little background to the interpellation, what do I know – that the Minister of Justice has spoken out on the issue of reviewing the regulatory framework for closed youth care. He has said that in the near future both the investigation and the directive will be presented to review the sanction itself. It should not just be a question of where you serve your sentence, but what the punishment should be and how it should be dissuasive. Should we have a part in this that corresponds to parole? That is not what it looks like today. Should this also apply to young people? It is incredibly important to ensure that the care, treatment and activities required for young people have the best possible conditions, although it is incredibly challenging for them not to go back to criminal life. However, we cannot, of course, choose it at the expense of a high level of security. That's why security work at Sis has to continue. I think you're on very good track. If then these two institutions are to be seen as institutions or as institutions is probably a matter of taste, I would say. The question is what content is offered.
i-c126f70a37ba3541-218	Madam President, I would like This interpellation I wrote and submitted just when the Government had held the press conference together with the Director-General of Sis, where they explained exactly what the Minister for Social Affairs has now stated, namely that several steps are being taken to improve security within Sis and that decisions have been taken to differentiate the care of those under LSU and LVU respectively. You should not mix these young people in the wards, but have pure departments for young people who are cared for within the framework of LSU. I think this is a good thing. The Moderates have long demanded that you separate LVU young people from those who are actually convicted. Now you do it in Sis. We think, however, that it would have been more reasonable to take the step of transferring responsibility to the Prison Service, which has the knowledge, experience and competence to carry out an activity that is safe and where not nearly half of the sentenced differ. When I followed the press conference with the Minister of Social Affairs and Mr. Åbjörnsson Hollmark, I felt strengthened in my view that we needed to make this move. The Director-General presented a very comprehensive package of measures to be taken to increase safety to an acceptable level. She mentioned that a new security department had been set up, led by a security director, that security specialists and intelligence operators were now recruited and that these are brand new positions within Sis. The recruitment of local security coordinators is also under way. Personal alarms have been introduced for all employees living in outdoor environments. Free weights have been removed, safehouse utensils have been introduced and much more. The problem, Madam President, is that you start from a very low level. If responsibility had been transferred to the Prison Service, a good level of safety would have been introduced and Sis' experience of care and treatment would have been transferred to the Prison Service. I am also concerned about how the quality of care will be affected for the young people who are not convicted, the large number who are cared for according to the LVU, when you go in this much more repressive direction with higher fences and increased physical protection. It does not necessarily benefit the care of the other young people. However, I share the view that the safety work throughout the agency needs to be improved. It is also true, as the Minister for Social Affairs said, that we also see many people being treated according to LVU who deviate. I therefore think that the Minister for Social Affairs should talk to the Minister for Home Affairs and supplement the directives to the investigation now announced by investigating whether to take this step and transfer responsibility for the serious criminal youth to the Prison Service. This is also the Parliament's opinion, Madam President. The Parliament made an announcement on this matter in March last year. The least you can ask for is for the government to have this investigated in the investigation that is now announced. I hope that the government will present such investigative directives according to the wishes of the parliamentary majority.
i-c126f70a37ba3541-225	Madam President, I would like Re-examination every two or three weeks will use administrative resources. In view of the fact that these institutions are not directly overstaffed with staff, it would be preferable to amend legislation to eliminate security risks such as access to mobile phones or tablets without any control whatsoever. All escapes and escapes are telling proof that it is not good for safety to have access to such means of communication. With regard to the rights of inmates to keep in touch with their family and others, it is certainly excellent to maintain them with a fixed telephone in a special telephone room where staff are located at a proper distance. This has been the case for decades, and it has worked well. We should not forget that these escapes started in recent times. One could certainly limit this use to increase security, but also as a signal to those who commit crimes: if you commit murder, attempted murder or gross robbery, you actually have to put up with having your freedom and rights restricted. That's exactly the point of punishment.
i-c126f70a37ba3541-228	Madam President, I would like With regard to the inquiry announced by the Minister of Justice, more detailed questions are asked about it and about the directives addressed to the Minister of Justice. What I can say is that access to mobile phones and electronic communications are part of this. Of course it's very urgent. I do not disagree with Boriana Åberg on this point. What I'm saying is that the possibility already exists today. I do not think it should be used as an excuse that it is difficult to have to reconsider every two weeks. Then you'll have to go to that trouble. If you are not going to have access to a mobile phone and other communication devices, you should not have it. That assessment is made by the staff. It may be that the individual could use the phone to maintain criminal contacts or that one is otherwise worried about what it could lead to. It may also be, as it has sometimes been described, that someone who may not use the phone himself may be put under pressure and lend it to others. It can also be a reason to say that there must not be a mobile phone here. This possibility must be used pending changes to the legislation. As to whether it should be changed, I think we share the same view: we must move in that direction. We're just gonna get team support for that. 15 - 17 - year - olds in prison are not an easy question. It's a pretty big crime against the way we look at children and young people. Then I can only agree with everyone who looks at this debate and thinks: has it not, in principle, sat down there, so to speak, if we are now committing such serious crimes as we have talked about here in the speaker's chair? You're not supposed to serve a sentence. On the contrary, you do it, but you do it in a Sis institution. Correctional services themselves feel that it takes a great many and extensive adjustments to be able to take care of young people in a way that prevents them from further strengthening their criminal contacts. With regard to the security changes announced by the Director-General on behalf of the Government, I am sure they will have an effect, but I also think that we should let them go through and actually get to work for a while. Two institutions where there are only LSU young people will now have a completely different and much higher level of security. One can discuss whether they should then basically be called juvenile prisons, which I think is the expression that the Moderates have used, or Sis institutions with very high security. I think it's actually a matter of taste. But what we do know is that Sis is better than the Prison Service at meeting young people when it comes to treatment methods, school activities and staff who are used to working with young people. Correctional services would need to build up this activity, which takes quite a long time. Then I would also like to say, which I think Johan Hultberg was talking about, that LVU's young people are also being or are making sure to be freed, run away and expose the staff to violence. There's a reason they're at Sis-home and they have to be in locked wards. The safety-enhancing work at Sis has not only to do with the LSU's young people – it's important to say – but it has to be done consistently. However, we will ensure that LSU and LVU young people are not in the same department. They're not supposed to have an exchange there. I think that we have gone very far in one direction to ensure that LSU young people serve their sanction on institutions with a very high level of security and with an activity and a focus that hopefully is better suited for young people than the Prison Service today.
i-c126f70a37ba3541-238	Madam President, I would like As I said in my first speech, I think it was a problem that Sis' activities are not only of poor safety but also of insufficient quality. Statskontoret made an analysis of Sis that was presented to the government barely a year ago. In it it emerges, which I think is quite amazing, that not even half of Sis' staff judge that the stay at the department creates the conditions for change. Sis motto is: Place for change. But not even half of the employees believe that a young person's stay in a Sis housing creates the conditions for change. I think it is important to bear in mind that Sis is not only able to work to increase safety, although we are resoundingly agreed that it is needed. Whether we transfer responsibility for the sentenced young people to a special unit within the Prison Service, as the Moderates want and for which there is also a majority in the Swedish Parliament, there is also a huge need to improve the quality of Sis. I think these questions are connected. I think it would be good for the quality and operational development of Sis if Sis were to be relieved of responsibility for the convicted young people. In fact, most of them are not 15 years old, but they are much older than that. They're in their teens. In the autumn, 45 of the 67 who were then placed under LSU were over 18 years of age. I think there is every reason to follow Parliament's announcement and ensure that the investigation that is now to be set up investigates how the responsibility for young people who are sentenced to closed youth care can be transferred to the Prison Service.
i-c126f70a37ba3541-242	Madam President, I would like I would like to make it clear that the investigator who is to look at the sentence closed juvenile care should also look at the conditions that there are that people who have turned 18 when they get their sentence but may not be 18 years old when they did the act itself could still be sentenced to prison. That's something the investigator's gonna look at. The part with parole is also a way to see if it is possible to get greater similarities with what it looks like in the Prison Service. I would like to say something about quality. It is clear that this is about safety and quality. I think that combination is very important if we are to have any ambitions and some expectation of the young people who are very early on in heavy crime and commit serious crimes. If they are to have any opportunities to turn around and embark on a different course, it is clear that safety-enhancing efforts are needed. As I said, a lot has happened over the past year on the National Board of Institutional Affairs. It is not by chance that there is both a security director and two new institutions with a higher security rating, as well as that the security work is carried out throughout, but it looks like that with reference to the report mentioned by Johan Hultberg. The Director-General is very well aware of the situation, and it is about changing perhaps both the culture and the structure of an entire authority. The Government has also contributed SEK 110 million to the National Board of Institutional Affairs and also substantial resources in the coming years not only to ensure that it is able to cope with the safety-enhancing work but also because it is about the competence of the staff and that it may be possible to find an equivalent education. This is what the Prison Service does – you get a chance to get an education within the Prison Service, so you don't have to be fully educated when you get there. There are many ambitions that the Director General has on his list of things that are now to be put into effect. I think it is important, and it will be important for the staff working there and for the young people who are located there, whether they are located there with LVU or LSU.
i-c126f70a37ba3541-248	Madam President, I would like Johan Hultberg has asked me questions about a national target for when the growing health debt will be gone, what concrete measures I intend to take with a view to shortening the care queues and the possibility of increasing international co-operation in the growing care queues. The health care system is currently in a very tight situation due to the coronapndemine. Resources have had to be given priority to those who need the most, which unfortunately meant that a large proportion of planned care interventions had to be cancelled. Against this background, it is understandable that the regions responsible for maintaining the statutory health guarantee have found it more difficult to meet. At the same time, it is crucial that patients who have waited for a long time receive the care they need. During the pandemic, the government has worked to ensure that healthcare has the resources to deal with the consequences of the pandemic. In 2020, SEK 2 1 billion has been allocated in targeted grants to replace regions and municipalities for additional costs associated with covid-19 in healthcare and care. In addition, there have been significant increases in general government subsidies to regions and municipalities in 2020 and 2021. To support the regions in managing the deferred care and covid-19-related care, SEK 4 billion is allocated to the regions per year 2021 and 2022. Johan Hultberg refers to the fact that the government has appointed a delegation for increased accessibility in the healthcare sector, which will only report on its mission in spring 2022. This is certainly true, but I would like to inform the questioner that the work will not stand still until then. The delegation has an ongoing mission to support the regions in their efforts to develop regional action plans for improved accessibility. The regional action plans shall include, inter alia, regional objectives for waiting periods and care queues, and the delegation shall support the regions in implementing measures in accordance with them. The mission of the delegation applies both during and after the outbreak of covid ‐ 19. In addition, the delegation will already make proposals in June 2021 for measures to support the efficient use of resources by facilitating patients to receive care from another healthcare provider, both within their own region and in other regions. As Johan Hultberg probably knows, it is the regions that are ultimately responsible for health care and thus for patients receiving care on time. However, the Government has seen the need to strengthen national coordination in order to strengthen accessibility throughout the country. The National Board of Health and Welfare was therefore given the task of supporting the regions' management of the mutilated care needs. The Agency has, among other things, presented a plan of supporting measures that has been developed in collaboration with representatives of the regions and the Swedish K ommuner and Regions, SKR. During the autumn, the National Board of Health and Welfare has published support for the development of ineffective measures in healthcare. The purpose of the support is to release resources to care that provides greater benefit to patients. Shorter waiting times and improved accessibility are a priority for the government. For 2019 – 2021, the Government has allocated approximately SEK 7.5 billion specifically for this purpose. N is the healthcare service resuming the regular business on a full scale again, the focus must be on ensuring that accessibility is improved and that more patients receive care in a reasonable time. The government will continue to work for this.
i-c126f70a37ba3541-257	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Social Affairs, for your answer. Swedish healthcare is often described as very good and as being at the forefront internationally. It's true. But Swedish healthcare has long had a serious and major problem, and that is the lack of accessibility. A lot of patients have had to wait unreasonablely long to get an operation, see a specialist or even get on the phone to their health care center. This is a system error that many governments have worked to tackle. The Alliance government made it successful. We introduced special incentives in the form of a queue billion which quickly produced the desired effect and pushed back the care queues and improved accessibility. Unfortunately, the S-led government abolished it when it took office, and the care queues have subsequently increased at a run-off rate. During the last parliamentary term, they nearly doubled. Accessibility problems were serious even before the coronapandemia. It is important to have said that, Madam President. I believe that everyone following this debate understands and respects the fact that, in the midst of a serious pandemic, healthcare is forced to make tough priorities and to postpone important operations, if they are operations that can wait. Instead, they are forced to care for patients who are struggling for their lives and who require intensive care or other advanced specialist care. However, we need to face up to this challenge. I am concerned that the government is not showing enough leadership on this issue. I think the answer the Minister gave here was a little ambivalent. On the one hand, responsibility was clearly placed on the regions. On the other hand, however, the Minister also says that it is a priority for the government. If it is a priority for the government to overcome the galloping healthcare queues and to be prepared to quickly graze them when the pandemic eases and health care can return a little more to normal life, measures and initiatives are needed. The Moderates believe that such a concrete initiative could be to set a national target. We are in an exceptional situation. We have not been in a situation like this, with this pandemic. Then I and the Moderates think that there is reason to see beyond their own region and to see how we can gather together to graze off the health debt. Different regions are affected differently. We need cross-regional cooperation. We also need cross-border cooperation, as I emphasise in my interpellation. Of course, the pandemic has affected our entire environment. Our neighbours are also affected. But Norwegian healthcare, for example, is not as heavily burdened as the Swedish one. Perhaps it is possible to buy in at capacity there and get help to graze by the care queue? In northern Bohuslän, from which I come, we are used to being able to normally cross the border and get service and such on the other side of the border. For example, my second son was born at the hospital Ø stfold in Kalne. It's something I think the government should look at. But the government points most to this delegation. I and the Moderates find that unsatisfactory. We also see that there are major differences between the regions. The best region managed in December to keep the health guarantee to 92%, despite the pandemic, while in a worst region only 42% came up in terms of operations. I also believe that this demonstrates the need for increased national leadership, Madam President, so that it does not matter which region you live in. You should be able to get care on time regardless.
i-c126f70a37ba3541-266	Madam President, I would like In many contexts, you need to have more than one ball in the air at the same time. The government feels a great responsibility to increase the availability of healthcare, to think that this is an important issue and to provide you with record resources; I really do not like the expressions. But we have given the welfare in general and not least the health care system very large additions of resources, of course in this year but also in recent years. This includes a performance-based availability billion. To remind us where we were before the pandemic, I would like to say that we certainly had a lack of availability, but before the pandemic we actually had a situation where all the regions improved compared to November, December and January the years before. So I would say that the regions were working on and that perhaps something was being turned around. But then came a pandemic that has really hit the whole country. No matter how hard you've been hit, for safety's sake, you've set up a lot, in the form of surgeries and treatments, which have been possible to cancel. If you have been hit hard then you have of course also staff who have worked even harder, who are even more tired and who in some way should switch up and do double the job in the regular care when the pandemic partially snaps off. But, of course, the regions should be helped together. My picture is that they do too. What I said about holding more than one ball in the air is that I do not think it is correct to say that I put the responsibility to the regions. After all, it is the regions that are the heads of health care in Sweden. They're the ones who have doctors, nurses and all the health workers employed. They also work very hard. They build collaboration, and they build knowledge structures. What the state needs to do, of course, is to ensure that they have the necessary resources. But it is also about the care skills council which, speaking of the pandemic, came into place and started working in principle at the same time as the pandemic began. So they have not received much attention. But the idea is that they should be able to coordinate and ensure that not every region takes care of its own skills. It's not sustainable in the long run. You can't sit in Kalmar, Jämtland or even Stockholm and just think about your own. We need to take a joint responsibility to ensure that we have enough intern services and that we train enough nurses. One cannot stop training in one part of the country because there are not enough applicants when there may be a need for even more places in another part of the country. This coordination must work much better. Of course, the state feels a great responsibility for that. The Accessibility Delegation was mentioned. I don't think you should either enlarge or reduce it. Of course, it doesn't solve all the problems. But I think it is an important tool for not every region just to look after itself. The government sends in money, we have a care competence council, we have accessibility billions and we have many agreements to steer healthcare in a certain direction, not only with a focus on accessibility but also on quality, which can vary. I believe that the accessibility delegation will play a role there. Gunilla Gunnarsson, who leads the work, is in full swing and has at her disposal people who can contribute a lot of knowledge. Sometimes it is the way regions are good at different things. You can learn from each other. Each region will submit a regional action plan on how to shorten waiting times and ensure that people receive treatment faster. Then it is not as simple as saying that you should reach the care guarantee's goals. It is absolutely not simple, but it sounds simple, as if we then know that we are receiving care on time. Both Johan Hultberg and I know that it is not that simple. Many times the 90 days of the health guarantee are far too long. There are no standardised medical procedures for cancer where 90 days are okay. They're much shorter than that. It is therefore more complex than talking about how many people received care on time under the care guarantee. We must ensure that people receive care on time.
i-c126f70a37ba3541-274	Madam President, I would like I very much agree with the last thing the Minister had to say: the VG is not an expression of a dream scenario. Compliance with the health guarantee does not mean that you actually provide very fast care. It can almost be described as a form of decency, Madam President. One should expect at least one operation within three months. Of course, in the best of worlds you wouldn't have to wait that long. For example, waiting for three months to change a hip joint means a great deal of suffering for the individual. And for society it may mean large costs in the form of sick leave, lost labour and tax revenue and a loss for the Swedish economy. There are many parts of this that are important to highlight. The lack of accessibility in Swedish healthcare also costs the Swedish economy an incredible amount. And it costs in the form of human suffering, the most important thing. Madam President, I would like I am by no means critical of the Accessibility Delegation. I think it's good. It is good that it has been added. What I am critical of is that no more action has been taken, that no more has been done in the near future to address the problems. That the government removed the working queue billions and allowed the care queues to grow again, however, I am very critical of. Me and the Moderates think that the health guarantee should be respected. But we also think it should be tightened up. We want to see a developed care guarantee and tougher requirements. As far as cancer care is concerned, as the Minister highlighted, we believe that the guarantee should be much more clearly related to the standardised course of care in order to further strengthen the patient's right. Strengthening the patient's right is central in this context. We think that as a patient, you should have the right to receive inpatient care in regions other than your own if the region is unable to live up to the health guarantee. Today it is free to get outpatient treatment in other parts of Sweden but not inpatient care in the same way. This would be a concrete measure to try to improve accessibility and increase pressure on regions to comply with the health guarantee. Of course, the Queues cannot be conjured away at Rosenbad. Neither do I, Madam President. But the Minister for Social Affairs and the Government has an important mission: to create the conditions for the regions to live up to the health guarantee and create the conditions for me as a patient to demand my rights. One such possibility would be to be allowed to seek treatment in another region, for example if my home region is unable to deliver the surgery I need within the 90 days of the health guarantee. I had a very specific question. It was a question of increased international cooperation. It would be interesting to have an answer to it. I didn't realize I really got it. There are, after all, both public and private actors who could be able to use it. For example, we see that many patients in cancer care go to the private hospital Docrates in Helsinki. I think that the possibility of this at national level should be explored. Sweden should not, as I said, be a queue society, but in Swedish health care that is unfortunately what it looks like today. Too many people wait for care and are forced to stand in line. Furthermore, the pandemic makes an already serious situation even worse from the outset.
i-c126f70a37ba3541-282	Madam President, I would like I did not intend to spend much time with the former queue billion, but since Johan Hultberg mentioned it in both his speeches, I will still say something about it. I do not deny that the cue billion may have been important at the beginning when it was introduced, but in time it lost much of its effect. In addition, it showed very clearly that it directed towards the care of those in the queue billions, while others did not receive care. They simply abandoned needs management and instead received a system that did not benefit health care as needed in the health care system. As a result, return visits, chronicles, and others were not given the care they needed, but were grazed by what led to a share of the cue billion. It was very unfortunate. This is why we introduced a performance-based availability billion, which is now 3 billion. This change was made to include primary care, return visits and chronicles in the calculation. I think it is important that we do not create bottlenecks. That would be unfortunate. There is no miracle medicine. The old queue billion was not a miracle medicine either. But many different parts can help to increase accessibility so that we get rid of the queues that no one wants. I used to mention health advice and broad, increased resources, which the regions use in different ways depending on what it looks like. You look at where resources need to be added. Is it the competence of existing staff who need to specialise? Do you need to increase staff or create more care places? What do resources need to be used for the most? One thing I did not mention in my last speech I would like to mention now to fill in the list, and this concerns the effort on good and close care. It is not just a matter of ensuring that you can operate faster, but people's health needs also need to be detected earlier and flows need to be improved. I don't know how long we've been fighting – certainly for decades – for us to have increased accessibility in primary care and for the status to increase. People should feel that this is where they should first turn. Many times it can make you not even need inpatient care, but you can get the help you need at a much earlier stage. Mental illness is perhaps a clear example of this, but it also applies to somatic ailments. All in all, I think this is something that contributes to the whole thing. However, resource support in all honour, we should not underscore the fact that the staff working in the health care sector are often specialised. This means that from one day to another it is not possible to replenish the skills you need to the extent that they are too few. Of course, we must be careful of the surgical nurses, the anaesthetic nurses and others we have. It does not matter how much money we have or how many hospitals we build if there is not enough staff to perform the operations. I do not have a very good answer to the question of international cooperation. In fact, I assume that the regions are thinking about this in their work to provide care. However, I will leave it unsaid and take the question with me. On the other hand, when it comes to seeking treatment in other regions, the situation is of course always the same. If Johan Hultberg does not receive care in his home region and goes to Kalmar, where I live, there is of course someone from Kalmar who also needs care. Should you go before the person who lives there? I don't think that would make sense. Somewhere every region has a responsibility to plan for the care that citizens need. But you have to be much better at working together, working together and ensuring that the gaps that exist are filled. It does not have to be someone who comes from the region in question, but the regions can, of course, cooperate with each other. There is much more to be done today. We know that we do not have optimally used care. Although the pressure is great, operating halls are too often empty, for example because people do not come to the times they have been given. Much suggests that care should become more person-centred so that people book times when they can, so that we do not have any waste in this context.
i-c126f70a37ba3541-293	Madam President, I would like This is indeed a complex problem, and health care is an extremely complex activity. You should always be ready to meet suddenly emerging care needs while performing a more planned activity. Now we're going to get through this in the middle of a burning pandemic. However, Swedish healthcare has had problems with lack of accessibility for a very long time. The Minister for Social Affairs mentioned that accessibility was perhaps improving slightly in the months preceding the pandemic. However, if we look at the productivity of hospital care during the five years preceding the pandemic, we can see that it was falling. It is extremely serious that productivity is falling and that we are becoming increasingly difficult to provide people with care on time and within a reasonable period of time. I think that the situation is such that the government needs greater national leadership. Set a national target! Ensure that cooperation works well between the regions! Also, look beyond national boundaries! It is true that many regions are already looking at the possibilities of finding international cooperation. My own region, Västra Götaland, has an agreement that enables emergency medical care on the other side of the Norwegian border. As I mentioned, it also applies to maternity care for people who live in, for example, northern Bohuslän or northern Dalsland and who are as close or even closer to Østfold's hospital than to Trollhättan. However, it is often difficult for a region to sign such agreements with national operators on the other side. Norwegian health care is organised in a completely different way. Perhaps it would have been better if the government had given such an assignment to a government agency. Madam President, I would like Sweden should not be a queue society, but unfortunately this is what it looks like in Swedish healthcare. We need to strengthen the position of patients and improve accessibility. The government has a great responsibility for this.
i-c126f70a37ba3541-299	Madam President, I would like In November, December and January before the pandemic began, fewer people had to wait for an appointment than the year before. It would have been very gratifying from all points of view if that development had been allowed to continue. It is not that the queues have doubled or that all care has been cancelled, but a lot has been cancelled. When dealing with a pandemic as well as delayed care and the care that is constantly being provided, there is of course a huge strain. It is important for the regions to have excellent cooperation and use the times that may exist and the gaps that emerge in different regions so that they really plan cooperation. I know that they do so on the basis of the ability and the energy that currently exists. In addition, the National Board of Health and Welfare has a mission to coordinate the regions with regard to deferred care. We will have to come back and see how they can contribute to this. Finally, I would like to say that there is obviously a need for cooperation and cooperation. This is about the state's interaction with the regions. This also applies to Sweden's and Swedish regions' cooperation with border regions, which is the closest thing at hand. Nothing precludes cooperation with other parts of the world, but proximity often plays a role for those seeking care. Many times you choose to wait when you don't want to go so far. Here the care needs to make it easier so that the person himself does not have to be the one who makes those calls and chases around, even if the possibility exists. I see that it is the care that helps the care seeker to find a place. If your own region cannot offer space, you can help each other and see if it can be found in other regions. However, it cannot be on the individual health seeker who may not always have the strength, energy or knowledge to seek alternative care.
i-c126f70a37ba3541-303	Madam President, I would like Jörgen Berglund has asked me what I intend to do to improve the possibilities for the Swedish reserve officer in general. H a n has also asked me whether I am going to take the initiative to change the law (2012:332) on certain armed forces positions and the regulation(1994:522) on benefits for instructors in voluntary defence training. Finally, he has asked me what means and tools I am using as a minister to improve for all Swedish reserve officers and whether I can give some concrete examples of how this has improved the situation for the country's reserve officer. First of all, I would like to say that the government shares the questioner's view that the reserve officers are an important part of our country's defence. The Swedish Parliament has supported the Government's proposal Totalförsvaret 2021 – 2025. The bill shows, among other things, that the Swedish Armed Forces' war organisation will grow from approximately 60 000 people today to about 90 000 plus reserves in 2030. In the development of the Swedish Armed Forces' operational capability and growth that the Agency faces, its personnel are the most important component. The staff consists of reserve officers, officers, specialist officers, officers in training, continuous and occasional group officers, soldiers and sailors, Home Guard soldiers, volunteers and total defence officers. All categories of personnel are important for defence capabilities and development. As part of the work to strengthen the country's defence, the Swedish Armed Forces are now analysing the human composition of the war organization and the basic organisation as well as the need for different categories of personnel in the said ten-year perspective. The Swedish Armed Forces are reviewing the availability of personnel in different levels of preparedness within all categories of personnel. The agency intends to return to the Ministry of Defence with an overall need for any measures identified by the authority. The reserve officer's right to leave of absence from an ordinary workplace for service in the Swedish Armed Forces is, according to the information I have, one of the areas under consideration by the agency. It is important to identify any obstacles to ensuring the availability of personnel of any category, which measures are within the Armed Forces' mandate to take and what the agency may need support for. This should be done coherently and systematically. In the work on staff issues there is a dialogue between the Ministry of Defence, the Swedish Armed Forces and the workers' organisations, but I want to be careful to point out that it is the Swedish Armed Forces as an employer, not the government, that is responsible for the agency's personnel issues. This is in line with the employers' policy delegation in the state decided by the Parliament in 1994. The Ministry of Defence intends to follow developments, and the government will return to the Riksdag in the event that we consider that legislative changes are required.
i-c126f70a37ba3541-311	Madam President, I would like The international situation continues to deteriorate, and in our neighbourhood, tensions in the Arctic and the Baltic Sea, for example, are increasing. We do not know where the peaceful demonstrations in Russia are going right now. Hopefully, they lead to a more democratic development of Russia – a Russia that is becoming stronger and more aggressive in military terms. In light of this, the Riksdag has recently made decisions on a total defence bill in which we increase military spending and strengthen military capabilities. It is a necessary and important decision even if the long-term financial framework is lacking. But now it is not the defence economy we are going to talk about today, but we are going to have to do that at another time. Madam President, I would like Of course, more money for the Swedish Armed Forces is important, but they are not in any way the only key to achieving increased military capabilities. We're talking about available and suitable equipment. Trained officers, soldiers and sailors will decide whether we can solve the most difficult of tasks, namely to defend our country in the event of the worst – war. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Armed Forces have on several occasions described that the large bottleneck to solve when Sweden's defence capabilities are to be increased is precisely the supply of personnel. There are simply too few officers in active duty. Training and training a captain takes as long as training a doctor. And everyone knows that it takes time – a long time. It's time we don't really have. Our ability must be increased now, not in five to ten years. The world situation is deteriorating daily. No matter what we think of it, it's a fact. Madam President, I would like In this interpellation, I have mentioned what we, or rather what the government and the Minister for Defence, can do to improve the staffing situation. Sweden, like many other countries, has a system of reserve officers. It is military personnel who have a different occupation in everyday life but are basically trained as officers. It is a strength and an asset in the situation we now find ourselves in with growth. Sweden's reserve officer could play a more prominent role in growth, but then we need to increase incentives, facilitate and enable more people to contribute. In this interpellation, I have asked three questions to the Minister for Defence, which in brief is about enabling and facilitating for reserve officers to serve, among other things by giving them the right to leave their regular jobs if they serve in the Armed Forces. That court today has at times group officers, soldiers and sailors, but not reserve officers. I have read the written answer and listened to what the Minister of Defence said just now, and I note that the Minister of Defence's conclusion is to wait and see what the Armed Forces think. There are no ideas, no proposals, no concrete ones, but the waiting is the answer. Where, Peter Hultqvist, is the political leadership? Why does the Secretary of Defense not listen to the Union of Reserve Officers – the trade union party? They've been pushing this issue for a long time. Is it the case that Social Democratic ministers only listen when the LO unions want something, those who also support the Social Democratic Party with money? Where is the power of action, Peter Hultqvist?
i-c126f70a37ba3541-318	Madam President, I would like I thank Jörgen Berglund for a very important interpellation about our reserve officers. The reserve officer is an officer or a specialist officer who has his main employment elsewhere while being employed by the Swedish Armed Forces. I just looked today at Sverof's website, where they publish some interesting services for reserve officers. There was, among other things, a position within the security and intelligence services. It feels like an important position, an important service, for Sweden's, the nation's, security. At the last meeting with the Defence Committee, we were given a presentation by the Swedish Armed Forces in connection with the events at K 3. A great deal was told about how the Swedish Armed Forces work with the values. Our reserve officers are important in our military capabilities, which are now to be increased. Jörgen Berglund asked the Minister what funds and tools the Minister uses to improve for Sweden's reserve officer. Unfortunately, I do not see Jörgen Berglund getting any answers. I am therefore interested in adding an addition to the debate due to previous misinformation about employees within the Swedish Armed Forces. I am thinking mainly of the false officer, and I am also thinking of the events on K.3 and the question of values. How does the Minister ensure that even reserve officers who have their main employment elsewhere can also be involved in the work on the issue of values that the Swedish Armed Forces are working with now, not as before?
i-c126f70a37ba3541-324	Madam President, I would like There is one question that the interpellier should seriously consider. When I arrived in this position six years ago, I met a large proportion of reserve officers who asked for a task in the Swedish Armed Forces. With the intervention organization and the military duty that you abolished, Jörgen Berglund, much of the duties of the reserve officers also disappeared. They were largely in a vacuum where they lacked a role in the Armed Forces. The most important measure we have taken to be able to use reserve officers again is that we have moved from intervention defence to national defence. Conscription and increased practice are the key to giving the reserve officers a task again. This task is gradually increasing as we increase the number of conscripts. We have therefore reversed the development that you put us in during the time you were in charge and carried out your unrealistic organization of defense, Jörgen Berglund. We changed the trend in 2015. As we begin to make the Swedish Armed Forces even more attractive to both professional officers and reserve officers, systematic work is required across the board. The key to this is the ten-year planning for 2021 – 2030. With the decision we made before Christmas, the Swedish Armed Forces have a mandate to design the personnel supply on the professional and reserve officers side. Then it's about attraction, and it's about recruitment. It is about education, service, skills development, career choices and when their mandates end. It has a mandate to review all this, including the reserve officers' supply in this area. I think it is wiser to do a thorough job across the board than to sit down now and take random action on the basis of how the political debate is conducted. I want to see a whole before we take action, and I also respect the role of the Armed Forces' employer. I'm not taking over that role. There is therefore ongoing work on how to dispose of the reserve officer's recruitment and how to give them gradually increased tasks in the Swedish Armed Forces. I think it is important to emphasise that responsibility is being taken seriously here, and I would like to return to the following: at the same time as training activities are increasing, the need for reserve officers is also increasing. That's the key. This is really the basic answer to your question, Jörgen Berglund, but you don't seem to have thought about these two things – national defence linked to military service, linked to practice activities. That's the whole key to activating this system, and then we have a platform to stand on. Then we have the systematic job that the Swedish Armed Forces will carry out across the entire recruitment range, with all these measures. Is it the case that legislative changes are required when we see all the tokens, it is clear that we should be prepared to do so, but I actually prefer that there should be thorough pre-work before finally setting down the foot.
i-c126f70a37ba3541-332	Madam President, I would like There seem to be two obvious criteria for becoming a minister in Stefan Lövven's government. The first is the ability to shift responsibility, and the second is to avoid acting. There is always someone else who should do something, and it is always someone else's fault. Most often it is the fault of the alliance government – we just heard – but right now in the pandemic it is popular to say that it is the fault of bourgeois-led regions. But it is never the fault of a Socialist minister, Madam President. In the case of the Minister for Defence, it is almost always the Swedish Armed Forces who will solve everything. I must remind the Government that he is Minister of Defence, not Minister of Self-Defense. The defence is facing growth, Madam President, and, as I said, the Armed Forces are clear that the supply of personnel is the big bottleneck. Is it not, then, a duty of government to contribute and help? I think so. I think it is the responsibility of the Minister for Defence, but we obviously take a different view of it. If you hire a senior officer, a soldier or a seaman, you will have another main occupation, just like a reserve officer. They're working on something else. Sometimes they need to serve in the Armed Forces, and then they have to be on leave of absence. They are entitled to leave of absence. This is what it has been about: why does the reserve officer not have it? What's the logic? As I mentioned in my interpellation, there are more questions. For example, reserve officers could serve and help train the new military service hills on the new regiments – the regiments that the Minister for Defence is keen to highlight to show what he has done. It is only a pity that the Minister for Defence seems to forget that it must be filled with content. Madam President, I would like Now we have talked a lot about leave of absence, but it is also important that there are nice conditions for reserve officers when they work, for example, as instructors in our voluntary defence organisations, that is, they have the same financial conditions as a professional officer. After all, they carry out the same tasks. The voluntary defence organisations are incredibly important, and there are too few instructors today. Just the right conditions, Madam President, Social Democrats tend to highlight as important. But here, too, it seems to only apply in LO professions, not reserve officers. With a simple change of regulation, the government can ensure that they get a level playing field – the right conditions. The Minister of Defence does not even have to come back to the Swedish parliament, because the government itself has the full mandate – and responsibility. Finally, Madam President, the Minister for Defence writes in his written reply to the interpellation: I am a little surprised that the Minister for Defence does not mention the fact that a united defence committee last Thursday adjusted a report with an announcement to the government to ensure that reserve officers are entitled to leave of absence. Parliament does not wait and see. We don't think about it. We don't investigate. We don't have to think anymore. We've made up our minds. Just come back with the bill to Parliament. That is why my question is: when will Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist come back with this simple change of law that Parliament will decide next week?
i-c126f70a37ba3541-340	Madam President, I would like I think Jörgen Berglund well explained how the Minister for Defence does not actually answer questions, nor does he accept the responsibility he has as a minister. Instead, he blames old alliance governments. Now, I'm thinking, and this is the moment the Secretary of Defense is the Minister of Defence. Jörgen Berglund does not get an answer to his questions, nor did I get an answer to the question how the Minister ensures that the reserve officers we have in our rolls have the correct CV. Does the Minister take any responsibility to ensure that? And how does the Minister of Defence ensure that our important reserve officers are given access to the core values and organisational culture that the Swedish Armed Forces are working with today?
i-c126f70a37ba3541-342	Madam President, I would like The basic way to take responsibility on the basis of the total defence bill is to write a regulatory letter, as we have done. We believe that the Swedish Armed Forces should report a plan for how the agency should review the personnel composition of the war organisation in the ten-year perspective. It includes all the pieces that I have listed – attraction, recruitment, training, service, competence development, career change and so on – to get an overall picture of what is required in service. It is a broad and thorough work to be carried out in a thorough manner. Then the debaters claim to blame. But it was actually a reality; you have to know what you're getting out of, namely an intervention organization that didn't need backup officers. That's what happened. That's where we started. That I say it may seem a bit unpleasant to the debaters, but it is actually a reality. It is when we have started the national defence effort, combined with military service and an increased exercise activity, that the data will come back for reserve officers. So it is not a spell I am presenting here, but it is real and clear facts. When it comes to the values of the Swedish Armed Forces, it is something you work with in general throughout the Swedish Armed Forces, with the entire staff staff. All parts of the Armed Forces will be covered by the values we have. It is also the task of the Swedish Armed Forces to check that the CV and other things are correct when it comes to the staff you have. Do the debaters not share the view that we should have the employers' delegation from 1994? If you want us to tear up the employers' delegation, say so! But then we kind of have a whole new relationship. The only problem is that I would well be notified to the KU and subjected to that kind of analysis if I started going alongside this. Then you'd turn over the steak and find some other way to criticize. We always deal with announcements in the order prescribed by the regulations, so we will, of course, return to the Riksdag with an opinion on how to deal with them. That order is firmly established and according to routine. However, as I understood it, this would be dealt with in Parliament in the following week. I am well aware of what has been in committee. However, I also say in my introductory speech that reserve officers' right to leave of absence from regular positions for service in the Swedish Armed Forces is, according to the information I have, one of the areas under consideration now when looking at the whole within the framework of the agency. So we're working all over this broad field right now. When we have all the facts on the table, we can effectively look at how we move forward. I am not saying that it is wrong to make this kind of change in terms of leave opportunities. But I'm saying I want all the facts on the table and the entire investigation work. The way to lead and direct an authority in this situation is to address this in the regulation letter, which we have done, based on the decision made in the bill before Christmas. The question then is: should we abandon the usual forms of government? Is it not the regulatory letter institution to use when acting as a government on the basis of a bill? I think it is important to maintain a certain order – who does what at what point – in order not to get a mix-up of responsibilities.
i-c126f70a37ba3541-352	Madam President, I would like I cannot really be sad when the Minister for Defence feels attacked by the opposition. I would like to describe it as an opposition's task to examine, push and question government power. This is included, as it were, in the democratic game. But there are some things that I didn't really understand and that I find very illogical. If we now have more conscripts, as we get and as the Minister for Defence mentioned, then there is even more reason to ensure that, for example, a reserve officer can serve without getting no from his employer if he needs to be on leave. The second is what the Minister for Defence once again referred to: the old alliance government. Then the question must be: It was not that the Social Democrats were against the defence of intervention, was it? It was a reality that had to do with the world situation. There was quite a consensus in politics. Then the international situation changed, and at the same time we moved from the defence of intervention towards a more traditional defence of national territory. This is not a political matter, it is an external circumstance that has affected this. Then I do not understand, Madam President-in-Office, the employers' delegation comes up time and again. It is, in fact, a regulation we are discussing, and I know it is the government that issues regulations. The Armed Forces can't do that. So it is the responsibility and mandate of the government to do so. Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, I do not feel that I have received answers to any of my questions. I note, however, that next week the House will decide on the right to leave; I look forward to that change in government regulation. I have not been told what other concrete measures can be taken by a minister. That is a bit what I am calling for: the commitment and the will that I believe a government must have.
i-c126f70a37ba3541-358	Madam President, I would like I sat in this Chamber when the then right-wing alliance government pushed through the abolition of military service with three votes overweight – an extremely unwise decision which I also consider to be harmful to the Swedish armed forces. This was the key to the fact that the reserve officers were finally also out of commission. So we have different views on history. One of the most important decisions we have taken to resume the demand for the services of reserve officers concerns the reactivation of military service, which is linked to the construction of national defence and the increased practice that this has brought. That's the basic part. You are asking, Jörgen Berglund, concrete examples, and I have now given them a number of times. These are the most important concrete examples that can be given to pave the way for the reserve officers to have a place and a role in the organisation again. When it comes to the terms and conditions, the Riksdag has delegated the right to conclude local pay and conditions agreements to the individual authorities. We have also handed over competence in terms of competence provision, competence development, employment conditions, working environment and work on the state values. This is therefore part of the task. Should we then make changes to regulations linked to this whole, I think it is reasonable that it is part of the overall work that the Swedish Armed Forces are now doing on staff issues, which I have explained here, and that this is also put into this ten-year perspective. As a matter of fact, it may not always be the best method, but it is the whole that matters. That is what we are trying to achieve with what we are working on.
i-c126f70a37ba3541-363	Madam President, I would like Daniel Bäckström has asked me if the government in any way in an official dialogue with the Swedish Armed Forces or in any other way expressed that there is an opportunity to depart from the basic and war organisation decided by the Riksdag and the time frame for its implementation. Daniel Bäckström has also asked whether the establishment of the regiments decided by the Riksdag should be carried out or whether the Government sees this as wishes from the Riksdag. Finally, Daniel Bäckström has asked how the government intends to ensure in the governance of the Swedish Armed Forces that the organisation decided by the Riksdag and the timing conditions will be implemented. The Government has decided on 17 December 2020 to focus on the Swedish Armed Forces 2021 – 2025. The decision states, inter alia, that:
i-c126f70a37ba3541-365	In 21 in Sollefteå, the Västernorrland Regiment will be re-established in 2022 with an education detachement, Jämtland Field Hunting Corps, in Östersund. The regiment will have a training capacity of approximately 200 – 250 per year for training of two local defence shooting battalions and reach full capacity by 2026 – 2030.
i-4HCMQseshPoWayQrSybDsm	The Government's decision for the Swedish Armed Forces is in accordance with what the Government has proposed to the Riksdag in the Bill Totalförsvaret 2021 – 2025 and what the Riksdag has decided on 15 December 2020. The Government also decided on 17 December 2020 on a letter of regulation for the financial year 2021 regarding the Swedish Armed Forces. Among other things, the regulation letter states that by 1 March 2021 the Swedish Armed Forces will report the Agency's planning for the re-establishment of the aforementioned organisation.
i-c126f70a37ba3541-366	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Defence, for the answer and the opportunity to follow up our common defence decision and also the important situation with regard to what remains of implementation. Madam President, I would like For almost six years, I have had the opportunity to represent the Center Party as a negotiator and a spokesperson, both in dialogue as well as in discussions with the Minister for Defence and the Government for the 2015 decision and also, most recently, the 2020 defence-oriented decision. We are at an expansive and very important stage in which we have contributed a lot of money and where there are also expectations of strengthening total defence and expanding the war organisation. The Minister mentions very important re-establishments in strategically important locations and locations. It's about building defence capabilities all over the country. This is important for creating platforms for continued long-term growth and the development of our war-resisting capabilities. It gives people support, and it also gives increased visibility and a decentralised war organisation. I have written this interpellation on the basis of statements from the Swedish Armed Forces' central management at the beginning of the year, linked to the implementation and realisability of the war organisation, i.e. the decision we made here in Parliament just before Christmas. I understand the Minister's reply as referring to the important decisions with regulatory letters and government control that were made before Christmas as well as what is now expected to come in reports from the Swedish Armed Forces and other authorities at the beginning of March. I also asked some further questions to which I do not feel I have been answered. I repeat them, Madam President: Has the government in any way expressed in government dialogue that there is an opportunity to depart from the basic and war organisation decided by the Riksdag and the time frame for its implementation?
i-c126f70a37ba3541-374	It is important to follow up on these elements, because we have a common responsibility to ensure that this becomes a reality. There is an enormous increase in funding and an increase in capacity, and we must get the most out of every invested crown and also know that what Parliament decides becomes a reality, i.e. that the war organization develops in accordance with the parliamentary decision. Madam President, I would like It is about Upplands flyflottilj in Uppsala, Älvsborg's amphibious regiment in Gothenburg, K 4 in Arvidsjaur, Dalregementet in Falun, Västernorrland's regiment in Sollefteå and Bergslagen's artillery regiment in Kristinehamn. It is extremely important that this is implemented, and I want clear information from the Minister for Defence on these issues.
i-c126f70a37ba3541-376	Madam President, I would like The recently decided total defense bill contained a lot of good things that we Moderates also supported. What we did not support was, as I have mentioned before, the long-term financial framework. However, we shall not discuss it in this interpellation debate. But just as Daniel Bäckström pointed out, an important component to increase defence capacity and strengthen the people's attachment was these new regiments. I am, of course, personally pleased that I 21 in Sollefteå, in my constituency, is re-emergence. Even the old regiment where I myself worked, I 5 in Östersund, reappears, certainly as a corps but still. These were important and proper decisions, and I have the greatest respect for the fact that they are not entirely easy to implement, but that is actually necessary. Then it is a bit sad that this two months after the decision comes up uncertainty as to whether the Swedish Armed Forces will be able to deliver what the Riksdag has decided. I'm listening to what the Secretary of Defense says. He says that the government has given orders and that the letters of regulation are written. But then what? Does a minister's responsibility end in decisions and letters? We talked about it a little earlier. I think you have to have a commitment and burn for something too. I believe that the government and, in this case, the Minister for Defence must be sensitive and willing to act when things do not go as planned. Because things are far from always going as planned. I'm asking for action again. Is there a backup plan? I hope the Secretary of Defense will be able to share this with me. I feel a great deal of uncertainty about that. The Secretary of Defense naturally has far more contact with the armed forces than I do. Then I'd like the Secretary of Defense to share a little bit of what's being said and what's being talked about. I also read the article Daniel Bäckström talked about, where ÖB was interviewed. Of course it raises some questions. What should we prepare for? What's coming? On 1 March, I have understood that the Swedish Armed Forces will present the plan for the establishment of the new regiments. What does the Secretary of Defense know about that? Does he know anything? Or am I completely wrong when I now claim that it will contain a lot of limitations?
i-c126f70a37ba3541-383	Madam President, I would like The government has done exactly what you should do in a situation like this. We have given the directives to be given. We have not expressed any other views alongside or under the table or acted in any strange way. We have done exactly what Parliament has asked us to do. Now we have to come back with an account of how the defence decision is to be implemented. This will be returned on 21 March 2021. On this point, there is no reason for me to start speculating in any way. I assume that what we have decided is what is to be implemented. That's the deal. It is the government's directive, and that is the follow-up to the parliamentary decision. Then, in parliamentary debates and in a wide variety of contexts, I have said that if problems arise with times and deliveries of materials or if practical enforcement problems arise, we will of course have to look at them. We must do so when this happens, but it is not something that we are in any way sanctioning in advance. I believe that this type of problem exists in all major decisions. If one cannot accept the existence of that reality, it is difficult to deal with a situation. I am determined that the defense decision will be implemented. But I am also open to the fact that if anything happens and there are factual reasons, we have to deal with them. But we have in no way opened up on my part or on the part of the government anything other than what Parliament's decision provides for. We follow the order that is the usual. With regard to my commitment to these issues, I would like to say that you can rely entirely on me to do what I can all the time. I'll keep in touch with bandages. I'm trying to talk to people in the Armed Forces. I'm trying to inform myself and follow up. Engagement is not a problem in this context. However, it is easy to use this kind of claim in a political debate where one wants to get to what one perceives as an opponent. This defence decision is extremely important. I am very pleased with this decision on a 40% increase in defence expenditure, because that is necessary. It's necessary because the outside world looks like it does. This is just as necessary as the enhanced cooperation, which is also part of the defence decision. If we are all defending the defence decision, then we must try together to ensure that it is implemented. At least I have decent political experience after many years of all sorts of missions. A decision is not made just because the club has fallen into a decision - making assembly. A decision is only implemented when you are on the last line, for perhaps many years of execution. It is a job during the time when the decision is being implemented, and that is the job that we must now do together. But I have no ambition other than that this should be implemented according to what the Riksdag has decided. If there's a problem along the way – it probably does in some respect – we'll have to try to solve it while we're there, but I'm not speculating on such things in advance.
i-c126f70a37ba3541-393	Madam President, I would like Thank you for further answers to the important questions about our continuation! I agree with the Minister. It is the result that makes the difference when you reach all the way through decided processes and reach where you agreed. I appreciate our work that led to an agreement – a historically important agreement. I appreciate that we have a broad foundation in Parliament and that there is a long-term perspective that is beginning to take shape in terms of where we strive in defence policy, both military and civil. That is absolutely necessary, as the Minister for Defence says, in the light of the challenges we have and the security policy situation we are in. Therefore, the accuracy of Parliament's decisions is also extremely important. When we have negotiated these substantial sums for the defence decision, military and civil, it is a prerequisite for us to know that the money goes where it is intended, based on the description of how this money is to be used. I do not want us to end up in a situation where we are faced with a fait accompli, where there is information about so-called inevitability or cost increases in some areas that prevent the war organisation from being realised. The Center Party has an extremely clear starting point linked to the implementation of the Riksdag's decision, namely that the priority of ground forces and of expanded war organisation with increased growth over time throughout the country should be implemented. These are not only signals to defence-related activities, but also a question of credibility in a broader context. It is about being able to implement what we decide on on on the basis of the premises that were known, but it is also about us following up and ensuring that it goes in that direction. There we have a joint responsibility, but it is an extra and particularly heavy responsibility of the government, which is responsible for the implementation of the decision to different authorities. It's a composite picture. Different departments are involved. There are also many tasks that are now waiting for us to build our total defence stronger. Madam President, I would like One aspect of this is to find the cost-effective innovative solutions at local level, preferably in collaboration with municipalities, companies and property owners, so that the money is used as optimally as possible. But it's also about finding staff. It is a question of staffing and of enabling the development of infrastructure in many respects in the places in question. I know there are challenges to deal with, but there are also great opportunities in the important work that we are now in the middle of. Madam President, I would like Once again, I would like to repeat my question. I wonder whether the government and the Minister for Defence have the opportunity to say this even more clearly: if there is any cost, it will not affect the possibility of implementing the war organisation with regard to the re-establishments of regiments that have been decided. So it concerns the places I mentioned earlier in this debate.
i-c126f70a37ba3541-402	Madam President, I would like The Minister of Defence saw in front of him that it is together that we will manage the important defence decision that has previously been made in the Riksdag. I share the view of the Minister for Defence on this issue, but this is where I try a little bit to ask the Minister for Defence about the additional information. If you do something together, it is important that it is done on as equal terms as possible. I'm sorry to say this, but this article plus some other things has made you start thinking. Will it really be as the Riksdag has planned? The Secretary of Defense often says he doesn't want to speculate. I respect the fact that the Secretary of Defense does not want to speculate. I think it is a good thing that a minister does not speculate too much. However, I do not think it is unreasonable that on 1 March there will be a number of obstacles. What I want to ask the Minister for Defence is whether he can give an example of a fall, if I put it that way. I don't want to tell you to speculate. You have to be prepared for different things. It would be safe to know that the Minister of Defence and the Government have planned for different falls in view of what is coming on 1 March. The Moderates want to be involved in carrying this defense decision, but if you are to be able to do so together, you should, as I said, have the same information.
i-c126f70a37ba3541-406	Madam President, I would like It is not possible to get me involved in speculation discussions even if you call it a fallout. It is an impossible task Jörgen Berglund has undertaken to reformulate this. Information will be available on 1 March. Well, then you'll have to start with that information. I cannot s toe here and have some kind of general reasoning about what the Swedish Armed Forces as an authority possibly writes on 1 March. What they have received is a concrete and substantial letter of regulation based on what the Riksdag has decided. That's how the regular time is when you're working on this kind of question. I share Daniel's view that we need to get a proper investment in the army. It is about the brigade format, three brigades plus a reduced motorized brigade, about the divisional capability, that we have to get more regimental varieties and an increased number of conscripts and so on. These are issues that have been raised together in these discussions. It is clear that we in the government have a greater responsibility to ensure that things are done, because we have the relationship with the authorities. But then the way to work with the authorities must be respected. We give our regulatory letters and our directives. The authorities are responding to this. I think we agree that there may be challenges. I don't know how many times I've reported that we may have delivery problems. There may be infrastructure problems. There may be other things that come up in different ways. I am not going to anticipate those things, but if the challenges come, we will have to consider how we deal with them then. Then it's the way to work. We have a control station in 2023. That was part of the deal. It is well thought that we will then be able to agree on how things are going based on the plan or idea that we have agreed in the Riksdag in terms of both the economy and implementation. We have woven that kind of element into the follow-up of this. So there is institutionalised how cooperation should look in order for us to move forward in this. This is a major and extremely important decision. This concerns the local level and the establishment of an activity. I have visited several of these municipalities. I haven't been able to visit all the places yet, but it will. I know there's an interest in helping with land, premises and real estate. There are also ideas on how to make the resort attractive to staff. In other words, there is work going on at local level, and I think that this should be assessed. This is very positive, because we are seeing new jobs here. And for the places that receive this extra addition of activity, it is, what shall we say, a mark to show off to the surroundings: We have a regiment located here. It broadens the local business community. It broadens the local range. It should be in the public interest and in the regional interest to manage it in the best way. I and the government are going to do everything we can to ensure that this is done in the best possible way. On this point, there is no need to doubt. We will work according to the regulations and the statutes that exist. If there's a problem, we'll get to them when they're a reality. We'll see what happens on March 1st. It is an information that will of course go to everyone.
i-c126f70a37ba3541-416	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Defence, for the dialogue and the answers to this debate! It may be that we have reason to come back to these issues, because these are some of the main priorities of the Center Party in the agreement we have made together on the continued focus of defence, starting for the next five years but also for 2030, as we are also aiming for continued growth up to 2% in the share of GDP. Now we have 2021. The first month of the new defence-oriented decision has been implemented and a further number of months remain. Before the said control station, then we will follow up how it has gone in the first few years, we have also passed 2022. But in the clear parliamentary decision and in our agreement on the growth and development of the war organization, with the re-establishment of the regiment sometimes other Sollefteå and with an education detachement in Östersund, it says that it should be started and the regiment re-established no later than 2022. That's before the checkpoint falls. This is an example of many of the times set out in the defence-oriented decision. They must be complied with, and there must be pressure at work, because it takes time to do so. We know that. Then it is also important that it is full focus from the beginning. Thank you very much for the answers to this debate. We will have reason to follow the future. All good!
i-R88Bn46L6F3d1qznx6JvVq	Madam President, I would like In the direction that the government adopted on 17 December last year, it is clear that the Dalregemente I 13 in Falun will be re-established by 2022 and that Västernorrland Regiment I 21 in Sollefteå will be re-established in 2022 with training detachement at Jämtland Field Hunter Corps in Östersund. These are the clear guidelines that the government has taken on the basis of the total defence bill, and that is the whole direction. Daniel Bäckström said there might be a reason to come back. It does, and I think that there is reason to come back relatively soon also because the Swedish Armed Forces' response is already coming on 1 March. In just a few weeks' time, then, we are in such a position that the issue will be discussed again in some form. Thank you for the debate. I understand it all in the way that we all want what we have now decided to be implemented and that together we should try to ensure that it is implemented in different ways. Then I also hope that we do not turn a blind eye to the possibility that problems may arise. If so, we will deal with them when they arrive, and then we will see what methods to use in this context.
i-c126f70a37ba3541-422	Madam President, I would like Lars Beckman has asked me what I think about the sharp increase in people who are now receiving support instead of compensation from Försäkringskassan, if the government has given any commission to Försäkringskassan in the regulations 2021 to remedy the situation, what measures I intend to take to ensure that people who have daily activities receive activity compensation from Försäkringskassan and are not referred to supply support and what shortcomings I see in today's regulations. As mentioned in the interpellation, in previous interpellation debates I have made it clear that I am not satisfied with the current situation. Those who cannot work because of illness or disability should receive the necessary rehabilitation and financial security. On 26 March 2020, the Government appointed a study to review the regulatory framework for the right to sickness benefit and activity benefit. The aim is to ensure a high level of security in the event of long-term reduced work capacity, good predictability for the individual and stability of application over time. The regulatory requirement for an insured person to be granted the benefits shall be made more appropriate and, as far as possible, make use of the occupational capacity of the insured person. The assignment shall be presented by 30 July 2021. The government has given several commissions in terms of activity compensation. Recently, the Social Security Inspection presented its response to the Government's mission to analyse the variation in refusals and re-granting of activity compensation. The ISF review shows significant variations in insurance outcomes over time within the activity compensation in recent years. As regards Försäkringskassan, the Government has previously given a mandate to strengthen support for young people who are denied activity compensation. Young people who are refused an activity allowance must be given help and support to be able to work or study. The assignment shall be reported by 15 April 2021 at the latest. ISF also has an ongoing government commission to review Försäkringskassan's investigation obligation in matters relating to, among other things, activity compensation. The assignment shall be presented by 31 March 2021. In the regulation letter for 2021, Försäkringskassan and Arbetsförmedlingen are given a joint assignment on strengthened efforts for, among other things, young people with activity compensation. The authorities will also work to ensure that coordination associations prioritise funding actions for the target group. Corresponding assignments have also been provided in previous regulatory letters and are an important tool to ensure that young people with activity compensation receive the right support.
i-c126f70a37ba3541-427	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. The intervention is about disabled people who are forced into supply support. The interpretation is that the number of people who are forced to apply for support from social services despite having a disability and participating in daily activities has increased significantly. SVT has produced the figures with the help of the National Board of Health and Welfare. A legal representative for people with intellectual disabilities clearly says in SVT's part: ..................................................... Madam President, I would like So we're talking about people with disabilities. Both doctors and Arbetsförmedlingen have assessed that they cannot cope with ordinary work. The same conclusion has been made by the municipality's administrator. For these people to have a job, they often go to something called daily activity. So it is people who are likely to never get a job, regardless of whether it is subsidised or unsubsidised. Madam President, I would like Then what happened? A little over a year ago, I and the Government stood here having the same debate. The government was furious and upset. You can go back and read the Minutes and see what the Government said over a year ago. Here we are again, Madam President. We can take note of terrible figures that say that the number of people in this situation has increased considerably, even very strongly. Madam President, I would like Sweden's disabled have had a tough time since 2014. We've seen massive cuts in LSS. According to the government's own budget, thousands of people will continue to lose their personal assistance. We have seen frightening reports about how people who depend on car support have not been granted it – although improvements have been made recently. The people we are talking about now, Madam President, the most vulnerable individuals in society, end up in income support because the Social Insurance Agency kicks them out of the activity compensation. It is, of course, totally unacceptable for Sweden, a welfare society, to kick people out of the activity compensation – the people for whom the rest of us pay taxes, the people for whom we all have a job. What is the foundation of the Swedish social model is that we protect those who are weakest. I am a little surprised that the Government in its interpellation response mentions that it has given an assignment to Försäkringskassan and Arbetsförmedlingen to protect those who are kicked out of the activity compensation. It's about being able to get help for a job. That is a very laudable ambition, but many of the people we are talking about are not relevant to the labour market. That's why they're in daily business. That's why the doctor in Ljusdal goes out into Ljusdals-Posten and is completely despondent. Over a year ago, we stood here debating the same thing. Why hasn't anything happened, Prime Minister? Why has the situation worsened?
i-c126f70a37ba3541-434	Madam President, I would like Once again, I thank Lars Beckman for the question and for his commitment to the issues relating to our security systems for people who have lost their ability to work because of illness or disability. The strength of a society shall be measured on the basis of the protection of the most vulnerable. I agree. Against this background, it is an important part of the structure of the welfare state in the 40s, 50s and 60s that was about increasing the protection of people who lost their work capacity due to disability, illness or workplace accident. Sweden became a role model for the rest of the world. They went to Sweden to study Swedish health insurance, our social security systems and the financial insurance for people who have lost their working capacity. This was the case until 2008. In 2008, the changes, which were made in this Chamber, came with severe deteriorations in the rules on sickness and activity compensation. We went from being a front country to becoming one of the most restrictive countries in the Western world in terms of rules on sickness and activity compensation. I would remind the honourable Member that if you study the Swedish legislation on sickness and activity benefits, which has been in force since 2008, and compare it with the legislation of the rest of the Nordic countries, Europe and the other OECD, you will note that we have the most restrictive legislation. Since that legislation has been applied for a number of years since 2008 and has been confirmed by the practice of our courts, today we have a very restrictive application of the right to financial compensation in the event of a long-term loss of working capacity due to illness or disability. Much has happened since we stood here and debated, Lars Beckman. We have commissioned a special investigator to propose amendments to the legislation. These changes will land on the government table in a few months' time. In June we will have the proposals on changes to the sickness and activity benefits. A lot has happened on this page. Work's in progress. The bill will be on our table. We will act to change the legislation. What is sad, Madam President, is that not enough has happened on the other side. I already told Lars Beckman then: Please, take this message with you to the moderate party leadership and Ulf Kristersson! He has had the task that I have now, is well aware of these issues and should reasonably know the shortcomings of the legislation. Change the attitude of the Moderate Coalition Party towards social security systems and our social security policies! However, when the moderate budget was presented in this House, I was unfortunately able to note that the Moderates not only accepted the deterioration of the current regime, which has been in force for a number of years, but also proposed further deterioration, further limitations and further tightening of our security systems for the sick and for the disabled. Madam President, I would like Lars Beckman should probably bring the question, the dialogue and the interpellation to the moderate parliamentary group and have an internal discussion. For our part, we will act. We will have the proposals on our table. We will act to change the legislation so that the people who deserve the support and protection of society get it. It is not the political centre-left that intends to accept the situation. The questions that should be asked are: Will Lars Beckman argue for his case at the next moderate parliamentary group meeting? Will he argue that Ulf Kristersson should change his attitude and that Elisabeth Svantesson should not see social security as a source of finance for tax cuts, but as an insurance system designed to provide security for those people who need social support for their livelihoods? These are issues that should be addressed with the moderate leadership.
i-c126f70a37ba3541-441	Madam President, I would like I think it is clear to all who follow this debate that the Government spent four minutes talking about moderate politics. That's something I like to do too and often do. However, the Government withdraws all responsibility, even though he is part of a government that has all the power. It is the Government that has the power to write regulations to Försäkringskassan. Madam President, I would like That's what this government did in 2016, when the Minister of Finance said in an attentive interview in Dagens Eko: We have to save money on Sweden's disabled. Indeed, they also gave an assignment to Försäkringskassan to reduce the number of hours in LSS and the number of people who had LSS. This is probably the case here too. It is therefore no coincidence that the weakest in society, who need the support of society most, the individuals who are in daily activity, are kicked out of the activity compensation. I think the Government could have taken advantage of the power. He could have read in the Minutes what he himself said over a year ago. He could have written a regulatory letter to Försäkringskassan about breaking this trend. In fact, however, it is allowed to continue. We can look at what the Social Security Inspection has said, which has reviewed several of the Social Insurance Fund's decisions regarding the activity compensation. It has seen a wording that may indicate that the Swedish Social Insurance Agency interprets the law too hard. Then the investigator tells us why. Of course, the Government and others can take part in it. I assume the Government has done so. If the Government wants to leave the political rhetoric and the high tone, the Government has the full power to instruct its authority to change, to instruct its authority to act in an acceptable manner. I believe that there are very few in addition to the Government and the Government who believe that it is appropriate for people who go into daily activities to be kicked out of the activity compensation in order to end up in municipal support. It doesn't matter that the government has given a mission to help those who have lost the activity compensation to be able to receive support for their livelihoods. What is the human value in it? What is the human value of a young man in Ljusdal becoming a breadwinner? He will never ever get a regular job. At least that's what the county says, doctors and everyone else. That in that situation if you are a minister and have the full opportunity to instruct your authority, the whole power to make proposals to the parliament, and do not do so but use a high tone instead, it becomes only false rhetoric. These may be people who took part in the debate over a year ago and listened to the Government. The government already said then: Yes, we will change the regulations. The same thing the Government says to SVT News East according to a newspaper article here: We want to change the regulations. Then the question remains: Why does the Minister not do anything? It's the minister who has the power. It is the Minister who can act. If he doesn't act, it's silent consent. If he does not instruct Försäkringskassan that it is really unacceptable for those who need the support of society most to be disappointed, it is entirely in line with Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson's 2016 statement that they would save money on Sweden's disabled. Just take part of Ekot's interview on Swedish Radio. There's Google. If the Minister has not heard, he can go in and listen to his own Minister of Finance. The problem is not that Magdalena Andersson said so. The problem is how the government has acted against Sweden's weakest. They are the ones for which we pay taxes, those who really need the security systems. Why is the government not acting, Madam President?
i-WZjZtz2EAtSvQxicVTShTE	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lars Beckman, for the post! This issue is so important and so fundamental to the Swedish welfare state that we can put aside all rhetoric. We can focus on the fundamental concrete question of: Should the regulatory framework for sickness and activity benefits be changed or not? As Minister responsible for these issues, I have come to the conclusion that the regulatory framework should be amended. We have an overly restrictive regulatory framework that affects individuals, the most vulnerable in our society. The government has set up an investigation. This inquiry also includes a parliamentary reference group, and the Moderate Coalition Party is part of that work. In June, as I indicated in the debate last time, Lars Beckman, this investigation will make proposals on changing the regulatory framework. Those in need of financial security due to a long-term loss of work capacity must receive the support they need within our health insurance system. Will the Moderate Coalition Party, Lars Beckman, abandon the policy of saving savings that we have seen in recent years in this House? Will there be regulatory changes to improve the protection of people with sickness and activity benefits? Will those proposals be voted in favour of in this House? If that is the case, we can really enjoy this debate and note that the left and right of Sweden can agree on the fact that the protection of those with long-term disabilities has deteriorated significantly over the last few decades and needs to be restored. Then we've solved that question. If it is the case that Lars Beckman takes the same debates that the honourable Member takes with me also internally in the Moderates, the issue is partly resolved. It should then be possible to take the necessary decisions in this committee once the proposals have been referred to and dealt with by the consultation bodies. Lars Beckman knows as an experienced Member of Parliament that the Government cannot dictate how the Swedish Social Insurance Agency governs the application of law. In accordance with the Swedish Constitution, our authorities are independent in matters of legal application. The way in which policy can change the application of law is changing the regulatory framework. Lars Beckman is also well aware that these rules are laid down in Swedish law by this House. This means that if one is now dissatisfied – which one should be with this legal application and the treatment of people with disabilities and illness – one should work to ensure that this House changes Swedish law so that we increase security. Let's put away the rhetoric, Lars Beckman. Is Lars Beckman prepared to inform Sweden's citizens here and now clearly that the Moderates are ready as a party to support legislative changes to strengthen the protection of those who should be entitled to sickness and activity benefit? Are the Moderates as Party bered to do so?
i-c126f70a37ba3541-461	Madam President, I would like Those who are familiar with these issues – RBU, FUB and representatives of these groups – know, of course, that the Government has now devoted another four minutes to empty air. They know that the government has the opportunity to write regulations to Försäkringskassan. That is what the government did in a regulatory letter when it told the Social Insurance Agency: Push people out of LSS, remove the personal assistants for those who need it. It is clear that it is not worthy of a welfare state that a woman died in the toilet in Malmö because she had received her assistance withdrawn. Since the last debate, when the Council of State had the same high tone and came up with the same rhetoric, the government that the Council of State is part of has made sure that it is 25 – 30% more than it was then that has lost its activity compensation. It is about the young disabled who are in daily business and who are the ones for whom we pay taxes. I believe that the Swedish people are proud that we have welfare systems and that we are helping the weakest in society. I think there is broad popular acceptance for that. That's why people get so pissed off and upset at the Ministry of Finance's statement in 2016 where she said we should save money on disability. I do not believe that popular support and acceptance exist. I would have appreciated if the Government had had a lower tone of rhetoric and greater humility. Instead, he should act so that young disabled people who are in daily activities do not have to go to the municipalities with their hat in their hands and claim support. It is precisely that group that should be in the sickness and activity benefit. It is precisely that group that should have the support of society. That's exactly why I've put this interpellation. I would like answers to what the Government and the Government intend to do to support young disabled people.
i-GUTQaj5RqWDMMwqbAXGPpo	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lars Beckman, for the interpellation! Although I did not get an answer to my question, I choose to interpret Lars Beckman's speech optimistically. I choose to interpret the speech in such a way that there appear to be people sitting in this House who belong to parties other than the parties that are part of the current intergovernmental cooperation who are prepared to rethink and think right. If that is the case, then there should be opportunities for us to change the regulatory framework so that we give protection to the people who deserve it. The proposal will be on our table in June. Then we do not have to argue, use rhetorical grip and stand in interpellation debates. Then there is a concrete proposal for changes to the rules. At the end of the day, it will be determined by the political parties' attitude to the improvements of the rules. It's gonna cost money. That is the point of the social insurance policies that we fund together to protect the loss of income in the event of a loss of working capacity. If, then, the parties conclude that it is worth investing money in our social security policies, we will be able to have a discussion about improvements in social security in one or two years' time. Then we will be able to stand here and see that we saw a problem, did something about the problem and solved the issue. However, this rhetoric and this debate will not lead to any change unless there are also positions of political parties. Nevertheless, I choose to interpret this debate optimistically. I look forward to working together with the political parties that want to restore protection in Swedish social security. Let us now hope for improvements, because the proposals will be on our table in a few months' time.
i-c126f70a37ba3541-471	Madam President, I would like Lars Beckman has asked me several questions about roads in the countryside. Good accessibility throughout Sweden is necessary for it to be possible to live, live and work in all parts of the country and to get a Sweden that stays together. The Government decided in 2018 on a national plan for the transport infrastructure that involves an investment of over SEK 700 billion. The plan enables investments throughout the country and involves a record investment in road maintenance of a total of SEK 164 billion. The government has continued to invest in road maintenance. Following the Government's proposal in an extraordinary amending budget in May 2020, they provide additional funding for the maintenance of roads in rural areas of a total of SEK 300 million. Following the Government's proposal in the budget proposal for 2021, the allocation for road maintenance has been increased by SEK 500 million per year during the period 2021 – 2023, where the focus is on the fine-mesh road network in rural areas. The Government's efforts enable Trafikverket to implement urgent maintenance measures on the entire state road network. After many years of underinvestment, I can see that the government is now implementing initiatives that create the conditions for a high level of standard on the road network. These efforts contribute to good accessibility, a high level of road safety and also to increased employment.
i-c126f70a37ba3541-475	Madam President, I would like After the government rhetoric in the answer, I thought I'd come back to reality. I intend to stick to the real world in Gävleborg. Even bigger holes, pits and deep mud. Ground road for miles. In this case, I have taken up one of the county roads in Gävleborg, 546 in northern Ockelbo. The Social Democratic Chairman of the Municipal Council there calls the road quite unmanageable, and the residents call it a death trap. I understand if the Government does not take part of SVT Gävleborg, but the headline on their website today is Almost a quarter are considered to be very poor with a lot of cracks and track formation, according to the transport companies' analysis. What does the Finnish Transport Administration say? The Swedish Transport Administration says: We are aware that the roads in Gävleborg do not meet the set standard. Our priority is the high-speed road network. My interpellation is about everyday life for those living in rural areas with what Trafikverket calls low-traffic road. We're not in any old Eastern country. We are in Gävleborg, and in Gävleborg professional drivers say: We cannot drive safely. We're getting stuck on the gravel road. We're getting stuck in the mood. We are stuck, Madam President! This is totally unacceptable. The Finnish Transport Administration is very clear. They say the government has set aside too little money. They say we can't renovate the road network. They also say that the reason why they convert roads from asphalt roads to gravel roads and lower speeds is because they think it would be more road safety. However, I can assure you, Madam President, that the professional driver in Ockelbo who runs the timber transport – Gävleborg is a very good forest county – will have an unacceptable working environment. The Chairman of the Municipal Executive Board of Ockelbo, together with all the other politicians in Ockelbo, has called on the Swedish Transport Administration to pave the road, to ensure that there are accessible roads. Trafikverket then tells Arbetarbladet that they agree that the roads in Ockelbo are incorrectly dimensioned. They say that there is a need, but they also say that they do not get enough money for precisely low-traffic rural roads. I would like to hear what information the Minister for Infrastructure has for those living in Ockelbo, or for that matter in Gävleborg. This study notes that Gävleborg has the worst state roads in the country. The same people who live in Gävleborg can read about imaginative high-speed projects that will cost hundreds of billions. They are the same people who get stuck with the car after the gravel road and the same professional drivers who get caught with their timber load.
i-c126f70a37ba3541-484	Madam President, I would like I think it is important to point out that it was in 2012, under the Moderate-led Government, that the road was worn down and had not been maintained for a long time. That's the first thing. The second is that now, after years of underinvestment, we are addressing both the maintenance of roads and railways and the need for new investments. We had for a period a finance minister, Anders Borg, who made a point of not investing in infrastructure. When we took office, we added more than 100 billion to the national plan to make room for road maintenance and railway maintenance – or, in part, to start urgent new investments, because we have a lack of capacity, not least in the rail system. It is clear that there are still major shortcomings and major challenges. This is one of the reasons why, in addition to the 164 billion that we decided on in 2018, and which is in the current national plan, we are making an addition to each budget, most recently with 1 1⁄2 billion SEK, earmarked to invest in rural roads. The current path is interesting. This is a road used by the forest industry. Unlike the time when the Moderates ruled, we have now invested heavily in what is called BK4, bearing class 4, i.e. to increase the bearing capacity so that the forest industry's trucks of up to 74 tonnes can make their way. It has a clear economic policy profile, and that is important, not least in rural areas. I myself come from Kosta, a place in the middle of Småland with 800 inhabitants. There are no high-speed trains or other major infrastructure projects. There are many smaller roads, and there is the car you use. I know all the challenges well and now see how we actually make investments to sometimes maintain capacity and sometimes improve it. I also see how the counties have, as last time, received additional resources within the framework of the county plans precisely to improve quality. However, much remains to be done; there is no doubt about it. It is basically about how much money you are willing to invest. When the Moderates and Beckman's party comrades had the chance to rule last time, tax cuts were prioritised. It was not investments in improving road quality that were invested in. I think it is absolutely crucial that we realise that it is important to make the right efforts for road safety and for business to have good transport, and I think it is important that we invest both in big cities and in rural areas so that we feel that these are investments made throughout the country. This is also why it is now in the focus documents that the Swedish Transport Administration has developed and that regions, not least Lars Beckman's own home region, have had to submit comments on there are proposals for more resources for road maintenance and for Ostkustbanan, road safety efforts and other things. It is this House in Parliament that will eventually decide how much money is to be made available. One thing's clear. Under Social Democraticly led governments, we have provided resources and invested more in road and road safety and increased efforts in the field of professional transport. It is almost worth a debate of our own when we can see how many efforts we have made for commercial road users with clapping, client responsibility, demands on winter tyres and European efforts to ensure that wages are high and not competed out by Eastern European hauliers. These are important contributions to professional traffic, which Lars Beckman's party did not lift a finger for when you were in government.
i-c126f70a37ba3541-493	Madam President, I would like I believe that anyone who sees this debate will note that this government too devotes the bulk of its speech to talking about Moderate politics. That's good. I'm happy to talk about Moderate politics often and much. It is the voters who will evaluate this government. But now I thought I'd stick to reality. Gävleborg is in the last place in the kingdom regarding road quality. 25% of roads are very bad. Dalarna, Jämtland, Norrbotten and Gotland also end up in the bottom, as 20 percent of the state roads are considered very bad there. The Swedish Transport Agency says to SVT Gävleborg today: a priority will now be to focus more on the high-traffic road network in the county and then it is mainly national roads and European roads. We're going to replace the wear layer and not do any major and deeper action. In this way we will fix even more meters of road. ..................................................... The same article refers to the fact that the proportion of money allocated to road works is something that politicians decide in response to the editorial board's question as to why they do not invest in the low-traffic network. So this is the reality, Madam President. That's the reality. I wonder, then, why the stern stands here and says that he shares the view that the road network should be improved in Ockelbo and in the low-traffic areas where professional drivers drive their timber transport. It stands in sharp contrast to what the Swedish Transport Administration says today to SVT Gävleborg. These two versions are not compatible. Either the Government is wrong or the Finnish Transport Administration is wrong, but both versions cannot be true. I would like to know: What specific mandate has the Government given to the Swedish Transport Administration? We could hear the graphic description from the Government about how he thinks you should have navigable roads even in the countryside. But in reality in Gävleborg the Swedish Transport Administration will not cross two strands to fix the road network. And as long as Trafikverket does not do so, we will not get any better roads in Gävleborg. As long as Trafikverket does not, the professional driver will get stuck in the gravel with his timber transport. The commuter says: I commute to Bollnäs and believe that this road is a death trap. But this is just one example, Madam President. So 25 per cent of the roads in Gävleborg are bad. It affects people's ability to live in rural areas. It affects people's ability to run businesses. It affects the working environment of the employer responsible for forestry transport that professional drivers consider driving to be a life hazard. I saw a piece on SVT that was about a road in Jämtland which was also really, really bad. The ambition from Trafikverket is very clear. There is no intention at all, no mission and no money to fix the road network on the low-traffic network, but it will invest in changing the surface after the E4. The government knows, because he has read the Shadow Budget of the Moderates, that we spend considerably more money on road maintenance than the government does. Environmentalists have even stood in this Chamber and mocked me and other Moderates because we invest so much in mobility and navigable roads. We also lower petrol and diesel taxes in order to be able to afford work commutes.
i-JCkxXDDXkTSfanTrMfGdg2	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lars Beckman, for the commitment! It is difficult not to comment on the fact that, at a time when we have a climate crisis and not only Greta Thunberg but millions of people around the world are demonstrating for fear that climate change is destroying the conditions for human life, it is lowering the petrol tax. When we electrify the transport sector, mix biofuels, reduce emissions, reach the 2030 target with 70 percent reduction and net zero 2045, Lars Beckman and other moderators run out and say: Lower the petrol tax! I think it is a remarkable lack of climate responsibility. In this context, it is also recognised that the quality of roads is important. If Lars Beckman reads before in the bills that the government has put on Parliament's table and that have actually been voted through here in Parliament by a large majority, additional appropriations for not least road maintenance are earmarked for rural areas. The needs are great, and they are because for a long time it was a bourgeois government that did not invest in the roads. It's possible to do that in opposition – there's a lot that can be done in opposition – but when you had the chance, it didn't happen. At that time it was not invested in roads, railways or infrastructure to the extent that would have been necessary. That is why we have a maintenance debt and an investment debt and too little capacity in not least the rail system. We need to build more rail to relieve the road. The important infrastructure projects that need to be done and that Lars Beckman's party has voted against – even stopped sometimes, for example the Norrbotnia Line that would have been built now – would have had the effect that many important transports had gone by rail and thus reduced the load on the road network, perhaps the E4 in northern Sweden, road 40 or E6, what do I know? By earmarking and providing more resources than ever before to the Swedish Transport Administration for road maintenance, the prerequisites are that the road that Lars Beckman is talking about will also be able to get resources. The priority is made in dialogue with regional politicians when choosing to prioritise the most important strings within the framework of the collaboration that exists within the county. Finally, I will say something about the professional drivers. When it comes to really caring about professional traffic and professional drivers, I have to say that before 2014, Swedish hauliers and professional drivers were exposed to unfair competition without equals. The neoliberal solutions were that there should be as cheap transport as possible across Europe. Sweden got haulage operations from many countries where they had pressured wages without collective agreements and poor working conditions that meant that the drivers slept in the cabin or lived in parking spaces. At the same time, the competitive conditions for Swedish haulage companies were weakened. We've taken care of it. We have clamping and can lock the wheels if you do not follow the driving and rest time rules. We have customer responsibility, increased inspections of cabotage traffic and winter tyre requirements. We have negotiated at European level that there should be secondment from day one so that the drivers who drive should have fair conditions and fair pay from day one. We systematically address the challenges that the Moderates neglected to see: the need for better quality on our roads, the need for good conditions for professional traffic and a clear economic policy profile, not least for the forest industry through an investment in, among other things, BK4 roads so that climate-smart 74-ton trucks can drive the forest raw material even in Gävleborg.
i-c126f70a37ba3541-511	Madam President, I would like The Government's and the Government's climate commitment means decommissioning well-functioning nuclear power, and now that it is cold, electricity is imported from Germany and Poland, where electricity is produced in coal-fired power plants. That was the case with climate commitment. Madam President, I would like The government talked for four minutes about everything and nothing, except what the interpellation is about. However, I believe that those who take part in this debate see and hear that there is no answer from the Minister for Infrastructure. The local politicians of Ockelbo will not be listened to. There will be no solution for the road that is so bad that cars can get stuck if they do not have enough speed and because of mud risk cord if they drive too fast. The Swedish Transport Agency is very clear: we have no money for the low-traffic network and will give priority to the high-speed network. That is the reality beyond the rhetoric of the State Council. I think it's troubling. It is troubling for those who are going to work commute and try to get to Bollnäs, with life as an effort. It is a matter of concern that the operator who operates the important forest transport cannot affect the working environment and ensure that there are navigable roads. We are not an old Eastern country anywhere on the outskirts of Europe. We're Sweden! In 2021, in February, we are discussing roads that are so incorruptible that motorists regard them as death traps, Madam President. And the government is standing here ralliing over reduced diesel tax. Perhaps it is the reduced diesel tax that allows work commuters to live in rural areas and get to and from work. There is no subway in Hälsingland. There is no public transport in Hälsingland. People depend on the car. Now I'm giving the government one more chance. Will there be a solution for the low-traffic roads?
i-c126f70a37ba3541-516	Madam President, I would like Despite the fact that the matter has been the subject of debate and decision in Parliament, let me reiterate what has been said, for example in connection with the latest budget proposal: the extension of road maintenance with a focus on the fine-meshed road network in the countryside by SEK 500 million annually, i.e. a total of SEK 1.5 billion. We're shooting at resources. The Finnish Transport Agency has never had as much resources as now to invest in the roads. But more will be needed. And it will be necessary because Sweden had for a long time a government that instead invested in tax cuts. They chose to ignore not least the countryside. There was an infrastructure planning in which most of the efforts were made in the big cities, not in the rural areas. Now we have a government that says that the whole of Sweden should stick together. We are investing in rural and urban areas. We are expanding and providing conditions for climate change throughout the country. Then the Moderates go on and say: Lowered petrol tax! More nuclear power! A moderate colleague of Lars Beckman also said: This is a climate blur that Greta Thunberg has gone on. Seriously? This is said at a time when all the world's combined expertise sees what is going on, when everyone understands that one of the major challenges facing the climate crisis is to change the transport sector. When I meet representatives of Volvo, Scania and Swedish energy companies, they say: Good with electrification! Now let's make sure to invest in that transition. We leave the diesel world in our trucks. We are entering a new stage where we take responsibility for future generations. It also creates jobs in Sweden, and not just jobs. It creates hope and confidence in the future, that we can actually meet the climate challenges. In this situation, Lars Beckman, along with a number of party colleagues in the Moderates, says: It's a climate blur, and now we're lowering the petrol tax. I think it's tragic. But thank you for a good debate!
i-c126f70a37ba3541-523	Madam President, I would like Jens Holm and Maria Stockhaus have asked me several questions about a faster rail link between Stockholm and Oslo. I choose to respond to both interpellations in one context. The Swedish and Norwegian Governments agree that the development of cross-border transport infrastructure will take place in dialogue between the departments of the two countries. This is clear from the Government's decision on the national plan for the period 2018 – 2029. There is good cooperation between our countries, and we are in constant contact. The Government's decision on the current national plan included a commission to Trafikverket to continue to investigate the bow between Stockholm and Oslo. The aim is that the straw should be so well-examined that it can be considered in the next planning round and plan revision. The government has begun work on developing a new national plan. The intention is to present an infrastructure bill to the Riksdag in spring 2021. Following the parliamentary decision on the financial framework, work on the so-called action plan continues. It identifies the actions to be prioritised in the national plan. Decisions on a new national plan are planned for 2022.
i-c126f70a37ba3541-527	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Minister for Infrastructure for the answer to my and Maria Stockhaus' interpellations. However, I think it was a rather scarce answer given the importance of the question. Stockholm and Oslo may not really be a region, but 3.5 million people live in this area. We have a large labour commuting between both Stockholm and Oslo and the locations between the two Nordic capitals. People travel a lot, across the borders of municipalities, regions and countries. There is great integration, great cooperation between people, great trade, sports exchanges and other things. But communications between the two Nordic capitals are unfortunately anything but good, especially if you want to travel fast, comfortable and climate smart. Today, approximately 11⁄2 million people travel annually by air between Stockholm and Oslo. The number of people taking the train between Stockholm and Oslo is only 200 000. If we compare with Stockholm – Gothenburg we can see that more than 60 percent take the train to Gothenburg from Stockholm and vice versa. The distance between Stockholm and Gothenburg is about as long as between Stockholm and Oslo, about 500 km. However, those travelling by train between Stockholm and Oslo are only about 10 percent compared to those taking the flight. Why? Well, we simply have incredibly bad rail connections between Stockholm and Oslo. Madam President, I would like The publicly owned company Oslo– Sthlm 2.55 has investigated the possibility of building a partly new railway for faster, more comfortable and climate-smarter train connections between Stockholm and Oslo. They have concluded that, for example, so-called user charges – the same way that financed the construction of the Öresund Bridge, i.e. a charge for those travelling over the bridge – could be financed in order to quickly expand the railway between Stockholm and Oslo so that it can travel in fact for three hours. All international studies show that if the journey between two endpoints lasts less than three hours, people in most cases choose to take the train instead of the flight. It is therefore important to be able to travel quickly between our Nordic capitals. Fortunately, the Norwegian Government announced a few weeks ago that they want to investigate a faster rail link between Stockholm and Oslo. They want, as I understand it, a joint investigation with Sweden. You talk about how you want close contact between the Norwegian Government and the Swedish Government. Madam President, I would like This is not really a new question. The Swedish Transport Agency, as the Minister was at work, has worked on improved rail connections between Stockholm and Oslo. For example, a so-called action choice study has been developed. It was completed in 2017. But when I've dug the papers and tried to find what else you've done after the action selection study, I haven't seen much, almost nothing. Nor do I see that the Minister has taken any active decisions to speed up the improvement of rail links between Stockholm and Oslo. I would like to ask the Minister whether he has actively made contact with his Norwegian counterpart in Norway, namely Minister of Infrastructure Knut Arild Hareide. Are there any new initiatives to speed up the process?
i-c126f70a37ba3541-535	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Infrastructure, for your answer. According to the figure I have, 3.4 million people live in the region between Oslo and Stockholm, if you count it as a region. But the hundreds of thousands that separate may not be so important in this context. The interesting thing, however, is that the number of people is increasing. Under normal circumstances, when we are not in the midst of a pandemic, 1.4 million people are taking flight. Before the pandemic there were 22 departures in each direction. Many went back and forth across the day between our capitals. When X2000 had shorter travel time to Gothenburg to the extent that an improved train connection to Oslo would get, there was a large transfer from flight to train. About 70 percent moved over. There is no reason to believe that this would not happen if the journey time was almost halved between Stockholm and Oslo. It would also mean 53 500 tonnes less emissions from aviation. Jens Holm mentioned the measure selection study that Trafikverket produced in 2017. In it there were some points for how they looked at the current situation for trips between Oslo and Stockholm:
i-GVerueSWDiJ59pbx1JETzu	中 time-consuming changes in several relationships within the bow. This is hardly a success story, and it is nothing that promotes increased train travel between Stockholm and Oslo. In its choice study, the Finnish Transport Agency proposed to proceed with a letter of intent with Norway. The study came in 2017. One might wonder what the government has done since then. Now the Norwegian Government has announced that there is interest from Norway to move forward. There is also political agreement that it should be done together with Sweden. Like Jens Holm, I wonder what the government is doing now. Madam President, I would like I have written a lot of interpellations and got both better and worse answers, but I have to say that this was probably the most insidious answer I have ever received. In my interpellation, I ask questions about the possibility of alternative funding. That is something that is not mentioned at all in the answer, not in one word. I think it borders on insolence that the department and the minister give such an answer. Madam President, I would like The list of desirable projects is long. Although we do not know how much the government will invest in infrastructure in the coming years, we can surely say that the whole list will not be beta off in the coming plans. To be really honest, I don't think we'll be able to match with enough government money to be able to implement all the projects on the wish list. For this reason, it would be reasonable to show interest in other types of funding than the traditional one through state-owned annual grants, which, moreover, clearly stated by the Director-General of the Finnish Transport Administration, does not lead to the efficient development of large projects. Like the Minister for Infrastructure, I spend a lot of time listening to representatives in the country. Many say: Build finished! They're frustrated that it's taking so long. Oslo – Stockholm could be a pilot project for a different approach. The Swedish Transport Administration's action selection study aims at completion in 2040, and we have already lost almost four years because nothing has been done. One might wonder when the government will act.
i-c126f70a37ba3541-554	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Infrastructure, for the answer to two very urgent interpellations by Holm and Stockhaus about the infrastructure between Stockholm and Oslo on primarily rail! It has been a dark year, Madam President, for Nordic cooperation in general and for Swedish-Norwegian cooperation in particular. We now have a closed border between our two countries. It is the first time since World War II that we have suffered such a thing. On both sides of the border there are now armed personnel to ensure that we do not cross the border. Between Sweden and Norway there is also Europe's longest common border – 1,600 km. The message that came from the Norwegian Government a few weeks ago that we want to investigate a better railway link between Stockholm and Oslo is a bit of a light in the dark in an otherwise rather gloomy Nordic landscape. What I understood was that Norway's Minister for Infrastructure Knut Arild Hareide would seek contact with the Swedish Minister for Infrastructure to probe the government's interest in the matter. I assume that the Norwegian Government will receive a strong, clear and positive response from the Swedish Government to a genuine interest in the matter. Madam President, I would like We really need a much better infrastructure and, above all, a better rail link between Stockholm and Oslo. As you know, it takes five hours from Stockholm to Oslo by train but only three to Gothenburg, although it is, as Jens Holm said, almost as far between Stockholm and Gothenburg as it is between Stockholm and Oslo. There is a string of 3.4 million inhabitants and 56 municipalities. The stretch between Stockholm and Oslo is thus the Nordic region's most populous string. There is therefore a strong population base for better rail communication. I would add that Norway is Sweden's most important trading country. We trade twice as much with Norway as we do with China, for example. Promoting a strong infrastructure between Sweden and Norway in all its parts should therefore be of strong interest to Sweden. At the same time, real hot doesn't look like that. I have had the privilege of meeting the Minister for Infrastructure in interpellation debates before, and there are a lot of shortcomings. Before the pandemic we had 22 flight departures in each direction between the capitals while we had a direct train that went between Stockholm and Oslo. It is of course a failure if you want to promote climate-smart travel that there is only one direct train while there are 22 flights. One reason for this is that there has been a reconstruction between Lillestrøm and Kongsvinger. The Norwegians chose to put it in the daytime. It is good that they invest in their infrastructure and rail, but the problem is when they do it in the daytime. This puts a dead hand on passenger train traffic. Unfortunately, I take it as another failure for the government dialogue between Sweden and Norway. That is something we simply have to do something about. The government now has a golden opportunity to do something about this development. If you reduce the train time between Stockholm and Oslo to under three hours, it is believed that you could move down to 1 million passengers each year who would choose to take the train instead of the flight. It is important, however, that the Minister for Infrastructure and the other government now welcome Norway's initiative and their extended hand so that we get the dialogue on a new and better rail route started.
i-c126f70a37ba3541-562	Madam President, I would like Thank you, all interpellants and Pål Jonson, for participating! I very much welcome Knut Arild Hareides's reply. We have a very good dialogue and have spoken on several occasions, not least now during the pandemic and since he took office. I would like to take this opportunity to say that there has been increasing cooperation since Knut Arild Hareide took office as Minister of Infrastructure. It is important to see the signals from Norway about improved border transport. It is not only about Oslo – Stockholm but also about Meråkerbanan and Mittbanan. Not long ago, I opened the bridge over Great Hell that goes about Storlien. However, it feels like a long time ago because it happened before the pandemic. There, the central track from the Swedish side has been electrified all the way to the Norwegian border. But so far we have not seen any electrification up to Trondheim. There are great needs. Not to mention Lofotenbanan and Malmbanan! How important they are! I share Pål Jonson's view. It was wisely formulated. In these times, when we even have guards at the border, it is even more important to give clear signals of continued and good cooperation linking the countries. The same reasoning applies, of course, to our other Nordic neighbours. The new investigation into a fixed link between Helsingborg and Helsing ø r is an example of how we want to seal and improve communications between our countries. With regard to this mission, however, I would like to correct both Jens Holm and Maria Stockhaus. Right should be right. It is true that an assignment was made in 2017, but we commissioned the Swedish Transport Administration in 2018 to do a deficiency analysis. That's how it works. It comes in connection with the revision of the national plan. An investigation is currently under way on the Oslo – Stockholm route. That is also one of the reasons why I could not only welcome the Norwegian Government's announcement but also say that we from the Swedish side have had such a process going on for several years. We have looked at the conditions, and not least the consortium has done so. This is important because there is a train boom in Sweden. We're on more trains than ever. It's smart for the climate and for the capacity. We need to ease the pressure on the roads, reduce flying on these routes and go more climate-smart. We will soon be hitting the capacity ceiling, which is why it is important to make rail investments throughout the country. When it comes to the handling of Parliament, we should remember that recent motions have been rejected. It is because most people know – as do Jens Holm and Maria Stockhaus, who have rejected motions on the Oslo – Stockholm route – that there is a system in which these issues are examined in connection with national plan 2022. What we are now discussing is the framework for what infrastructure investments we are going to make. It will be crucial. The experience we have, to return the question to the Moderates, is that once a large infrastructure project was lifted out. It was Norrbotniabanan. It was an equally important initiative, perhaps even more important than the Oslo – Stockholm route. There the Moderates chose to pick out that track because they did not want to spend so much money on infrastructure. What if you hadn't? Then that track would have been built by now. It happened in 2006, and it had been completed now just in time for Northland's investments in Skellefteå or for that matter all billion-dollar investments made in northern Sweden. How important would it have been to have Norrbotniabanan in place? Investing in infrastructure requires both readiness to allocate resources and ability to implement the investments and to make tough priorities. We are now faced with a situation where requests come from all over the country. It will be the tough task of both me and all parliamentary parties to prioritise.
i-c126f70a37ba3541-572	Madam President, I would like I have also understood that the Swedish Transport Administration will present a number of reports on the subject during the spring, and that is good. I welcome the fact that it is the Minister's intention to include the Stockholm – Oslo section in national infrastructure planning. But just because a distance is included in the planning does not mean that it naturally takes place. One important part of this is funding. I know of many projects in national infrastructure planning, but they have no funding. And if they have no funding, we know that it is impossible to build. In view of the assignments made to Trafikverket and the work that the Minister thinks is going on, I wonder whether there is a concrete task for Trafikverket to also look at the funding, i.e. how much it costs to build the track and in what way it should be financed. I would also like to know more about the cooperation itself. That was one of my questions. I still do not think that I have received a concrete answer from the Minister to my question whether the ministers have had direct contact with each other on the Stockholm – Oslo route. That was my specific question, and the Minister replied that he welcomed the fact that his counterpart Knut Arild Hareide has opened up a new investigation in Norway. But are ministers actively talking to each other about speeding up the construction of a partly new railway line on the Stockholm – Oslo route? Due to the nature of the cooperation, I have understood that there is now a collaboration forum for Oslo – Stockholm. It was something you talked about when you did the action selection study. The collaboration forum meets most occasionally; it is not an operational group. M a man has also talked about setting up a steering group between the responsible authorities in Sweden and Norway to work more operationally on the issue, to develop joint forecasts and joint investigations so that the work is synchronised to get to a new railway connection Stockholm – Oslo. Madam President, I would like I would like to know from the Minister for Infrastructure whether there is such a joint steering group at government level between Sweden and Norway. I would also like to know whether there is nothing more that the Minister can do to speed up the process. What exactly is the timetable? What makes a difference in reality is of course when we can travel between our Nordic capitals quickly, climate smart and comfortable, hopefully for 3 hours. Then I think that there is quite a lot more that the Minister has to do to ensure that there really is a workshop within a reasonable time.
i-c126f70a37ba3541-578	Madam President, I would like I must admit that I am completely fascinated by the Minister's actions in the debate. My interpellation is mainly about opening up for alternative funding, where the Oslo – Stockholm route could be a pilot project. Nevertheless, the answer to the question of alternative funding did not reveal anything, and the Minister has not mentioned it at all in any of his speeches. It's actually remarkable. If I do not get any answers, I will have to come back with a new, clearer interpellation to the Minister. We need to find other ways to finance projects. Jens Holm clearly highlighted how many projects are already underfunded. Trafikverket says in its focus paper to the new plan that some projects are unlikely to fit, and this also applies to some named projects in the existing plan. In the information submitted by Trafikverket, you can read that Trafikverket has not analysed other forms of alternative funding in its work with the planning of the specialisation, since it has not been assessed as part of the assignment. Then you wonder what was not part of the mission. Although it is difficult to finance named projects – it will probably not fit any new named projects – one might wonder what happens with the Oslo – Stockholm route. Then 2040 feels unreasonably close in time to even hoping that there is a railway in place where it takes 2 hours and 55 minutes to Oslo. Why was the Swedish Transport Administration not able to drill on this issue and look at alternative funding? There are so many projects that are not currently funded and that risk not getting started on time or getting rid of at all because there is simply a lack of money. In the Oslo case – Stockholm, the company itself has drilled a lot on the issue of financing, and there is every reason to look further at the issue. Ban fees charged on the ticket price are an alternative that, according to the company's calculations, would not result in the ticket price not being competitive. Concession is another solution. In France, 34 km of high-speed rail is being built in less than six years. The company that builds and will then operate has a concession on the revenue for 40 years. There is an incentive to build clearly, which means that it takes six years to build 34 km of railway. With parts of the Oslo-Stockholm section being part of the TEN-T network, EU funding can be applied for. It's something I'm currently drilling into. It has been shown that Sweden is the worst in the class to apply for EU funding for infrastructure projects, and this can also be considered in view of the size of the needs. The possibilities for alternative funding are several for the Oslo– Stockholm section, and the route could be a pilot project to see if it is possible to get faster up and running in a project and to build infrastructure without all the money having to come out of the state purse. Given that there is a great need for maintenance of existing infrastructure and a great need for new infrastructure in order for us to cope with increased passenger traffic, and also an increase in freight traffic, we need to be creative and find new solutions both in terms of reducing costs and getting faster drive forward and in terms of getting new roads to finance.
i-c126f70a37ba3541-589	Madam President, I would like As Tomas Eneroth says, two choice studies have been carried out for the Striket Stockholm – Oslo. Both of these ÅVS are crystal clear about a problem, and that is the problem on Värmlandsbanan. Värmlandsbanan is the big bottleneck on the bow Stockholm – Oslo. One reason for this is, of course, that we have had a complete explosion in freight transport on Värmlandsbanan, which is unfortunately in very bad condition in some respects. In order to get to grips with the string Stockholm – Oslo, therefore, one must also overcome the major structural problems that exist on Värmlandsbanan. The very point of the 2.55 project, Madam President, is that it is not about high-speed trains and completely new main rail lines, but actually about the extension of existing railways, with double tracks as a solution – for example between Karlstad and Arvika, as the 2.55 project proposes. This would benefit not only passenger traffic but also freight traffic, which is central. I also believe that the 2.55 project is one of the infrastructure projects that could most benefit the enlargement of the labour market. You could get a commuting distance between Arvika and Oslo in 40 minutes or connect Örebro and Karlstad in 30 minutes. Today, we have to add an hour in both directions to point out the actual commuting distances. So it's not just about moving people down from flight to rail – Jens Holm highlighted it – but also about moving people from road to rail, which makes this a very attractive project. I believe that it could have an effect similar to that of the Öresund Bridge when it comes to connecting Sweden and Denmark. I choose to interpret the Minister for Infrastructure's response today as a positive response to the Norwegian request to actually involve Sweden and Norway in a joint investigation on this.
i-T3WNFzfJThLszHdQEX2qMU	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the wise views, Pål Jonson, and thank you to the interpellants! I think the dilemma we have in Sweden after years of underinvestment – a moderate finance minister said that it is unprofitable and unnecessary to invest in rail – is that the needs are very large. We made a significant investment in the national plan that was decided in 2018; it contained 700 billion in investments. It was the biggest railway venture ever. We started Gothenburg– Borås, and Lun d– Hässleholm came into the plan. There is Norrbotniabanan, which the Moderates previously lifted out and which is so incredibly important for growth throughout Sweden, not to mention new main tracks with investments in railway in Linköping, Norrköping, Hässleholm and Borås. This is happening along the whole of Sweden, where municipalities and regions have been involved during the work of the Swedish negotiation – which the Moderates also started but now back from. In my own home region, the South East link is probably so important. It goes from Älmhult and Olofström down to Karlshamn to relieve the southern main railway. In this way, with those signals and with those investment decisions, we will greatly strengthen rail capacity when this is completed. To a greater extent, we are meeting the needs of more passenger transport and more freight transport by rail. We must do this for climate reasons, in order to meet the climate targets. We need to shift transport from road to rail and shipping. But we also have to do this because we are now more than 10 million inhabitants of Sweden. We have an industry that produces even more, and there will be more transport. Then we must also ensure that they are sustainable. Regional transport and enlargement need to continue to develop. These arguments work very well whether we are talking about the 2.55 project for the Oslo – Stockholm section or whether we are talking about Norrbotniabanan, the main track, the Södra Stammerbanan or other urgent initiatives. It is the case that too little has been invested in rail in Sweden, and of course it is needed. This may mean that some people want to resort to what are sometimes called alternative methods of financing and have sometimes ended in horror. We may not need to withdraw Karolinska, the financing model and the cost of what I think is the world's most expensive hospital in the moderate experiment with the Boston Consulting Group. But we can look at Arlandabanan and for the – and disadvantages of writing very long contracts that create a price picture that is not always the most attractive. Above all, it is still – and perhaps the debaters should talk to their economic policy spokespersons about – that OPS does not create any extra space in public finances. It is not less money, it is actually public investment. The only time you can exclude it from public investment is if it is entirely profitable projects that have no burden on public finances; that is how the EU acquis now stands. The regulatory framework came into existence after a regime in which Spain and some other European countries chose for a long time to finance loans and private financing very large infrastructure projects. They were then not profitable, and the one paying was – as usual – the state. It is then recognised that it involves public risk even if it is purely private investment, if it is not the case that you have ticket revenues or funding from revenues from the operation that significantly exceed the current revenues for rail projects, for example, because it is expensive to invest in rail. So I think you have to be honest and say – if the debaters here do not do so themselves, at least their economic policy spokespersons will do so – that you cannot dream of alternative ways of financing and believe that they reduce the burden on the state financial framework. They don't. Let us make sure that we can build more rail, with resources we allocate from taxpayers' money, to meet the climate requirements and hold Sweden together!
i-c126f70a37ba3541-602	Madam President, I would like I interpret the Minister's silence on my questions as not having a steering group at government level working more actively with forecasts and investigations to push forward the project for the Osl o– Stockholm section. I'm sorry about that. I also note that the Minister does not answer my question if he is actively in contact with his Norwegian counterpart. I'm sorry about that. If we are to bring about this very interesting and hopeful project, much more work is needed on the part of the Minister. The Minister must act much more clearly than he has done so far. Madam President, I would like As far as funding is concerned, I talked about the Öresund bridge parallel and how it was built. They had a separate consortium and a separate company, and they borrowed money. This was invested in and built as a unified project, and the bridge was built relatively quickly. And yes, the project is funded with user fees. It is financed by people paying to cross the bridge by car or train. We think this is an interesting model, because it has worked. It works when the travel document is large, and here we have a large travel document. We can talk about one and a half million trips by train a year if we build this track, because it will be such a fast, efficient and climate-smart way to travel. It's not about Arlandabanan or Nya Karolinska. I want to be very clear about that. It is also the Minister and the Government who has extended the agreement for Arlandabanan by ten years, so that we have a private monopoly there. You could ask yourself why they've done it. Madam President, I would like From left to right, we appeal to the Minister and the Government: Speed up work on the Oslo – Stockholm route so that we, our children and our grandchildren can travel comfortably, quickly and climate-smartly between our Nordic capitals!
i-c126f70a37ba3541-607	Madam President, I would like I can assure the Minister for Infrastructure that I have spoken to our economic-political spokesperson. There are ways in which investments with alternative funding do not burden the fiscal framework. The Öresund Bridge is one such example, which is very successful and which was also completed in time and paid by faster than expected. I agree that there was no good agreement with Arlandabanan, so I ask the same question as Jens Holm : Why did the government choose to extend it by ten years? The example from France with concession that seems to have struck well is actually interesting to look at. Given that we have an immensely long list of desirable projects in terms of both road and rail and also in terms of ports, it can be noted that if you do not want to open up to looking at other financial solutions, which do not burden the state financial framework, there will be no Oslo – Stockholm 2.55. That's impossible. It won't even be ready by 2040. An important issue is also that there is now political agreement in Norway. The hand has been stretched out to Sweden and wants to take hold of this to start looking at both, of course, the physical conditions and this with alternative funding. How can solutions be found to bring about this path as quickly as possible? My question to the Minister for Infrastructure is therefore: Has the Minister for Infrastructure answered his Norwegian counterpart after this extended hand? Have there been any concrete contacts following this move by the Norwegian Government, where the Minister for Infrastructure has made contact with the Minister for Infrastructure in Norway to discuss Oslo – Stockholm 2.55?
i-c126f70a37ba3541-612	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Maria Stockhaus and Jens Holm, for the commitment! As I said in my first reply: we have several and regular contacts, and of course I have also talked to Knut Arild about Oslo 2.55, as well as other urgent infrastructure efforts between Norway and Sweden. We have several projects. We are countries that are intertwined throughout history, between peoples and in the labour market. We need better and closer links. I share Pål Jonson's initial description that it was and is unfortunate that we have now, during the pandemic, given boundaries that we did not think we would experience. Let's see the postcorona and prepare for better cross-border transport between the Nordic countries. I also think it is important to remember, not least for those who follow this debate, that when some representatives of a party now highlight an object, it is as important to have a discussion about the conditions for Norrbotniabanan, new main courses, Sydostlinken, Interconnection Södertörn, investments in Gothenburg or Luleå harbour or, for that matter, Norvik and investments in shipping, infrastructure or regional airports. The government's mission is to look after the interests of the whole country. Roads in rural areas have also recently been the subject of a heated debate. It is clear that in that priority it will be absolutely crucial what space there is overall. If any financing solutions are found that do not burden the fiscal framework, according to Eurostat's current rules, then this should of course be looked at. So far, I have not seen anyone succeed in doing so. We take responsibility for the country's economy. We have made sure to sort out the mess that was created during the time we had a moderate finance department, which left behind a large public debt, a large budget deficit and high unemployment. We do not intend to go back to this, so we create order and also good conditions to invest in more rail – be so sure!
i-c126f70a37ba3541-618	Madam President, I would like Dennis Dioukarev has asked me how the government intends to ensure constitutionally protected freedom of expression on regulated social media platforms. Tobias Andersson has asked me whether I intend to take any steps to ensure that the power of online giants over social media is not in danger of influencing elections in 2022. As in my reply to Dennis Dioukarev's party colleagues Aron Emilsson and Mikael Strandman in an interpellation debate on 15 January, which dealt with the same issues, I would like to stress at the outset that freedom of expression has a long tradition and a strong position in Sweden. It is a prerequisite for a free public debate and freedom of opinion and is one of the cornerstones of democracy. The technological development of the last decade has meant that individuals have been given completely new opportunities to spread ideas and ideas, to take part in culture and information and to participate in the general debate. The major internet platforms, which own and provide services for uploading user-generated content, have developed into important intermediaries of information and communication. The development has also brought challenges, partly because of the business models that govern the dissemination of content and because a few platforms have gained such a dominant position. The issue of the position of the major internet platforms is therefore important, not only in Sweden but globally, for anyone who defends freedom of expression and democracy. In the network platforms are different and have a fundamental freedom to organise and set the conditions for the use of their services. The terms and conditions are something that the user accepts in order to use the service and are thus a civil, contractual issue between the individual and the platform. Given the central position of companies, for example, for the opportunity to express their views online, it is of course important that both the terms of use and the work on compliance are characterised by clarity and transparency. Within the EU, work is under way to examine the need for new or changed regulation to ensure that principles that are fundamental offline are also maintained online. An important part of the Commission's proposal for a regulation on a single market for digital services, DSA, is that the largest platform companies should meet higher demands for content, transparency and information to users and reporting to authorities than smaller operators. The package also includes a proposal for a regulation for competitive and fair markets in the digital sector, DMA, which proposes obligations for large platform companies with a gatekeeper function. As Minister of Culture and Democracy with responsibility for media issues, I follow the work in this area closely. These are difficult issues that need to be discussed intensively, both nationally and internationally. As Tobias Andersson points out, private companies as a rule do not have free room for manoeuvre, but all sectors are to some extent regulated. The negotiations that are about to begin at EU level relate to a regulatory framework that needs to be carefully balanced as it aims to regulate services that have become very important for the conditions for the free formation of opinion and democracy in Sweden. Important starting points for the government's work are to safeguard broad freedom of expression and to ensure that the legislation is proportionate and clearly defined in relation to the basic freedom of expression law and the content of adequate procedural safeguards.
i-c126f70a37ba3541-626	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer to this important question for Sweden and Parliament. Digitalisation has undeniably democratized our daily lives and helped citizens and journalists to better control the power of both modern democracies and totalitarian regimes. Free expression of one's opinion is at the heart of a democracy and a constitutionally protected right in Sweden. But this right has come to be questioned more and more by the media, politicians and the global tech gigants. The latter have created a monopoly-like position on social media platforms and thus have an enormous power to influence opinion formation as well as what opinions are allowed and not allowed. I think the Minister's reply says quite little about the government's attitude towards the wave of censorship that is currently sweeping over Western elected politicians. It is general, sweeping self-evidentness without real substance or an answer to how the government intends to ensure freedom of expression on social media platforms. Today, three out of four Swedes use Facebook, and there are over 2 billion users worldwide. It will therefore, of course, have consequences for free speech when the free world leader, the American President, has his accounts on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram suspended. An examination of those in power and a free or trap are normally tasks that journalism and free courts engage in, but here the tech gigants have taken liberties that are beyond the competence of a private company. It violates the rule of law and acts as a jury, judge and executioner at the same time. We see the same example all over the world. Only last week, Spain's third largest party got its account blocked by Twitter, two weeks before the election. What is it that says that this cannot happen in Sweden? Absolutely nothing – on the contrary, we see the same tendencies here. European parliamentarian Jessica Stegrud recently got her Facebook account suspended after she only responded to a rough attack. WebTV was deleted from Youtube for expressing views that do not conflict with national or European legislation. I don't share your opinion, but I'm willing to die for your right to express it. It's usually attributed to Voltaire. But in Sweden the government called Facebook to discuss complaints about the content before the election. In contrast, the UK, Australia and Poland are already developing laws to ensure freedom of expression on social media in various ways. The suspension of conservative politicians has been condemned by MEPs, EU Commissioners, German Chancellor Angela Merkel and French President Emmanuel Macron. Amanda Lind's response to my interpellation testifies to the fact that the Swedish Government has instead taken a defensive position, unlike its European counterparts. I don't hear any rejections, I don't hear any criticism and I don't hear any condemnations. The Minister for Democracy refers to business models. Suddenly, the socialist government sounds like a champion of the free market economy. But since when do we have to choose between freedom of expression and business, democracy and a market economy? We would never accept hate crimes or threats on social media, so why should we accept the violation of our constitutional rights?
i-c126f70a37ba3541-636	Madam President, I would like The oligopoly that a few global technology companies have today over the Internet has been extensively debated in the near future. The debate was initiated a long time earlier but escalated greatly in connection with the then president of the United States Donald Trump having his social media accounts taken down. Even before this happened, Swedish politicians, opinion-formers, media channels with several seemingly trivial censorships of Facebook, Google and Twitter were affected. A common denominator among many of the actors censored in Sweden seems to be that they belong to the opposition. On the other hand, those who actively defend censorship seem to have in common that they hold different political views from those of the censored. Against this background, it is not far-fetched to believe that the online giants are at least partly driven by political motives and that their attitude to action would have been different if it had affected their own political associates. This points to the problem: As long as one's own opinions, friends and party colleagues are not affected, it is easy to be led to appreciate censorship by others. However, it is a directly unsustainable attitude for a friend of democracy in general and freedom of expression in particular. Unfortunately, politicians around the world have been passive for far too long while the net giants have seized a stronger grip on the free word. Given our way of consuming news and information, it means in practice that a few companies control large parts of the information infrastructure. This means that in their power they have the opportunity to completely censor content, people and opinions, but also that through changes in their algorithms they can reward content, people and opinions over others – completely without anyone having any insight into the process. Anyone who does not see how such power can easily be misused in connection with elections, for example, is extremely naive. Unfortunately, however, the government seems to be extremely naive when government representatives like Anders Ygeman chose to support the censorship of the US President. Madam President, I would like I can understand somewhere that if you have felt a genuine hatred of the former President of the United States for a longer period of time, perhaps it instinctively felt good that he was censored by the online giants. The initial feeling, however, is dangerous to get stuck in. Instead, you have to see the bigger picture. The bigger picture is the fact that a few players today have full control over the freedom of opinion on the Internet. It is something that means that they have the opportunity to influence the conditions for all politicians and parties to communicate on equal terms over social media, not least during next year's election campaign. In my interpellation, I asked the question: does the Minister intend to take any steps to ensure that the power of online giants over social media is not in danger of affecting elections in 2022? I do not feel that Amanda Lind really responded to it, although she mentioned the ongoing work in the European Commission, which I do not think is enough to deal with the problem. Against this background, I would therefore like to repeat the question again. I look forward to the answer.
i-c126f70a37ba3541-644	Madam President, I would like I find that somewhat regrettable. I have stood in this House before and discussed this issue with party friends of Members of Parliament. I find it regrettable that we are now standing here again. You paint straw men. One has a black and white view of what issue it is that we should deal with. It avoids touching on the rather complex trade-offs that need to be made. Simplified reasoning is being put forward, and I very much regret that, because this is an important discussion that we need to take. As I said in my speech and as I said last time we discussed this issue, it is clear to all of us that there is a problem with a number of large online giants who have been given a dominant role in the transmission of free opinion. If there is no conflict. It is also clear that there are different types of problems that can arise from the online giants' business models. This is not a matter that the government has recently started working on. It is possible that the Swedish Democrats now think that this problem needs to be looked at further, but this is an issue and a discussion that has been going on for many years and a work that has also been going on at EU level. As in all other times when new technology is emerging, we also need, of course, to find a regulation that fits, that can balance free enterprise and protect and support free speech. We should not have over-regulation, but we must, of course, safeguard free speech. That is why the government has agreed that we are now putting forward two proposals on the table of the European Union that we are now going to discuss and land right in. I welcome that discussion. No one claims otherwise. I also think it is important that we use the concept of censorship correctly. The Swedish Democrats stress how important it is that we use the right word in debates. Censorship is about the state preventing anyone from expressing themselves. Censorship is clearly prohibited by the Swedish Constitution. It is an extremely important principle to protect, precisely because the Internet is free in Western democracies. Unlike in many totalitarian states, we can also see a variety of platforms emerging. I do not believe that we should be led to believe that the large, dominant platforms that exist today are those that will be large and dominant in ten years' time, but this is, of course, a rapidly changing time where it is clear that regulation is needed. What the government is pushing and advocating, apart from freedom of expression, is an important principle for us, and it sometimes upsets other countries in Europe that want to go further there. There we stand as a guarantor, and we shall continue to do so. I think it is reasonable that the largest platforms take greater responsibility than the smaller ones, and there are such proposals on the table now. That's good. I also think it is reasonable for the platforms to be transparent in their terms of use. It should of course be clear if a user is removed. There have been such problems. I agree with that, and it is not just a certain type of ideological colour that is affected by it. The discussions over the last ten years about which different types of posts are removed have been quite many. I think that's touched a lot of people in our society. It is reasonable that there should be greater transparency. There shall be an opportunity to appeal. That's also very good. I think that the Swedish Democrats are repeatedly simplifying the reasoning and calling it a free-thinking power. It's never been. The major global giants build their business model on spreading what is written in the most effective way possible. It has rewarded extremist views. It has been easy – too easy – to distribute illegal material. It is very important that we address these issues now, but let us do so in a decent discussion and weigh these complex things against each other.
i-c126f70a37ba3541-655	Madam President, I would like The reason why we are now standing here again, as the Minister for Democracy says, is that it is Swedish freedom of expression that we are talking about. These are not easy questions. At least I don't see it that way. The issue has been raised because the censorship of oppositionists in many Western democracies has been intensified recently. I also think it is an interesting discussion about how we view social media. The opinion has moved from traditional square meetings to social media platforms. Legislation must, of course, follow this trend. That is where the political discourse is conducted, and that is where much of the election campaigning takes place. I do not think that we should see Facebook or other social media platforms as publishers, because that means handing over the basic tasks of journalism to private companies on the other side of the Atlantic. It goes without saying that it is a non-democratic approach to give Mark Zuckerberg influence, as an iron hand, over Swedish democracy. Then there is an interesting discussion that is prompted by how we view private enterprise. These are, of course, private companies which are currently operating within the limits of freedom of trade. However, freedom of trade is already limited today. It is limited by environmental legislation, competition rules, consumer law and anti-discrimination legislation. All these are examples of restrictions on the free market economy and property rights. Social media do not appear in any kind of legal vacuum where democratic principles suddenly cease to apply. Therefore, it cannot be argued that freedom of expression must be sacrificed for the freedom of trade because it potentially poses a threat to business models. Our laws will be enforced everywhere. If we begin to compromise on this principle, we are facing a very dangerous development, because this is a sloping plan, beyond any reasonable doubt. Suppose we have a global oil company that buys 51 percent of the shares in Facebook and decides that criticism of climate change is a violation of their user policy. Would the Green Party still adopt an equally pragmatic approach to freedom of expression? Allow me to doubt that. Let go mentality and so long-it-not-fails-me tactics are of course effective until it hits you. For me this boils down to the following: We will receive answers in due time.
i-c126f70a37ba3541-664	Madam President, I would like Thank you once again for the Minister's reply. If I had been a minister, I might not have boasted in this context that the work in this area had been going on for years, given that there has so far been no regulation. I might not have spoken so loudly and boasted that you have worked so long but achieved so little. The Minister mentions EU proposals concerning the Digital Markets Act and the Digital Services Act. These questions lie on another minister. I am happy to discuss them more with him, because I see major shortcomings in the Swedish position and see good reasons to supplement it. But that debate will have to take another day. Instead, I would like to return to the fact that social media today is a cornerstone of the communication of political parties and enables a simple consumption of politics for the broad masses. At the same time, we know that we are only able to communicate on these platforms with the consent of the online giants, and there is currently nothing to prevent them from arbitrarily, or with elaborate precision, influencing the flow of information in connection with elections. There is nothing to prevent them from undermining our democracy by choosing who gets to speak and how well their message is being spread. Given this, there are strong reasons to review how we ensure that these private companies with control of today's primary information flows do not actively interact in future election movements. I am therefore concerned, Madam President, that there are no answers from the government to Amanda Lind's reply as to how this threat can be eliminated before the elections. I believe that neither I nor Amanda Lind believe that what is going on in Europe is already in place at that time. I believe that these concerns are justified. I also believe that I have good evidence of this. Twitter's CEO was recently revealed, shortly after the censorship of Donald Trump, by Project Veritas by saying: This is going to be much bower than just one account. It meant their shutdown of Donald Trumps's account. In other words, one of the leaders of the online giants chose, in an internal meeting with the company, to put the picture that they have much left to do when it comes to censoring opponents. As my colleague mentioned earlier, the large YouTube channel Swebbtv, which this year communicated oppositional views, has been repeatedly harassed by Youtube's owner Google. Webbtv has now also been removed from the platform, so also their years of video material. Spain's third largest party, Vox, has been blocked by Twitter in the midst of a burning election campaign. Furthermore, both I and my fellow party members have been affected in different ways. My Instagram account disappeared completely last autumn, the day after I had published an Islam-critical post. I had never been warned, nor was I informed of why the account was removed. It was just gone. My spontaneous reaction was that the account had been hacked, because in my wildest imagination I could not believe that Facebook would delete an Instagram account of a member of the Swedish Parliament without even sending this information at all. That, however, was exactly what happened. My social media are my primary contact points in relation to the voters. Had the closure of the account taken place during the election campaign, it would have severely limited my ability to reach out, and if it had affected more than me, it would probably have affected the election result. I assume that Amanda Lind is opposed to the blocking of me as well as other opponents of her opinion, but I would still like to hear the Prime Minister express it and continue to put into practice the measures that she intends to take.
i-c126f70a37ba3541-677	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by landing back in the value of the digitalisation that has taken place. After all, we have a natural starting point in this discussion, that is to say that democracy has made great achievements with the lowering of the thresholds for freedom of expression that digitalisation has meant. Throughout my time as Minister for Democracy, I have also talked about the challenges of digitalisation. And I note, in every debate and every debate article with Swedish democrats, that they avoid talking about those things. It can be about the enormous accessibility of social media and about the possibility of spreading pure hatred, pure threats and pure illegality. It may be about how social media giants have failed to remove such material quickly enough. Steps have been taken, but there is still much to be done. Yes, this is something that the Swedish government has engaged in. It is important to curb illegality online. One fifth of Sweden's population avoids putting things on social media for fear of being exposed. That's a problem. Journalists and artists are threatened and run the risk of being intimidated into silence when it comes to examining us in power. That's a problem. Madam President, I would like Social media giants have already influenced elections. Their business models are based on the strong and widespread spread of extreme opinions. Things that engage and arouse emotions are more visible in one's flow than anything else. What is it if not to direct the open debate? I want to think it's like this. These are business giants who have chosen these business models. The Swedish Democrats repeat that these actors are not publicists, but are free-minded. But that's not true. The truth is that these actors are somewhere in between and that we need to find new legislation and new methods. We need to find regulations that protect freedom of expression and speech, and that we avoid arbitrariness – for I believe none of us want – and promote transparency. There are, of course, also things in competition law, because these are major players who have a huge influence. The Swedish democrats stand here lying in the speaker's seat, or they do not listen to what I say. The fact that this is an issue that I do not problematise or that I ignore is not true. I have repeatedly pointed out that this is an important issue that we need to talk about. We need regulation. It is obvious that there are many kinds of problems associated with the global net giants, and this is something that the Swedish government takes very seriously. I and we believe that the right way is to find regulation at European level and to discuss it nationally and with our neighbours and to land in a regulation that can work. Then, as with other rapid technological developments, we will certainly need to reconsider it. It sometimes tends to run before the legislators. This is what we're gonna do. It will be a little difficult to take the indignation of the Swedish democrats over this seriously as the concept of censorship continues to be used carelessly. Madam President, I would like It is important that we address these problems, but let us discuss them calmly and calmly, avoid simplifications and take the issue of freedom of expression very seriously.
i-c126f70a37ba3541-690	Madam President, I would like The examples that we have listed here today are things that have actually happened. Then it is up to everyone to decide to what extent it is censorship or not. Political election campaigns are no longer held in traditional square meetings – they are conducted on social media platforms, and then legislation must keep up with this development. Of course, it is not an easy discussion. There are many different angles of attack, but we have noted an approaching problem that we want to raise here in the fortress of democracy in Sweden. I hear that the government has a commitment and that the Minister for Democracy is, of course, committed to this issue. But it seems that the responsibility for Swedish freedom of expression is passed on to politicians in other countries. You talk about DSA, you talk about the EU and you talk about the European Commission. There may of course be good elements in DSA, but ultimately the Swedish parliament is responsible for the Swedish freedom of expression. We cannot outsource Swedish democracy. It must be a principle on which all the ministers and Members of Parliament stand in this House. When it comes to terrorism and hate and threat crimes, there is, of course, legislation to deal with those things; that is not where the problem lies. Of course, obvious illegality should be reported and prosecuted. There's no talk about that. That's where we're in complete agreement. But there should be obvious illegality and not controversial views. That's two separate things.
i-c126f70a37ba3541-694	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank you once again for your answer. My focus in this whole interpellation debate has been on next year's elections. It is clear that we can have a broad discussion on freedom of expression online, and we can go into detail on the Digital Service's Act and so on. However, we can see in black and white what has now happened from the net giants and what is at risk of happening in Sweden during next year's election movement, and that is quite frightening. It is precisely on this point that I believe that the Minister for Culture and Democracy has not given a clear answer on how to solve the problem. None of what the Minister has said could in any way guarantee that the social media companies, these online giants, are not given the opportunity to influence next year's elections. It's a problem that I take very seriously. Let us take another example of what happened in the American elections. The New York Post posted quite close to the election an article that, with good reason, described Joe Biden's son Hunter Biden in a rather unflattering way. Twitter chose to limit the possibility of spreading the article, even though it could not confirm any factual errors. The New York Post, a respected newspaper, also got its Twitter account limited. Should this or the equivalent happen in the Swedish electoral movement, it would be extremely serious. That would be undermining democracy, and that is precisely why I am trying to ask these questions. I have respect for Amanda Lind as Minister, and if she had got her account on some social media platform censored or picked down, I would have been the first to condemn it. I myself asked Amanda Lind to condemn the fact that Facebook took down my Instagram account. However, she chose not to. To be honest, Madam President, I am somewhat concerned about this and I hope that Amanda Lind will be able to do just that in her last speech.
i-c126f70a37ba3541-699	Madam President, I would like The issue of the position of major internet platforms in Sweden is important for all of us who protect freedom of expression and democracy, both nationally and internationally. As Minister of Culture and Democracy, of course, I follow this work very closely, although the work on European legislation is not primarily on my table. I believe that the platforms have a great responsibility as important intermediaries of free speech. They have created great opportunities for elected representatives, civil society and ordinary individuals to reach out very broadly with their opinions, and that is basically good for our democracy. At the same time, the development of platforms presents challenges. Some of them we can meet with legislation. Some of them we have to discuss, and it is rather an ethical discussion about how we should behave in different ways online towards each other. Nevertheless, I think we can make a few points. These gigantic social media platforms are neither neutral opinions nor editorial media. There are big problems with hate online. There are major problems with illegal content that we have to deal with, and the issues of transparency need to be improved. There needs to be greater responsibility on these issues. I think we are fairly in agreement on these matters. Madam President, I would like Freedom of expression has a long and strong position in Sweden. We will protect it in a new democratic landscape. We must be careful, and we must be open to different types of solutions. Simple answers that different companies are conspiring against certain opinions do not, I believe, facilitate this work. Tobias Andersson pointed out that I would condemn what happened to his speech. I know that the Swedish Democrats like to highlight individual examples here, but I usually avoid going into individual examples that I do not know about. For me, it is important that social media platforms take greater responsibility and that we find a way forward that safeguards broad freedom of expression.
i-c126f70a37ba3541-705	Madam President, I would like Tobias Andersson has asked me whether I intend to take any steps to ensure that clan voting does not affect elections in 2022. In Sweden, it is self-evident that elections should be free and secret. The election of the Riksdag by free, secret and direct elections follows the form of government. Free elections mean that no one else is allowed to decide which party the voter is to vote for, with secret elections that the voter is not obliged to show or tell how he or she has voted and by direct elections that it is the voters who appoint the members who are to represent them in parliament, without any intermediary. The requirement for free elections is primarily for the electorate to be able to vote for any party he or she wants without external influence. The requirement for elections to be secret is also mainly motivated by the interest to protect the electorate from the impact that may arise if others learn how the voter votes. The Criminal Code's criminal code's penal provisions on unfair participation in voting and so on and on violations of voting secrecy are a protection of the principles of free and secret elections. In January 2019, the Government also introduced a strengthening of the Elections Act, which strengthens the protection of the electoral secret by excluding the places where ballot papers are placed in polling and voting premises from the transparency of other voters. Therefore, although we have adequate legislation to ensure that there is no undue influence in the context of general elections, this is an important issue that needs to be kept under constant review. The Government therefore decided in March 2020 on a parliamentary committee to review and consider changes in parts of the electoral system. One of the questions that is part of the Committee's mandate is to propose ways of countering the existence of so-called family voting, i.e. that two or more people at the same time support the election screen and together prepare their ballot envelopes or discuss their elections. The Committee issued an interim report, "Enhanced protection of voters at the reception of the vote", on 27 January this year. A starting point for our representative democracy is therefore that everyone should be free to decide individually which political party they should support in general elections. We shall have a rich debate on ideas in which civil society organisations play a central role as arenas for dialogue and as tools for channelling opinions to the party political arena. Voters voting for parties that greatly benefit their interests is a common starting point in the research on electoral behaviour. But no association, regardless of direction, should be able to force its members to vote in one way or another. In connection with the 100th anniversary of democracy in Sweden, the government is carrying out several efforts to equip democracy for the future. Several of them are about strengthening people's ability and ability to participate independently. Among other things, 14 government agencies have been tasked with carrying out awareness-raising and education efforts. In conclusion, Sweden must have a rich and vibrant democratic debate where everyone is given the space to form their own opinion and discuss with others. It is therefore important that we continue to develop democracy, as the government has also taken several initiatives in recent years. Unfair influence on individuals in relation to voting is totally unacceptable and contrary to the principles of democracy.
i-c126f70a37ba3541-712	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. During the previous year, a debate about clans' goods or not to be in Sweden and how they may affect anything from gang crime to general elections. It was after Deputy Chief Police Officer Mats Löfving participated in Ekot's Saturday interview on 5 September that the debate took off, but the seriousness of it remains topical. According to Löfving, clans try to infiltrate both government and politics with the aim of obtaining power that can benefit the clan. This seemed to come as a shock to many, although it is well established that most parties have been infiltrated by individuals with their own special interests who represent their group – be it a clan or not – rather than the party whose mandate he or she has received. In SVT's Agenda on 13 September, Löfving did not want to answer the question whether any clan today has representation in the Riksdag. However, it can be established that clanlike voting has previously brought representatives of their own special interests into parliament and that at least one of today's members has been accused of being a part of it, although it may have been through local religious communities rather than through family networks, in so far as they are to be distinguished from the outset. In other words, it is clear that clan society is influencing the outcome of the general elections and the independence of our elected representatives. An example of this that was highlighted in the Mission review in the autumn is how the Social Democrats in Sigtuna are alleged to have given land to a local Syrian Orthodox Assembly in exchange for its votes. Madam President, I would like In my view, on the basis of the information that emerged from that review, it is beyond doubt that the Social Democrats, directly or indirectly through the construction company Peab, purchased votes from the religious assembly – a religious assembly which, according to the results of the elections in its affected residential area, seems to have had a great influence on the way in which the individual members of the assembly voted. So it seems that there was no question of secret and free choice for individuals. Instead, a collective decision was made as to where the votes would be placed on the basis of the benefits it would generate for its own group. It is an act which, in my opinion, at least should fall within the concept of clan voting. This is only one example, but it is undeniably a serious problem that apparently has already established itself in areas around the country. If we do not act immediately, the clan structures in our society will grow stronger, as will the risk of clan voting. Against this background, measures should therefore be taken immediately to minimise the potential impact of clan voting on the 2022 elections. In her response to my interpellation, Amanda Lind emphasises that the government has set up a committee to review and consider changes in parts of the electoral system, and that this will, among other things, propose methods to counter the occurrence of so-called family easting. That, of course, is good. I mean, however, that family vote is not tantamount to the potential clan vote that risks following in the footsteps of clan society. Madam President, I would like I would therefore like to ask Amanda Lind whether she and the government intend to take any other action in this area.
i-c126f70a37ba3541-721	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by stating that I fully agree with Tobias Andersson that undue influence on individuals to vote in a certain way is unacceptable. It is contrary to the principles of democracy and our legislation. It is just as unacceptable wherever it happens – within a religious community, in association, in the family, in some other social structure or in some other context. But it seems that Tobias Andersson has missed the second part of my answer. I'm talking about two things, and I think we need to talk about both of those things. One is about legislation, which must be appropriate. We must constantly tighten and adjust in view of the challenges that arise. We must work to strengthen security around our democracy and around the voting process. Tobias Andersson asked if I intend to act to counteract the influence on the election. For me, this is obviously an important part. Unfair influence when a person casts his or her vote is one thing he or she has pointed out and can become a problem. Of course, it is fundamental that we minimise it. I am therefore pleased with the changes we have made to the electoral law and the proposals made by the parliamentary committee. They will mean a more robust electoral system that minimises the possibility of influence when the voice itself is added. It's really important. The second, which I also devoted part of my answer to telling you about, is that, of course, we need to continue the work of strengthening democracy. We must protect that every person in Sweden, no matter who you are and where you come from, should feel that you have the opportunity to be an active part of our democracy, for example by being a part of a party and being elected to trust, but also by being able to make their voice heard in the general debate and then of course also be able to give their vote freely on election day. This is a work that the government and I have now intensified as we celebrate the 100th anniversary of democracy. We have given a variety of assignments to different authorities to work to strengthen democracy. We also have intensive work against threats and hatred, which we know is an important factor in the need to lower the thresholds in order for people to dare to be part of the public debate. Of course, those of us who belong to parties have a huge responsibility to ensure that everyone on our lists actually represents the ideas that we stand for. This is a challenge that all of our parties have had to deal with for a long time, no matter what the reason is that there comes in a person who does not share the values the party has. This is important. But perhaps the most important thing is to ensure that we include people who today are far from our democracy and make them feel that there is a voice for them, that there is a way into Swedish democracy and that they can participate in the debate. I also think it is important that, in this matter too, as in the one we discussed in the previous debate, there is a challenge. There is a challenge in distinguishing between coercion and undue influence on the one hand, which is completely wrong, and on the other hand something that already exists in our democracy and has done so for a very long time, namely that there are situations in which people of similar backgrounds, common experiences, family ties and common social structures vote in a similar way. What is important to me as Minister for Democracy is to ensure that every person in Sweden feels that this democracy is something for it. It should be able to make its voice heard and be able to cast its voice free from undue influence, no matter who that human being is.
i-c126f70a37ba3541-728	Madam President, I would like Thank you again for the Minister's reply. As a Swedish democrat, I must admit that I have some experience of the importance of examining the views and values of our representatives on the lists and ensuring that they are consistent with ours. I'm the first to admit that. The Minister chooses to talk primarily about undue influence on the election, which I think is central. At the same time, I note that the Minister does not explicitly express it as a clan vote or so. I'll get back to that. In my previous speech, I touched upon the apparent case of clan voting in Sigtuna, which appears to be orchestrated by the Social Democrats. Similar events have probably occurred in many other parts of the country. For example, commission review has also revealed that a local politician for the Environment Party in Botkyrka mediated contact to a man who, prior to the 2018 elections, offered the Moderates 3,000 votes in exchange for the Assembly in which he was active to receive building permits for a mosque. The Center Party had to rule out Mikail Yüksel for the 2018 elections, which apparently happened because he otherwise apparently had knuckled himself into parliament on a center party mandate. For the Moderates, it went so far that clan voting brought a clan politician into parliament. This led Säpo to contact the then group leader Anna Kinberg Batra, which then led to the person being excluded. Madam President, I would like I can continue with examples like these, but I would like to say that we can already say that this is a real problem that is already undermining our democracy. Of course, all friends of democracy oppose this and stand ready to fight clan voices and, by extension, clan structures. At the same time, it seems that some parties do not take this as seriously. I don't blame Amanda Lind for that. But the Green Party's government partner The Social Democrats have put in a system to campaign with election messages in other languages. Top politicians within the party have also gone as far as recruiting votes abroad, which was revealed in 2018 when the MP Sultan Kayhan begged votes in Turkey, and the party's youth federation has been put up by Islamists in Skåne without action. At the same time, the billion-dollar roll continues to highly dubious civil society organisations linked to Islamism. This is undeniably remarkable, Madam President. Belarus' dictator Alexander Lukasjenko is said to have received 80 - 82 percent of the previous elections. That is a figure that all logically reasoning people understand is greatly exaggerated. In a multi-party election in which free will prevails and inhabitants are allowed to land, based on their own logic and personal preferences and interests, in which party, or which representative, should be honored by one's vote, it seems unlikely that the inhabitants would reason so unisonously. However, Lukasjenko and other dictators are not alone with such voting figures, but similar support is found for the Social Democrats in most immigrant suburbs. Among other things, the party received 79 per cent in Herrgården in Malmö and 77 per cent in Rinkebyakaari east in Stockholm. Madam President, I would like I do not want to believe, of course, that our biggest government party is in favour of clan voting. But I think I have enough on my feet to say that at least it has not been active enough against it and that it seems to be of some benefit to me. In that light, it would be reassuring to hear Amanda Lind explicitly acknowledge that clan voting is a problem that needs to be combated and that she does not just speak widely as improper election influence.
i-c126f70a37ba3541-740	Madam President, I would like I think this is unworthy of Parliament. Would Mr. Member of Parliament Tobias Andersson like to ask the Social Democrats as a party something, it belongs outside this Chamber. It is not for my office as Minister for Democracy to comment on such matters. Madam President, I would like Now it became even more obvious what it is that Tobias Andersson wants to talk about. This is an important issue to be taken seriously. It is important to take seriously the problems that exist with regard to any coercion of voting. We must fight this at the utmost. That was one reason why we set up the parliamentary inquiry. It is about avoiding in various ways the risk of so-called family vote or other types of undue influence that can occur when the vote is to be cast. It's an important part. The second important element is the strengthening of democracy. Any case where someone is unduly affected when choosing and voting is a problem for democracy. Of course, it is a problem if it is a connection to something that we define as clan, some other social structure, a religious community, or, for that matter, an association or a family. At the same time, it is also important to realise that there is a limit here. It is a question of different groupings in society naturally, just as in the past, choosing to vote for a party that favours their own interests. That is something that is well documented in research, Madam President. That is what voting patterns look like, just to clarify this. Then I note that Tobias Andersson is very good at asking me questions. He's very good at trying to call in a form of problem picture. But he talks very little about the solutions. Madam President, I would like I am convinced that every person who lives in Sweden should feel that democracy is something for it. It's about feeling that it's you who can freely and without undue influence cast your vote on the party that you think best agrees with your opinion. Then, of course, it may be a self-interest that determines it or that you know a person or a Member of Parliament. That's a pretty common reason for abstaining. You feel familiar with a person and trust it. We have a personal choice system that makes this possible. It can also be ideology or something else that determines. Of course, each person is free. But it's supposed to be an informed choice. One should be able to feel involved and also be able to be an active part of democracy and take a place in it in different ways. It's something I've been working on from day one as Minister of Democracy. This means, of course, that everything about undue influence is wrong. That is totally unacceptable. It does not belong in our society, either before, now or forward. What makes me very concerned is Tobias Andersson's genuine, as it seems, lack of commitment to involving all people in our democracy. Tobias Andersson says that it is a problem that parties campaign and issue election material in different languages. What kind of vision is that? There are a lot of parties working that way. Even those who have not yet fully learned Swedish should have the opportunity to take part in our democracy, learn about the ideologies and opinions of different parties and thus be able to be part of our democracy. I wonder what Tobias Andersson means here. Does he mean that it is wrong and dangerous for all people in Sweden to become an active part of our democracy?
i-c126f70a37ba3541-753	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the somewhat bitter answer from the Minister. I certainly deserved it. I would like to stress that what is important is that we ensure that those who come to Sweden and who will gradually become part of our nation undergo an adequate process to become Swedish citizens. On the day they well go and vote, I hope that they have taken advantage of the Swedish language to such an extent that they can take part in the general election communication and information published in the Swedish language. I describe a problem that affects all parties or at least several parties, in terms of the empiria that exists. That is why there is something strange when Amanda Lind thinks that my questions should rather be addressed to the Social Democratic Party. I agree with Amanda Lind's view that it is the Social Democrats who, in the end, have been most affected by clan voting or benefited from it, how we now view the problem. It is undeniably the case, as I explained in my previous speech, that most parties have been affected by clan voting and not just the Social Democrats. It is a matter of course that I ask the Minister questions. It is within my power of scrutiny in relation to the government to do just that. Madam President, I would like I must be honest with you that I have a great interest in also discussing solutions with the Minister. It would of course have been good for me as well as my fellow party members who are also working on the issues to sit down with the minister in some context and discuss these issues. I do not think in any way that the fact that I am here and now asking Amanda Lind questions and trying to find out how it intends to act in order to limit the impact of the clan vote on next year's elections would conflict with having a constructive exchange of ideas on solutions. It is precisely solutions that I have highlighted that have been lacking in this interpellation debate.
i-c126f70a37ba3541-760	Madam President, I would like I appreciate it if the honourable Member does not put words in my mouth. Tobias Andersson said here: It seems to be orchestrated by the Social Democrats. That kind of conspiracy theories and ideas may Tobias Andersson bring the Social Democrats if it is important to sort it out. He's not supposed to be spreading that in the Chamber. I think it's unworthy. Having said that, I would nevertheless like to thank Tobias Andersson for an interesting debate. It is an important issue that elections to Parliament are held through free, secret and direct elections, that they follow the form of government and that we secure the spaces where the elections take place so that you can cast your vote in a way where you do not risk being influenced when the vote is cast. That is fundamental. Then the legitimacy of the general elections is largely based on trust in the electoral system. That's important, too. It is also based on the fact that there is trust in our democracy to involve all groups in society and that everyone should feel that democracy is something for them. I would like to make it clear that I fully agree with Tobias Andersson. Unfair influence on individuals to vote in a certain way is totally unacceptable. It is contrary to the principles of democracy. We must work both with legislation and with the work of promoting democracy and strengthening democracy. We must never settle down there. It is the very foundation of the democratic anniversary that we have. Democracy is something we must defend every day. I would like to say once again that I find it distressing that Tobias Andersson expresses the fact that election information in different languages would be a problem for our democracy. On the contrary, I believe that more people involved in our democracy make it stronger and better no matter who you are, where you come from or where in the country you live.
i-c126f70a37ba3541-765	Madam President, I would like Hans Wallmark has asked me how Nordic cooperation has had an overall impact, at an inter-ethnic level and from a citizen's perspective during the year of pandemic management – given different death rates, different strategies and different restrictions in the countries. Hans Wallmark has also asked me how I am looking forward and what measures can be put in place so that Nordic cooperation, especially in border areas, will not be inflicted long-term damage. Nordic cooperation has faced major challenges and continues to be affected by the restrictions imposed to combat the spread of infection. On a horizontal level, however, I would first of all like to point out that Nordic contacts have been frequent during the crisis – at ministerial, departmental and governmental levels. We have shared information and experience and found pragmatic solutions on a number of critical issues. For example, the most important work commuting across our borders has been able to continue. As Mr Wallmark also points out, we have had very good consular cooperation. Sweden has also taken on the role in the EU to resell vaccines to Norway and Iceland. Now we need to evaluate how our cooperation can work better, both to address the challenges we face today and to be better equipped for the next crisis. From a citizen's perspective, the management of the crisis by the Nordic countries has appeared to be uncoordinated, not least for residents and businesses in the border regions, which have been severely affected by the restrictions taken to combat the infection. I take very seriously reports of growing discord and discrimination from our usually so integrated border communities. Close and trusting inter-folk relationships are a key building block for strong Nordic cooperation. Restoring confidence in Nordic cooperation, especially in border regions, is a high priority for me. At meetings with my fellow ministers of cooperation, since the beginning of the crisis, I have been pushing for the issue of strengthening our cooperation on border barriers. I have pointed out in particular the need to clarify the responsibilities of the Ministers for Cooperation and the importance of dialogue with a view to decisions on border restrictions. The issue will be on the agenda again at my next meeting with my fellow ministers on 12 February. During 2021 Finland holds the Presidency of the Nordic Council of Ministers. One of the priorities will be how Nordic cooperation can develop in the wake of the pandemic, including in terms of crisis preparedness and mobility issues. These are important priorities, which I look forward to working on during the year. Among other things, a research project will be carried out to investigate the societal consequences of entry restrictions between the Nordic countries during the pandemic. My hope is that the result will be an important basis for assessing how we can strengthen our cooperation on these issues. Within the Nordic Council of Ministers, the Nordic countries will now work together in several covid-19-related projects, including in the labour market area, in the cultural field and through research projects. In 2021, a new mandate for the Border Barriers Council will also be developed. This work should take into account how cross-border cooperation can be safeguarded even in times of crisis. This includes, for example, better information sharing, preparedness and impact assessments of the impact of different measures on border regions. For me, the situation in border regions continues to be a high priority. We politicians have invited the Northerners to settle down and invest in the border regions. Now we must take a joint responsibility to rebuild confidence in Nordic cooperation. Closely interwoven border regions, where mutual exchange can lead to green growth on both sides of the border, are one of the keys to achieving the vision of being the world's most sustainable and integrated region in 2030.
i-c126f70a37ba3541-774	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. There are two realities and one background. I believe that the reality expressed by Anna Hallberg is quite correct, namely that there is fairly well-functioning cooperation at the level of governments, between ministries and between authorities. That's one reality. Then there is the second reality, the people face, with closed borders, shops that no longer have any customers and commuting that does not work – in Tornedalen, in Värmland, in Bohuslän, in the Öresund region. Both realities exist, and I think it is important to keep both things in your head at the same time. Then, Madam President, the background is that Sweden stands out dramatically: in the next few days, we will note more than 12 000 deaths in the pandemic. There is therefore a reason why different countries have acted in a certain way against Sweden. So, two realities and one background. Madam President, I would like About two weeks ago a news spread that trucks to transport medical supplies to Sweden were stopped in Denmark and that there was some law to prevent this. It was a pretty big riot. People got very upset. I received emails and several comments and comments on Facebook. I think it honours Minister Anna Hallberg, Madam President, that she was out very quickly finding out the facts and also tried to deny this. Then one might say that the news of the not entirely correct task may have spread more positively than what came to be demented with the truth. I guess that also says something. This shows, however, that there is a basis for outrage. People get angry about this, true or untrue. There is a growing feeling that Nordic cooperation does not work. I shall also say, Madam President, that Minister Anna Hallberg was then very frequent. I called a digital meeting just a few days later. Anna Hallberg joined her good colleague Flemming Møller Mortensen from Denmark. We brought the two ambassadors – the Danish in Stockholm, Vibeke Rovsing Lauritzen, and our Swedish, Charlotte Wrangberg. We were also over 25 members from the Riksdag who stood up on rather short notice. This shows that at that level it works. It is fast, there is trust and there is also an honest ambition to try to correct what is wrong. The problem is the second reality, with the closed borders that people are now facing and the frustration they feel about being encapsulated. Here I think it is extremely important that we consider what to do. I think it is a balanced answer, Madam President, that Anna Hallberg gives. She also states that a meeting of the Nordic Ministers for Cooperation will take place on 12 February. I think it is important not only to take stock of the problems, but also to consider what we have to do, how we can heal and the whole of the rather large, dramatic wounds that have been torn up in the border regions. In Stockholm or Östergötland you may not feel the same way as you do in the border regions of Norrbotten, Värmland, Bohuslän and Skåne where you have lived a life with open borders, with free trade, with commuting and with the joy of having friends and relatives on the other side of the border and where that border has now been closed. We therefore have two realities, Madam President, and one background. And the background is dark: 12,000 dead in covid-19.
i-c126f70a37ba3541-784	Madam President, I would like I, too, would like to thank Anna Hallberg for a very detailed reply and also Hans Wallmark for a very urgent interpellation. Anna Hallberg says in her reply that Nordic contacts have been frequent at ministerial, departmental and government level. Without in any way belittling it, I still think it is a rather weak consolation for the thousands of people in border areas who have really been caught in the wake of the pandemic. It is about people who have lost their life and income and in many cases have not been able to meet family members who live across the border. Families have been torn apart, and that is, of course, deeply tragic. I also note a degree of humility in Anna Hallberg's response, which I think is a wise approach, regarding the challenges that the pandemic creates for long-term Nordic cooperation. Madam President, I would like It has undoubtedly been a dark year for Nordic cooperation in general and the Swedish-Norwegian cooperation in particular. Norway is one of the countries that has introduced the most strict entry restrictions throughout Europe. It is the first time since the Second World War that we experience a situation where the border between Sweden and Norway is closed. It is, by the way, the longest border in the whole of Europe, a thousand miles, and it is actually armed personnel who are guarding that border. It is clear that this is a hard blow for Sweden. Norway is our most important trading partner. It is an extra blow to the people living in the border areas along the Norwegian border. I actually think I can't think of any other county that in this case is as affected as my own county of Värmland. Basically, it is because Värmland is the geographical window towards the dynamic Oslo region, not least because E18 goes across my homeland and is the body artery itself for a large flow of people, goods and capital. This has been the case for a long time. The proximity to Norway has also characterised the regional development of my home country in terms of labour market, tourism, tourism, retail trade and so on. It has made it easier, for example, to convert a traditional industrial city such as my own, Arvika, to become a service and visiting city. I can give you a few examples, Madam President. Every week around 18,000 people commute to Norway to work. Between 15 and 20 per cent of them live in four smaller municipalities in Värmland. It's about Arvika, Eda, Årjäng and Torsby. Thus, as a percentage, a very large proportion of the total population is actually affected in Värmland. Last year Värmland had 400 000 visitor nights from Norwegian guests. They spent an average of SEK 1,500 per day. The border trade in Värmland had a turnover of 5.5 billion in the past year. All of this is basically gone. It is away from the warming economy, and it is a huge blow to Värmland and regional development. What the long-term effects will be when it comes to how trust is affected in Nordic cooperation, it is probably too early to say. But I think there is reason to be concerned about the future. Firstly, I believe that there is a risk that many people feel a restriction and a doubt about working or seeking work on the other side of the border because of the uncertainties that have arisen. Secondly, we have seen that Norwegians are now starting to sell their properties in Sweden because they cannot handle the houses after a year. We have also seen trends in what we call a Vi-and-dom mentality between Swedes and Norwegians both in social contexts and in workplaces. It is a source of concern for the future.
i-c126f70a37ba3541-794	Madam President, I would like Thank you to the Minister for the answer to this extremely urgent interpellation from my colleague Hans Wallmark! I also represent a border region that has been hit extremely hard by the pandemic and the restrictions that have followed it. As Wallmark said in his speech, it is very important that we in the Nordic countries have tackled the pandemic so differently and that the situation regarding the spread of infection and death rates is very different. I compared the statistics in Sweden and Norway and noted that only between Christmas Eve and New Year's Eve, Sweden reported more deaths in covid ‐ 19 than Norway did throughout 2020. It's important to have it with you. This is of course why Norway has chosen to have a closed border for long periods against Sweden and really since March towards my Bohuslän and my Dalsland. This has had extremely serious consequences for people and businesses in border regions. Sweden's largest shopping centre, Nordby, has been gaping empty since March. 95% of turnover has disappeared. Nearest a notice has rolled in over Strömstad and surrounding municipalities, where unemployment has now doubled. A great many additional jobs may be lost if vaccination is not now successful and border restrictions can be eased. At the same time, I believe that very many of the inhabitants of the border regions understand that we are in an exceptional situation whereby the free movement that we have taken for granted is temporarily allowed to take a break. But I know that a great many citizens feel enormous frustration over the almost total lack, as it is perceived, of coordination between the Nordic countries. There will be a message one day from the Swedish Government in Stockholm and another from the Norwegian Government in Oslo some day later. Every day you have to search for new information about what applies in order to be allowed to cross the border. So far, the border commute, as the Government mentioned in its reply, has been able to work. But now it is so serious that it does not work either, but that many employees do not come to their workplaces in Norway. In this situation, there are people who have their workplace in Norway and who are now at risk of leaving without pay because the employer chooses not to lay off them and they are not allowed to cross the border if they do not belong to the categories that Norway has classified as socially important. Should we have it like that? My answer, of course, is no. The government must ensure that we solve such practical problems in good cooperation with our colleagues in Norway in this case. Madam President, I would like I think that there is a need for some form of accident commission for Nordic cooperation. It has now been many months since the pandemic began, and I find it deeply unsatisfactory that we have not progressed further in the coordination and cooperation between our Nordic countries. There is a need for a rebirth of Nordic cooperation. The answer should not be that we drift apart, but, of course, we should tie our fists in our pockets and do all we can to improve this and draw closer to each other again. We need a counter-offensive here. We need concrete initiatives from the Swedish Government for what can be done to develop cooperation. We need investment in infrastructure and investment and initiatives to improve cooperation on a wide range of issues. I'll get back to that.
i-c126f70a37ba3541-803	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Hans Wallmark, Pål Jonson and Johan Hultberg, for raising this question! I really share the view that it is extremely urgent. We can start with one of the realities that Hans Wallmark described and also Johan Hultberg touched on, that is, the spread of infection. Yes, Sweden has been hit harder than our neighbouring countries by the pandemic. We did that from the start. I think it is important to say that we must be able to make international comparisons. It may be with our neighbours, but it does not have to be a geographical proximity. We need to look at this and see what makes Sweden more affected. It can be population density, age of the population, how we live, how we live at home, how we live in nursing homes and so on. I am sure there are many reasons for this, and no one here has the answer today. But absolutely Sweden has been hit harder. Compared to the other Nordic countries, we also have a larger travel in Sweden. All of this can play a part in why we have been hit more than Norway and Finland in particular have done. As a result of these comparisons, Sweden has also left the Nordic region. It is a reality, and we are still living with it today. The second reality is the everyday life of our border regions. The contacts, meetings and digital visits – unfortunately, there have not been so many physical visits – that I have had with everything from private individuals to entrepreneurs and municipal representatives, regional representatives and so on demonstrate exactly the difficulties that I am really fully aware of. It is about those who have family on the other side of the border, about those who work in another Nordic country and about those who have companies and who have seen not only their customer base destroyed but also that their employees can no longer get to work. I and my colleagues in the government have worked hard ever since the start of the crisis to facilitate this situation and, above all, to start a good dialogue with the other Nordic governments. I have had a very close bilateral contact with the collegues of co-operation. Is that a reality? Yes, it is a reality, but it is not a reality for citizens in everyday life – but it obviously aims to improve their reality. I have also met on several occasions the representatives of the business community whose businesses are so badly hit now that it is not known whether they will be able to rise again. They have been hit incredibly hard, not least by the border trade, as Johan Hultberg mentions. This is an incredibly difficult situation. Despite the historic efforts made by the government on a general basis to support both citizens and businesses, it is currently difficult to see that border trade will return in the near future. I accept this. And we understand this. But we also see what we need to do forward. I very much agree with and agree with what Johan Hultberg said at the end: we need to get a new model of cooperation in the Nordic countries going. We need to start a dialogue. And we need to get information going that works. I share the frustration and agree with the description of the problem that the lack of information and dialogue has led to the need to make citizens and businesses more uncertain about what is at stake. That is why, for a number of months at every Council of Ministers and every bilateral contact, I have highlighted precisely the role of the Ministers for Cooperation. How should we provide information to our citizens? How are we going to have a dialogue before we make these difficult, big decisions that affect our border citizens in their daily lives? I will bring it up again at our next meeting in February. I have received some agreement from the other countries, but not fully. We need a whole new model. Is there a need for an accident commission? Perhaps more of a model is needed for how we should work together forward.
i-c126f70a37ba3541-814	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank my colleagues Pål Jonson and Johan Hultberg, who highlight their aspects and their homelands. This applies to a large extent to the Norwegian-Sweden border. It affects the consequences for commuting and shops. It's wounds that have been torn up. That is the case in the border regions. The Government is also concerned with the derogatory judgments that are now taking place. Dirty Swedes, says Norway. Dirty Swedes, says Finland. It lays additional stone on already heavy burden. At home in my Skåne, at Öresund, I also get the feeling that we get back. It creates a downward spiral that has to stop in some way. Again, it's a reality. The second reality is exactly what the Government and I agree on. It is good that the three EU countries in the Nordic countries have assisted Norway and Iceland in obtaining suspension agreements for vaccines. At the beginning of the pandemic, Swedes were flown home to the Nordic countries when they were stranded in different parts of the world and could not fly home to Sweden. Another aspect is that Sweden in a very active way helped Norway in their campaign to end up in the UN Security Council. So these are the two different realities. The reality that exists in Bohuslän, Värmland, Skåne and Norrbotten, with wounds that have been torn up. And the reality that we can also talk about: cooperation that works and solves problems. There is also an active commitment, as I see it, from the ministers and ministers of the various governments. Madam President, I would like I honestly think that Anna Hallberg and Flemming M øller Mortensen are good examples. But it is the reality of the citizens that is relevant to all those living in the border areas. Therefore, it is important that when you meet on 12 February, you consider what the conditioner should look like that can be applied to the wounds that have been torn up, primarily in the different border areas. In October last year, the Finnish Institute carried out a survey via Novus. One in three respondents throughout Sweden agreed that cooperation between the Nordic countries had deteriorated during the coronapndemine. But they did a specific measurement for Norrbotten. That's a lot more. There is therefore clear evidence that in border areas it is perceived that it is worse, worse and more painful. The positive thing is that the Finland Institute's Novus survey also showed that nearly nine out of ten believe that the Nordic countries should coordinate their preparedness. There's a seed you can hopefully grow here. It is also something we can learn from the pandemic, with all its death and tragedy, how we, as northerners, can face the next crisis and the next challenge in a better and more well coordinated way. Just as my colleagues testify from the Swedish-Norwegian border, it has been understood that it has been back and forth, here and there. That is why it is really to look at how we can coordinate, interact and coordinate. How can we plan for the next challenge? It could be the cyber area, it could be a new pandemic and it could be a supply issue. It's different realities. I believe that the reality felt by citizens in border areas and the wounds that have been torn up will require balm to heal.
i-c126f70a37ba3541-823	Madam President, I would like The vision of the Nordic region as the world's most sustainable and integrated region is under enormous pressure with the coronapandemine. Let's just say. If the Norwegian and Swedish governments, which we are talking about a lot now, do not tackle the problems that have arisen, half a century of integration and cooperation in the border regions will be lost. That is deeply disturbing. Madam President, I would like Nevertheless, let me look at an area in which we could look forward and build something new, which I think is important. Hans Wallmark and also Anna Hallberg discussed it in their reply. This is about cooperation on emergency preparedness. The pandemic has probably been the biggest stress test of our crisis preparedness system that we have had in modern times. Of course we have important experiences to draw. I believe that there is an extraordinary interest in deepening Nordic cooperation in this area. For example, we have worked with it in the Nordic Council and have written a report on what in Norwegian is called community security. But the question is a little wider than just the corona pandemic. We also worked extensively on this in the Defence Committee. At the time, it was about collaboration to ensure flow security in peace, crisis and conflict, not least in Sweden and Norway. I think it has great potential for further development. We have worked quite a lot on this in Värmland. It is about dealing with forest fires, about dealing with ambulance care and about common rescue services. I believe that there is a seed here for us to be better equipped for the next crisis that will undoubtedly affect us. I know that the Minister for the Interior has proposed enhanced cooperation with Finland in this area. I would welcome a similar initiative with Norway, not least to heal the deep wounds that have been created.
i-c126f70a37ba3541-829	Madam President, I would like It is gratifying that, after all, we agree on where we want to go. We want to get back to an everyday life where the border doesn't feel, where we can move freely in the Nordic countries and where it doesn't matter on which side of the border you work or live. For me, the Nordic region also means a lot on a private level. My wife is Swedish, but we met in Oslo. My children are Swedish, but our second son was born at the hospital Ø stfold Kalne, because it is closer or as close to BB there as it is to BB at N äl outside Trollhättan. That's what life should look like in a border region. We live without frontiers, work together and bond across our borders. Madam President, I would like At home from my living room window I have been able to look out at the sea late in the evenings and see the silhouette of the ferries that go between Fredrikshamn and Oslo. Stena Line has now announced that they are closing the route they have been operating for 40 years. Stena Saga is located at the quay in Uddevalla and is out for sale. It is a concrete example of how ties that connect the Nordic countries are dissolved. Now we have to tie ties that bring us together again. We really need the counter-offensive I was on. We need new initiatives where we strengthen and develop cooperation. The residents of border regions need concrete information on how to solve everyday problems. The commuters in Strömstad or Dals-Ed who are not paid because the border is closed may not be able to wait until 12 February.
i-c126f70a37ba3541-833	Madam President, I would like I will begin by commenting on Mr Wallmark's speech on the issue of inter-human relations. We Nordic government representatives share the view that this is totally unacceptable. The testimony you hear about the treatment people are faced with – the we-and-doom feeling that is now at our borders – is something totally unacceptable. We have heard these statements several times. We must do everything we can to curb this. Perhaps it is above all the soft values that can create long-term wounds and negative traces in Nordic relations. If we look forward, I see several paths. In the short term, we must create a model for how we take decisions and what is the responsibility and role of the Ministers for Cooperation in their respective governments. I've lifted it up before and I'll do it again. This is not something that we can impose on the other governments, but I can suggest and we can strongly advocate that, if you have the role of Minister for Cooperation or Minister for the Nordic Region, you have to monitor, if I may put it that way, the Nordic issues and the issues of border barriers in government decisions. Why am I saying this? Yes, because it has enormous consequences for thousands of people when you decide to close the borders in the Nordic countries. Sometimes you have to do it. There have been such occasions, and there are times right now when we have to do so. But how can we limit these restrictions as much as possible? And how can we find exceptions? Let me highlight some positive examples from this period, Madam President. After an intensive dialogue with Finland and between me and the Finnish Minister for Cooperation, the Finnish Government chose to make an exception for the Tornedal municipalities for a period of time. It eased the pressure in the Torne Valley. Now Finland has shut down again, but there has still been flexibility. As Swedish Minister for Cooperation, I was contacted when Sweden introduced border restrictions against Denmark in December. The people of Bornholm were then very hard hit. Then we took a new, extra government decision to make it easier for Bornholm. Such dialogue where we show that we want each other well must take place much more often. However, we have not yet found the full way forward for a flexible solution with Norway, and I regret that. We've tried. We must continue to have a dialogue. We have a good dialogue, but that reality is not enough to seep into the reality of the citizens, as we have seen here today. I would like to mention a little more about what I mean by the collaborative model. I would like us Nordic co-operation ministers to agree to put on the table at each meeting the difficult issues of border barriers and the difficult problems faced by border citizens and to agree together on how to resolve it. How can we give the Border Barriers Council a greater mandate? How can we achieve effective information sharing? We're not there today, but we're going there. It is absolutely crucial for the vision not to be under such great pressure. Otherwise, our border citizens may even view it as unattainable. Pål Jonson spoke of emergency preparedness. I think it is a good example where we can find concrete forms of cooperation and activities, if you call it that, which show that we want to move forward together. It could be infrastructure. Earlier we talked about vaccines. It could also apply to new initiatives – I mentioned Denmark as an example – where we show our citizens that we want each other well and build society forward together.
i-c126f70a37ba3541-842	Madam President, I would like The Swedish Government, Anna Hallberg, talks about all the positive things that Sweden is trying to do to the ministerial colleges in the rest of the Nordic countries. I think that's good. I also hope that the Government will count on me as a parliamentary Rottweiler who will help on the Government's side towards the other Nordic countries. The positive thing is needed. We need conditioners on the wounds. Madam President, I would like The reason for my commitment is that the Nordic region basically fills me with incredible pride and joy. And what I now see fills me with great sorrow. Now that we are tearing the ties apart and creating problems in the border regions above all, we are threatening what is the strength of the Nordic region. Together, we are the world's twelfth largest economy. There are incredibly innovative and expansive companies, smart people and people who want to do things. As the bonds that have been built up for hundreds of years are now being torn apart during the first and second years of the pandemic, I am filled with grief. It can be so good, but right now it is so bad in Norrbotten, Värmland, Bohuslän and Skåne. I really wish with all my heart that we are successful and get a new model together. It's important. The pandemic will sooner or later be able to be handled. Vaccines are on their way, even if there have been delays. Of course, 12 000 people have died, but we must also look to the future. Then action is needed. I promise, Madam President, that in the work of the Minister there will be parliamentarians who want to see something else.
i-B4W2nm9qts3vzHjzGhyrCq	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Hans Wallmark, for the support! I would also like to thank Mrs Jonson and Johan Hultberg for their questions. For me, this is an area in which we must work together. We must work together in the Swedish parliament, and the Nordic governments must work together. We also need to acknowledge everyday problems. That is why I raise this at every meeting of Nordic co-operation ministers and say that we cannot talk vision, action plans to reach vision or budget before we talk about the everyday problems our citizens have today and how we can solve them together. I am absolutely convinced that we will be able to do this. But the wounds and traces that have been put in the Nordic cooperation must be healed as quickly as possible. We must quickly put on a patch or put on conditioner and then look forward together. We see the strength we have in the Nordic countries when we come out on the international stage. We have smart solutions for digitalisation, climate and social sustainability. We are unbeatable when we work together in the international arena. When you have a problem at home, you sometimes have to look out and say: Out there we are strong together. I also raise this with my Nordic trade colleagues. It is not at all unimportant that we work with our innovative companies on the global stage. Is it denying that we have problems in everyday life when I say so? No, we have problems every day. I really share Johan Hultberg's view that everyday life must come back with the seamless border crossing where families can meet. Trust must be restored in our border regions. The essence of all this is just about trust, to dare to settle in our border regions and dare to start a business there. We have to find a way back to that.
