i-c402edcc1c87c1af-10	Madam President, I would like Pål Jonson has asked me what I and the government intend to achieve with the enhanced dialogue with the United Kingdom. Pål Jonson has also asked whether the UK has asked for this bilateral dialogue with Sweden. Furthermore, Pål Jonson has asked me when I believe that the dialogue can be concluded. Pål Jonson has also asked whether it is my objective and that of the government that the declaration of solidarity should be extended to the United Kingdom when the dialogue is concluded. Finally, Pål Jonson has asked how I and the government intend to anchor such a decision with the parliamentary parties. As announced in the Government Bill 2020/ 21:30 Total Defence 2021 – 2025, a dialogue is conducted with the UK on how the bilateral security policy relationship can develop after leaving the EU. On 23 February, I informed the Committee on Defence of the bilateral defence policy relationship with the United Kingdom. The report covered, among other things, the estimated impact of the UK's withdrawal from the EU in the field of defence, the broad and established bilateral cooperation at government and government level, regulated inter alia in the Statement of Intent signed in 2015, Joint Expeditionary Force, FCAS-C and the major exercise activities one. I also set out the Government's ambitions for continued close bilateral cooperation and for dialogue between representatives of the defence and foreign ministries. On the issue of security policy solidarity, I stated that there is a dialogue that I do not want to anticipate. The aim remains to build on the well-established, comprehensive and good bilateral cooperation between Sweden and the UK. The Government intends to return to Parliament on the matter.
i-c402edcc1c87c1af-12	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. I note that on four out of five questions that I asked in the interpellation, I received no guidance in the answer. The fifth question, about what the government wants to achieve with the in-depth dialogue with the United Kingdom after leaving the European Union, was nevertheless answered. The Minister for Defence says that the goal of the enhanced dialogue is to build on the well-functioning cooperation that we have with the UK. It is an honourable but hardly groundbreaking conclusion on how to develop the relationship, and it does not sound like it would be the subject of a new dialogue with the UK. If there is effective and effective bilateral cooperation with the United Kingdom, why do we want to start a new dialogue? It's a question I'd like to put to the Secretary of Defense. Madam President, I would like The UK has left the EU but not Europe, and the UK will have a very important and central role, especially in Northern Europe. This is achieved by having a leading responsibility for the British-led NATO Battlegroup, which is located in Estonia and not least through the Joint Expeditionary Force, which both Sweden and Finland have been participating in since 2017. It is clear that, alongside the United States, Britain is perhaps the country that will play the most important role in security and stability in the Baltic Sea region, not least because it can contribute significant resources to the region. On the other hand, we can no longer use the EU to anchor Britain's role in northern Europe. Unfortunately, it became a harsh Brexit, which means that the EU and the United Kingdom will no longer have any cooperation linked to defence, to foreign or security policy simply. It is a serious setback for the EU in general and for Sweden in particular. The most obvious thing is, of course, that when the British leave the EU, up to a quarter of the total defence expenditure in the EU disappears. As is also shown in the total defence bill, 80% of total defence expenditure in the Euro-Atlantic region is now within NATO but outside the EU. The bottom line of this after Brexit is that NATO is becoming more important as a defence policy actor and that, unfortunately, the EU is becoming weaker as a military and security policy actor. This should also call for reflection on Sweden's safety policy choices. I noted that Daniel Färm in the S-marked think tank Time a while ago wrote that the time had come to leave military alliance freedom and build a common European defence. I would like Sweden to leave the military freedom of alliance but in favour of Swedish membership of NATO. The EU does not have the military resources in the foreseeable future to become a military player. Clearly, Brexit has consequences for Sweden's safety policy choices. Another consequence is that Sweden is now losing an important ally at the negotiating table in Brussels. We have worked closely with the UK when it comes to the view of strengthening the transatlantic link, when it comes to including third countries and when it comes to ensuring effective cooperation between the EU and NATO. We will no longer have that advantage around the negotiating table in Brussels unless we choose, Madam President, to create a new negotiating table within the framework of NATO. It is clear that NATO would create completely new opportunities for Sweden and the UK to cooperate more closely if both were members. However, I would like to ask the Minister for Defence once again when he considers that this dialogue with the United Kingdom will end. Are we talking weeks, months or years?
i-c402edcc1c87c1af-20	Madam President, the Minister for Defence. I think that Pål Jonson has set an example of Moderates' view of Britain's important role in our neighbourhood, as well as of the challenges we face given that, because of Brexit, Britain is no longer part of the European Union and that we must therefore find new formations. That's also why Pål Jonson has awakened this interpellation. I share the view that the government does not tell us what it wants to achieve, whether in terms of timetable, structures or what possible end products will be. Unfortunately, Madam President, that will be a problem because it makes it impossible to evaluate anything. If you don't tell us in advance what the goals are, then how can you say in retrospect? That's where we would be going? As a result, there is a lack of ambition expressed by the government. This is fundamentally serious, because, as I said, the UK is one of Sweden's and our neighbourhood's extremely important partner countries. Madam President, I would like I'm afraid that lack of purpose is consistent with the government. I will take an example that the Minister for Defence himself mentioned in his reply, namely Joint Expeditionary Force, JEF. It is a very important cooperation project that Sweden has with the UK. For several years there was a discussion about whether Sweden would become part of the project or not, and I went through the archive and saw that I had asked three written questions to Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist. On none of them he gave an answer about the direction, that is, what you wanted and how you would like to achieve it. I'll ask you to read one of the answers. The Secretary of Defense wrote: The Swedish Armed Forces' response was received on 31 March 2017 and is being prepared in the Government Office. I do not intend to anticipate this work, but I note that the basis is an important part of the ongoing analysis of whether Sweden should participate in the JEF. Cooperation is also taking place with Finland on this issue. ..................................................... What becomes the problem with this type of non-answer is that it is not possible to evaluate whether you are doing what you were supposed to do. Another problem is that we are approaching the 2022 election year – I have also noted this in the defence minister's debate articles in various bodies, about storm troops and some other – and that there may be a change of government. Some of us in this House hope that it will be. I believe it is essential that there should then be a seamless transition in terms of negotiations with key players and important countries, as is the United Kingdom. That is why, Madam President, it is bad that the government is not clearer about what cards you intend to play and how you want to achieve what is what is desired. Madam President, I would like I think I know the Secretary of Defense is a book reader and a book lover. That's why I dug out my own copy of the British writer Lewis Carroll's book on Alices's adventure in Wonderland. Alice asks the cat the question: Would you like to tell me how to go to get out of here? Then the cat answers: It depends a lot on where you're going. This, Madam President, is perhaps a moral of the world of the book to hand over to the Minister for Defence. Where does the government intend to go when it comes to building new relations with Britain beyond Brexit?
i-c402edcc1c87c1af-26	Madam President, I would like In 2014, a Statement of Intent with the UK was written about enhanced cooperation. In 2015, it became a cooperation programme and a letter of intent. The cooperation programme was signed in 2016. At the moment, we have 42 points in a programme for 2020 – 2021, ranging from international efforts, winter training and information exchange to bilateral meetings. It is a wide range of measures, which I have touched upon even when I have presented this to the committee. On June 30, 2017, we signed the Joint Expeditionary Force agreement. This is a good breakthrough given the importance of the UK's involvement in Sweden's neighbourhood. We have the Northern Group, with Britain included, which is a very important factor. We have cooperation within the framework of Minusma and Operation Inherent Resolve in Iraq. We have practice activities such as Arctic Challenge Exercise and Northern Wind, as well as Baltops and Northern Coasts. We have British ships in the Baltic Sea with a certain frequency, and we have frequent naval visits. There was a British participation in the planned Aurora 20, which unfortunately had to be cancelled because of Corona. We are in cooperation at the British Doctrine Development Centre. We're on British staff. The FCAS project is long-term about what we may be doing together in terms of future combat aircraft, and we have for 20 years a hunting robot project, Meteor. Now we also have an important project that both Wallmark and Pål Jonson should have mentioned in their introductions and which was central to our taking the total defence decision, namely that the UK is also the subject of the strategy we have to develop coordinated planning with Nordic countries, NATO, the United Kingdom and the United States. Then right now we have the dialogue with the UK on what our future security policy relationship should be. That dialogue is ongoing, and I am not going to stand here and say that this will be done in a week or a month's time, but I will come back with information when there is something to say. There are two parties here, and with respect for the other party and what it possibly wants in this context, it is better to talk when there is a result rather than to stand here and speculate on different types of arrangement. Clearly, however, it is important for Britain to be involved in our part of Europe, and that is what we are doing. Right after the UK Brexit referendum, I received a call from the then Minister of Defence, who very clearly signalled that it will continue to be involved in security issues concerning Europe. They will also remain committed to Scandinavia, and they want to deepen and develop cooperation. That is what we are doing, and here I have now listed a whole list of what this means. Britain is one of our closest partners. I am not going to simplify this debate to a discussion about giving notice next week or in two weeks' time, but the most serious thing is that we are working on this approach. Co-ordinated planning is a very important issue, and looking at our relationship in security policy is another important issue. We'll get back to you when we've got word.
i-c402edcc1c87c1af-33	Madam President, I would like I can assure the Minister of Defence that the issue of the next generation of fighter planes will come up a little later in the debate. He asked for it. Madam President, I would like That is exactly what I asked for. So we have very successful and broad cooperation with the United Kingdom, as the Minister for Defence explained, with these 42 points and a number of others. But that is not really what my question was about; my question was why we should have a new, deeper dialogue with the United Kingdom when we obviously have successful cooperation with them. I respect what the Minister of Defence says about the fact that, as it is said in English, two parties are required to tango. I do not expect the Minister for Defence to present a final result, but I would very much like to know with what will the Swedish Government is going into this cooperation. Let me reconnect a little bit to the outcome of Brexit. The Minister of Defence is very well aware of this, but in the framework of the defence negotiations discussions were conducted linked to extending the declaration of solidarity to the United Kingdom after they left the European Union. This was not the case, and the declaration of solidarity was not extended to Britain. Instead, they said that they would wait for the outcome of the Brexit negotiations, and we now know the outcome of them. Unfortunately, it became a harsh Brexit, which in substance means that the Swedish declaration of solidarity does not include Britain today. We therefore have a situation in which Sweden declares security policy solidarity with countries such as Malta, Cyprus and Greece, but not with the United Kingdom. That's completely unreasonable. One of the questions I sent to the Minister for Defence was, therefore, whether the government's own view is that the declaration of solidarity should be extended to Britain or not. I think that question is important. I also think that it should be made clear that the Swedish declaration of solidarity has been important for Swedish security and defence policy. It has laid the foundations for international defence cooperation, which I know Peter Hultqvist himself is very committed to. It also laid the foundations for legitimacy linked to Sweden establishing a host country agreement. In addition, we are now discussing in the total defence bill that we should be able to coordinate operational planning with the UK. It is a big step, and it is an important and good step. But it will be very contradictory if we do not extend the declaration of solidarity and say that we are willing to grant the same solidarity to our most important European defence policy partner, namely the United Kingdom, as to Greece, Italy or France. We need consultations for this, and it is clear that this is certainly a unilateral declaration of solidarity, but we did not have any prior consultations with either Norway or Iceland when we issued the declaration of solidarity to them. I would simply like to get a clearer picture of what is the will of the government when this bilateral dialogue with the United Kingdom is started. I have a feeling, Madam President, that the government does not want to open up this issue to Parliament because it knows that it must then also open up to broader discussions on Sweden's security policy line. On the part of the Moderates, we have clearly stated both in the defence policy debate and in the security policy debate that it is now also time to have a broader discussion on the direction of Sweden's security policy line. It should include how the UK should be included in the declaration of solidarity; it should better reflect how the Swedish-Finnish defence cooperation beyond peacetime conditions should be reproduced and it should include a NATO option.
i-c402edcc1c87c1af-42	Madam President, I would like The Minister of Defence stated in his previous speech that it is important to have the UK involved. We share that view on the part of the Moderates – absolutely! The Secretary of Defense also had a long list of different forms of collaboration and cooperation – everything from JEF to, on the fighter aircraft side, FCAS and individual exercises. All of this is right and proper. Madam President, I would like On the other hand, two representatives of the largest opposition party are now pointing out that the government should take advantage of the opportunity to reach a broader consensus on how we should have this security policy dialogue with the UK. The Secretary of Defense notes that there are two parties talking to each other. That's exactly right. What is the problem for the government is that it has a rather fragile parliamentary basis and does nothing to anchor this parliamentary basis. You keep the cards very close to your own body, and that is regrettable. I believe that there are conditions for a fairly broad consensus with the Riksdag and its many parties. Several of us are inspired by how we can deepen and improve our relationship with the UK. But then you have to know what the government wants: what goals you want to achieve and what the whole process should look like. It is not good enough, Madam President, to simply refer to the fact that we occasionally appear in the Committee on Defence and supply information. Here is an offer from our side to involve Parliament's parties in this important dialogue. To say something like the cat in Alice, Wonderland, where do you want to go? Well, it depends a lot on where you want to go. Then the fundamental question is: where does the government want to go with regard to this important security policy dialogue?
i-c402edcc1c87c1af-46	Madam President, I would like First of all, you mean that you have respect for not pre-empting processes. Then, without blinking, we should put the whole discussion on the table when we think it is better to continue with the opposite and try to come up with something in common. This isn't that complicated. It is about what is the next step in development between our countries. I had a ten-page script with me to the Committee on Defence when I presented it. It was a very detailed report, and there were excellent opportunities for Members to ask questions, to have views and possibly to say no if they felt that the principles set out were in any way wrong. However, I cannot recall any objections to what I stated. For our part, this is about not anticipating the process, but I have mentioned coordinated planning. It is a parliamentary decision that we shall implement. It is also anchored in the Riksdag that we should deepen our relationship with the UK. That is why we are conducting this dialogue, and we will come back with a plan on this once we have continued the discussions and believe that we have a result to present. Our collaborations aim to increase our own military capabilities, and they aim to raise the threshold towards a possible antagonist in our neighbourhood. It is a signal of security policy. When we practice together with the UK and others in the Baltic Sea, in northern Sweden and in other major exercises and operate together internationally, as we do in various missions, it is safety policy signals that are very clear. These cooperations must be constantly renewed and developed through continuous dialogue, for it is about what joint projects are being launched. We will continuously inform the Riksdag and be prepared to discuss the views that come up in these contexts. What Mr Wallmark referred to earlier about what I had said about the JEF and not anticipating the processes is quite correct. There's nothing wrong with that! The purpose of the consultation procedure and the involvement of the Armed Forces and the whole dialogue was that we could eventually resolve the issue, which we did. It's the same thing here. We are having a discussion in order to come up with something that we jointly support. Then let me put it this way, without prejudging anything: a joint declaration, a joint declaration, can be concluded at a political level which consolidates the bilateral relationship and expresses the solidarity of the countries in relation to each other. Then let us look at the content of this. At present, it is a matter of conducting this important dialogue in order to achieve a common understanding of the forms of future cooperation based on common interests. I do not think that this will be a major problem, because our relationship is very close and we have common interests and a common approach to security policy. I believe that we are working in exactly the same spirit as the total defence decision on this point.
i-c402edcc1c87c1af-55	Madam President, I would like The reason why we are here today, Peter Hultqvist, is that I was present both at the presentation given to us in the Committee on Foreign Affairs by the Secretary-General and at the presentation given to the Committee on Defence, and these are two very fundamental questions relating to this dialogue to which I would like answers and to which I believe Mr Wallmark also indicated that he wanted answers. First of all, I want an indication of time. Are we talking weeks, months or years? It matters to the Riksdag if you can get that indication when it comes to time. I don't think that's unreasonable. Secondly, I have a very simple, clear and clear question that is not linked to the outcome of the process. What is the government's will direction? Does the government want the declaration of solidarity to be extended to Britain or not? This is a very important and central issue for us. I do not expect the outcome of reading a completed declaration; I just want to know whether the government thinks this is a good idea or a bad idea as we enter into in-depth negotiations with the United Kingdom. I would like to briefly round off and tie in with the review of the British security and defence policy presented with the Global Britain report last week, and yesterday also the Command Review, which deals more specifically with the defence policy elements. There are two things that I think are important to bring along. One, as the Minister for Defence himself has said, is that our cooperation in the FCAS combat aircraft system will become increasingly important in the future. It is important that we now come to the fore and ensure that it is realised, because it will be a spinner in our bilateral relations. The second is that Britain is now going to put a lot more effort into AI and cyber. Here, Sweden has some structural problems, not least because our own cybercenter will not be fully operational until 2023, while all other Nordic countries today have operational cybercenters.
i-c402edcc1c87c1af-62	Madam President, I would like In my previous speech, I said that this could end with a joint declaration at political level that consolidates the bilateral relationship and expresses the solidarity of the countries with each other. It could be a possible outcome. But I do not want to anticipate the discussions that are taking place. After all, we are discussing an issue where we are very close together, where both parties want to cooperate and where we have deepened cooperation very much over the past five years. I therefore believe that we are in a very positive position. But with respect to the other party, because there are two parties that are required in this, I would like to come back to you when we have pushed the process so far that we also agree on something that we stand for together. We are, of course, looking to deepen the relationship in order to increase our military capabilities, to raise the threshold for a possible antagonist and to create security and security in our part of Europe. Pål Jonson is talking about getting to the bottom of FCAS. I myself have signed the agreement on this. We are constantly having discussions about these things. There is a deep Swedish interest here. So this is something that we are doing all the time and will continue to do. Artificial intelligence and cyber, as mentioned here, are also important issues. These are, of course, also things that need to be discussed in these cooperation programmes, which already exist and which can be developed for the future. I believe that today we have informed Parliament in a very thorough and in-depth manner. We are now in a very important process which I do not want to anticipate. It is all about deepening in the end to build a safer Scandinavia and a safer Europe.
i-c402edcc1c87c1af-67	Madam President, I would like Hans Wallmark has asked me whether the political assessment made in the Government's proposal on defence policy orientation 2021 – 2025, which rests on the defence committee's support in broad political agreement, applies. Furthermore, Mr Wallmark has asked how this wording relates to what is stated in the Government's foreign policy declaration, presented on 24 February 2021. Finally, Mr Wallmark has asked how I intend to work to ensure that the government puts forward uniform wordings regarding the assessed security policy situation for Sweden in order to avoid uncertainty and uncertainty. The background to the question is the following statement of the vote in the bill: Totalförsvaret 2021 – 2025(prop. 2020/ 21:30 p. 26):中 The security policy situation in Sweden's neighbourhood and Europe has deteriorated over time. An armed attack on Sweden cannot be ruled out. Nor can it be excluded that military force or threats of such might be used against Sweden. Sweden will inevitably be affected if a security policy crisis or armed conflict occurs in the immediate vicinity of Sweden. The Government's Declaration of Foreign Affairs 2021 states that the security policy situation in Sweden's immediate region and Europe has deteriorated over time. In response to this development, there is a historic commitment to total defence and the continued strengthening of our international defence and security cooperation. ..................................................... D a security political assessment made in the Bill Totalförsvaret 2021 – 2025 applies. The Foreign Declaration expresses the Government's foreign policy objectives and priorities, including security policy. A detailed description of the security policy situation as a whole is usually not provided in the foreign declaration. The Bill Totalförsvaret 2021 – 2025 and the Foreign Declaration 2021 reflect in equal terms the assessment that the security policy situation in Sweden's neighbourhood and Europe has deteriorated over time. The bill, as well as the foreign declaration, further expresses the importance of strengthened total defence and that Sweden builds security together with others, including through deepening international defence and security cooperation.
i-c402edcc1c87c1af-72	Madam President, I would like Secretary of Defense! It is a good thing that the security policy assessment made in the Propo sition Totalförsvaret 2021 – 2025 applies. But what the Minister for Defence is not responding to is why it chose to have a different wording in a central document for a government, namely the foreign policy declaration. What has disappeared, moreover, is not just anything, but above all eight rather central words: a armed attack on Sweden cannot be ruled out. It is included in the total defence bill but not in the foreign declaration. Madam President, I would like The eight words were something of a cornerstone in the final report of the Defence Committee and have also sparked a major debate. What is the problem for the government and the Social Democrats is that it has been so difficult to relate to what the Defence Committee in broad agreement supported. Madam President, I would like Let me remind you of January 2018, at People and Defense in Sälen. Prime Minister Stefan Löfven made the opening statement and suddenly did not want to use the wording of the Defence Committee. On the contrary, he marked against it. Margot Wallström, the Foreign Minister at the time, did exactly the same and also dismissed the Committee on Defence as a group. Both the Minister for Defence and the undersigned were in Sälen in January 2018. There were a few of us who were both surprised by the government's actions and did what we could to save the Swedish Defence Committee's continued work. This was done, among other things, by the fact that Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist himself went up and took part in the formulation, including a armed attack on Sweden cannot be ruled out. ..................................................... In the ensuing debate, both Prime Minister Lövven's side and the then Foreign Minister Wallström's side said they did not want to use this wording because it was too alarming. I will come back to the difference between the direction of defence policy and the foreign policy declaration. Why are they different? No wonder the opposition is wondering. The government has already slipped between different formulations, as it did in Sälen. If it is as innocent as the Secretary of Defense is trying to assert, my second question is: why are you exposing yourself to this problem? What is it that makes you need a different wording in a document in relation to what is nevertheless a broad political and parliamentary consensus behind it? That is undoubtedly an unnecessary risk to which you are putting the country. Finally, what does the Minister of Defence reply to the foreign representatives, friendly or with a worse attitude towards Sweden, who ask whether it is the document that says that an armed attack on Sweden cannot be ruled out or the foreign policy declaration that applies? These are, of course, central signals which are also sent to the outside world by a Minister of Defence who is usually quite eager to send signals.
i-c402edcc1c87c1af-81	Madam President, I would like Let me begin by saying that Mr Wallmark's interpellation is very urgent. After all, the wording of a country's security policy is the very basis for the exercise of power, and if these wordings are unclear or ambiguous, it is serious. I feel that, unfortunately, the government here has been slipping for a long time. Sweden has a long tradition of making decisions on security and defence policy issues in broad parliamentary consensus, and the body that the government disposes of for this is the Defence Committee. From the Moderates we usually say that the Defense Committee should therefore be protected both in form and in content, i.e. it should use the Defence Committee to prepare compromises with the opposition and stick to the reports we agree on there. I sometimes feel that the government's enthusiasm for using the Defence Preparation and following it both in the defence policy agreements and in the security policy line has been subdued. One symptom of this, even if it should not be exaggerated, is that on the government's website it says that Björn von Sydow is chairman of the Defence Committee. It also mentions five members who have now left the Defence Committee. Madam President, I would like A security policy line must be based on two components: Sweden's vulnerabilities and the threats and risks we face, and what safety policy choices we have. In the two reports presented by the Swedish Defence Committee, it is clear that an armed attack on Sweden cannot be ruled out. Point. It may sound trivial, but the Secretary of Defense also knows that in the past it was stated that an armed attack cannot be ruled out but is unlikely in the foreseeable future. That is something completely different, because then you have a lower ambition. What we do when we put an end to the fact that an armed attack cannot be ruled out is that we send out a clear signal that it is here and now that defence capabilities are in place, not some form of training reserves or readmission or maintenance capabilities. It is therefore a very central and crucial part of this defence reform that an armed attack simply cannot be ruled out. I therefore find it remarkable that this wording is not included in the government's foreign declaration. It is, of course, the home Bible of the government's foreign and security policy, so, as Mr Wallmark said, this should also be included in the foreign declaration. The second is, of course, linked to how the government itself has chosen to formulate its foreign policy line. This has been done in a number of different ways since they took office in 2014. The only thing that has been said in common is that no one has been anchored in the Committee on Defence, but it says, for example, that the freedom of military alliance serves us well and contributes to stability and security in the immediate region. This can sometimes be said in the foreign policy declaration, while in the total defence bill it can only be said that Sweden is not part of any military alliance. Madam President, I would like I find it unfortunate that the government has different wordings in two such central documents on the security policy direction as the foreign declaration and the total defence bill. This creates a lack of clarity that Sweden is not valiant of.
i-c402edcc1c87c1af-92	Madam President, I would like It is strange that you should talk down the value of what is in the total defense bill and on which we have agreed. What's in there is what's in it. There's nothing else to talk about. There is no wobbly or strange on that point. If you want to construct contradictions for various political reasons, you have to live with it. But it's not weird. There is talk of meetings with one and the other international representative. I have been meeting representatives of other countries and NATO for almost seven years, and there has been no doubt about the Swedish line. We start from military alliance freedom, cooperate with others, deepen cooperation with others, are active on the international level and are very clear on how we view the development of security policy in our neighbourhood. At the same time, we are upgrading our national capabilities, partly in order to defend our country and partly in order to be able to contribute to international cooperation. I have not felt that there is any profound ambiguity or need to be overexplicit. I myself have been very clear about how things are developing with Russia and the surrounding area in an enormous number of international contexts. Among other things, I have done this on the basis of what is stated in the total defence decisions 2015 and 2020. That is the line both I and the government have taken. Of course, there are slightly different views about military alliance freedom and NATO membership, and we have discussed this in many contexts. One wording reads as follows: Sweden's security policy line is solid. Military freedom of alliance serves us well and contributes to stability and security in northern Europe. It requires an active, broad and responsible foreign and security policy combined with enhanced defence cooperation, especially with Finland, and a credible national defence capability. We shall contribute to long-term stability and security in our part of Europe. There are also wordings about NATO and the transatlantic link and so on. This clear wording has been in place in 2017 – 2020, i.e. four consecutive years. I do not think there has been any ambiguity in where the government stands politically or in the signals of security policy. Don't talk down the decision the Riksdag has made. Me and the government are prepared to stand for every syllable. The foreign policy declaration is not a detailed account of all the elements of the security policy situation; it deals with the whole field of foreign policy, which deals with different things in different parts of the world depending on the situation. These are different documents with a slightly different focus and meaning. But one does not take the other, and we are also fully behind what is stated in the total defence decision – there is no doubt about it.
i-c402edcc1c87c1af-104	Madam President, I would like The Secretary of Defense says that it is strange that we should speak down what is in the defence policy bill. The problem is that it is not we who speak it down, but Minister for Foreign Affairs Ann Linde. The Minister of Defence avoids answering the question why the government chooses to have different formulations. It is important for the reason that there is a formulation that is formulated by the Defence Committee in broad political agreement and that the Minister for Defence himself supports in his own proposal – and that he has repeated, which is fundamentally good. But it is not used when you intend to send a foreign and security policy signal from the Riksdag, but instead take something homemade. Moreover, it is even more serious because the government is a rather weak, small minority government. One can use a wording that there is broad parliamentary support around, but one does not do so but choose something that two parties – at best two parties, the Social Democrats and the Green Party – have negotiated. Then you have to ask yourself: Why do you expose yourself to this problem when you could have made it simple, clear and clear? Furthermore, the wording that we are discussing contains several key messages that are lost by not repeating them. First of all, an armed attack on Sweden cannot be ruled out. It's a change in relation to the past. Nor can it be excluded that military force or threats of such might be used against Sweden. It is also a rather serious formulation, and it was probably the one that Stefan Löfven and Margot Wallström thought in 2018 was very alarmistic. Finally, Sweden will inevitably be affected by a security policy crisis or if armed conflict occurs in the immediate vicinity of Sweden. It cannot be any clearer than that, Madam President. Through this wording, Sweden clearly says that if any of our neighbours around the Baltic Sea or in Northern Europe are attacked, attacked or desecrated, there will inevitably be a witch's kettle around the Baltic Sea. Then one must return to the questions: why not use what there is a broad consensus around instead of going on something that two parties, without the involvement of others, have concocted themselves? Madam President, I would like The ambiguous is the unclear. Therefore, my strong recommendation and call to the Swedish Government, represented here by Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist, on foreign and security policy is that it is a strength to choose the path of clarity and clarity and to have order and order of words. I appreciate, Madam President, that the defence minister had in his defence policy direction the central wordings, but I regret that the same government was unable to repeat them in its foreign policy declaration. The question that remains in the Chamber: why is this problem being put to the table?
i-c402edcc1c87c1af-111	Madam President, I would like Let me inculcate what Hans Wallmark said. This is not about talking down any decision. We have been involved in taking a total defense decision together, and there, too, the Moderates are willing to support both the direction of the war organization and the basic organization and the economy until 2025. Then we have a bigger financial framework, so we have really been involved in taking responsibility, I think, linked to this. I believe that the Minister for Defence must expect him to be able to answer questions in this House about central documents relating to Sweden's security policy line, if it runs between what is stated in the foreign declaration about the risk of an armed attack and what is in the total defence bill. I feel, Madam President, that this debate, but partly also the previous one, points out that there are a lot of things in the government's security policy line that are simply not connected. Maybe it's not that strange. I do not think that what the government does is always an analogy with what it says. For example, it is said that military alliance freedom serves us well and contributes to stability and security in the immediate region, while at the same time doing everything possible to deepen cooperation with important NATO countries such as the United States, the United Kingdom, Norway and others. Now we are even placing the regiments so that we can quickly get help from the United States, which is a central NATO country, in the event of an armed attack. I therefore believe that many people find it contradictory to turn back the clock and talk about military alliance freedom serving us well when, at the same time, international defence cooperation with a number of NATO countries is deepened. Let me also say that the Reinfeldt Government had a common, negotiated security policy line that was anchored in the Defence Committee to the letter. The government has chosen not to drive that road, but instead to choose its own home-woven model.
i-c402edcc1c87c1af-116	Madam President, I would like The foreign policy declaration states that Sweden will not remain passive if a disaster or attack strikes another EU country or a Nordic country. We expect these countries to act in the same way if Sweden is affected. We should therefore be able to provide and receive support, both civilian and military. ..................................................... It was a tremendous stir about witch cauldron and what we are doing in a serious crisis situation, and I do not know if it was a motivated speech on the part of Wallmark. I have full insight into these things. Much of what Wallmark is arguing about I have been saying for almost ten years, in different variants and forms. There is no news value in these posts. Then I assume that Pål Jonson knows that it is on the basis of military alliance freedom that we cooperate with all the other countries. There is nothing strange about it, but it is a broad-based line in the Swedish Parliament that we are pursuing. We're not part of any military alliance. It's like the base plate itself. It is the same for Finland, with which we have the most profound and far-reaching cooperation, that is, beyond peace-time conditions. I have answered the question two or three times now. A foreign policy declaration is not in its entirety and in every detail a detailed statement of the security situation. This is not normally the case in an external declaration. The foreign policy declaration also contains a very clear indication of our cooperation in the immediate region: the transatlantic link, the UN, the OSSE, the partnership with NATO and all of it. The foreign declaration rests on the whole foundation behind which the Riksdag has supported it. When I say that I think that the value of the total defence decision is being spoken down, it is based on the fact that it would not be valid simply because it is not, in every detail, expressed in the foreign declaration or that it would have a lesser value. It has no less value, but it is an important cornerstone of the whole policy that we are pursuing. There's nothing weird about me there. The whole government is behind this. It is not a bill that only I have put forward, but it is actually based on a government decision. It has passed through the Swedish parliament, and what it says is the mandate for the measures that the government is now taking, including the negotiation activities that we are currently engaged in with the UK and, among other things, in building the important transatlantic link, which we have developed very far. I do not think that we should construct contradictions and problems that I actually regard as non-existent. Rather, we need to work forward and try to make something concrete out of the decisions we have taken. That's where my focus lies. I think we can report back gradually here, only the coronan is slowed down and further positive progress is being made.
i-c402edcc1c87c1af-123	Madam President, I would like Nevertheless, I must admire the Minister for Defence for his perseverance in avoiding the question of why it is being subjected to one formulation in the important document, the defence policy proposal, and another in the foreign policy declaration. Madam President, I would like The Secretary of Defense claims that there is no newsworthy in my description of the situation around the Baltic Sea. It's possible. But there is a news value in the fact that Minister for Foreign Affairs Ann Linde has one formulation and Minister for Defence Peter Hultqvist has another. Why do you do that? Madam President, I would like I'm on Peter Hultqvist's side. I think it is the wording to which he refers and which is drawn up by a defence committee with broad political and parliamentary support that is central. I am not speaking down any wording. The problem is that Peter Hultqvist's own government colleague Ann Linde deliberately and carefully chooses not to use this formulation. Then the question is, why do you do that? You put yourself through an unnecessary problem. One could have referred, Madam President, to something that not only Peter Hultqvist thinks is good, but also Mr Wallmark and Pål Jonson think is good – to something that Moderates, center parties, Christian Democrats, Social Democrats and environmentalists think is good. Madam President, I would like Like Pål Jonson, there are now several major issues: Sweden's relationship with the UK, Sweden's long-term relationship with Finland beyond the peace period, the security policy line, where there is some uncertainty in the government's various governance documents, and a NATO option, for which there is a parliamentary majority. All of this should fall into one and the same conclusion: Invite broad parliamentary talks between all eight parties in Parliament!
i-c402edcc1c87c1af-127	Madam President, I would like I think that Wallmark and Jonson are basically constructing a problem that does not really exist. I have no problem with the fact that we have an external declaration that spans the problems that we have to deal with on the world stage in a broader way than is the case in the total defence decision. These documents have different purposes. The whole basic package, focusing on the rehabilitation of national capabilities and the deepening of international cooperation, is included in the foreign declaration. The decision we have taken on the total defence bill and those wordings apply. But just the fact that you conduct the discussion as you do somehow leads to the feeling that they suddenly did not deserve as much as the decision that Parliament has made, and that is certainly not the government's point of view. This thing with Ann Linde She has exactly the same position as I do. Wallmark, that's gonna be a little too bad. It is not at all a question of knowingly and studied, but two documents with partly different objectives. With regard to relations with Finland beyond the times of peace, this is a secret operational planning that has gradually been built up. Normally, these kinds of things are handled well in other contexts. We will have to return to this debate on more occasions, I suppose. It is good that this can be ventilated at regular intervals. But it's not about us cooking up something or somehow inventing something. What has been decided by the Riksdag applies, and what is stated in the foreign declaration applies. These are not things that are opposed to each other, but what is there is based on the direction of the total defence decision.
i-c402edcc1c87c1af-131	Madam President, I would like Thomas Morell has asked me what measures I and the government intend to take to tackle the criminal handling of explosives. Combating serious crime, such as the use of explosives by criminals, is one of the core tasks of the state and is one of the government's top priorities. It is incredibly serious that the public is in danger. As Thomas Morell mentions, the number of reported cases of public destruction by blasting slightly in Sweden in 2020 has decreased, but they are still at a high level, and it is not yet possible to say whether it is a lasting decline we are seeing. The government is doing extensive work to reduce both supply and demand for illegal explosives. An important part of reducing the availability of illegal explosives in criminal environments is to strengthen the control of explosives. According to the Police Department, civilian explosives have increasingly been used in illegal blasts. Against this background, I have held talks on several occasions in 2020 and 2021 with the relevant industry organisations and authorities working with explosive goods. Both the government and the industry are now working on several different measures. Among other things, the Government decided on 11 February this year on the legislative referral to the Council to strengthen control over explosives in order to strengthen control over those involved in these goods. The Swedish Civil Contingencies Agency has received several government assignments aimed, among other things, at developing the municipalities' permit and supervision work on explosives, explosives and detonators, reviewing methods for the labelling of civil explosives and setting up a national forum for the safety of explosives. In order to deal with the problems of illegal explosions, developed cooperation between authorities is also required. Therefore, in November 2019, six authorities were tasked with increasing society's ability to handle explosives and their illegal use. A concrete result of the mission, to be reported in November 2021, is the establishment of a national bomb data centre that will increase the ability to prevent, prevent and manage explosions. The government's efforts to reduce the demand for illegal explosives are also linked to the extensive measures taken against organised crime and gang crime. The government's 34-point programme is the largest package against gang crime in Sweden ever, with measures in both the short and long term. The expansion of the Police Authority is also a central part of this work. The government's goal is that there will be 10,000 more police employees in 2024 compared to 2016. Last year we passed halfway to the target. The number of police officers increased during 2020 in all police regions of the country, and there have never before been as many police officers in Sweden as now. One that the government does to gang crime is the most extensive ever in Sweden. Together with the specific measures taken to increase synergies between the actors concerned and to reduce access to illegal explosives, crime is tackled from several sources at the same time. Me and the government are determined to continue work to prevent explosions, and we have no plans to slow down.
i-c402edcc1c87c1af-137	Madam President, I would like I thank Minister Mikael Damberg for his answer. On Sunday, February 14, something, probably an explosive device, detonated in eastern Malmö. In connection with the detonation completely destroys d es about twenty cars in a fire. On Wednesday 11 November 2020, a bomb detonated inside a doctor's office in Gothenburg. The bomb was placed inside a toilet, and in connection with the detonation an elderly woman was seriously injured. That's how I started the interpellation. There was a slightly smaller number of blasts in 2020 than there was in 2019, and that is of course positive. But we are still at an incredibly high level compared to all comparable countries. A doctorate in sociology and researcher at the Institute for Future Studies says: This is where Sweden stands out. At 2:30 a.m. last night the citizens of Höganäs woke up by a detonation. 40 apartments were destroyed. 60 windows were broken. The entrance to the house is completely destroyed. If you look at the pictures you can see that it was a violent detonation. One can only imagine how people living in this environment experience it. They wake up in the middle of the night with a terrible bang, and the whole doorway of the house is blown away. This is the way criminals show power. You go in to silence someone, scare someone. If it is then a police officer who lives in the property, another criminal, a prosecutor or someone who works in the judiciary, the purpose is to frighten that person. That's the target. But all the others around are affected in the same way. Society here has to put a lot of pressure on it. This isn't good enough. In the answer, the Government says that it should have a stronger control over explosives in order to strengthen control over those who deal with these goods. You put a sharper control on those who legally handle explosives. That is where the measures are put in place. But that's not where you find the problems with those who blow up. I've been contacted by people who work in this environment where they deal with explosives during the day. They do that to blow up mountains or whatever it may be. The illegal quantities that come in are transported across borders and smuggled in. That is often what is used in the bombings. This is where measures must be put in place to tackle the illegal handling of explosives, which was used, for example, in what happened last night in Höganäs. It is not likely that someone who works as a rock blaster has engaged in the action that took place last night, but some criminal or group of criminals did so to frighten someone into silence. It would be interesting to hear the Government's ideas on how to move forward. As I see it, the measures are not sufficient. You put sharper measures in the wrong place.
i-c402edcc1c87c1af-145	Madam President, I would like I will begin by fully sharing Thomas Morell's view of the problem. It's terrible. It's too high, and it's going down. The explosion that was last night in Höganäs was another example of how criminals have zero respect for the safety and security of other people. It is not just a question of whether they may have agreements or engage in some form of blackmail. They show total indifference to people around them. It's only lucky again that no one seems to have come to serious harm when such a powerful bomb of any kind explodes. I totally agree that we should go on the problem from all sides. I understood that the question was about it, but it is possible that I had read wrong. We have already made a great deal of effort in the past to tighten up the weapons offences, but also the penalties for the authorisation of explosives. We have extended it so that more of those crimes are also considered to be serious or particularly serious. We've considerably tightened the penalty level for that kind of crime. We have also introduced a new smuggling offence. It is a completely new crime with a higher penalty scale for those who smuggle this type of goods into Sweden. We have also expanded the resources and powers of customs. It is given new powers by means of penalties and can use secret coercive measures to a greater extent than in the past. In addition, the Swedish Customs Agency has been given increased opportunities to work with postal companies so that if consignments come to Sweden that includes such items, they should be kept. In recent years the police have alerted us and said that more and more of the blasts that we have seen in Sweden are being carried out with civilian explosives. Then it is important not only to look at customs and its powers and the police's work against gang crime in general, but also to restrict access to civilian explosives. That is why we have given assignments to several authorities, and that is why the industry has been so committed. It also has an interest in the safety of the industry so that the legal explosives do not come into the wrong hands. The industry is taking several steps in this, and we support it with supervision and control. We have a very good dialogue with the industry. The industry thinks it is good that the rules are tightened up. It has previously found it strange that the municipalities have not taken this work seriously enough in the past, for example in their supervisory work. I would argue that we have to go on the explosives from all sides. Although it is gang criminals who use civilian explosives, we must make it more difficult for them to obtain civilian explosives, alongside the hand grenades and other explosives smuggled to Sweden. I'm prepared to look at every hole and every hatch there is to plug them and make sure we get to grips with this. I can only hope that last year's development was still a trend break. I want to see more months where blasts are at a lower level. I'm a little hopeful that we'll still be able to see a turnaround when it comes to explosions. Explosives are still so complicated for gang criminals to use that they themselves do not really know what to do in all situations. When you knock out a bomb operation, you can knock out a network of those who use it. The police have knocked out a number of bomb networks. I think that will have an effect. We have seen in Malmö how blasts have decreased for many years in a row. I think this is thanks to a rather successful police work.
i-c402edcc1c87c1af-157	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. No, probably no one was physically harmed at night's blast. In any case, nothing has been read in the media. But that's not where the big wound is with the people who are affected. The big wound is that they don't feel security. When will it go off next time? I'm sure you'll have to attribute your luck to the fact that no one was hurt. If one blows off such a large charge as it was clearly a matter of, the risk is obvious that someone will be harmed. It may be a door blowing in and hitting someone on the inside, a window or something like that. We all remember the explosion in Linköping a few years ago. There were 25 people who were slightly injured. I think it was about seventy apartments that got ruined in that bang. There the investigation showed that there were 15 kilos of explosives in a bicycle that had been placed in some bicycle storage outside, and then there was a remote release on it. It shows how incredibly casual they are to the safety of other people. The person who triggered the explosive was not in place and could not possibly have known if there was someone who was going to pick up their bike there just when it was small. That ruthlessness is probably the worst of it all. No one is safe when someone makes the mistake of blowing 15 kilos of explosives off a multi-family property. The fact that no one died or was badly injured is just pure luck. In this context, society must be very clear and make it clear to criminals that it is not an acceptable situation. I wrote the interpellation in connection with what happened in Malmö. There were also car fires involved in it. There's a fire in cars like never before in this country. For some reason they have become very flammable. In Skövde 35 cars were fired up last year. The legal process if it's just finished. There were some young people involved. There were 35 cars. Who gets to take the cost of the explosions where you break large parts of property or when you burn up cars? Yes, it's the policyholders. It is we in the insurance collective who insure our houses and insure our cars that will have to take the cost of this, if we are to count money. If we are to talk about the spiritual cost, it is about the people who are in the area where this is happening. It creates insecurity and uncertainty that is difficult to bear if you are not affected by it yourself. When will it go off next time? Is it my car that's gonna burn on the next occasion? What do the police do to get to it? The police do a great deal to the extent that there are staff available. Skövde is close at hand, in relation to where I live. Action was taken there. You were a little tricky when you were about to solve the crime, linked the kids to it pretty quickly and could get a solution to it. Nevertheless, it is the residents there and the policyholders who have had to take the cost of their insurance policies on the cars, because the premium goes up. But the big part is the spiritual cost. It is the uncertainty and insecurity that are spreading when this is allowed to continue, and many are affected. The researchers say that Sweden stands out in such a way that it cannot be found in any other country.
i-c402edcc1c87c1af-168	Madam President, I would like I really have no other view than that it is quite correct that both this type of explosion, which is less common, and the fires create great insecurity. It is nevertheless a good thing if we start from the reality. The statistics on damage offences in 2016 were broken down in respect of fire, which then became a car fire or a fire on other motor vehicles. But let us merge these in order to get a true picture and avoid doubts in the statistics. In 2016, we had approximately 3,800 such reported crimes in Sweden. In 2019 and 2020 we had 2,800 reported crimes involving fire. So it has gone down from very high levels. I think it's just as Morell describes: You've learned how to prevent some of this. It is above all a question of early intervention. It is often about some form of insurance fraud; we should not underestimate that proportion. There have been quite a few insurance frauds linked to some of the fires. Other fires are about young people who sometimes act alone and sometimes on missions to set cars on fire. This is a crime that aims either to make money out of insurance fraud or to make a mess. It creates insecurity in the areas. Looking at Brå's reports on insecurity in socially vulnerable areas, one of the issues that is particularly distinguished is car fires. They create insecurity in the areas. This is why police and municipalities, together with other actors, are trying to prevent this and to reduce it. I have no other opinion than that we should continue to work to push this down more than we have managed to do so far.
i-c402edcc1c87c1af-173	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. It is good to hear that the Government has a focus on wanting to get to the problem, because this is a problem that affects so many people in our societies. It is the ordinary honest citizen who is affected. Criminals take power in society and create insecurity for ordinary people who are totally unacceptable. A few years ago, 2018– it's not that long ago– a lot of cars burned in Frölunda. There were about seventy cars that were burned up. In the subsequent investigation the police themselves said that they thought it was because the police had made efforts against the criminal gangs, their drug trades and so on in the area. They would then mark against society by burning up the cars. I think it is important for society to be clear that it does not accept this and that society does not back away so that the moots of criminals grow. In this respect, society must stand strong and really stand out against the criminal elements. They must be clearly marked against them and, in the case of serious crimes, they must be locked into prison. But you also have to go in early and steer young people, because as it is now it is ten to twelve year olds who run as representatives for the larger and heavier criminals. They run with guns, and they run with drugs. The Government states that it has come half way by increasing the number of police employees, which also includes civilian employees. But this effort is too bad; we need to step up our efforts even more in order to counter the development we have in society. The recruitment of criminals is much tougher than what we have to give in democratic society.
i-c402edcc1c87c1af-178	Madam President, I would like We are only at the beginning of a power collection that is unprecedented in Sweden. It is clear that it is important for us to tighten up penalties, especially for what gang criminals are doing. We have also done so in terms of both violent crimes, blasts, shootings and drug offences. We will have further proposals to tighten up the penalties during the year. We have a new gang investigation that is watching that criminal activity taking place in a gang environment will lead to stricter penalties. The whole piece of punishment – really getting the penalty values up on what the gangs are doing – has been an important strategy. This also leads to more people being arrested, not least for weapons crimes or the handling of explosives. As a result, we lock them up much more than we used to. It's part of it. Another part is that the police need new tools to convict. We have a rather big discussion now about digital evidence. I've been saying for a long time that maybe this is a game-changer – allowing the police to have more access to the digital evidence. That is what leads to a conviction for planning and incitement, but it is also a question of getting further up the hierarchies. Secret data reading is a completely new tool that allows the police to break in and read encrypted information. I think it's absolutely necessary if you're going to get to gang crime. The government will change the work further. Let's do it on three fronts. The first is that we're tough on gang crime. The second is that we are investing a great deal in preventing recruitment, and this is very much about prevention. The third is that criminals should not be allowed to share finance in different ways. Not a penny should go to criminal activity. However, if I am to sum up, it is still police growth that is crucial. It is about more police officers around Sweden who are present and who can work preventively, investigate crimes and put people in prison. That is why we continue to work for this, and we are only halfway on the major police expansion that we are facing. Society is stronger than these gangs. It is a matter of gathering strength, and I am pleased that we have 1 000 more people in detention today compared to a few years ago. It is in many of these groups that are in prison.
i-c402edcc1c87c1af-186	Madam President, I would like Hans Rothenberg has asked the Minister for Energy and Digitalization if he believes that the SMS campaign in December 2020 was so effective that it met the expectations of the government and the public. He has also asked what experiences the government and the Government draw from the SMS campaign for the future. The interpellation has been handed over to me. On 10 December 2020, the Government decided to instruct the Swedish Civil Protection Agency and the Swedish Public Health Agency to jointly develop and coordinate a mass mailing in the form of a text message to the public from the authorities in view of the current state of play regarding the coronapandemine. The purpose of the mailing was to inform and encourage the public to follow the advice available to reduce the spread of covid-19. The mailing was carried out on Monday 14 December and is the first mass sending of text messages to the public made in Sweden. The authorities reported the assignment to the Government on 27 January 2021. The report shows that over 13 million text messages were sent to most Swedish subscribers via the telecommunications operators Telia, Tele 2, Telenor and Tre. The mailing was carried out according to plan and in collaboration with several authorities. No technical or accessibility problems were noted. The report also shows that the number of visits to Krisinformation.se and the websites of the authorities increased significantly as a result of the mailing. The number of visits to Krisinformation.se was approximately 3.5 million on 14 December, compared with about 54,000 visits the corresponding day one week earlier. The number of visits to msb.se increased five-fold to about 66,000. Traffic to the Public Health Agency's website also increased to 686 000 compared to about 194 000 corresponding days a week earlier. A number of visits to Krisinfo rmation.se and the websites of the authorities remained significantly higher than normal during the trip of week 51. In summary, the authorities note that the mailing has had the intended effect of informing the public and inviting the public to follow the advice available to reduce the spread of covid-19. I am making the same assessment as the authorities on this issue. It is also possible that in future we will see more similar SMS campaigns, depending on what the authorities want to communicate. We have been able to see these developments in our neighbouring countries, and I also believe that the public in Sweden expect that important information can also be reached through text messages in certain situations.
i-SopE1K5Ceb4oF22UbAjAUk	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer to the interpellation! It was December 14, last year that it finally came – the text that everyone had been waiting for. For this was a great event; it was the first time that mass communication from the government and from authorities directly to citizens in real time was possible without any intermediaries. Once the text came, it was brief and very distinct. Information from the authorities: Follow the new strengthened advice to stop the proliferation of covid-19. Read more on the website Crisis information. It didn't say what the authorities were. It didn't say what advice it was. There was also no link in the message. That's why it became a huge snack in Sweden. I asked Mr Ygeman a question about this quite immediately, because it was a question of digitalisation and communication. This campaign was talked about even before it was carried out. Once the mailing took place, it was perceived as an anticlimax, since the content of the message was extremely limited. The focus on the communication was great, both in the media and in discussions on social media – but not for what was intended, namely how people should act in the current circumstances, but rather because the information was non-specific and because there was no link to the most important information. Moreover, it was not entirely clear who was the sender. Further members of Parliament have then asked questions and interpellations on the subject to several ministers. The answers have been limited to their content. The answer I received to my written question to Minister Ygeman was so limited that I also chose to ask an interpellation. Otherwise, I wouldn't have done it. I thought the written question would suffice. I asked whether the Government considered the SMS campaign to be so effective that it met the expectations of the Government and the public and what experience the Government and the Government drew from the SMS campaign for the future. Now the interpellation has been handed over to Minister Mikael Damberg. I think that's good. We have had many good debates over the years. I believe that there can also be more clarification. What is important when carrying out an activity is to set goals, to have a clear message and also to follow it up. In this case, the Minister says that 13 million text messages were sent out and that no technical disturbances or accessibility problems were noted. Nevertheless, the message was unclear, it was incomplete, and it was almost mocked in many places. The number of visits to Krisinformation.se with several websites increased significantly as a result of the mailing, says the Minister. I think that is also worth evaluating. Was it because of the mailing, or was it because there were high expectations of this mailing? I would like to ask Mikael Damberg: What were the objectives? Were the targets exceeded? Were they found? Would there have been more visits if there had been a link in the text?
i-c402edcc1c87c1af-197	Madam President, I would like It is important to say that Sweden had not done this before. The government had for a long time had had a discussion and a dialogue with not least MSB about the advantages and disadvantages of various communication efforts, including this one. We had also noted that some of our neighbours had implemented text messages in various forms. Then we decided that we should give this task to the authorities. We were in a situation where the spread of infection was at a serious level. There were also new recommendations in the pipeline, and we wanted more people to reflect on the rules applicable to the post-SMS period. That is why we wanted to make an extra effort to provide information on the new rules that would apply. We didn't set a numerical target. We commissioned the authorities to both design and implement this. The government did not decide exactly how it should be done, but the authorities had to do so. With regard to the concrete question of link, it was an authority that had very definite views, and that was the Police Authority. The police authority felt that the authorities would not send out a link because we see that very many frauds are now being carried out with different fake links. Opening up at this point to believe that authorities inform via links that people could easily want to click on, in the midst of the pandemic, would pose a risk of further fraud, and the police authorities did not want to know that. I think that not least MSB was impressed by this. Although we from the government did not make a decision about it, MSB listened to this. They also have their own experience of these questions digitally and therefore chose not to send with a link. This could have meant that later in the pandemic we could have further problems with false official messages that could be used for fraud purposes. That's also why we had a strange press meeting before the mailing to inform about what the mailing would look like, so that no one would think that we would send out a link that one could be fooled with afterwards when one understood that that was what the authorities wanted to do. So we tried to inform so that this could not be misused. Was it a success or not? I guess it's in the eye of the beholder. Nevertheless, I think that 3 1⁄2 million visits to Krisinformation.se, where the collected government information in Sweden is available, are very many visits. That worked, too, technically. After all, there was discussion that there would be congestion and that too many people would call in the information numbers that society has. That's not what happened either. That's what we did, too. In addition, we saw that the interest on the government pages was greater after the text message and lasted a few days after that. We wanted to have that effect: that people should get along. When it comes to the restriction, one can well sort it out with the authorities, but it was a collaboration between four operators who volunteered for free – or for free it should be called Moderate – so that the mailing could be carried out, which was very grateful. Then there was a limitation in the number of characters. If there were a lot of information, different languages and so on, you would have to send out many text messages after each other. Then they chose to refer instead to Krisinformation.se, where there is much information and more specific information. I also believe that at the time there were 20 different languages represented. You couldn't handle that in a text. From what I understand, it was these authority considerations that were made to ensure that people gained more knowledge. I am clear about the conclusions on the future. It is good that the authorities have evaluated this, but it is even more important that we consider how SMS messages can work in the future. I believe that, in certain contexts, the public expects to receive information via text messages in the event of major events, accidents and disasters.
i-c402edcc1c87c1af-205	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. I agree that these tools should be used. It is all the more important then that it really happens in a confidence-inspiring way, so that it is not the snack as it was last time. In this context, I had expected a thorough evaluation to be carried out, which could even be public, so that citizens could also know what it was that they did not understand or what it was that they had been given. One reason why there was a lot of traffic was probably that this had become haussat before and that there was an almost viral discussion about it. We cannot expect this to happen the second time, the fifth time or the twenty-seventh time. Then you start to expect that it is distinct information that comes this way. When it comes to cheap or free, cheap is not always the same as good. I understand, however, that these operators were available free of charge. It is an amazing reference to have worked for Sweden's entire crisis authorities and for the government. In fact, it would be a shame to charge in these circumstances. But there too, there is reason to look over this for the next few times. This will not have the pleasure of the news next time. Then you have to evaluate this too. There will be additional costs, and these costs must always be set in relation to the impact and results obtained. I am curious to hear the experiences referred to by Mikael Damberg. How has the evaluation been carried out? Have we sat down and said that we are quite satisfied, or has a methodical study been carried out, qualitatively or quantitatively? Is there nothing that can be improved? If it does, what can be improved? What could be supplemented? I had the text printed to get it readable. There's quite a few letters. It is all the more important, then, that the communication is distinct and that the information is relevant. What could be supplemented? What could be done to ensure that this is undoubtedly distinct information? And what are the lessons and recommendations for the next occasion for a similar campaign?
i-c402edcc1c87c1af-212	Madam President, I would like The authorities reported the mission on 27 January. They then reported how many had been reached by this, if they had had technical problems and if they had had other accessibility problems in other channels linked to information. It appears that 13 million text messages were sent out but that the number of visits increased by 31⁄2 million this day and remained at a high level for the rest of week 51. In summary, they note that the mailing has had the intended effect of informing and inviting the public to follow the advice available to reduce the spread of covid-19. The government's ambition was not – now I interpret them, I will say – that people would find the information among these signs, but the ambition was for people to go into Krisinformation.se. There was more information, in 20 different languages. There was also a completely different organization to deal with the questions raised by people reading the information as well as chat functions and other things where further answers could be found to questions if there were ambiguities. That's where the authorities wanted to rule people. I look forward to us continuing to develop SMS issues in the future, as well as important communication to the public. This may be a hair-splitting issue, but we in Parliament should know that this was not an important message to the public. The authorities considered that this type of information was not sufficiently acute or specifically linked to a warning in an emergency situation without more indicative information, and it is not possible today to use Important Communication to the public. We set up an investigation in February to review the VMA warning system. This includes reviewing and proposing a more coherent regulation of VMA both in peacetime and in wartime, looking at the different message types to apply for warning and guidance information in case of serious events, reviewing which actors are covered by the current regulation and whether they need to request VMA and who should have the right to broadcast VMA. This also includes reviewing the need to adapt the existing channels that can be used for VMA and whether the possibility of sending VMA via SMS can be developed. I look forward to this investigation taking a holistic approach to the VMA, and then perhaps the VMA can play an even greater role. Today, VMA can also be used regionally in various events. The fact that we are taking advantage of the digital opportunities when it comes to the dissemination of information also in important communication to the public is, I think, a development that people appreciate. I look forward to the investigation going through this properly and making further suggestions as to how we can improve this system. It is also about the VMA to work in the event of war; it would be good if it did not just work in peacetime.
i-c402edcc1c87c1af-218	Madam President, I would like This is important because it concerns national security in many ways. A pandemic is rarely so acute that it must be handled within six hours; we hope that such galloping conditions will not occur. But in the future too, there will be communications and information to citizens that must come and that lie somewhere in the borderland between important communications to the public and this kind of informative messages. We all get, of course, daily, both on e-mails and on text messages, strange messages that we now with some routine just delete as spam. When something came up where it said, there was another spam. But this message was so cryptic that it attracted some reading. That is not to say that the intelligibility became more obvious. In this context, it is excellent to look at this, because if there is something you cannot play with in terms of this type of communication, it is precisely confidence. That is what caused me to worry, and that is why I asked Mikael Damberg's colleague, Mr Ygeman, about this. This must be taken seriously. I also think it is incredibly important to plan a follow-up from the outset when you engage in this type of activity, as with all other activities. It is important to have a clear message, to set goals, to follow up and evaluate, to learn from experience and to redo, make new and do the right thing where it needs to be done. This is how you create trust, and it is better that you do it from the beginning than that the Swedish National Audit Office will come and put resources on this in the future. I look forward to not getting too many messages of this kind and that the world will be peaceful and joyful. But if that is the case, I want them to be clear and distinct.
i-c402edcc1c87c1af-223	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the opportunity to discuss this issue with the interpellier. I believe that this is important, partly because we need to have effective information channels. There is certainly much to be evaluated after the pandemic and during the pandemic in terms of how we can be more effective in reaching out to different groups. I definitely believe that digital communication channels are becoming increasingly important in today's society, and then the SMS possibility should be there, not only in very urgent situations but something broader, when it comes to important information that needs to be released. That is my firm opinion, and that is also why we have set up this investigation. I look forward to continuing to discuss this issue, not least when the VMA investigation comes back.
i-c402edcc1c87c1af-226	Madam President, I would like Marléne Lund Kopparklint has asked me whether I intend to take any further steps to prevent sexual offences against children from being committed as reports of sexual offences against children have increased. Furthermore, the interpeller has asked me how I intend to work to ensure that the police have sufficient resources to investigate sexual crimes against children. These are very important questions, which I have recently touched upon in response to parliamentary questions from Marléne Lund Kopparklint. I would like to reiterate that the government takes sex offences very seriously, especially sexual crimes against children. Many measures have therefore been taken to improve the chances of combating this type of crime, and new initiatives are being taken on an ongoing basis. The Government sees the need to continue to take a concerted approach to preventing and combating violence and crimes against children. The Government intends, among other things, to instruct a special investigator to propose a national strategy to prevent and combat violence against children, including honour-related violence and repression. The 2020 sex crime investigation reviews the principles that should apply to criminal liability for distance sex offences and child abuse for sexual posing and analyses whether the relevant criminal provisions should be amended. The investigation shall also review the scale of penalties for sexual offences and propose any changes that may be necessary to adequately reflect the seriousness of the offences. The investigation shall report its conclusions to the Government by 31 May 2021. An important part of the government's policy is to strengthen law enforcement capabilities. The government has invested heavily in the Police Authority. The strong effort to expand the Police Authority is under way. The government's target of 10,000 more police employees in 2024 compared to 2016 has been achieved by more than half. At the turn of the year, the Police Authority had 33,726 employees. There have never before been so many police employees in Sweden. The ongoing expansion of the Police Authority has meant that the agency has been able to strengthen the resource that works with, among other things, violence in close relationship. In 2020, close to 380 new investigators have been recruited, focusing in particular on violence in close relationships, sexual crimes and crimes against children. The Agency also draws increased attention to ensuring that it follows the methodological support available for the work, such as early evidence assurance and interrogation. In recent years, the Swedish Prosecution Authority has also been given increased resources to develop its activities and increase the number of prosecutors. It is important that the Police Authority and the Prosecutor's Office continue to develop the management of crimes against children. In the regulations for 2021, we therefore require both authorities to report, among other things, the agency's work against crimes against children, where sexual offences against children are to be reported in particular. The Police Authority shall also report on the continued development work that the Agency intends to carry out and the technical means needed to streamline and increase the resolution of sexual offences against children via the Internet. The police authority shall also assess the extent to which the covid-19 pandemic affects or has affected the development of crime and police action in this area, in particular in relation to offences in relationships and offences against children. To conclude, I would like to emphasise that the government will continue its stubborn efforts to combat sexual crimes, not least against children.
i-c402edcc1c87c1af-235	Madam President, I would like Ladies and gentlemen! My idea was to tell a story. But I changed my mind because it's probably too brutal. But I can still basically tell you what it was about. It is the story of the little child, the little unprotected girl, who was subjected to a brutal sexual crime by an adult against whom she was in an addiction position. The one who had been so close to a father figure you can only get turned into a brutal predator. I really want to tell you about how he deprived her of her childhood and her self-esteem to reflect the barren reality that unfortunately exists in many children. I want to tell you how all this was an open wound through the girl's teenage years and into her adult life. That wound created suicidal thoughts, led to drug abuse and crime, and caused her to stop trusting people. This child was afraid to tell me what had happened. The guilt and shame overshadowed everything. And of course she didn't know you could file a police report. This girl made it against all odds. Now she is standing in this Chamber and is going to talk about how society is going to prevent paedophiles from catching up with children and can expose them to sexual crimes. This girl's story, my story, is by no means unique. It resembles the brutal experiences of many children, young people and adults. It is people who never get redress and are taught to live with anger, guilt and shame. Sexual offences against unprotected children are among the most disgusting crimes that can be committed. The heart breaks when you read or hear about children who are exposed to the most despicable thing you can imagine. Unfortunately, the number of reported sexual offences against children has increased steadily since 2010. The growth in 2020 was almost twice as high as the second highest in the last five years. Something that I find astounding and that I hope the Government can review is something that I read on svt.se. It is a question of investigations of sexual offences against children being regularly sorted out by the country's police forces, as there is a shortage of personnel to investigate those crimes. It appears in a secret report made by the National Operations Department. Madam President, I would like It shows that decisive action is needed to stop development. If politics does not act decisively, many children will suffer in silence. There should be no doubt as to where society stands when it comes to child sexual abuse. If we are serious about protecting children against vile crimes, we need to streamline methods, tighten sanctions and investigate how consequences after serving sentences can be introduced. Clearly, the efforts that exist are not sufficient in view of developments. This is an urgent matter, Madam President. We must protect our children from paedophiles who want to exploit them and thereby deprive them of their childhood and put their mark on them for life. Does the Minister really stand here today and think that you do enough when the statistics look like it does? I note that the Minister's reply does not provide any new information on further measures. However, I am asking the Minister and the Government to respond to how they intend to slow down development, given that children are exposed to these disgusting sexual crimes. What does the Minister intend to do now?
i-c402edcc1c87c1af-245	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by regretting the interpellier's story. It is terrible when children are exposed in this way by people you trust and have a trusting relationship with. It creates wounds for life, I think. I have met many people who have suffered serious crime as children and who have been scarred for life. Therefore, society must be very clear about who is the perpetrator, who is to blame and shame. It's not for the victim, it's for the perpetrator. It is an incredibly important perspective, not least in communication with children and young people so that they will understand that they are not the ones who have done wrong. They're the ones who've taken advantage of them. On this subject, which is a bit in the same vein, I can only inform you that tomorrow the police will launch a major campaign in schools on digital abuse. They will inform children and young people of what is currently in force under the law in relation to the dissemination of naked images and such things. But it is also about the responsibility of adults and teachers in the school environment. We have seen in recent years that digital development has increased vulnerability and contributed to child abuse in different ways. I'm glad the police are changing that work, too. Having said that, I think that in my reply I tried to explain that there are several changes going on, including on the penalty side. I am also thinking of last year's major investment in the Police Authority with 380 special investigators. The report referred to is Noah's way of critically examining whether the police have historically handled it sufficiently professionally and well. That's why this big effort has been made. That is also why there is now methodological support between police and prosecutors. It is about how these crimes should be documented and how, not least when it comes to vulnerable groups, to work with early testimony and interrogations to also secure evidence so that it can lead to more convictions in the future. I also told you that there are several penalties and new questions coming up. I said on the radio yesterday that new legislation is under way on the possibility of searching the house remotely, because some of the crimes occur in digital environments. So we will continue to do a great deal more in this area. I would like to emphasise that the Police Authority really has these issues in focus, and it will not be seen between the fingers if crimes that could be investigated involving children, for example, are written off in this terrible way. No, my picture is that the Police Department is taking this very seriously today. If it is any part of the political authority's growth that one is particularly proud of, it is probably these special investigators. You feel that you needed to have them, but now you have them in a completely different way. As far as developments are concerned, it is right that the number of notifications has increased quite dramatically. To complicate the debate a little, I would like to say that it is quite difficult to look at just the number of notifications. You also have to look at self-reported. In Brå's study, we can see that up to a few years ago there was a big increase in the number of children who indicated that they had been exposed. Then there has been a slight decline. I don't know if it's a real decline. Several changes have also been made to the legislation, not least as regards the extension of sexual offences. It can lead to some standard shifts that are good. It increases the propensity for registration. More of these crimes have to be reported. It is basically good that they are reported. Then we can get to it, and then we can stop it. When you dig into it you can say that it is a bit more complicated in terms of what the development looks like right now. But even if it has declined for a few years, it is still far too high levels. Much more work remains to be done.
i-c402edcc1c87c1af-253	Madam President, I would like The fact that the statistics look like they do may also be due to a decrease in the propensity to report due to a lack of confidence in making a notification. Madam President, I would like The government needs to do more. What you've done isn't enough. We can start with the victim's perspective. It should always be put first. For children who are victims of sexual crimes, this means lifelong suffering. There are many voices who can testify to that. I listened to such a voice a while ago, all our world champion in high jump as well as writer Patrik Sjöberg. He testifies to how he fell through all the safety nets of society and lived in silence throughout his childhood because he suffered terrible sexual abuse for several years. He carried a terrible pain that turned into a great suffering. In adulthood, it took destructive expression before he finally turned into a dandelion child. In order for something really to happen, voices are needed to speak for all those who suffer in silence. Such touching stories are needed so that you carry it with you. It will be a reminder that we must act more vigorously. Madam President, I would like I have some suggestions that I would like the Minister to think seriously about. And I will not stop demanding answers from the Minister until more measures are taken to protect our children from paedophiles that exist in our society. There's something called culling out of the load register. This means that when you have been convicted of a crime and served your sentence for it, a mark in the record can remain five or ten years, depending on how serious the crime is. When we talk about sex offenders who have exposed children to serious sexual crimes, this marking can be discussed. We know that the risk of relapse is high. Should the mark really disappear after five or ten years? I believe that the issue of the extension of the criminal profile in the criminal record of serious sexual offences against children should be examined legally. A flag in the criminal record is an important warning bell for educational institutions, employers and non-profit organisations with a focus for children and young people. They can see if the person has been convicted of sexual offences against children. The right of the child not to be exposed to the risk of being confronted with individuals who have been convicted of serious sexual crimes against children should always outweigh the individual's right to education and work with children. Convicted paedophiles should not be able to find employment in occupations involving meetings with children. I also do not think that they should be allowed to set foot in activities where children are active, for example in sports organisations. Mr. Old President! Just because a paedophile closes the penitentiary door behind him does not mean that the person in question is free from his sexual drive. It is constantly there, and then society must ensure that there are warning bells, not only to protect our children but also to enable the person concerned to get adequate efforts to abstinence. Another point that the Minister has also mentioned is that there must be specially trained police, social services and the judiciary so that every child is properly trained and, above all, listened to. Shouldn't there, Mr. Old President, be childhood chairs with educated people? There is so much to do in this area. I wonder how Minister Damberg views these proposals for action.
i-c402edcc1c87c1af-263	Mr. Old President! Let me start in the part that was about us not doing anything to get some perspective. This is an incredibly prioritised work within the government. In recent years, the government – just to mention a few things – has tightened the scale of penalties for, among other things, gross rape of children and grooming, i.e. contact to meet a child for sexual purposes. We have also tightened the penalties for the exploitation of children in the purchase of sexual acts and for serious child pornography offences. In 2018, the criminal protection of sexual offences against children was strengthened in the event of negligence on the part of the offender in relation to the age of the child. An addition was made to the provision so that it would be regarded as a particular ruthlessness or brutality if the perpetrator of the victim's early age had shown this. This was done so that there would be a further tightening up. In 2018, a new breach of privacy was also introduced. It was thus illegal to spread revenge porn or nude images, for example, without consent. We know that many children and young people are exposed to this on the Internet. This was an extension of illegal threats. In May 2020, the limitation period for rape offences committed against children was abolished. This also applies to crimes committed before the amendment of the law but which had not been time-barred. In May 2020, the criminalisation of the child pornography offence was also extended in such a way that, when portraying children in a pornographic picture, it is sufficient that the perpetrator should have suspected that the child was under 18 years of age. Now we are waiting for the new sexual crime investigation to be presented in May. The investigator has, among other things, analysed and reviewed the principles of criminal liability for sexual offences at a distance and the exploitation of children for sexual posing. The investigator has also reviewed the scale of penalties for sexual crimes, including rape of children. In addition, we have the great growth within the Police Authority and not least the methodological support for the prosecutors and the police. I have visited children's houses as well as prosecutors and police and been told how they now know how to work in various sexual crimes to better secure evidence than they have historically done. One has failed to get convictions because one does not have the job based on the methods of investigation that we know give results. Of course, there may be more to be done. We're in the process of doing this. For example, when it comes to thinning, it is an important discussion that needs to be held. The principles behind thinning are based on the severity of the crime. The rougher it is, the longer it should take before you are removed from the system. I think that is basically a reasonable principle. In the event of serious crime, you should remain in the system longer. One thing that does not detract from the discussion is that it is not just the time of employment that is important in this. If you conduct an activity, for example in sports, it is incredibly important that you not only focus on the time of employment, but you have to think about how the activity takes place. If there are special risk environments where children are more naked, such as shower environments, the association or business must think it through so that adults are not alone with the children. I don't want that to happen. We must have a child perspective also on the business and not just at the time of employment. This does not detract from the discussion, but I would like to broaden it. An employer is responsible for the business even for the adults who are there, whether they are employed or only inside the business. These issues need to be considered, for one has a responsibility to protect children from the risks of meeting adults.
i-c402edcc1c87c1af-273	Mr. Old President! I am pleased that the Minister is addressing these areas. Of course, you need to look at the contact ban when it comes to the surfaces of convicted sex offenders. Today, a person convicted of serious sexual crimes against children can enter a swimming pool where children are trained for swimming. One might ask whether this or that the person is staying at a preschool, for example, is okay. So there is much that can be done. Of course, you shouldn't just look at the time of employment when someone is recruited. I think that it might also be useful to keep a constant check on the load register. People can commit crimes while they're employed. I would like to come back to the question of what happens when someone closes the penitentiary door behind them. Does the sex drive stop then? No, I don't think so. There's a difference between sex offenders who have repeatedly committed crimes. I think that special measures should be taken and this should be taken into account. You also have to do research on this. I think it is a shortcoming today that we do not look at this in this way. Furthermore, I believe that an employer who wants to recruit for a position or assignment should not be able to employ a person who has been convicted of paedophilia offences, i.e. sexual crimes, in activities where you meet children and young people. This is something you need to bring with you. As I'm sure you've noticed, I have a long list of actions. I am absolutely convinced that I will shortly be standing here talking about children's rights and how best to protect them from this. My contribution to the Government is: Put children first, and research more on the victim's perspective so that you understand the fatal consequences of these crimes.
i-c402edcc1c87c1af-278	Mr. Old President! Thank you, interpellant, for a very important discussion! We'd be happy to continue with that. We are only at the beginning of the work to push back crime like this. In my last post, let me take the chance and do a stakeout about the future of what is growing and what we see as particularly challenging. From a European and international perspective and within European police authorities, there is much talk of the fact that during the pandemic they have seen a surge of digital crimes targeting children for sexual purposes. Perhaps it is because people have been home more and children have not been to school but have been sitting at screens. Perhaps this has become a gateway to such crime. It is incredibly important that the police have the right tools to tackle this crime. It brings me back to what we started the discussion about, namely digital evidence. I think it is becoming increasingly important in various ways. We see that when we finally begin to get to gang crime, it happens through digital evidence. I think it is exactly the same mechanisms that control the industry that parts of the sexual crimes against children unfortunately involve. You share the pictures with each other. They are part of different groups where the admission ticket is to share abuse of children to see others' abuse of children. That's an international billion-dollar industry. It is about following the money and working internationally not only in Sweden but also with other countries to tackle crime. Europol has made considerable efforts in this area, where Sweden is also actively involved. But more will have to be done in the international field linked to digital evidence. I am also looking forward to coming back to that later.
i-NPo8bQCi5TKNhJTAjSSFak	Mr. Old President! Thomas Morell has asked the Minister for Justice and Migration whether the government intends to introduce protected data for police officers and other professionals in law enforcement. The interpellation has been handed over to me. It is totally unacceptable that those responsible for helping and protecting others in society should be attacked and prevented from carrying out their work tasks. It is about both protecting the individual and ultimately protecting our rule of law and democracy. Both police officers and other professional groups must have a safe and safe working environment, which is ultimately the responsibility of the employer. On behalf of the Government, the work of the Political Authority on Safety and Health at Work has intensified. For example, physical protection measures are carried out in the form of bulletproof glass in receptions, body-borne cameras, reinforced lighting and fences in staff parking. The Police Authority has allocated SEK 50 million per year for these measures, and the initiative continues in 2021. The Head of the Swedish Police has also commissioned the Office's security department to strengthen the protection of employees. The criminal law protection of central blue light operations has been reinforced by the introduction of a new crime; sabotage of blue light operations. In this case, the scale of penalties for aggravated violence or threats to officials has been tightened. In addition, an investigation is under way to assess, among other things, what societal functions are in need of enhanced criminal protection and how such protection can be achieved. The investigator shall also consider whether the offence of violence or threats to an official should be divided and whether the scale of penalties for violence against an official should be tightened. The investigator shall present his/her conclusions by 12 November 2021. Other examples of measures that have been taken to strengthen employee protection include increased opportunities for a policeman to search the police premises for interviews. In addition, the rules on service cards have changed, which means that police workers no longer have to expose their full name and personal identity number in the performance of their duties. More policemen contribute to greater security in society and to greater security for the police themselves. The government is therefore working hard to reach the target of 10,000 more police workers by 2024. By the turn of the year, the number of police employees had increased by more than 5,000 since 2016, which means that we are now more than halfway towards the target. As regards the possibility of protecting data on civil servants, important interests stand against each other. In the exercise of authority, it is essential that the individual can know who makes the decisions. It is about transparency and conditions for accountability. The public interest in being able to access data on civil servants is strong. At the same time, threats, violence and harassment of civil servants can mean both a health and safety problem and a democracy problem. Therefore, in view of the safety of employees and their families and other dependants, it has been considered justified that certain information on civil servants should be protected. The starting point today is that the confidentiality of employees' housing addresses and private telephone numbers applies. In some authorities where staff may, in particular, be exposed to threats or violence, personal identity numbers and date of birth may also be protected. This applies, among other things, to employees of the Police and Social Welfare Boards. Under certain conditions, threatened and persecuted persons may also have their information protected in the population register. In conclusion, both the Government and the Police Authority have taken several measures for a safer working environment for the agency's employees. The government is working continuously and purposefully to provide law enforcement authorities with the best possible conditions for carrying out their missions. The government will continue to monitor developments closely and does not exclude further action if necessary.
i-c402edcc1c87c1af-289	Mr. Old President! Thank you for your answer, Minister. With regard to the previous interpellation debate, we could clearly see the need for increased police resources, not only from the point of view of violence, but also from the point of view of children. I woke up my interpellation after the chief of police and the chairman of the Police Association had written a debate article on 2 March on the situation of police workers in terms of easy tracing of police employees. I can tell you from my own experience when I was working in the police. It was a long time ago – almost 20 years – this happened. On Christmas Day, I was dialed on the phone by an unknown number. Threats were voiced, and my wife, who also worked in the police, had been mapped out. It was known that she was on duty at the police station in Skövde at the time. That the threat went directly to me was one thing, but the fact that my wife was involved and mapped out her working hours was very unpleasant. I called the guard and told her she couldn't get home on her own and needed help. This started a major investigation. There was, of course, a police report. We had good police officers in the police in Skövde who could quickly call in who had pronounced the threat, and there was also a trial where they were convicted. But before the process was completed, rounding police patrols were watching our home. When I entered the police station and saw that my home was a special shelter, it took a lot; I didn't know what was going to happen. When we went shopping, we always stood with our backs against a wall to keep an eye on what was happening around us and to see if anyone went up behind my wife. We didn't know what they could do. This is the everyday life and reality of those who work in professions where you are exposed to such threats. These are police officers, prosecutors and judges of the Court of Justice. It can also be defence workers, others with significant positions in society or in social services, for example. It was an eerie experience, and it did not stop with a well - known identity of the perpetrators. When there was a court hearing in the district court, I went to a company car there. After the hearing, when I came out to the car, all four tires were cut. I called my commanding officer, and he told me to get in the car and get out of there as soon as possible and drive to the police station in Lidköping. I had to go there on four punctured wheels because they didn't dare have me there at the scene. I got good support from my bosses, and so did my wife. This is a 20-year-old event that I have been exposed to, but I can well understand how police workers today experience it when they are exposed to such threats. And today the threat is even worse than 20 years ago.
i-c402edcc1c87c1af-298	Mr. Old President! I thank Thomas Morell for an important interpellation. We often talk about penalties in this House, we talk about legislation and we talk about police growth. However, a little too rarely are we talking about those police officers and other officials in the service of the state who de facto effect the exercise of authority, who investigate crimes, who condemn crimes, who act to save children and young people in social services. We know that there is a tough social climate. There is a polarisation in society where people take liberties that did not exist before. Then it is important for people to realise that this is a system that exists to defend democratic rights and a rule of law. If these people and officials are attacked, it is ultimately also an attack on our rule of law and democracy. That is why we take this issue very seriously and have made some changes that I have outlined. I also think it is important that all employers do as the Police Authority, which has seen this social climate and changed their work environment responsibilities. You have a security department, you have appointed a security manager and you have set aside this 50 million in investment money to be able to work continuously with security in the business. They also work with training packages to think about what risk environments there are and how to work with it to increase safety. I am a little afraid that this debate does not cover all professional categories. Today, more professions are participating in this work. Just look at the GOB work, i.e. the work against serious organised crime, where several authorities work together. The municipalities go in, and their food managers have important tasks. The Social Welfare Board, which has been mentioned several times here, is very practical when, for example, you take care of children in criminal settings because you want to save them from growing up where they themselves become victims of crime but may also be involved in dangerous activities. Clearly, there is a risk that these people will be exposed to threats or attacks or attacks. Then it is important for society to be there and act. The police authorities can be helpful, but other employers must take the same responsibility. In fact, I welcome a broader discussion of this throughout society. What else can we do to increase the protection of various activities whose citizens are subjected to hatred and threats? I think it is an important debate to take. I think the police have come much further than some other authorities, because the police know that this is part of the business and everyday life today. That is why the work has been tightened up in recent years, but more needs to be done.
i-JBgk8McVy83udr9w24yGZi	Mr. Old President! Thank you for your answer, Minister. In my interpellation, I mentioned several professional categories. Not only policemen, but also blue-light personnel at all, as well as animal transporters and other professionals, are at risk today. You vandalize their property, you threaten, you abuse, and so on. It is a misery, the situation that has become in society – that individuals take the liberty of both threatening and beating other people because of their professional practice. That is not acceptable. In the answer I received from the Government, he said: a) It is both a matter of protecting the individual and, in the long run, of protecting our rule of law and democracy. Both police officers and other professional groups must have a safe and safe working environment, which is ultimately the responsibility of the employer. ..................................................... I go back to my own experience, and I can say that there was the employer really on his toes to help. But the threat can appear at any time and anywhere; that's the scary thing. The employer is not able to monitor his employees all hours of the day and wherever they put their feet on the hill, so enforcement is usually where it is easier to access the person you are looking for: in the home, on their way to and from work and so on. This makes it harder for the employer to do something about it, even if you really try. In my case, the employer did. You really tried. In the debate article written by the Chief of Police and the Chairman of the Police Federation, they address many of these problems. 中 Lack of respect for the police risks threatening our democratic freedoms and rights. The social changes of recent years have further focused on the issue of police protection needs. ..................................................... The need for protection for police officers. 中 Protecting, helping, correcting is the police's choice language. It is the police who are supposed to protect the citizens of society. Now the police need protection themselves. It's a development that's a little eerie, I have to say. If something happens, you seek security in going to the police and getting help, and the police should be the part of society that really stands for security and warmth. But now they themselves are exposed to threats and in need of protection. When they opened the new police station just outside Stockholm they had guards who followed the police to and from work. It is a social development that is alarming. The debate article also writes this way: a lot of people have now become aware of what it means to be a police worker today, that it is everyday to be subjected to abuse or to be questioned in the performance of their duties. It is also something that virtually all police officers have been able to testify for too long... these attitudes towards police and police work are just the tip of an iceberg. Out of disrespect, something much worse has emerged, a tougher society in which more and more professionals cannot carry out their social tasks without being subjected to harassment, threats and even violence. ..................................................... It's good to bet on the police and have more police and police employees coming in. However, there is still something lacking in the construction and trust of our rule of law that enables the perpetrators of violence to resort to such practices and expose several professionals, but above all police officers, to these threats and violence. This concerns me, and I hope that I can get a clearer answer from the Government.
i-c402edcc1c87c1af-313	Mr. Old President! I listed some of what we are doing now such as really tightening up the penalties in connection with this but also expanding the Police Authority, which increases the security of each police officer. That is, with the body camera and the presence and staffing you have, you feel safer as a police officer. But I think it was a good article. I answered it and said that it is welcome that you work so systematically with the security issues of the police because if the police do not take their own employees' safety seriously, who will? The police are guarantors of the security of society. I thought it was a very good and well-targeted article. What we are doing further now, what is in the pipeline and ahead of us, is to conduct an investigation looking at what societal functions are needed for enhanced criminal protection. Unfortunately, the first blue light investigation did not deal with the whole blue light issue. As far as other professions were concerned, it became so general that it could not really be used, so now we have had to make another inquiry to define what societal functions it is that need stronger criminal protection. Then you should also consider whether the crime violence and threats and against civil servants should be divided and whether the penalty scale should be increased. It is a way for society to move forward positions and to indicate that it is serious about this type of crime. With regard to what is linked to abuse and this attitude that is not always just a threat, but can also be a lack of respect and such, I can only note that we set up an investigation in December 2019 looking at victims' rights to compensation. One of the major issues to be considered in this investigation is the extent to which the levels of damages should generally be increased. This includes considering the extent to which the rights of police officers and other particularly vulnerable professionals to compensation for violations should be extended. That is another answer to the question raised by Thomas Morell about how we view this and how we support the staff who have this type of work. Thomas Morell is very good at describing problems. However, I have heard very few suggestions. What is it that Thomas Morell wants us to do? Maybe he can come back to that now.
i-c402edcc1c87c1af-319	Mr. Old President! Thank you for your answer, Minister. Here's a suggestion, lightning fast: Protect data that is easy to find in public registers! Just take one of those things as a car number. You enter the car number into the computer and get data, and then you know exactly where, for example, the Government lives. This is what makes it so incredibly easy to put threats and violence against people in sensitive occupations – police officers, prosecutors and other court staff, employees of the Armed Forces, animal transporters or whatever. A touch of a button on a computer or phone, and you have the exact location of the human being. The professions that are sensitive and vulnerable should not be open in public registers. Protect that staff! It can be done in a very simple way. The answer from the Government to this interpellation is that it is important for citizens to know who is taking action. I agree with that in some parts, but sometimes it is also necessary to cover for those who have important occupations in our society to be protected. We must have a barrier between the public interest and important social functions. Threats and violence against police officers, prosecutors and courts are, of course, an attack on our democracy and the laws passed in this place. Those who have to protect our democracy – that is to say, internal protection – are the police. They are worthy of this protection so that you cannot easily access them in open registers. It was a suggestion. It's on me.
i-c402edcc1c87c1af-324	Mr. Old President! I think this is an interesting question worth taking seriously. However, to describe it as a simple and quick measure, I think, with an engagement, is a little simplistic. Here, huge principles of public access, of being able to review the exercise of authority, of getting to corruption, and that if I am mistreated by the rule of law, I have the right to know who made the decision to see if there was an interest in hurting me or treating me differently. These are parts of the Swedish constitution that are very sharp and are about that we have a strong principle of public access in Sweden. On the other hand, today we have rules that distinguish police workers, for example. We do not have the same public access requirements for police employees as for other employees. What should this balance look like? What are the occupational categories and tasks that are sensitive or serious to threats and hate risks? The problem is that all of us people today are so incredibly connected. It is very difficult to be particularly secret in Sweden today, whether it is the employer's data or other data. It is therefore not simply to see how such a principle, about which it is interesting to have a discussion, should be implemented in practice and where the limits should be for what is public or not. I note that this was a proposal, although I would say that it is not easy to deal with. I note that Thomas Morell had an input on the matter. I believe that the discussion about public access, what information should be public and what can be secret and how we do to protect not only police but also others in the role of government so that they do not become so vulnerable is important to take in the coming time.
i-c402edcc1c87c1af-328	Mr. Old President! Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm asks me what incentives I intend to set up so that we can increase interest and get more police officers and more civilian employees to want to work in Västerbotten's interior. Let me begin by emphasising that I and the government will continue the intensive work on combating crime throughout the country. Success requires, among other things, an accessible police officer, a strong judiciary and effective legislation. The expansion of the Police Authority is a central part of the work, and the government is making a historic effort on the agency. We are now halfway to the target of 10,000 more police officers by 2024. The Police Authority has a broad and important mission concerning both crime prevention and law enforcement. It is the Police Authority that is best placed to determine how the resources are to be used and distributed in order for the Agency to be able to meet its commitments throughout the country. As far as the specific case is concerned, the claim that Västerbotten's hinterland is not true is true without the police at night. The Police Authority and the Swedish Police Federation have signed a national collective agreement that enables preparedness in the home for police personnel working in intervention activities. After the end of the year, a pilot activity will be carried out in the North Police Region, where police personnel are prepared at home on certain occasions. During this time they are available for missions. The purpose of intervention preparedness is to make more patrols available for emergency events at night, while improving the resource during day and night. The best use of allocated resources is a matter of concern to the government, as is the fact that these funds are allocated to the whole country. According to the regulations for 2021, the Police Authority will continue to report on the measures taken to ensure a long-term and clear police presence throughout the country.
i-c402edcc1c87c1af-333	Mr. Old President! Thank you, Minister Damberg, for your answer. There'll be a lot of cops here today. I support the Minister's ambition that Sweden should be a safe country to live in. Part of achieving this security is that we have more police officers and more police officers present. I had Parliament's investigation service look at how many police officers we have recently appointed since 2016. It turns out that more than 4 000 more police officers are employed in the police force than in 2016. But we need more. We also know that training places are empty for various reasons. This is certainly not a good development. Crime is on the increase, as is criminal violence. Security is created from different aspects, but currently police officers who are visible in our society are a significant factor in creating security for our population. It is positive that more police officers are trained, that police cooperation is strengthened, that more police officers are able to fight crime and increase security throughout the country, and that these are priorities for the government. But we have incredibly big challenges to deal with before we are there. Västerbotten is an example of a county, as large as Denmark, with many small municipalities, large distances and few police officers. It is perhaps not surprising that I bring up Västerbotten because it is my home country. Mr. Old President! Many police stations in sparsely populated areas have difficulty manning with a number of police officers who meet the needs. Often the police stop for a short time and then go to larger cities. One of the reasons for this is that the application procedure has changed. In the past, they didn't know where to go in the country to do their education. Now you apply to a county or a so-called police area. After completing the training, you are placed on your aspirant training based on where there is a need for police officers. It is basically a form of criminal command; you do your aspirant training where there are no permanent police officers. After completed aspirant training, most people want to move to coastal towns or major cities. It is a great challenge to get police officers to stay in smaller places where there may be no connection. The local police area manager in southern Lapland is very clear: Best job we do is if we have people who are happy in the area and live there. If you do your aspirant training in a place where you have no connection, you are often less inclined to stay.
i-c402edcc1c87c1af-341	Mr. Old President! I could not help but had to get into the debate. There was a passus in the answer that made me a little extra curious. I have my roots in Västerbotten and Vilhelmina. My father's from there, so I have a lot of the family up there. You can look at the area that the police in Vilhelmina have to watch. If they are going to Saxnäs it is 9.2 km, and to Klimpfjäll it is 12.3 km. If it's a good road team during a call, you might get there in an hour or so. If it's bad road law, it'll take longer. It assumes, of course, that there is a police patrol available. Otherwise, those who are victims of crime up there will have to wait until they are free, and it may take time. We all remember what it was like for the trader up there who didn't get help from the police because the police didn't have the resources. Now we get to that in the answer that made me a little curious. After all, the Government must have somehow taken note of how the police intend to solve this. This is what it says in the North Police Region, after the end of the year, a trial will be carried out in which police personnel are prepared at home on certain occasions. Then the question is: How do you man the patrols? Is it supposed to be a single patrol? Or is it supposed to be a double patrol? If so, do those on the patrol live relatively close to each other? Or do they live in each of their villages, and how long will the drive then be before you get off on the job that you are really set to do? When I'm up in Vilhelmina, which I'm a couple of times a year, I usually amuse myself with looking for where the police are. It's very rare to see the police patrol. You can meet someone at the police station, but you rarely see any mobile police out in the community. Vilhelmina appeared in a less flattering context a few years ago. There were widespread problems with drug trafficking in the small shopping area with 6,200 inhabitants. It is often the case that where the police are not present, the criminals establish themselves, because they can live and work fairly undisturbed when the police are not there and take action against them. When I was at the traffic police in Skaraborg, when we passed Tidan, we used to say a little jokingly that it was time to insecure the weapons, because then we got into an area where there was a lot of crime. They went there because the police didn't have a very high attendance there. But a colleague of mine and I were often there to mess it up for them by somehow having a police presence, and that had its effects, of course. The police are too few, especially in sparsely populated municipalities and in Västerbotten's hinterland, which this interpellation is about. But I hope I get an answer from the Government on how the staffing there should be.
i-c402edcc1c87c1af-349	Mr. Old President! It is good to note that the interpeller and I very much agree that we need more police officers and that there is a need for police officers present all over Sweden. One ambition of the entire police reform, which was carried out in broad political agreement, was that we would achieve more district police officers, locally present police officers, with knowledge of their activities and thus be able to work more crime prevention. It's true that we've come, like, halfway through the growth of policemen, as I usually describe. But I'll be honest and say that the increase of 5,000 since we started is 4 000 civilian workers. There's only 1,000 extra cops so far. And why is that? Because it's heavy on the police side. The civilian workers are needed. They contribute to the investigation and have a very important activity in the Police Authority. However, since it takes two and a half years before the future police officers start to get out of business, it is automatic so that the massive expansion of police training will start to be noticed around the country only this year and in the future. Every six months it will now be filled with new police officers. I note that last year 1 075 new police officers were employed around Sweden and 81 of them in the North Police Region, so it is now growing on. To be clear to the House and those following the debate, there has been a rather broad political consensus that how the police allocate their resources they decide themselves. We'll see to it that they get the resources, but exactly where in the country the cops are going to work, it's up to the police authorities themselves. The distribution of police officers across the country is today determined by a distribution key developed by the Police Authority based on the degree of crime but also the size of the population. But I have said several times that neither the government nor the parliament will accept if, after the major expansion, it is not apparent that there are more police officers present throughout Sweden. Then growth has not worked. I have high expectations that it will be noticed all over Sweden, although I know that it is a bit heavy with police staffing. But there are about 3 000 police students inside the business now, and there will be police officers on duty every six months in the future around Sweden. It is an interesting discussion about how to get people to stay in certain areas in Sweden. And I'd like to start a little sooner than that, even. I have had an active dialogue with the Police Authority linked to the training activities and not least the distance learning opportunities. My picture when I'm travelling in the country, not least in sparsely populated areas, is that you want more distance learning places, because then you can recruit people who are settled and who have a plan to carry out police training but then come back. Coming straight from a police training course, getting to do your duty somewhere and then moving back home and starting a family, with everything it can mean, is a pretty difficult maneuver to do that doesn't suit everyone. Now the Police Authority wants to extend distance education further, which I think is a way of solving this. I mentioned the experiment, and I can honestly say that I have not visited it yet, so I do not know much about it. When this project has rolled a little bit, I look forward to making a digital visit to see what experiences have been drawn from it. I have too little knowledge of exactly what this means, but since I was asked about it, I wanted to answer them.
i-c402edcc1c87c1af-356	Mr. Old President! This is going to be a very exciting discussion. The local police district manager in southern Lapland published an article in a local newspaper two weeks ago. There he pointed out that the need for distance learning is huge in order to increase the incentives for those living in smaller towns to enter the profession. As I said in my previous post, police students living in a small town need to be happy and want to stay there in order to get an increased number of police there. This applies to many different professions, of course. When it comes to the experimental activities, which the Minister is talking about, I also look forward to seeing the results of it. But what we can say is that many crimes occur at night, that distances are long and that the chances of the police getting too little night rest and daily rest are great. More and more burglaries are being committed in the hinterland, we have seen over the years. It is a great concern for everyone who lives in the county's sparsely populated inland municipalities, for example around Easter time when many go to the mountains, which you can't do but many still do, and the houses are empty. As I said, it was a great concern for many of the county's inland municipalities, and to feel secure is difficult when you know that the help is far away. I fully understand the anxiety people feel when I myself have been subjected to burglary in my own home and everything of value disappeared, so also my security. That is why I think it is very important to highlight the need for police officers present. As far as civil servants in the police are concerned, the Minister did not really answer my question about how we should increase the number of civilian employees where there are few police officers, so that police officers can be police officers and not sit behind a desk.
i-c402edcc1c87c1af-363	Mr. Old President! Thank you for your answer, Minister. I'm sure there's every reason to discuss further how the experiments have gone. I'm a little curious about how to solve the manning. Should you have some kind of home alert? How do you get them in the business to be on their toes pretty fast? If there's an alarm, the patrol has to get off pretty fast. In the case of civil servants, efforts can actually be stepped up to bring in civil servants. They usually have administrative duties and can relieve police officers. I do not know if they do so in all police regions, but at least at home they have had civilian employees in the office who have been very successful in investigating crimes. Then you can free up police resources, and policemen can come out. We are now talking about Västerbotten's hinterland. As I said, it's 130 miles between Vilhelmina and Klimpfjäll. Those who live, live and work in that area must also feel close to the police if anything happens. There are large areas, and if there is only one patrol and it is busy with something, it will not be in place that day and perhaps not even the next day. As the Government said, no matter where you live in the country, you must feel secure in the presence of the police. I can say that in Västerbotten's interior, the police density is very sparse. There's more bears than cops on the road.
i-c402edcc1c87c1af-367	Mr. Old President! I am pleased that we seem to agree on the importance of distance learning. It is an issue on which I have had an active dialogue with the Police Authority for a long time. Now these opportunities are being extended, and I think that is very good. It is good because you can then get some older people who want to saddle up and become police officers, so that not all police growth are very young people who come straight into police training. It is also good because you have more opportunities to recruit to places that may otherwise have a little difficulty finding people who are rooted with their families and their lives. I believe in this opportunity. That is why I am very grateful that the chief of police has said that this will be extended in the future. I will just repeat what we all seem to agree on: that the great police growth should be felt throughout the country. That's the whole point of this. But I can make the question a little more complicated. It is in Stockholm that we currently have the greatest problems with police growth in Sweden. So it is not simply when you look at these issues. Where is it easiest to recruit? How do you keep staff? Many of the young police officers find it fun to be in Stockholm in the early days, but then they want to go back home or to their region. They might want to because it's pretty tough being a cop in Stockholm. Perhaps there are other jobs that attract here, which make the competitive situation different. Perhaps the central and regional units attract some of the local police. You quickly take the good police in the field up into the organization because you have important projects in the Police Authority. They are often connected to Stockholm. I am not saying that there is an answer, but it is a little interesting that we are currently hearing warning bells that we are having a bit of a hard time managing growth in Stockholm. I want to tell you that so that we have that picture. We want to see more cops all over the country. That's the whole point of police reform. I'm glad you want more questions linked to this experiment. I just note that I think the unions and the police have argued that this can be a way of working so that you actually get better opportunities to pull out even in the nights and in the evenings. I'll follow it. It's an exciting experiment. Let's look at it! But it is not the case that police patrols just go around at random at night in a region as large as the North region. That's not really what you do today either, to be honest. Then you have to go many miles, and you always risk being in the wrong place in a large region with great distances. I think they've thought this through, but it'll be exciting to evaluate. The whole point is to get more police resources. I think it's important. I said earlier that 4 000 of the 5 000 in growth so far are civilian employees. Now I do not mean that any of the Members said this, but sometimes there is just a discussion that they should relieve the police, much as if they are some sort of attachment to them with police powers. The civil servants are making very important contributions to the investigation and the police's core operations. It's been a big lift for the police department. But what we are looking at is that the emphasis over the next few years is rather on police growth, because now it has already grown on the civilian side. Now growth is becoming more police, and I think many people around Sweden are looking forward to that. Finally, it applies not least to burglaries in the countryside but also in other places around Sweden. We are now working rather hard to fight the international theft leagues, which drive much of this crime, but also with neighbourly cooperation and other things that are of great importance in bringing down this type of crime. I think we can do a lot more in this area.
i-c402edcc1c87c1af-375	Mr. Old President! I fully agree with the Minister that we can do more, and we can help to do more. I share many of the Minister's entrances here. We need more police officers, and we need more civilian workers to raise the importance and the work of police officers. However, I note that by 2020 the North 77 civilian police area was created. Everyone went to the coast, to Umeå and Skellefteå. No one went to southern Lapland. And it is southern Lapland that my question is about. That is where we see the need for far more police officers, and we would need more civilian workers. I'm asking for incentives so that more civilian employees and more police officers want to stay. I see that we agree that we need to improve the incentive for distance learning, and we need to find other carrots so that we can get more police officers to stay in smaller towns and to increase security throughout our country. There are rural areas in many other places than Västerbotten's inland. The picture can look exactly the same in many other places. But what is interesting is what the Minister points out: that the police shortage is greatest in Stockholm. That's not what I'd call rural, is it? But I see that we have challenges that we have to deal with, and it is very important that we have measures that will enable us to create greater security throughout the country.
i-c402edcc1c87c1af-379	Mr. Old President! This is an important debate on the development of the police throughout the country. It is about ensuring that security is increased in all parts of our society. It is good that we agree on the possibilities of distance learning when it comes to recruiting in places where it may otherwise be difficult to recruit. I don't think it's really my job to create incentives within the Police Authority. It is for the Police Authority to be the main responsibility, because it is they who distribute resources across the country and who must build career paths but also an organisation that is robust and sustainable. It is also part of the way forward: creating attractive jobs in more places around Sweden now that they are growing. We will have to follow this over time, but ultimately it is the Police Authority that must take responsibility for managing operations throughout the country. To conclude, I shall only have a small discussion on regional policy. I think it's a little exciting. These investments take place along the Norrland coast, but they are powerful investments. And northern Sweden drives much of the industrial development in Sweden. We're talking about Northvolt. We're talking about LKAB. We are talking about the recycling work linked to the battery work. We have LKAB's entire conversion plan alongside Hybrid. These are huge industrial investments. New industries are growing here. Although it is on the coast, it also creates pressure on northern Sweden, which I think is very interesting from a regional policy perspective and when it comes to where growth and many of the future jobs are in Sweden. This also ensures that some of the civilian jobs will remain in the region and will not disappear further away. I think that's exciting even for the police department when they expand their operations.
i-c402edcc1c87c1af-383	Madam President, I would like Elisabeth Svantesson has asked me if I see a link between unemployment and welfare resources. Furthermore, she has asked me what structural reforms I and the government have implemented since 2014 to reduce unemployment. Finally, she has also asked what structural reforms I and the government intend to implement in 2021 to reduce unemployment. Of course, there is a link between unemployment and welfare resources. Increased unemployment and job losses, all other things being equal, lead to lower tax revenues and higher spending. Increased employment is a prerequisite for maintaining and developing well-being. During the previous term of office, an economic policy was pursued that turned budgetary balances into large surpluses and laid the foundations for Sweden's readiness to deal with the economic consequences of the pandemic. Up to the economic slowdown in the pandemic, the job creation increased by 3 50 000 people, of which 2 50 000 were born abroad. Sweden has the highest participation rate in the EU, which has remained at the same level as before the crisis. Labour force participation is an important reason why unemployment in Sweden has increased in relation to many other countries. Structural reforms in labour market policy in previous mandates have mainly focused on increasing the educational element and other measures to prevent and overcome long-term unemployment. These include the establishment programme, measures for young people, e xtra services and introductory jobs. The increase in knowledge has increased the number of adult education places and universities of applied sciences, combined with measures for more unemployed people to start studies. Further measures are also being taken to prevent and overcome long-term unemployment. Among other things, Arbetsförmedlingen is strengthened, and resources are provided for more participants in labour market training, tendered matching services, additional services and introductory jobs. These are structurally important measures that can contribute to reduced unemployment times and more effective matching. In 2021, start-up jobs and the intensive year of new arrivals will also be introduced. Low levels of education risk leading to long-term unemployment. The Government therefore continues to strive for more unemployed people with educational needs to choose regular studies or studies at folk high school. Further resources have been added to education policy, and the government has also facilitated the unemployed to study within the regular education system while maintaining remuneration. Employment services are reformed to improve the effectiveness of labour market policy activities. The government is following developments and is prepared to take further measures, if necessary, to reduce unemployment and increase employment.
i-c402edcc1c87c1af-390	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. My very first summer job was in Lycksele. I ran a tombola. Today it probably wouldn't be legal, but it was my first job. Since then, me and many others of our generation have had many different jobs. This meant, first of all, a salary that allowed you to buy those things that you wanted so badly but perhaps did not get from your parents. When we got a little older, the salary was about being able to pay rent and put food on the table, and, of course, when the children arrived, it was about being able to give them everything they needed, including Christmas presents and birthday gifts. A wage means freedom. But, of course, a job is about so much more than salary. It is about having work colleagues and finding a meaning and a purpose in what you do. During these pandemic times, I think many of us have been reminded of what we long for, for example to be able to stand at the coffee machine – even if the coffee is rather blasphemy – and just talk to their colleagues. In addition, Madam President, there is another dimension to the fact that many people are working, and that is that the more people who work, the more people are involved in paying taxes and can finance welfare. That is why I find it so deeply worrying, both for people who are unemployed and for the future financing of welfare, that so many people are now unemployed. Then someone might think: J Amen, it is a pandemic, of course many people are unemployed. And, of course, there is a cyclical dimension to unemployment. But the problem is that unemployment has grown for so many years. In the midst of a fiery boom, unemployment grew, which is deeply worrying. The question I have put here today is precisely about the funding of welfare and the link between unemployment and welfare. I have been involved in countless debates, Madam President, where we have discussed whether or not tax cuts crowd out welfare. The tax cuts that we have made together, including this government, and which contribute to more workers actually increase tax revenues, as more people are working and contributing to the common. The problem is, after all, when unemployment is too high, because then prosperity is in danger of being squeezed out. Stefan Löfven said we'd evaluate him at work. We have done so, and we see that the government's employment policy is a complete failure. If Sweden had only developed as the EU average in terms of unemployment, which one might still think is reasonable, Sweden would have had 42 billion more in the public purse each year – 42 billion! This is equivalent to 88 000 nurses or about 60 000 intensive care nurses. The unemployment rate this government has brought on Sweden is a betrayal of people who today do not have a job and also cost huge resources. I am surprised by the satisfaction shown by the government as to how the labour market has developed during the almost seven years that the government has run the empire. In these years, therefore, unemployment has increased, and what is perhaps most worrying to me is all those people who were long-term unemployed even before the crisis. There were many of them at the time, and despite a burning boom, there were more. There are now so many of them that they are more than the number of inhabitants in Linköping. Madam President, I would like The Government of Eva Nordmark concludes by saying that the Government is prepared to take further action, if necessary. I believe this is necessary, and that is why I ask the question: What further structural reforms does the Government see that Sweden now needs?
i-c402edcc1c87c1af-401	Madam President, I would like Evaluate me at the jobs, said Prime Minister 2014. I do not know if those who see this debate will remember what Stefan Löfven said in opposition. He was talking about innovation captions. He was talking about industrial chancellors. He was talking about trainee jobs. He was a real shot of ideas in opposition. We now have the facts, Madam President. Newspaper headlines say that youth unemployment is historically high. Swedish youth unemployment is today at levels that are probably among the highest since the 1930s, reported SVT last autumn. I had the parliamentary investigation service come up with what it looks like in my county of Gävleborg. We have a runaway youth unemployment. That means people's grandchildren are unemployed. Maybe that means my kid's out of work. This means that the neighbour's children are unemployed and so on. It would be good if you had a government that took this issue seriously. Then I have not even mentioned Gävleborg who has taken a very big responsibility for foreign born. We now see that the supply subsidies are running out. It increases so much that the municipalities in Gävleborg go on their knees. Good local politicians are trying to use extra services instead of getting people to work. As Elisabeth Svantesson said, we seem to have a government and a minister who is satisfied with the development. We've heard a number of things lined up. The problem is, they're not helping. Unemployment is increasing even more and more strongly. It seems that the government continues to do more of the same, that is, more of the policy that makes 35 percent of Gävleborg's young people long-term unemployed. This isn't working. Sweden has made a promise to have the EU's lowest unemployment rate in relation to other countries, but it has become the opposite. There has also been a pandemic. The problem is that the government has pursued a policy of raising subsidies, but we know demonstrably that it increases equilibrium unemployment. This, too, has been shown by a report from the Parliamentary Investigation Service. The government has only increased the unemployment rate by about 40 000 people as a result of the increase in unemployment. Equal opportunities unemployment has increased by 40,000 people. It would be interesting if there was some little idea in the government about how to reduce youth unemployment and how to get young people into the labour market. Every young person needs a workplace to go to, get to press the coffee machine and get a warm cup of Gevalia coffee – I say Gevalia because I come from Gävle – and feel the community at the workplace. It would be devastating for us to lose an entire generation of young people who cannot enter the labour market. I would like to know what measures the Minister and the Government are planning to take which will have an impact and which will reduce unemployment.
i-c402edcc1c87c1af-409	Madam President, I would like It was claimed in the debate that I am satisfied with the situation and that I am not taking this issue seriously. That is, of course, completely wrong. I would very much like to come back to the important efforts and strong measures that the government is now taking. To begin with, however, I would like to answer the important question that Elisabeth Svantesson put about structural reforms and the responsibility the government takes to improve the functioning of the labour market. Of course, this is very central. I would like to point out four topical areas where we are working intensively, and these are structural changes. Firstly, we are changing and reforming labour law. We take care of the agreement that the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, PTK, IF Metall and the trade union Kommunal have agreed on. It is about increasing both flexibility for employers and security for employees. In particular, it concerns those employees who have the most precarious situation in the labour market. We deal with questions about planing, fixed time and rental. Secondly, we are strengthening the adaptability and the supply of skills. This is very central for Sweden to be able to get a better and more well-functioning labour market. On the one hand, we take care of the partnership agreement, which deals with a new study support system and conversion system, and on the other hand we continue the important work of expanding and developing the Knowledgelift. We will ensure that people have the knowledge required in a modern labour market and that employers can find the right skills. Thirdly, we are reforming the Employment Service. It's a work in progress. Of course, it is crucial that people wherever they live in our elongated country receive the right support if they need support. It is also about employers finding the right skills. Fourthly, we are reforming unemployment insurance. It is about promoting structural change and ensuring security in a changing modern labour market. With more people covered by economic security, they also want and dare to develop in a labour market where we need this when jobs change and are renewed. In these debates it sometimes gets very dark. Yeah, we're in a really serious position. This is the most serious crisis in the Swedish labour market in modern times. We have a pandemic. We all yearn for a vaccine and for being able to push back the spread of infection so that we can ease a lot of restrictions. Then some jobs will come back. But even if it's dark now, the future is bright. Only in the part of Sweden where I was born and raised, in northern Sweden, are huge investments now made of over a thousand billion. These will create a lot of new green jobs. What we need from policy is to ensure, in terms of structural reforms, that new growing companies have the opportunity and access to the right skills to develop their activities. This is the challenge. My question to the Moderates is: How would your policy solve this? What I see is that we need to equip for and invest in strengthened skills and improved matching. But what I look like stands out in Moderate politics is a deteriorating unemployment fund. What is it in your policy that would make more jobs grow in the economy and create better conditions for the unemployed?
i-c402edcc1c87c1af-418	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I am pleased that the Government mentions several important reforms that are under way and on which we agree. It is very important to make Arbetsförmedlingen work better, to change LAS and that people can change. The problem is that many people have been unemployed for a very long time. They were even during the boom, and as I said, there were more. I will mention some reforms that I would like to send to the Government. I think they're needed. First of all, make sure that the start-up jobs now become a reality! What is it? the person who may be listening is thinking. It is about what the parties agree on, such as learning the job at work with a significantly lower cost for employers. You have an apprenticeship. This needs to be in place. Why has this proposal been in the drawer for three years? Secondly, since we know that a large part of structural unemployment is about those who have immigrated to Sweden, we should introduce a language requirement. Languages are A and O to get into Swedish society and be able to take the jobs that exist. Thirdly, make sure that education is a real duty! It now covers between 10 and 15% of those who are actually the target group. What, then, is education duty? It is a matter of ensuring that those who do not have a basic education or a sufficient level of education have to study if you get money from the common. You cannot enter the Swedish labour market if you do not adapt and read. More people have to do it. Fourthly, the government would have had to have had a subsidy reform in place a long time ago. A benefit reform is needed that makes it always worthwhile to work and that it never pays for families to choose to stay at home. In fact, that is the case today. Fifthly, we have the fresh start jobs. It is one of the most tried and tested parts of labour market policy. They have halved over these years, despite the rise in unemployment. Here were some examples of really important structural reforms that would make a difference for more people to get to work. It is no secret, by the way, Madam President, that we have different views on what exactly the level of the unemployment fund should look like. But I can see that you are saying no to certain things. Often the example of the bread factory Polarbröd comes up. I think this is a good example, and we should do everything we can to get them to work. But for me, it's also important that more people get jobs in the area. You say no to a new mine there. That could be thousands of jobs. I will always focus more on more jobs and give people the tools and incentives to take the jobs that exist. That is our priority, Madam President.
i-c402edcc1c87c1af-428	Madam President, I would like It's great, I say as a former Norwegian resident, that in my hometown Boden they want to make a fossil-free steelworks. There is only one small problem, Madam President, one small detail: there is no electricity. But the government is shutting down well-functioning nuclear power in southern Sweden. Let us hope that some other minister takes the electricity issue seriously, so that these jobs will happen. The problem, Madam President, is that government policy is not connected. If you do not have a policy on how to create jobs, with a common vision, it will be that different ministers are working against each other. At the Ministry of Finance, for example, there are plans at the moment to significantly reduce the travel allowance. I've had the Parliamentary Investigation Service look at how many people are affected by it. That is a significant proportion. Of those living in Halland, 15% have a travel allowance today, and it will therefore deteriorate. In Norrbotten, it is more than one in ten working persons, 12 per cent, who are at risk of getting rid of their travel allowance. In Värmland it is 13 percent. Of course, you can always wonder if it is good for people to be deducted from travel to and from work. Yes, anything that encourages and facilitates work must reasonably be good. But I want to give the Government a point of order. There is probably no government and no political party in the world that is so good at raising contributions as the Social Democrats. You're world champions at it. Much of your policy is about how much you should increase contributions with and for whom. The problem is that it becomes less profitable to work then, which does not mean that more people get into work. I would just like to know: what does the Minister think is the single most important measure to get more people into work and, above all, more young people in jobs?
i-c402edcc1c87c1af-433	Madam President, I would like I very much appreciate the factual debate with the interpellier. It is very important that we get labour market policy on the table for real, because this is the most central policy area. It is about providing people with the conditions for their own livelihood and the freedom it provides, but also, of course, about being able to finance their welfare and meet the needs of the business community to find the right skills to develop their businesses. That is how we create prosperity in our country. We have made historically strong efforts during the pandemic, many of them in broad political agreement. The many amending budgets have meant that we have been able to revise down the forecasts and scenarios that we had for unemployment at the start of the pandemic. It is not only the government that has done so, but also the Konjunkturinstitutet and Arbetsförmedlingen. The 100 billion in the budget bill that comes in this year means about 75,000 new jobs. We are also investing a lot in labour market policy, with an extra 1 billion for the Public Employment Service, in order to be able to cope with the new tough situation and ensure local presence throughout the country. 2 billion goes to matching services and labour market training. 500 million goes to extra services and introductory jobs. We also continue to expand the knowledge boost. We also see that more students are studying. It is incredibly important, considering that there are also many vacancies to apply for. If you go into Platsbanken today and look at how many vacancies there are, you will see that there are over 100,000. So there are vacancies to apply for, and what we need to do is to ensure that people have the right education to take the jobs. It's about both right and duty – there should be demands on people to make themselves employable. Language is crucial. It is important that you take responsibility and educate yourself. We've got the start-up jobs coming up. We are working intensively on it. Soon we can also get started with the intensive year. On 15 April, in just a few weeks' time, Madam President, the intensive year will be launched. So we have a lot of measures to support those who are unemployed but also to ensure that people of working age can replenish with new knowledge and skills and take the new jobs that are emerging. On the issue of young people, I would like to say that I am particularly concerned about young people who do not work or study. A large proportion of young people who are unemployed today study full-time, and that is a good thing. They're doing the right thing. However, young people who do not work or study must have a particular focus. That is why I was pleased that two or three weeks ago I was able to present another 200 million to this particular target group. These young people need action here and now. They need to be allowed to be part of the Community in the labour market but also to be given the opportunity to get their first line of their CV. We are doing a great deal and will certainly have to do a lot more. We have a very serious situation in the labour market. At the same time, it is important to tell young people, not least, that the situation is not over. It's tough right now, but the future is bright. It is good to study, and it is important to stay active.
i-c402edcc1c87c1af-440	Madam President, I would like It is important that we have this debate. It is not only about people's ability to support themselves, to have a job to go to and to feel meaningful, but also about how we can raise money for the common and finance the welfare of the future. Is it something that threatens this funding is precisely the high unemployment rate? Now we are in the midst of a pandemic, and we will do and do everything we can to prevent more people from losing their jobs. But many were unemployed even before the pandemic. I cannot help but ask myself: if the government failed to push back unemployment in a boom, how can you trust the government in a recession? My picture is you can't do that. The government is not doing enough for more jobs to emerge and for fewer people to be unemployed. We will return to this debate. We will have to return more times to Stefan Lövven's call to evaluate him at work and his promise that unemployment would be the lowest in the EU. Now it is almost among the highest in the EU. Sweden can do better. Again, if Sweden had only developed as the EU average in terms of unemployment, we would have had 42 billion more each year. So it is not even about being the best, but just about developing as the EU average. Madam President, I would like We need to have this debate more times – for the sake of the unemployed people, but also for the sake of the welfare of the future.
i-c402edcc1c87c1af-444	Madam President, I would like I think it's very good to evaluate this government at work, even if it's an incredibly tough situation. The employment rate has constantly increased since Stefan Löfven became Prime Minister. We saw of course a very hack in the curve in 2020 due to the pandemic. There's nothing strange. However, Sweden is best placed in Europe in terms of both labour force participation and employment rates – it is 80.4 per cent, according to the latest Eurostat measurement. Let's turn those numbers around! Had we been on the EU average there, 469 000 fewer people would have had jobs. It is important to see the nuances. I think it is good to evaluate the government on this important job policy. What we need to ensure is that those who become unemployed will be given the opportunity to get training and the opportunity to change and, if necessary, receive support in order to find a new job, regardless of where they live in this elongated country. We also need to ensure the financial security of the person who loses his job and the student. In this way, at the same time, we maintain the purchasing power of society and the economy. I cannot see that the Moderates would have the right recipe to face the historic challenges we face. What we need is a strong unemployment insurance that promotes structural change and increases security, effective and accurate labour market policies throughout the country and good educational opportunities for future jobs. That's how we create a better future.
i-c402edcc1c87c1af-447	Madam President, I would like Malin Höglund has asked me, as a minister in a pronounced feminist government, what measures I have taken since the information on the problems at Arbetsförmedlingen became known and what measures I intend to take in the future given the fact that Arbetsförmedlingen seems to have put more resources into getting men to work than women because of the reported prejudices and stereotypical images of some administrators. It is Mr Malmqvist who receives my reply. The issue you raise is very urgent. For a feminist government, it is obvious that women and men must have equal conditions and conditions for participation and establishment in working and social life. Arbetsförmedlingen has an important mission to get both women and men to work and to contribute to the gender equality policy objectives. Unfortunately, women and men do not have equal access to labour market policy measures today. The Government has therefore continuously commissioned the Swedish Public Employment Service to develop this area. I would like to mention some of the major assignments the Public Employment Service has received in recent years. The employment agency is one of the authorities that will work with gender mainstreaming in the framework of the development programme Gender mainstreaming in public authorities, JIM, which started in 2013 and has now been extended. In the regulation letter for 2021, Arbetsförmedlingen received an expanded and deepened gender mainstreaming mandate. A gender perspective shall be integrated throughout the decision-making process of the Authority. The assignment includes analysing and reporting gender equality problems in several labour market policies, own measures to reduce the problems and other proposals for solutions. The Employment Service shall also report on other measures taken and planned to ensure equal access for women and men to support, in particular among foreign-borns, and the results of these measures. This is a comprehensive and ambitious mission. In the regulation letter for 2020, Arbetsförmedlingen was commissioned to strive for a more equal participation in labour market training. In the past, the agency has continuously received targets or missions aimed at increasing employment and reducing unemployment for women born abroad. When we reform Arbetsförmedlingen, gender equality is a key area of work. The Authority has therefore been given the task of including a gender perspective in the preparation of the reform. The government has set up an equal income commission. The Commission shall, inter alia, carry out a survey of the distribution of public support measures between women and men. Finally, I would like to say that the employment agency's important mission to get both women and men to work and to contribute to the gender equality policy objectives is something that I have also mentioned in the annual public authority dialogue with the agency. I expect the Arbetsförmedlingen to live up to the assignments it has received on this issue. When Malin Höglund had presented the interpellation during the time she served as a substitute for a member who subsequently regained her place in the Riksdag, the third vice-president admitted that Josefin Malmqvist could instead take part in the debate.
i-c402edcc1c87c1af-454	Madam President, I would like I thank you for your answer. I would say that foreign-born women's participation in the labour market in Sweden or lack of participation is one of our biggest gender equality problems today. That fewer than one in three foreign born women with short education have a job to go to and their own income hinders these women in their ability to integrate and become part of Swedish society. This means that they do not have colleagues, that they lack a context, lunch box and the possibility of vacation. That is all that we know is so important to become a part of society. Not only does it affect these women, but it also risks being passed on to future generations. We know that the fact that parents are unemployed increases the risk that their children will end up out of work or studying by 70% in the future. This is shown by statistics from Statistics Sweden. These statistics are also based on those that came to Sweden earlier in the 90s when the conditions for integration were better than they are today. What will these figures look like in the future? What will happen to these children whose parents do not go to work? The authority in Sweden responsible for labour market interventions and the establishment programme is Arbetsförmedlingen. We see what it looks like in review. I found an SOU from 2012. We've been seeing developments for years. The differences between how women and men are treated at Arbetsförmedlingen are obvious and large. We see that women have fewer meetings with their case officer. There is a longer distance between meetings. It'll take longer before they get their first meeting. We see that women are given more preparatory work and not those that we know lead to more work. We see that there are gender stereotyping performances at the Arbetsförmedlingen. I will tell those who listen to the debate that these studies have also taken account of educational background, age and so on. Even in those cases where women have higher education, we see that they get less and less effort and efforts that lead to less extension to jobs.
i-c402edcc1c87c1af-464	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by saying that I fully share the picture that Josefin Malmqvist describes here of how incredibly central it is that foreign-born women have the same opportunities to receive support, their own work and their own livelihood. It is one of the most central issues in terms of labour market policy. I will not be content with less than an equal labour market and an equal labour market policy. Finally, as regards the specific question asked about what the government is doing and what the government intends to do, foreign-born women, like everyone, will have access to the whole toolbox available in the Employment Service. I have spoken in a previous interpellation debate about some of the efforts that are now taking place with everything from matching services to labour market training that needs to be more equal. I will receive a report in April on how to ensure equality between women and men in labour market training, for example. There are also a number of other important tools here. The additional services are one of those. This also applies to the investment that is now being made within the Elderly Care Lift. We know that many women born abroad have had the opportunity to enter the labour market. They are now given the opportunity via this lift to further educate themselves. The intensive year is now launched on 15 April. It's also very important. It is clear from the government's governance that it should be based on a gender perspective. It is about new arrivals in one year getting intensive efforts with languages mixed with internships, workplace activities and also different study and education efforts. I think that the foreign-born women should be allowed to make the same trip as the Swedish women had to do in the 50's, 60's and 70's. I grew up in the '70s myself. My mother was a housewife. There were a lot of women back then. Me and my sister could be home with her. It was only when I was 15 that she entered the labour market. It was very common that the women in the area where I grew up were, for example, day mothers. This is exactly the journey that many women have made in Sweden. They have been at home and have been outside the labour market for some time. But then they had the opportunity. These are the opportunities that we must also give to women born abroad. It is about ensuring that they can gradually enter the Swedish labour market. I'm visiting a lot. Nowadays it's digital visits. Great efforts are taking place throughout our elongated country. There are so many municipalities, so many companies and so many people who are committed to making use of the enormous potential of foreign-born women. We need to continue to do much more. We need to ensure that labour market policy is equal and that we demand equal rights and equal support. It is important to continue to ensure that foreign-born women simply have the same opportunities as everyone else.
i-c402edcc1c87c1af-473	Madam President, I would like When you listen to the Government, it sounds a bit like this is a rather simple question, which we are now about to resolve. This is something that we a little bit see the traces of on the margin, it seems. But that is in no way the case. We have previously asked the Swedish Parliament's investigation service to calculate what it would look like if foreign-born women were to participate in the Swedish labour market to the same extent as women born in Sweden. This would increase Sweden's bnp by SEK 60 billion each year! SEK 60 billion each year – this is not about small sums. For these women, this means a personal income and an opportunity to make decisions about their own lives. It is an opportunity to get colleagues and to learn how it works in Sweden. Last autumn I met an entrepreneur in Sundbyberg, Torkel Kristoffer, who runs a local cleaning company. He testified about the importance it has had for many of the foreign - born women he has employed in his work. He spoke about the importance it has had for many of these women to get colleagues and to hear about Swedish rules, norms and values, for example that in Sweden it is not allowed to beat their wife. It is about how we act towards each other and about experiences of how Swedish society works. These are things that are absolutely invaluable to many of these women and central to become part of Swedish society. Nevertheless, we see that our Swedish systems are still not designed to benefit women's labour force participation. I was going to give another example. This applies to the dependency of these women. An expert group on public finance studies under the Ministry of Finance has calculated this and concluded that women who have four or more children would lose financially if the woman or the man in the household chose to take a job. Then the system is not rigged to favour the participation of women in the labour market. The minister's talking about daywives. It can certainly be an effort, but the most fundamental thing is that we should design benefit systems so that they benefit work and a shift from benefit dependency to work and self-sufficiency. That is my second example. I would therefore like to ask the Minister: why do the Social Democrats refuse to introduce a ceiling in Sweden? It would make it easier for these women to be at the disposal of the labour market. My third example also deals specifically with these women. It's about SFI for parenting women. It is the second part that is highlighted in many of the expert reports that we have read in senar years. Many of these women are on parental leave for many, many years. During that time they lack the opportunity to become part of Swedish society. They lack access to SFIs and other training measures. Why don't you want to introduce SFI for parenting women? It is another proposal that the Moderates have and that we see could make it easier for more women to become part of the labour market.
i-c402edcc1c87c1af-482	Madam President, I would like There are many things I would like to comment on from what Mr Malmqvist has said. Speaking of the latter, on grants, I would like to begin by saying that I think it is worth recalling the custody allowance that was introduced during Moderates' time. It was a contribution about women being at home and getting paid for it. Looking at how this reform went, it is clear that it was precisely foreign-born women who, to a much greater extent than domestic born women, used the custody allowance. This, if anything, was really a female trap. I hope that we will never get that kind of reform back again, but the focus must be on our own work and on being able to contribute. Now your partner party, the Christian Democrats, has named the custody allowance and called it a childcare allowance. It would be very interesting to hear how Josefin Malmqvist views this proposal in relation to the discussion on grants. I believe that this would seriously undermine all confidence in the important policy that I believe Josefin Malmqvist is still running – women's right to a livelihood. I would like to hear how the Moderates approach this particular question. I would also like to say that there are parts of the Employment Service that have really succeeded well in improving their work aimed at women born abroad. I have been particularly committed to looking at the places where it seems to work well. For example, I have been to Södertälje, where we saw that women are as successful as men. I asked them the question: what is the key to your success and to women entering employment and self-sufficiency in time? The answer is quite simple: it is about making gender equality a priority and being clear that you make the same demands on women and men and give the same support to women and men. One needs to work purposefully on gender equality and have it as a clear priority. This debate is based on an examination of Arbetsförmedlingen and how Arbetsförmedlingen handles gender equality perspectives. As Minister of State and responsible for this authority, I look forward very much to receiving the reports which, among other things, address what I mention: the issue of labour market training. We know that it has primarily been aimed at men in the past. The figures I see now show that the proportion of women is increasing. I am still not satisfied, but the increasing proportion of women may well be the result of the government's governance towards the agency. This will be important to evaluate, especially during the pandemic year, to see how the gender perspective is present in labour market policies and whether we need to do more in this area.
i-c402edcc1c87c1af-489	Madam President, I would like The Minister now mentions custody allowance. It is telling that one does not talk about the politics of one's own party or about the proposals I am highlighting here today, but instead chooses to focus on an issue that has about a decade on its head. Just to make it clear, I welcome the abolition of the custody allowance. However, my question to the Minister concerns the policy that her government is pursuing here and now and for which you have been responsible since 2014. So it is not possible to blame anyone else anymore. My question to the Minister remains: why do you refuse to introduce a premium ceiling that would benefit these women, who are so far removed from the labour market? They are now locked in an unclaimed dependency on grants, where the municipality after the municipality does not require participation efforts. Nor do you agree that we should be allowed to make demands on all those who have grants to participate in labour market measures or other actions that could lead to jobs. I would also like to say a few words about the employment rate that the Minister has mentioned here. Although the employment rate is interesting in an international comparison, it actually says quite little about the extent to which one works. We received two different research studies during the previous year that reviewed these data and figures. They noted that most of the people currently considered to be in employment are in fact not self-sufficient. It is precisely these figures and these people that the Minister has often taken to heart and found that they are now moving faster to become part of the labour force and the labour market. That is why we on the moderate side want a goal of self-sufficiency and measure this as well. I would also like to ask what the Minister's position is. Finally, there is the question of gender stereotyping at Arbetsförmedlingen – what was at the heart of the interpellation. What's the minister doing there?
i-c402edcc1c87c1af-495	Madam President, I would like Making people poorer will not lead to more people getting better support to get into work. On the other hand, there is today a job stimulus in the supply support – precisely to make it pay to move from support to work. The Government has also announced in the budget proposal for 2021 that we will strengthen this job stimulation. So, of course, important things are being done in this area. But the most important thing is that these women get the right support. There must be both requirements and support in terms of being able to get into training and in terms of getting the opportunity for different types of intervention. This interpellation debate takes place in a section of the Kalla fakta which was broadcast just over a year ago. I think that the programme also shows something that is extremely important to remember in all these debates: many foreign-born women want to work and want to contribute to society. I really thought we had a clear reflection of it in the programme. We shall make use of this, and then labour market policy must, of course, deliver the support that these women need. Women and men must meet equally high expectations and demands and receive the same support. Labour market policy must be equal.
i-c402edcc1c87c1af-500	Madam President, I would like Lars Beckman has asked me what measures I and the government intend to take to ensure that 3 500 apprentices do not lose their valuable apprenticeship. He has asked me how I intend to act vis-à-vis the responsible authorities in order to resolve the situation he describes in his interpellation. Furthermore, he has asked what other measures I intend to take to ensure the skills needs of the construction industry in the short and long term. The spread of the virus covid-19 continues to have serious consequences for companies and individuals. Since the outbreak of the virus, the government and co-operation parties have presented historically large measures to limit the spread of infection and to mitigate the effects on jobs and businesses. One of these measures is support for short-term lay-offs, also known as short-term work. The support has been an important measure to prevent redundancies and to enable businesses to get back on track quickly when the situation is reversed. A prerequisite for obtaining short-term support is that the employer has made use of other available measures to reduce the cost of labour. The measures available shall be assessed on a case-by-case basis, based on the circumstances of the respective employer. There is no rule that workers in the form of apprentices are generally excluded from the short-term support scheme. The fact that the form of employment as such is not decisive for the possibility of support for short-term work is evidenced in the preparatory work to the legislation. On 9 February, the Swedish Agency for Growth published a position that will clarify what applies to apprentices and trainees during short-term work. The opinion shows, among other things, that aid for short-term work can be granted at the same time as an apprentice is still employed and that the apprentice can also participate in short-term work. This applies if the apprentice, through his/her role and function in the business, can be regarded as critical. In addition, it is clear that unpaid traineeships as an example form part of an education in which student funds are paid may be acceptable, as long as they are not intended to replace employees who are covered by short-term work. Skills development and skills provision are important even during this crisis. The Government has also introduced support for skills interventions during short-term work to facilitate the possibility of carrying out short-term work activities aimed at increasing or validating the skills of workers. The more people who use short-term work to develop their skills, the better from a skills supply perspective. The Government and the cooperation parties agree on measures to improve the supply of skills to both public and private employers in the Swedish labour market. The Government takes several measures that are in line with what the parties said, among other things, in their input for the construction talks. Skills development opportunities will be strengthened and employers' need to find the right workforce with the right training will be facilitated. Skills development throughout life is part of the solution to ensure that more people have decent working conditions, better respond to the skills needs of the economy and strengthen Sweden's competitiveness. The knowledge boost is being expanded, including higher education, polytechnics, adult education and vocational labour market training. For several years, the Government has provided funds to enable a comprehensive knowledge boost corresponding to over 140,000 training places in 2021 in Komvux, Folkhögskola, polytechnics and higher education to meet the needs of the working world for competence development. In June 2020, the planning and dimensioning investigation submitted its report on Joint Responsibility – a model for planning and dimensioning upper secondary education (SOU 2020:33). The study has proposed how higher education can be better planned and dimensioned based on regional and national skills needs. The report has been referred and is currently being prepared within the Government Office. The Government continues to strive for more unemployed people with educational needs to choose a regular study. Many unemployed people need training to strengthen their position on the labour market and avoid long-term unemployment. In order to increase transitions to the regular education system, the government has made it easier for the unemployed to study with continued pay. In order to meet the demand in shortage professions and strengthen the knowledge of job seekers, the government has also provided resources for more participants in labour market training. The government continues to work to ensure that the labour force is better matched in education and work.
i-c402edcc1c87c1af-510	Madam President, I would like We have had a debate in the past about youth unemployment in Sweden running out. In my county of Gävleborg, over 35 per cent of the county's young long-term unemployed are. Now, Madam President, we come to a concrete example. The reason I have asked this interpellation – just to sum up very briefly before I get into more questions – is that the construction industry does not think that the question is solved, unlike what the Government says in its answer. The background is that the construction industry is very special. The construction industry has collective agreements and special apprenticeships where, as part of the training, you are at a company, often in order to obtain your professional certificate. Madam President, I would like We all know that much more needs to be built in Sweden. But how are we going to build the steelworks in Boden if there's no manpower? How are we going to renovate all the vvs lines if there's no manpower? It is about 10 000 people every year, Madam President, who are going into the construction industry. What has now happened is that the Swedish Agency for Growth's interpretation of the framework for short-term work means that companies cannot keep apprentices in their companies. This is what the Construction companies and a number of other organisations have warned against. It's a huge problem. In this situation, of course, it would have been desirable for a minister and a government that wants more young people to get jobs, for more young people to enter the labour market, to clarify the regulatory framework in a way that does not mean that apprenticeships are terminated. It is important to have a clear and clear regulatory framework that does not require individual companies to be tested in the way they do today. The uncertainty in application created by the scheme means that a company can actually become liable for repayment if it has received short-term leave support and retained an apprentice. The problem is that if the apprentice does not get his/her hours, the apprentice has not completed the training. In the worst case, Madam President, it leads to young people leaving the construction industry – the construction sector where we need every person, the construction sector which therefore requires 10 000 people per year and which has now ended up in a very difficult situation. I am very pleased that the construction companies have brought this problem to the attention of politicians. It is therefore not about the individual company, but about the jobs in Sweden and the industry as a whole. The Minister says in his reply:"The position shows, among other things, that support for short-term work can be granted while an apprentice is still employed and that the apprentice can also participate in short-term work. This applies if the apprentice, through his/her role and function in the business, can be regarded as critical. ..................................................... So that is the problem. There would have been a need for general rules and a general regulatory framework enabling all apprentices to remain in their businesses. That is how, Madam President, youth unemployment is actually reduced. That's how you really get more young people into the business. I would like to know whether the Minister believes that the current regulatory framework is sufficiently clear for individual companies and apprentices.
i-c402edcc1c87c1af-520	Madam President, I would like It is good that Lars Beckman shows commitment to the conditions for short-term work. Unfortunately, he kicks in an open door. This problem has already been addressed. I would like to read aloud from the clarification published on the Swedish Agency for Growth's website on 9 February: 中 Clarification regarding apprentices and trainees under short-term support 1 December 2020 – 30 June 2021. During the period... it may be possible to have employed trainees and apprentices and at the same time have support for short-term work. According to the Short-term Work Act, an employer must have used available measures to reduce the cost of labour to receive support for short-term work. The nature of the measures should be assessed on a case-by-case basis according to the circumstances of the respective employer. The key is the employee's role and function in the employer's activities, not the form of employment. The Swedish Agency for Growth's position is that during the period 1 December 2020 – 30 June 2021 it may be compatible with Section 5a p. 4 The law on short-term support to have employed trainees and apprentices. If, for example, an apprentice's role and function can be considered critical, support for short-term work can be granted while the apprentice is still employed and the apprentice can also participate in short-term work. Each individual employer who receives short-term support is obliged to show that the right to support exists and that available measures to reduce the cost of labour have been used. .....................................................
i-c402edcc1c87c1af-524	Madam President, I would like I am concerned that a Minister of Labour with a background in one of the trade unions in the Swedish labour market has such poor contact with employers' organisations, such as the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, Construction and other organisations, who have pointed out that the problem is precisely what the Minister read out. That is what my interpellation is about. Judging by the answer given by the Minister, Madam President, it seems that she really believes that the issue has been resolved. It's not. I would like to appeal to the Minister to pick up the phone tomorrow morning, call the Construction Company and the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise and get involved in the issue in order to really solve the problem. The Minister's answer sounds like she thinks the question is solved, but it is not. That is why I have awakened this interpellation. The keyword is just a critical task. An individual company will prove to the Swedish Agency for Growth that Lars Beckman, as an apprentice, is critical of operations. This is why companies are afraid to take a chance, because the individual company can become liable for repayment. I would say that every apprentice is critical of activities and that it is not about the individual company but about the industry. It is about Sweden as a nation. We're gonna build more. We're going to renovate more. We're gonna replace va-nets. We need more electricians. We need more tin men. We need more young people who choose craftspeople as their professional orientation. In this situation, we must protect each individual with general regulations that mean that neither the Swedish Agency for Growth nor the individual company is in danger of ending up in a situation where they fail to assess whether Lars Beckman was critical of operations. That is why the regulatory framework needs to be clarified. I would like the Minister for Employment to talk to the social partners. Both the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise and the Construction companies have been deeply critical of this clarification, which they believe does not solve the problem. Perhaps the Minister goes to another minister and says: We need to get more young people into the labour market, and we should not risk young people leaving their apprenticeships. We need every carpenter in Sweden, so we must solve this quickly together with the Swedish Agency for Growth. That is why I have raised this interpellation. This is a problem. The question is not solved. The question must be resolved, but judging from the Minister's answer, it seems that she really believes that the issue is resolved. There are 3 500 young people at risk of losing their apprenticeship. In a situation where we have a runaway youth unemployment and where we have a shortage of craftsmen in Sweden – 10 000 people are needed every year – it is not good enough, I think, to say that the issue is solved, that Lars Beckman is ignorant and that the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise and the Construction companies are ignorant. It is reasonable to listen to those who know the subject matter, and the subject matter is, therefore, exactly what the Minister read out. It can be this and that, and one should make an assessment of the individual company. But the companies are afraid to take a chance, because they can be repaid if they have made an incorrect assessment. That is why general regulations are needed. I repeat my question: Does the Government think that this issue needs a solution that means that we do not risk 3 500 apprentices losing their place, for which the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise and Construction believe there is a risk?
i-c402edcc1c87c1af-534	Madam President, I would like Of course, we should have appropriate rules for the design of both short-term work and other support measures. The clarification that the Swedish Agency for Growth made on 9 February is of course also very central, and it can be read on their website. It clarifies a great deal about this with apprentices. I would also like to say that I am very proud that the government acted so quickly when the crisis struck. After all, we have implemented historic measures in an exceptional situation. We have also shown that we can screw up and refine measures, but it was very important to quickly get a number of measures in place to save as many Swedish jobs as possible and to mitigate the effects of the job crisis on employees and companies. One of the measures that has made the greatest difference is short-term work. Almost 600 000 Swedes have been on short-term leave during this crisis. Through short-term work, hundreds of thousands of employees have avoided the risk of losing their jobs. Companies have also been able to retain skilled and important labour. Now that the spread of infection is still at a high level and we need to continue to live with the restrictions for a while longer, it is very good that we have this system in place. It can continue to save jobs that could otherwise have disappeared. We are continuing at the high rate of support measures, and we are extending important support measures. The possibility for companies to use short-term lay-off of 80 per cent shall remain in June 2021. We also see that the restrictions will play a role for some time to come, and then it is also very important that we have the opportunity to provide accurate financial support. The support for short-term work is an important measure to prevent redundancies and to enable businesses to start up quickly when they turn around. Of course, we should have appropriate rules for the design of short-term work and other support measures.
i-c402edcc1c87c1af-540	Madam President, I would like I don't know who the government was talking to last time. It is true that we Moderates in the Committee on Finance have run the government before us in order to get these aid packages in place. So that is not what this interpellation is about. This interpellation, Madam President, concerns the risk of 3 500 apprentices – 3 500 young – at a time when young unemployed people are running out of their apprenticeship. That is what this interpellation is about – 3 500 young people. This is due to an unclear regulatory framework. It has been flagged by the Construction companies for after the clarification that the Swedish Growth Agency did; it was after this that I wrote the interpellation. It has also been alerted by the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise and other organisations. I understand from the Government's response that she thinks the regulatory framework that is now in place is right. It does, Madam President, that it is not only 35% of young people in Gävleborg who will be long-term unemployed, because if the Minister does not act on this issue and the pandemic continues, we risk having an even higher youth unemployment rate. We are in danger of even greater shortage of carpenters, electricians, plumbers and so on. I appeal to the Minister to let some employee pick up the phone tomorrow – or do it himself – and call the Construction Company and the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise to understand what it is in the regulations that allows us to screw it up and that makes us create general rules and security that make it a safe management for companies from an economic point of view. It cannot be that the Minister seriously believes that this issue is resolved. Every youth must be allowed to retain their apprenticeship.
i-c402edcc1c87c1af-545	Madam President, I would like The system of short-term work is of course crucial for Sweden to be able to get through the crisis in a good way. And, of course, we should have adequate rules for the design of both short-term work and other support measures. Therefore, the clarification provided by the Swedish Agency for Growth in February was also very important. Short-term work is also a proof of strength for the Swedish model and for our good collaboration in Sweden. Lars Beckman mentions the social partners. I welcome that. I would also like to pay great tribute to the partners in the Swedish labour market. We should remember that from the time the Finance Minister presented the reform with short-term work it took five hours before the first collective agreement was signed. It was the employers' association Visita who, together with the Hotel and Restaurant Union, signed the first collective agreement. Then it just raged, and so came a plethora of collective agreements. These have ensured that 600 000 people in Sweden are covered by the system of short-term work. Strong and responsible parties are therefore crucial to how well we deal with a crisis.
i-c402edcc1c87c1af-549	Madam President, I would like Mats Green has asked me whether I intend to stand by the promises made that the reform of the Employment Service should not be based on the law on freedom of choice, LOV. In addition, Magnus Persson has asked me whether I intend to keep the agreement that the reform of the Employment Service should not be based on LOV and, if not, what measures I intend to take to avoid a repetition of previous problems. The Social Democrats, the Center Party, the Liberals and the Green Party agree that the Employment Service needs to be reformed in order to better support the unemployed and enable more employers to find the right skills. On 9 December 2019 we announced that the timetable for the reform would be adjusted and clarified. In this connection, we also announced that the reform would not rest on the LOV. My clear message here today is that this direction is solid. Let me quote verbatim the message we then gave: a reform of the Public Employment Service should not be based on LOV. It is the procurement form or forms that are most appropriate for each service to be used, based on e.g. the needs of jobseekers, the possibilities for more efficient matching, the purpose of the service and regional and local conditions. ..................................................... Quality, good performance, control and cost-effectiveness will be the main starting points for the acquisition of matching services in the reformed system. In addition, knowing that these starting points can be met, procurement should be designed in such a way that the individual is given the opportunity to influence the choice of supplier. It is Arbetsförmedlingen that assesses for each individual acquisition which form of procurement is most appropriate to use. In addition to matching services, the reformed system will provide a range of other labour market policies that are procured in different ways, from procurements under the Public Procurement Act, LOU, to agreements that are outside the procurement framework. These may include, for example, labour market training and rehabilitation or investigative services for persons with reduced working capacity. The Public Employment Service will provide various types of services and acquire them in the most appropriate ways for each service. In 2020, Arbetsförmedlingen was tasked with introducing developed matching services, the service that the agency calls Customer Selection to equip and match, KROM, to learn lessons for a future reformed system. Developed matching services are part of a progressive implementation of the reform of the Public Employment Service and part of the agency's development work. The Public Employment Service has assessed LOV as the most appropriate form of procurement for this trial. This assessment was based, inter alia, on increased possibilities for comparison with the existing choice system for Support and Matching, Stom, and that any review of a LOU procurement risked delaying the entire trial activity. The reform of Arbetsförmedlingen is to be carried out in an orderly and responsible manner, and as part of the preparations for the reform, the agency has been tasked with developing the work to ensure quality, improved control and follow-up of independent actors and the activities carried out by them. The mistakes made in the past shall not be repeated.
i-c402edcc1c87c1af-556	Madam President, I would like The Moderates have long been the driving force for a reform of Arbetsförmedlingen, which is one of Sweden's largest and by far the least functioning agencies. In our proposal, the reform is based on independent actors, and Arbetsförmedlingen is replaced by a new authority responsible for the exercise of authority, monitoring and monitoring, and makes the assessment of the scope of the job seeker's needs. Madam President, I would like The Red-Green Government has gone on this issue overnight from being the main opponent of reform to now being responsible for its implementation. This will be a bit like putting an atheist on the bishop's bench, perhaps especially when the government has wanted to do this based on the LOV, the Freedom of Choice Act. We Moderates have for several years rejected proposals for the reform of the Swedish Public Employment Service to be based on LOV, for example because experience shows that it is difficult to follow up that every performer is of good quality. However, experience also shows that monitoring will be difficult to maintain, and one-sidedly building labour market policy on LOV risks undermining the foundations of a well-functioning labour market policy: the need to make clear demands on the unemployed. This was why, in 2019, we, together with the Christian Democrats, the Left Party and the Swedish Democrats, made it clear that we intended to arouse mistrust of the Minister for Labour unless the government promised to abandon its ambition to base the reform on LOV. That is what Eva Nordmark promised the Swedish Parliament not to do, Madam President. It is therefore very remarkable that the management of the Arbetsförmedlingen has now made it clear that LOV will certainly provide the basis for the reform in connection with the communication about the customer selection service equip and match, Krom. There are many question marks in the non-answer given by the Minister just now, both in terms of the promise of the LOV and in terms of control, which the Minister needs to highlight further. Last week, the unemployment insurance inspection, the IAF, presented a report in which they reiterated their assessment that the Employment Service has very serious shortcomings in checking that unemployment benefits are paid correctly when job seekers are with independent actors. At the same time, Arbetsförmedlingen is rolling out its new matching service Chromium throughout the country, despite the fact that the control is completely incomplete. This is contrary to Eva Nordmark's assurances in her reply here. I would need answers from the Minister to this and other questions that have been raised here about both control and LOV.
i-c402edcc1c87c1af-562	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister for Employment, for your answer. On the basis of the Minister for Labour's reply, it is clear that LOV will be the form of procurement on which the mission will be based, contrary to the agreement reached in Parliament following the threat of censure. The answer is very clear. It is said, among other things, that the Public Employment Service has made the assessment that LOV is the most appropriate form of procurement for this trial. Madam President, I would like It is clear that the government allows the Public Employment Service to govern the reform of its own authority, which the agency itself considers appropriate. It feels remarkable because the directives are clear when it comes to not resting on LOV. I wonder what the role of the government is in the future reform work. Do you participate, or have you left a walkover for the Center Party? Or do you let the Employment Service handle the reform in its own way? The Government said on several points in its response that it chooses to use LOV. The Minister for Labour said that, for each individual acquisition, it is the Public Employment Service that assesses which form of procurement is most appropriate to use. Furthermore, the Government said in its reply that, for example, labour market training and rehabilitation or investigative services for persons with reduced working capacity. Finally, the Government said that the Employment Service will provide various types of services and acquire them in the most appropriate way for each service. When I heard the answer, I felt that the whole reform work had been left in the hands of the Employment Service itself.
i-c402edcc1c87c1af-567	Madam President, I would like There is a broad consensus and consensus in the Swedish Parliament that there is a need to reform Arbetsförmedlingen. A more accurate labour market policy is needed, and that is what the reform itself aims to do. It is important to say that in order to be effective, in order to ensure that there is an authority with the capacity to shape labour market policies and interventions based on what is most effective and effective in different parts of Sweden, since the labour market is different depending on where we are in our elongated country, the starting point must be that the reform should not rest on the LOV, but that it should be about the type or forms of procurement that are most appropriate for the respective service. It is about ensuring the efficiency of the services delivered. We shall be based on the needs of jobseekers, based on local and regional conditions and the type of service to be performed or procured. There can be many different ways, i.e. LOV, LOU, direct procurement or other types of collaboration. Magnus Persson is asking a question about the reform. There is now a very intensive work going on within the Government Office and between the government and the cooperation parties. With regard to the concrete regulatory framework for the reformed authority, we intend to come back before the summer with a ministerial letter. Then it will also become even more clear what will apply in 2022. I would also like to emphasise that the mistakes that have been made in the past should not be repeated. In the reformed system, it is important that there is a diversity of actors, but not more than that it is possible to ensure control, quality and results. An important part of this is also to create a well-functioning coherent incentive structure for the independent actors. This needs to be done through clear requirements for operators and for the design of remuneration. Suppliers who perform good results should be given better financial conditions to remain in the system than those for those who perform worse results. All in all, it will provide a clear focus on results, a high minimum level through clear and strict requirements for the independent actors and a solid control. Madam President, I would like The government will come back before the summer with a ministerial letter, and then it will be even more clear what will apply in the reformed system.
i-c402edcc1c87c1af-572	Madam President, I would like I would also like to thank you for your reply, although I did not receive a specific response to the debate on control. It is probably guaranteed that there is control, while there are clear signs that it does not exist. I am therefore a little worried about a number of aspects. There were many questions in the answer the Government gave. At the same time as the Social Democrats, the JÖK parties and the Employment Service are rolling out Chromium throughout the country, despite all the observations and findings that the control and ability of the Employment Service is poor and inadequate, the Minister stands here and says that control is not a problem and that LOV is not a problem in this part either. This is despite the fact that the Minister's own authority IAF just a few days ago stated in a large and comprehensive report that the Swedish Public Employment Service's inability to control largely persists. To be honest, this reminds us essentially of the fact that the parties of the January Agreement made the overly important reform of Arbetsförmedlingen an experimental workshop in 2019. They lacked a plan for the reform they kicked off, and they also had to make a back in machine. The yeast was thrown in after the dough. The municipal inquiry is just one of a long number of examples of this. Questions about how this relates to armaments roll-out and matching throughout the country are initiated, while the Minister's own inspection authority, the IAF, points out further and for a long time pointed out shortcomings in control, are reasonable and, above all, necessary to put forward, Madam President. I repeat my question on how the Minister can be confident that reform is taking place in an orderly and responsible manner. How should previous mistakes not be repeated despite pointed out shortcomings in the Swedish Public Employment Service's control activities? These are shortcomings that have existed for years. If the Minister is safe in this, as Eva Nordmark stated a few minutes ago, what information does she have as the Inspectorate for unemployment insurance and all of us are lacking? I would like an answer to that, Madam President.
i-c402edcc1c87c1af-577	Madam President, I would like The Government also chose to say in its reply that any appeals in a LOU procurement risk delaying the entire operation. But is it not important that such a large and comprehensive reform is done right from the start and that it is expected that there will be a lot of appeals to ensure that everything is right? It is important that the reform of Arbetsförmedlingen is not just a pawn in a political agreement that has been created solely to retain power. As Mats Green mentioned earlier, the project has barely started until problems and criticisms have been addressed by the IAF, which concerns checks on the work of the independent actors. This reminds me of what it looked like last time during the time of the alliance government with the so-called pilots and other organisations that were launched during that period. There's something we don't want to go back to. The Social Democrats were very critical of the outcome of the procurement procedure. Has not the Minister for Employment learned lessons from what happened when one takes a little too lightly on the current situation?
i-c402edcc1c87c1af-580	Madam President, I would like Now that we are reforming the Public Employment Service and when we come back with a ministerial letter, it is of course crucial that quality and control and effective use of taxpayers' money should be in charge. In connection with the introduction of the freedom of choice system Support and matching, what is called Stom, Arbetsförmedlingen tightened the entry requirements in comparison with previous freedom of choice systems for job coaches and establishment slots. It is clear that high entry requirements are extremely central. It is also part of the control. Perhaps the most decisive change was that the requirements for previous reference assignments that applicant suppliers could present could not be met simply by a supplier having previously been establishment slot or job coach. This helped to reduce the over-establishment of suppliers that existed in previous freedom of choice schemes. In connection with the introduction of Customer Choices equip and match, Chromium, Arbetsförmedlingen raised entry requirements further by requiring applicant suppliers to exhibit two reference assignments with a corresponding focus and scope instead of one. Yes, Arbetsförmedlingen's assessment is that the most appropriate form for the Krom service, which is a pilot project and a pilot activity, is within the framework of a freedom of choice system according to LOV. This is because Arbetsförmedlingen has built on the Support and Matching service, which is also a LOV service. Using LOV, Krom could also be launched in a short time and provides better opportunities to learn lessons from the pilot project or experimental activities currently under way. The Government does not intend to direct the Authority towards building the reformed system on procurement via LOV. At the same time, it is not reasonable for the government to actively prevent the Authority from using LOV if it is deemed to be the most appropriate for the purposes of the reform: maintenance of quality, good results and cost-effectiveness.
i-c402edcc1c87c1af-587	Madam President, I would like There are a number of questions and points of view on what the Minister has presented here at the moment that perhaps deserve to be put forward. The Minister refers, among other things, to a letter from the Ministry coming later this spring. Yes, yes, the problem is that then you have rolled out a large part of the services that you are now talking about from Arbetsförmedlingen. It risks becoming, to put it mildly, just as the last time the government kicked off its reform: it obviously had no plan, and it had not talked itself together. There was no coherent thought about it at all, which meant that they had to put madstops and knock back on machinery during autumn 2019 and kick off a lot of investigations – for example the Municipal Investigation because they had not mentioned the role of municipalities in the reform of the Public Employment Service at all. This seems rather remarkable, especially since it is one of Sweden's largest agencies that has been dysfunctional for a long time. I am pleased that the Social Democrats have now made a turnaround and realise that something needs to be done. The problem is that it is one thing to say that you believe in control and quality and that you have good control and quite another to actually have it. I think we need further clarification and clarification from the Minister here. What does she know that the rest of us do not know when it comes to the control of the Employment Service? After all, the Minister does not mention in a single word what her own authority stated just a few days ago: that the control of the Employment Service is completely inadequate, along with its other activities. I would like the Minister to comment on the rather juicy criticism that her own authority is putting forward now that a system is being rolled out before it is ready and ready.
i-c402edcc1c87c1af-595	Madam President, I would like I will not prolong this debate. Much has been said that would be said. However, one cannot help but note that the government is constantly rejecting the responsibility in question as far as the reform of the Employment Service is concerned. You say one thing and you do another. After listening to the Minister for Labour this evening, we note that the reform of the Employment Service will be based on the LOV. That is at least the conclusion I draw from this debate. Employment and people's ability to provide for themselves are important issues that should not be used as game pieces in a political power game. Here I hope that the government will take on its responsibilities. With those words, I'll finish. Thank you for the debate.
i-4pUPZHhuZCjk4gtfgKNY72	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mats Green and Magnus Persson, for an important debate! We really need to reform the Employment Service. We need to develop the effectiveness of labour market policy activities and, not least, we need to ensure that we have a well-functioning authority that is locally present throughout the country. Regardless of where in this elongated country you live, you should have access to Arbetsförmedlingen. You should be able to book physical meetings if necessary, and employers should receive the support they need to be able to hire. Developed matching services are part of a progressive implementation of the reform of the Public Employment Service and part of the agency's development work. The Ministry of Labour is engaged in an ongoing dialogue with the agency based on the mission to prepare for the reform of the agency. In the ministerial letter to which I have referred, which is supposed to be referred before the summer, an overall description will be given of how the reformed system will be designed and managed. As I pointed out earlier in the debate, I have the same message to give today as I did in 2019: the reform will take place in an orderly and gradual manner. Step by step, we are now taking the work forward. I am absolutely convinced that we will come back and discuss this issue further.
i-c402edcc1c87c1af-604	Madam President, I would like Lars Beckman has asked me what I intend to do to deal with the work situation at manual car washes in Sweden and what measures the government has given authorities in collaboration to take in order to resolve the issue in the near future. No human being should be exploited in the Swedish labour market. Abuse of different regulations and exploitation of people need to be stopped. Society's view of employers who exploit people and mishandle employees' working environment should be uncompromising. It should never pay to commit crimes or gain competitive advantages by neglecting employees' right to a safe working environment. In 2018 – 2020, the Swedish Work Environment Agency, together with the Swedish Employment Agency, the Swedish Economic Crime Agency, the Swedish Social Insurance Agency, the Swedish Equality Agency, the Swedish Migration Agency, the Swedish Police Authority and the Swedish Tax Agency, had the task of developing effective and effective methods for joint control by the authorities to combat cheating, violations of rules and crime in the workplace. The joint work of the authorities has produced good results. Over 2,000 companies were visited in 2019. More than one out of ten controlled companies were forced to close down all or part of their activities due to the shortcomings found. In total, offences that could lead to control and sanction fees of over SEK 10 million were identified. In 2020, some 1 000 companies were visited from the beginning of the year to the end of October, although the work was significantly hampered by the ongoing pandemic. The controls carried out by the authorities show that breaches of tax and benefit rules are closely linked to shortcomings in the working environment and the exploitation of people. Miserable companies are trying to gain advantages by misappropriating subsidies and abusing state aid. Car services are among the industries where the Swedish Tax Agency's investigations have shown significant problems with, among other things, undeclared work. The Swedish Work Environment Authority often finds work environment deficiencies when controlling car workshops and other forms of car service. There is often a lack of knowledge about health and safety regulations linked to, for example, inspection of vehicle lifts and pressure vessels. It is important to raise the awareness of workers and to intervene against the dangers and risks to which they may be exposed. The Swedish Work Environment Authority's funding has been strengthened by SEK 30 million per year from 2021 onwards. The funds shall be distributed among the eight authorities involved in cooperation. This gives the Swedish Work Environment Authority, together with the other cooperating authorities, strengthened opportunities to work focusedly and jointly to continue to curb cheating, violations of rules and crime in working life. It is a strong effort to combat labour crime and represents a clear increase in ambition compared to the 18 million committed annually during the period 2018-2020. Work against labour crime requires permanent cooperation between authorities. The control activities of the authorities effectively contribute to increased compliance with the rules and sound conditions of competition. Control activities are essential to maintain the protection of workers and to ensure a level playing field. It is also important in combating crime. Therefore, there is a need to increase the number of controls against cheating, infringements of rules and crime at work, which is also reflected in the mandate given to the authorities for 2021. The work will be conducted with a special focus on creating the conditions for sustainable collaboration. The authorities will also carry out preventive information efforts with a focus on strengthening public knowledge and changing attitudes. Increased public awareness of the link between, for example, low prices and the risk of poor working environment, undeclared work, exploitation of labour and trafficking in human beings for forced labour can reduce demand for goods and services that contribute to working life crime.
i-c402edcc1c87c1af-611	Madam President, I would like This interpellation is about an article in the Motor magazine that has highlighted the growing problem of cheap car washes. I think that almost no matter where you live in Sweden, you can go somewhere where it says a hand wash and a very low price, quite often 99 SEK for manual laundry. In the article, industry representatives point out that this is a major and growing problem. What about the labor force? Who is it that washes the car for 99 kroner? It is often people who have been refused their asylum application but still stay in Sweden. Some of the controls show, says the Swedish Tax Agency, that people live in the laundry hall itself. A representative of an authority says that this is almost to be regarded as slavery. So it is a terrible situation. This is a growing, acute problem, requiring action. I note that the Minister lists many different things. We fully agree that cooperation between authorities is required. It requires many different actors because it is about everything from people not having the right to stay in Sweden and to leave our country to the Swedish Work Environment Authority coming to visit. One problem here, of course, is also when the Minister says that there is a legal personality. According to an entrepreneur in Gothenburg, some of these activities are completely black. There is no company at all to examine, but there is one person who uses other people, puts up a sign on the wall – it can even be in parking spaces and other places – and offers handwashing of cars. There is, of course, no easy solution to this. However, I share the Minister's view that there is a need for extensive cooperation between the authorities. Then what's the problem? Yes, one is, of course, the exploitation of people. This is what the authorities call slave trade, in Sweden in 2021. The second is, of course, the unhealthy competition faced by serious companies. I have no idea what is the right price for a hand wash, but industry representatives themselves say that given how long it takes and that compliance with the regulations is a reasonable price maybe 350 – 400 SEK. It is clear that consumers get a very slanted view of what is the right price. If there are big signs where it says 99 SEK and you go to a company that pays taxes and charges and does its business and that costs 400 SEK, you as a consumer may think it is expensive. But in fact, this is the right price for the product. I find it unacceptable that there are so many people in Sweden who do not have the right to be here and who are exploited in this terrible way – who live in a laundry hall under conditions of slavery. I would like to ask the Minister when she thinks the problem will decrease. Now it is increasing drastically around Sweden, according to representatives of the industry. I would like to know when we break the trend so that we get more order and people are not exposed to these slavery-like conditions and the serious companies are not exposed to unfair competition.
i-c402edcc1c87c1af-620	Madam President, I would like In the autumn of 2019, before the pandemic, I was very new as a minister and was privileged to be part of one of the efforts that our authorities are carrying out; it was the Swedish Tax Agency, the police and the Swedish Work Environment Agency. The action took place within the framework of the Government's mission on cooperation between authorities against labour crime. We went to a car wash like Lars Beckman describes. It was in an industrial area just outside Gothenburg. When we got to the place there was a huge activity out in the parking lot. The manager or owner of the business jumped out of a window on the back of the premises and tried to escape. He did not get very far — the police caught up with him. It was indeed a instructive experience for me as a new minister to be involved in this cooperation of authority. Once inside the car wash several violations and deviations were discovered. One was that the compressor that controls the car wash itself was very old, and it could not be seen when it was last checked. It wasn't even possible to read the inspection note. Such a compressor shall be checked regularly, and non-compliance shall be subject to penalties. The police also took care of employees who lacked the right to work in Sweden. And inside the car wash also lived a person, near the compressor, who was not inspected and approved. The controls carried out by our authorities are therefore incredibly central to detecting and remedying this type of problem. These checks are the result of the government mission that has been in place since the last parliamentary term. In recent years, these controls have increased and, as Minister for Labour, I was able to tell you at the beginning of this year that the government is now almost doubling the resources for the authorities to develop cooperation and we are going to have more controls. The Government has also made a decision and given a mission to the Swedish Work Environment Authority to return to what a sustainable collaboration should look like. As I said, this has been done in project form for a number of years. Shadow companies that distort competition in the way Lars Beckman describes – in a very good way, I think – do not belong in the Swedish labour market. Employees' working environment should not be neglected, and it should not be cheated in order to take on competitive advantages in this way. I take this type of crime very seriously, which I mean threatens the Swedish model.
i-c402edcc1c87c1af-627	Madam President, I would like We fully agree that this is a huge problem. We have followed the project that is going on here in Stockholm between construction employers and construction unions. I myself have met them a number of times and seen terrible pictures. It is, of course, in principle, human trafficking and slavery. People get locked up. They work during the day and are then shoveled in somewhere, and someone puts on a padlock and goes away so that they are incarcerated. So this is a huge problem; we are in complete agreement on that. It is good to cooperate with the authorities and with the government mission. But, Madam President, the problem is growing very strongly. It is not a big city phenomenon but is widespread throughout Sweden, unfortunately. There are probably from Kiruna in the north to Ystad in the south. It will also be a strange signal to the serious companies. They're very good at this. I made a company visit to my home country, and the entrepreneur could mention several companies. Something wasn't even a company, but it looks serious. There's a sign on the wall, and you're running a business. But it's not a company. This means that the Swedish Work Environment Authority will never get there, because this company does not exist. When to designate companies to be inspected, the company will never appear on the list. It will also be a strange signal to the serious entrepreneur, because it is clear that the entrepreneur will of course say to me this: But I follow all the rules, I have collective agreements, I behave and pay the VAT every month. Nevertheless, day after day I can pass the sign where it says handwashing 99 SEK, because it has no consequences. This is somehow system-destructive or system-threatening. It removes the social pit, the foundations and the belief in the rule of law. This isn't about the manual car wash, it's about the system. Since 2019, the problem has increased, and it is increasing all the time, not only in car washes, but also in the construction industry and a number of other industries. My question to the Government is, of course, when can we see a reversal of this trend? When will these measures have effect? Can municipalities, who know their local market, be involved even better? What else can be done? This is in some sense a threat to the system. Then I mean that the social kit is destroyed, apart from the terrible thing of course that people in Sweden who have been refused their asylum application are treated as slaves. That's not the point. We shall not have slavery in Sweden in 2021. We should of course have a fair labour market with equal competition between companies. Taxes and charges shall be paid. People should have their right pay, of course.
i-c402edcc1c87c1af-636	Madam President, I would like As early as this year, controls need to be increased and they need to be increased. We are investing more resources now to ensure that the authorities really get the opportunity to push these rogue companies back and find this kind of crime that occurs to a very large extent on the Swedish labour market. I have to say that I am very pleased that my predecessor Ylva Johansson a few years ago, when there were suspicions that working life crime was a major problem, said something like this: Go out and see what it looks like with the grey economy! The Swedish Work Environment Agency came back and said: It is not grey, it is black. There is so much shit – excuse me, Madam President – in our labour market. We need to push these bad guys back. We can never accept the crime of working life at all. That is why we are now greatly increasing funds for the authorities that are fighting against labour crime. The police have also been given greater opportunities to control risky industries. But I would also like to highlight one point that Lars Beckman pointed out in his first post as very central. It is that no matter how much we control these companies, we will never be able to control away the crime of working life as long as there is a demand for these services. Lars Beckman says it costs 99 SEK for a manual car wash. Then it should ring a bell for each of us as consumers. If we are to clean up working life crime from the Swedish labour market, we as consumers must react. It could be the car wash, the haircut or the tire change. If it says it costs 99 kroner, you should pull your ears for yourself. It should of course be collective agreements and fair terms, but it must not be undeclared work, as 99 SEK indicates. That's very serious. If it is too cheap to be fair, we as consumers should opt out of that service, because even if it feels good at the moment, there is a huge risk that you as a consumer are actually involved in contributing to organized, serious crime in Sweden. It is so serious, so I really want to highlight the urgency that the interpellier is also putting forward in this debate. We should not be involved in helping to pay for organised crime or for people who work and live in Sweden to have worse conditions and wages or sometimes actually live in completely slave-like conditions. There is trafficking in human beings, so it is clear that we need to increase the controls and put a hard on it. But my point is that we should also do exactly as Lars Beckman says here: We must also act as consumers. Even that newspapers like Motor choose to highlight these varieties is also very important, as is increasing awareness, that we review and that we get on the table which rogue companies are actually out there. Hopefully, it is one or another, just like the interpeller, who has read the report and who reacts. I also do that very strongly when I get the reports from our authorities. It is important that we, as those in power, but also everyone in our role and capacity as consumers, recognise our importance in the fight against labour crime.
i-c402edcc1c87c1af-644	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for the debate. We fully agree that this is completely indecent. We shall not have slavery in Sweden on the Swedish labour market 2021. Unfortunately, I think that the cooperation between the authorities that the Minister has now called for – I was saying – is inadequate. I think you might think it's a big city problem. When you talk to industry representatives of the parties, they say that there is a reason why you invest so much money in, for example, the construction industry in Stockholm, and that is that you think the controls are inadequate. Unions and employers conduct investigations together that they hand over to the police. That's how it's done in real life. So much more is needed. It is unfortunate that the problem has increased since the Government visited Gothenburg a year and a half ago. The problem escalates, so here we need force from our authorities, and we need clear signal effects and clear penalties. Then we fully agree that we, as consumers, have a great responsibility. If I walk past a sign that says: "Slipping 79 kroner" on a handwritten sign, perhaps I myself should reflect on whether it is reasonable or not, so of course the consumer has a responsibility. But precisely in this acute situation, I believe that practical police cooperation and cooperation between authorities are needed, and I believe that the municipalities are needed. For example, the people who would have been expelled but instead stand and wash cars should of course leave the country so that they are not subjected to this slave trade. I understand that the Minister says that this development will turn around in 2021. Is that what the Minister thinks?
i-c402edcc1c87c1af-650	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Lars Beckman for this important debate. I think it is important that we raise these issues in Parliament, that they are debated and highlighted. I would also like to take this opportunity to point out here today that if you suspect that this type of work crime exists, there is a telephone call at the Swedish Work Environment Agency. Madam President, I would like It is not always as one hears Moderates who are concerned about the safety of employees, and it is not every day that Lars Beckman and I agree, but here we are in complete agreement. In any case, what I can say about this work is that cooperation between authorities should continue to be strengthened. We have given a mission to ensure that there is lasting cooperation. We are now increasing the appropriations and ensuring that there will be even more controls. We need to do everything we can to frame these bad guys. Occupational crime is a threat to the safety of employees at work. As a society, from the government, the parliament and the parties and as consumers, we need to do more to stop the crime of working life. Thank you very much, Lars Beckman, for the debate.
