i-68c2a668d0eebeb4-13	Madam President, I would like We are now going to debate the Finance Committee's report Changes to the regulatory framework on the management of financial companies in crisis, and here the government proposal is dealt with by the same name. The proposal proposes measures to strengthen the regulatory framework for managing financial undertakings in crisis. The proposals adapt Swedish rights to new provisions in the EU Supervisory Regulation and implement new rules in the EU Crisis Management Directive in Swedish law. In the bill, the government has chosen not to implement key elements of the EU crisis management directives. By omitting certain provisions in the Swedish implementation, the Government allows for an application that allows Swedish banks to be subject to a compliance requirement that is significantly higher than the explicit limitations of the Directive. This means that the so-called postponing requirement may be significantly higher in Sweden than in the rest of Europe. Madam President, I would like By not fully implementing the directive, the Government's proposal may distort competition, not only outside Sweden but also within Sweden, where banks with head offices outside Sweden may have a significantly lower requirement than those that may be imposed on Swedish banks. In the end, of course, it is the customers who will suffer in the form of higher interest rates and fees. In addition, Swedish banks already have high capital requirements in a European comparison. The risk tax planned by the government must also be taken into account. In isolation and taken together, the Government's implementation of EU crisis management directives and risk tax will lead to more expensive bank loans for companies and individuals and less opportunities for Swedish banks to compete with foreign banks. Madam President, I would like I would therefore like to support the reservation in the report that the government should urgently review this and come back with a new proposal so that the EU crisis management directive is fully implemented in order to reduce the risk of distortion of competition.
i-68c2a668d0eebeb4-19	Madam President, I would like The government proposes in this bill measures for the management of financial companies in crisis. It implements the EU crisis management directive in Swedish law, but it does so without fully implementing some parts. I agree with the arguments put forward by the previous speaker as to why this is problematic. I'll get into that later, but I'd like to start by saying the following. The Swedish banking sector is large in an international context. You have an asset page that exceeds Swedish bnp several times over. This, of course, makes our Swedish banking sector particularly vulnerable to disruption, but it is also for this very reason that Swedish banks are among the most well-capitalised in Europe. They stand well in standardised international stress tests, i.e. simulated models where the Swedish economy is exposed to supply and demand shocks. It also has a stable balance sheet in a European comparison. In addition, several global standards and European regulatory frameworks have been added in the wake of the financial crisis. This is also the background to the very regulatory framework that we are talking about here today, that is, the crisis management directive. We have received a resolution framework that converts debts into share capital instead of bankrupting companies, precisely so that financial institutions bear their own risk and do not send the bill to taxpayers as soon as they fall into insolvency. Thus, the problem of moral hazard has been tackled – this was basically what caused the recent financial crisis. We have a resolution fee in Sweden that is twice as high as that for other banks in the EU. We have also received European regulators as platforms for cooperation between different national authorities. Everything is not perfect, but all in all, Sweden actually has a robust line of defence against financial crises. Against this background, it is very difficult to understand the driving force behind not fully implementing the directive and instead leave room for an application that can allow for a backwardness requirement that will be set significantly higher than in the rest of Europe. The previous speaker presented the arguments and the risks involved, including in terms of competitive disadvantages and possible threats to financial stability as Swedish banks become more dependent on market funding. If the financial crisis taught us anything, it was that even well-capitalised banks can have problems because of poor liquidity. In the light of this learning, increasing the liquidity risk of banks by pushing them out under financial stress against uncertain market funding is totally counterproductive. I fully agree that the government's intention is not to reduce financial stability, but this is still a risk with the proposal that lies. The Commission's announcement that the Government Office is forwarding does not exactly strengthen the government's own case, but rather, as is ironically stated. What we want to see here today is for the committee to return the proposal and for the government to revise it so that the directive is fully implemented. I'm in favour of the reservation.
i-68c2a668d0eebeb4-30	Madam President, I would like The report now under debate is about rules for when financial companies, such as banks, are in crisis and are put into so-called resolution. The rules concern both who can do what when a crisis has occurred and what should be done to prevent crises. Resolution is a procedure whereby a bank or institution avoids going bankrupt. Instead, the State takes over control of the operation in order to keep the system running and maintain financial stability. The point of this is that it should not be the citizens who are responsible for the crisis bill, but the shareholders and creditors should do so. This is achieved by the shareholders having their assets depreciated and creditors having their claims depreciated or converted into share capital. When everything works as intended, the state can in orderly forms reconstruct or liquidate the bank or institution. However, this requires the existence of a sufficiently high proportion of capital and impaired liabilities in the institutions. Madam President, I would like During and after the financial crisis, it emerged that there were significant shortcomings in the resilience and capacity of the European banking system to overcome a crisis. The EU therefore initiated a crisis management directive and subsequently a banking package, which introduced a series of regulatory changes. Definitions of debt were introduced, companies were categorized, and they were assessed on the basis of their systemic importance, among other things. With the changes now proposed, banks are supposed to meet specific requirements for equity and debt. And some systemically important banks should meet a requirement of so-called subordinated debt. Here is a general rule and an alternative rule, which can be used if it is considered to facilitate resolution. The maximum amount of these two rules is the cap on subordinated liabilities. What is to be done here will be left to the resolution authorities in each country to decide on. In Sweden it is Riksgäldskontoret. When, after the rules have been introduced, real cases of a resolution in Europe arise, there will also be a practice. To establish a certain application of the rules in Swedish law would make compliance more difficult and risk giving Swedish institutions a competitive disadvantage. It is therefore better to wait and follow developments. When the practice is then clarified in Europe, which will guide the Member States, the Swedish National Debt Office can then make interpretations and applications. Managing it is common when new rules and applications are in place. Then you can also consider whether this is what the European Commission had in mind and also see if there is a reason to clarify the legal text in Sweden. We therefore believe, like the government, that it is reasonable for this to be decided by the National Debt Office, taking into account the practice of the Joint Resolution Board, for example. Madam President, I would like With this proposal, Europe and Sweden are taking a further step towards a safer and better functioning financial market. It is important that policies adopt rules that create a level playing field and responsible action. It is ultimately a matter of citizens' security and welfare. We will always protect it. I support the proposal in the report and reject the motion.
i-68c2a668d0eebeb4-40	Madam President, I would like It's very good, even world class, in many areas. At the same time, there are queues that have stuck for many years and lack of coordination and accessibility for patients. All of that is Swedish health care at the same time. There is reason to highlight all the benefits and enormous developments that are constantly taking place. But we also need to develop and change in order for the whole to be good in health care. Healthcare is indeed knowledge-intensive. In cancer treatments with radiation, for example, the development has been amazing in recent years. The same applies to the new therapies cell therapy, immunotherapy and gene therapy that can get amazing results, not least now that they are used in childhood cancer care. We can also see that more and more people survive their illness. You can live a good life even with a chronic illness. This is because health care is there and enables you to live with your illness. We can see smart solutions based on local needs. We can look not least at Västerbotten, where new methods have been developed to reach the population with sick cabins and new variations of primary care adapted to what it looks like in Västerbotten. Not least, I am happy to highlight the work that has been done during the pandemic, when the staff changed the business in a flash. They have also changed it during the pandemic depending on the needs and knowledge they have acquired. Recurrently, it is a knowledge-intensive activity that is constantly changing and evolving in order to ensure that patients receive the best possible care. Cooperation between local and regional health services has really been strengthened during the pandemic. There are still a few light points during the pandemic. But at the same time, Madam President, we have shortcomings. Patients do not always receive the coordinated care they need, which is particularly important for chronically ill patients. The deficiencies also affect staff with constant overcrowding and ethical stress when you do not have time for your patients. And budgetary responsibility goes far out into the capillaries, making person-centred and coordinated care almost impossible. We have too many layers of control. We measure too much, and perhaps the most wrong things, and we control too much. We have reason to wonder after the pandemic about how we better create the conditions for healthcare to continue to be top class, world class, while reducing the shortcomings that we see today and that have existed for quite some time. Let me highlight some important aspects that we Christian Democrats have in the motion report from the Committee on Social Affairs, which we are dealing with today and which concerns health care. Madam President, I would like Primary care will take me all over. There I am not divided into different parts, but it is a holistic view when I meet the primary care. District doctors are general specialists, and they are well sent to provide coordinated and person-centred care together with district nurses, physiotherapists, occupational therapists and all others within the primary care team. But that assumes that they have a reasonable number of patients and that they can set a ceiling for how many they should be responsible for. We want you to have a fixed doctor's contact, and it's supposed to be a named doctor. Several regions are now examining how this can be shaped. Västra Götaland has been testing its model for a while. Yesterday we received information from Region Jönköping that they found their model. They will try to set a ceiling of 1,500 patients per doctor. I think we need national decisions to make primary care the base it needs to be for health care. If we make healthcare bigger, the whole health care system will be better placed to be economically efficient, but above all it will provide better and coordinated care for patients. The report also highlights the need for a MAR, a medical officer for rehabilitation, in each municipality. Smaller municipalities can interact with another municipality, but the function MAR needs to be in each municipality. That is why I am pleased that a majority in the committee also thinks so. We therefore call on the government to provide the means to implement this. Rehabilitation is a neglected area both in municipal health care and in regional health care. Several patient organisations have been carrying out investigations at the moment, and they are able to report major deficiencies and, not least, inequalities in the country. A MAR does not solve everything, far from it, but a statutory MAR will contribute to the strengthening of rehabilitation issues, and this is needed. Pandemin has shown that we have too few care places, that is, that we have too few employees who can staff the care places. We lack basic nurses, specialist nurses, X-ray nurses, biomedical analysts, radiologists, doctors in other specialities and many more. We need to move forward so that we have a better supply of skills. We need a statutory requirement for the right to good quality training for all licence professions. We must also ensure that we do not solve the lack of skills by reducing the requirements. No, maintaining demands and improving employers' policies that provide better working conditions is the way forward. I am in favour of reservation number 10 on the strengthening of primary care throughout the country.
i-68c2a668d0eebeb4-59	Madam President, I would like It is fun to be here to discuss healthcare and the future development of healthcare. But it is impossible not to mention the pandemic and the difficult situation in Sweden with many deaths. It is also almost impossible to talk about healthcare without sending an appreciative thought to the regions that quickly managed to double the number of intensive care places. It is also appropriate to send an appreciative thought to the health care professional who has made heroic efforts during the pandemic period in our country. I also look appreciatively at regions and see that they have succeeded in the vaccination programme. Currently, almost half of the country's population is vaccinated. Great praise to you! The pandemic brings trouble. We have a major health debt to deal with in the future, and here there will be a balance between staff's legitimate demands for rest and normality and citizens' demands for the care debt to be off. I share Acko Ankarberg Johansson's view that Sweden has a very good care. I have mentioned several times here in the speaker's chair that I am proud that Lancet, the world's most famous medical journal, has ranked Sweden as number 4 in the world in terms of the quality of the healthcare system. There have been a number of exciting evaluations of the Swedish healthcare system. In 2000, SKR presented a report on the situation in Swedish healthcare, and it was noted that the strengthened primary care guarantee, i.e. that one should meet someone in primary care within three days, works. In addition, the proportion of citizens who think they are getting access to the care they need has increased and is at a very high level. Health care analysis has made a comparison between Sweden and eleven different countries, and it is noted that Swedish healthcare is available to citizens. The wallet does not govern, but care as needed applies as the main principle. Hospital care is also of very high quality. However, health care analysis also notes that when it comes to fixed health contact, we are woefully poor. Only 30 per cent of the Swedish population have a permanent health contact, while in other countries the figure is 70 – 80 per cent. Both SKR and Vårdsanalys indicate that waiting times in specialist care are unacceptable, and I agree with that view. Acko Ankarberg Johansson mentioned that we have a number of challenges, and I share much of her description of the situation and of what we need to address. We need to work on the waiting times, and here I am more hopeful. I believe that the developed health guarantee developed by the January parties together with SKR, which allows each region to compete against its own historical results, will have an effect. It is more reasonable for Jämtland to compete against Jämtland's historical results than for Jämtland to compete against the rich Stockholm. We need to develop the close care and make sure that people have a permanent medical contact. I believe that this will be done through the agreements with SKR. We need to work on the level structure so that specialized care is concentrated in a few places in the country. This work is ongoing with the help of the National Board of Health and Welfare. We need to improve knowledge management, and here the SKR and the regions make great efforts. There are areas where I think we do not have sufficient answers. For example, we are not dealing with the situation with an increasing number of private health insurance policies. On 8 October last year, IVO concluded that they are actually a patient safety risk and mean that people can take priority in care queues. We are not making sufficient efforts in relation to mental illness, and I am very concerned about what will happen to elderly care in the future in view of demographics. So there are things where, at present, we are not good enough and are not doing enough. In today's debate, you will surely hear some barking at the government and Minister of Social Affairs Lena Hallengren. Of course, you can yell at her if you think the government is wrong, and the government is not always doing the right thing. But if you live in Skåne and are upset that the vaccination does not really work in Degeberga, Tollarp or Brösarp and that it is a white spot where it is difficult to find a vaccination site, it is not Lena Hallengren's fault, but it is Carl Johan Sonesson who should answer for why the vaccination program in eastern Skåne does not work fully. If you work at Sahlgrenska Hospital and have worked hard during the pandemic and see that the hospital has a saving of half a billion SEK to handle while the Västra Götaland region has 1.8 billion in surplus, it is not Lena Hallengren's fault. Here you can instead talk to Moderate Johnny Magnusson, because he is responsible for this saving. If you are upset that there will be a choice of care bup in Dalarna, where private carers should be paid per diagnosis, it is not Lena Hallengren's fault. Then you have to talk to Moderate Ulf Berg. If you think it is quite scandalous that Karolinska Hospital told 500 employees during the pandemic year, it is also not Lena Hallengren's fault, but you can talk to Moderate Iréne Svenonius. I say this because it is important to understand that health care is managed by regions and that there are many local politicians who have a responsibility for how it is done in health care and in reality out there. Madam President, I would like I support the reservations of the Social Democrats. As usual, we are almost in agreement in the Social Committee – it is a pragmatic committee – but on some points we think that the majority of the committees have been lost.
i-68c2a668d0eebeb4-78	Madam President, I would like We received an account of everything the Minister of Social Affairs Lena Hallengren cannot take responsibility for. However, I noted that Mrs Dag Larsson also mentioned that the government is not doing everything right. I therefore look forward to listening to the points on which the honourable Member believes that the government has not done the right thing.
i-68c2a668d0eebeb4-79	Madam President, I would like I think the government should do more about private health insurance. This is not a new problem, for they have increased over a number of years. An investigation has now been set up, but it should have been done a long time before. Although the government has allocated more money to psychiatry, more should be done in this area than has been done so far. In the committee we have discussed the IT infrastructure in Swedish healthcare. I am a strong supporter of regional selfgovernment, but here the regions have not done enough and should therefore do more together. Now I have mentioned a few things where we can certainly do more, including on the part of the government.
i-68c2a668d0eebeb4-83	Madam President, I would like I am pleased that the honourable Member made it clear in which parts the government has done wrong. I guess there are more, because that's how it is with every government. It's not about a few, because you'd like to do a lot more. I'm still a little perplexed by some of the examples. The fact that people pay twice for healthcare, both through the tax and once more, often through the employer, is a symptom that we have long queues in the care and that you do not receive care according to law. I agree with the honourable Member that more needs to be done, because the queues increased after 2014, and private health insurance has also increased. They're not straight from communication vessels, but they're connected. If the care can't deliver, I'll pay you one more time. It is socially unprofitable to act in this way. As far as psychiatry is concerned, we have had some investigations, and not least investigator Kerstin Evelius has pointed out that each government has almost poured billions over psychiatry but still did not want to contribute to an improvement. She highlighted the need for many sectors of society to do their part instead, to change this. I am happy to listen to the honourable Member's view of how we are going to bring down the long queues after the pandemic. I'm not just talking about the situation now. I'm talking about psychiatry, where the government would have to do more. There I have not seen the approach that investigator Kerstin Evelius highlighted, but it has been quite hacked and ground instead of the big, long and broad perspective where all sectors are included, where one sets a goal, perhaps ten years ahead, where one follows up and asks each year what do you do? 中 and where you do not point your finger to anyone else but ensure that everyone does their thing. I would be happy to listen more to what the honourable Member says there.
i-68c2a668d0eebeb4-88	Madam President, I would like I share the view that we need to do much more in the field of psychiatry. It has tried to make a number of agreements with the regions, not least when it comes to bup and other things. I dare say it's inadequate. We need to try to understand why mental illness is increasing, not least among young people. It has to do with the education system, the school and a wide range of other things. I would like to see a greater approach in this area, and I know that there are such discussions. When it comes to private health insurance, it is of course connected with the availability of health insurance. It is also linked to employers wanting to reward their employees by taking out private health insurance. We have been able to read in Dagens Nyheter, which has conducted studies, that there are private care providers who receive both publicly funded patients and insurance patients and where it is obvious that insurance patients are given priority in gender. This is, I dare say, a violation of the Health Act. I believe that the parties should try, across party boundaries, to resolve this problem, because it has to do with the credibility of Swedish health care. You should receive care as needed, not after you can afford to take out an expensive private health insurance.
i-68c2a668d0eebeb4-92	Madam President, I would like How should the care queues be shortened, accessibility improved and care made more equal? What is needed to improve disease prevention, to boost digitalisation in health care and to get more clinical research? The many moderate motion requests in the report we are debating are, among other things, trying to provide answers to these very urgent questions. However, my reported speaking time is far from sufficient for me to be able to describe the many moderate proposals contained in the report, and I will now focus on a number of particularly important issues and areas. Madam President, I would like I started with the three announcements to the government that the Social Affairs Committee is now proposing. These are announcements that all approve of moderate proposals. The first announcement is about reviewing the current capacity, organisation and structure of infectious pathogens. The Coronapandemy is still ongoing, and care should be taken to draw far-reaching conclusions during a crisis about what has not worked and what needs to be changed forward. However, the need to strengthen and improve disease prevention is one thing that is certain. The Swedish strategy during the pandemic – to protect the elderly – has failed, and for this lies a heavy responsibility on the government," said the Corona Commission. Against this background, it is particularly important for the government to review how disease control work in elderly care can be improved. Today, CDC doctors are regionally organised and few in number. Now the Social Affairs Committee, on a proposal from the Moderates, is asking the government to review whether the capacity is sufficient and whether the organisation is the right one. Perhaps Swedish elderly care would have had a better infection protection if there had been a local disease control doctor, as it does in Norway. The second announcement aims to strengthen the municipal work on rehabilitation. A medical officer for rehabilitation, a MAR, should be available in each municipality. It is the proposal of the Moderates and now the Social Committee to take steps towards reinforced rehabilitation. And it is really needed, not least in the light of the coronapandemia, which has created a great rehabilitation debt. Madam President, I would like The third announcement I personally am a little passionate about. The Swedish Parliament requires the Government to investigate how a reinforced healthcare guarantee can be designed that gives people with addiction problems faster care and treatment. When a person with an addiction problem is motivated to change, care and help must come quickly. The Parliament has previously called for a zero vision of drug-related mortality, a vision that must now be followed by reforms. A reinforced care guarantee for people with addiction problems would be a very important concrete reform. Because it is care and not words that save lives. Madam President, I would like On the subject of the health guarantee, I would like to highlight and call for the approval of reservation number 21, in which we Moderates propose a broader and reinforced health guarantee for cancer patients. We are very concerned about the excessive waiting times for cancer patients. During the pandemic, care queues have grown rapidly, but the fact is that even before the pandemic women with breast cancer had to wait far too long – not even half received care within the promised time. And less than half of all men with prostate cancer received treatment within promised time. That is why we are proposing an enhanced guarantee of care to which we link specifically targeted resources in order to realise. Madam President, I would like Of course, I support all the moderate reservations, but for the sake of time, I would simply like to endorse this reservation. More national measures and national leadership are needed in terms of the high level of care needs in general. In concrete terms, we propose, among other things, a national waiting list where all the good forces – public as well as private – are used to work out the large health debt that has been built up. Me and the Moderates believe that we need to look beyond national boundaries to find international collaborations. Madam President, I would like So far, I have mostly raised the right specific issues regarding health care. Finally, let me highlight an area that is more comprehensive and crucial to the development of health care in general, namely digitalisation. Digitalisation is not an end in itself, but it is a very important tool for business development, for creating a more accessible healthcare system, for creating more efficient healthcare and for creating a healthcare system that is more preventive, health-promoting and not as reactive as it is today. Unfortunately, there are many obstacles to digitalisation in the form of, among other things, outdated legislation. The report, together with the Christian Democrats, proposes a review of the Patient Data Act on how data may be used to develop healthcare. We Moderates also propose so-called regulatory sandboxes, which are a kind of free zones where technology and regulations can be developed in parallel. In fact, technological development is fast, and then systems are needed to rapidly develop regulations, hence this proposal. Finally, I would like to strike a blow for the Moderates' proposal for a digital health and safety lift in the healthcare sector. There are too many bad IT systems, too many systems that do not communicate with each other and too many digital tools in healthcare that are disturbing rather than supportive and that take time instead of freeing up time. This is a serious problem that needs to be taken more seriously. Health care employees both deserve and need a better working environment.
i-FyN3wYJWUBPq5V6qWEzegS	Madam President, I would like Today we are going to debate the Social Affairs Committee's report on the organisation of health care. In this report, the committee is dealing with some 340 motions in motions from general exercise time. The concepts include health care organisation and governance, but also accessibility, the Patient Data Act and dental care. The report also contains three announcements to the government. Madam President, I would like I will dwell on one of these areas, and it is about available care. What, then, is available care? Accessibility is about the balance between the population's need for care and the capacity and resources of care to meet these needs. An accessible care therefore means that the care should be easy to come into contact with and that the interventions should be given within a reasonable time. In recent years, international comparisons of healthcare systems have become more frequent and reliable. These comparisons have increased knowledge of both strengths and weaknesses in our Swedish healthcare system. It is now clear, for example, that Swedish healthcare is doing very well with regard to the medical results, and we should be very proud of that. We should also be very proud of the fantastic staff we have. But when we look at areas such as information, participation and coordination, we perform worse than comparable countries. However, the area that stands out more than anything else is the long waiting times and care queues of Swedish healthcare. The country's 21 regions are increasingly finding it difficult to meet the health guarantee. It promises, among other things, that you should meet a specialist doctor within 90 days or have a planned operation or other treatment initiated within 90 days of decision. But, Madam President, today only 56% of patients will have their surgery within three months, and only 73% will see a specialist within 90 days. Now one can easily believe that these care queues are due to the covid-19 pandemic, but that is not the case. The healthcare queues have grown gradually since 2014. Many of the problems that Sweden had before the pandemic broke out have now grown and become bigger. The long waiting times in Swedish healthcare have become a waketong and become almost chronic. The regions have been obliged to comply with the national health guarantee, which has been the law since 2010. In practice, it has not worked very well. And a health guarantee that doesn't work just creates frustration and false hopes. One question that is being considered, then, is this: has the current health guarantee played its part and should it be turned into something better? Yeah, I think so, actually. Another question is: Is Swedish healthcare without queues an impossibility? No, not at all. It is enough to cross Öresund to Denmark. There you have a completely different access to planned care. In short, their healthcare systems function in such a way that patients themselves can choose hospitals for treatment and investigation. This choice includes public hospitals and private hospitals with which the regions have agreements. Investigation and treatment should take place within 30 plus 30 days. For cancer or heart disease, shorter maximum waiting periods apply. If this time frame cannot be kept, the so-called extended hospital choice will come into force. It includes private hospitals in Denmark but also hospitals abroad with which they have agreements. The Danish health system has meant short waiting times, even among the shortest in Europe. A system has been built that is fast and efficient and with a strong patient right to receive private care paid when public care is unable to deliver on time. Denmark is, in many respects, a leading country in the field of health care. It was from there that we in Sweden got inspiration for, for example, the standardised course of care within cancer care. I believe that we should now also take another step and take a number of good examples from our neighbouring country, Denmark. If they can shorten the care queues there, we can also do so in Sweden. Madam President, I would like So the government has not succeeded in shortening the care queues. It has caused great human suffering both for the individual patients and for their relatives. It should be remembered that society always has a responsibility for its citizens, and this responsibility also means that society should in every way ensure that citizens receive accessible and safe healthcare that reduces their suffering. Each region will find it difficult to cope with this on its own and short-term care queues and offer equal care to its population. I believe that we must see the country's health care as a whole and take a concerted approach to it. The state must take greater responsibility to overcome the care queues. A first step, in our view, is to set up a health guarantee office and a national waiting list. The health guarantee canteen should be given special coordination responsibility for the care queues, and with advantage it can be placed with the National Board of Health and Welfare. The Office will also develop documentation and establish collaboration agreements with various healthcare providers – public and private, Swedish and foreign – in order to increase the care capacity within treatment as well as surgery and rehabilitation. In addition, a national waiting list should be developed for treatments that have the longest queues of care and where patients are at risk of suffering from long waiting periods. As I said before, there is no utopia with medical care without care queues. It's quite possible. Ultimately, it is about the credibility of the social contract. The Swedish social contract is based on the fact that everyone who lives here is expected to contribute to the common. In return, society should provide an accessible healthcare of the highest quality. And patients should be sure that their welfare will never fail them. If we fail to maintain this balance, we may face major societal problems in the future. Madam President, I would like Finally, I am in favour of reservation 23.
i-68c2a668d0eebeb4-122	Madam President, I would like The Committee on Social Affairs is today debating a report with the perhaps not so exciting title of the organisation of health care, etc. However, for those who listen to this debate, I would like to say that, if anything is of great interest, it is precisely how to organise health care in a country. There are roughly three ways of organising in welfare countries within the OECD. The first is, as in Sweden, to have a tax-funded health care. The second is, as is the case in most countries on the continent, a procedure of compulsory health insurance. And the third is the American model with a mix of everything that no one envys that country. Should a comparison be made between these three, it is as soon as possible the compulsory insurance procedure which has proved to be the most effective. So if you had a country from the beginning where you would build up a health care system, it is on the basis of current research that you would rather choose this model. But to make a huge change in health care by changing systems costs much more than it tastes in terms of inefficiency and long periods with major problems in health care. Therefore, it is probably not a country that is prepared to enter it. When it comes to how to look at the organisation of health care, it is also interesting to make an international comparison. As many speakers before me have pointed out, Swedish health care stands very well in an international comparison. Both in terms of efficiency and medical results, we come up with top rankings. However, we have major problems in a number of areas. Some are seen in international comparisons, for example in terms of continuity and the very long queues to arrive at health care. To this one could add problems in Swedish psychiatry, problems with a primary care that is not considered as extended as it should be and not least problems in Swedish addiction care, where we have among the EU's absolutely worst results. All this needs to be addressed. However, it should not be addressed by major revolutionary interventions, but here we need a number of reforms in many different areas to correct errors and shortcomings that we so clearly – patients and professions and we health politicians too – see that we have to contend with in Swedish healthcare. This whole debate is sometimes somewhat simplified in terms of what to do and how to deal with the Swedish healthcare problems. Some of it has been heard here today, namely that you point fingers. Swedish healthcare is carried out by our municipalities and regions, but the state has the overall responsibility in terms of funding – to ensure that there is money – and not least in terms of laws that govern. In addition, the State exercises supervision through the State authorities. It will be a rather strange debate, Madam President, when we say from some quarters that everything is the fault of the present government or the fault of the previous government, while others point to major shortcomings in municipalities and regions – especially those governed by other parties. On behalf of the Center Party, we are not going to engage in this. We sit and run in 19 of 21 regions and 200 of 290 municipalities, so we have very much a responsibility. We also have a responsibility in that the January agreement contains certain important elements, areas of reform, in health care. This applies not least to psychiatry and, above all, to primary care. I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 3. I am, of course, behind all our reservations, but it is precisely about an acute problem that we have seen during the pandemic, namely that municipal health care and regional health care work very badly together in the case of the most ill elderly. The reservation contains a proposal to remedy this as quickly as possible from the state level, through a legislative change that forces good cooperation between municipal health care and regional health care. There are still others who point out in the health debate that everything would be all right if we could just get away from the small part of private healthcare. Profits in welfare are apparently the big problem we have in Swedish healthcare. These people do not see outside the borders of the country, where healthcare – not least outpatient – is conducted largely entirely privately. Here the government should do exactly the opposite, because one of the acute problems we have in Swedish healthcare right now is the so-called health debt – the legacy we will have after the pandemic, in the form of gigantic queues to a large part of the Swedish health care system. The Minister for Health should urgently take the initiative to meet the four large private carers. They have capacity and could hopefully scale up their capacity. Make sure that a framework agreement is signed that allows patients, regions and perhaps even municipalities to call off private health care! In a short time you could get the queues down. It takes doing something here and now. The changes to the patient law that we have proposed, that is to say to give patients a free choice in the country, would also be good but will take longer. So call the private medical authorities now, and get the queues down! Another, a little simple, argument in the health care debate is that we could certainly solve many of the problems if we just nationalised the entire health care system and made sure that it was governed from Kungsholmen in Stockholm. On behalf of the Center Party, I am the first to say that it takes more of national governance, but throwing the whole of Swedish health care into a gigantic reorganisation would create much bigger problems than it would solve. For those who are more interested in this, I would recommend the research institute Ratio, which has recently come up with a solid research compilation that deals with the myth of centralisation and the state's permission for health care. It is very good reading especially for those who are interested in what not to do. I would like to conclude by once again calling for the approval of Amendment No 3, Madam President.
i-68c2a668d0eebeb4-136	Madam President, I would like I would like to send some greetings to all the staff who make the healthcare system roll. I hope that in future you will have better conditions and better conditions, not just during a pandemic but during your regular work. It takes other resources and another think, I think. Madam President, the Left Party usually takes on equal care, and so do we today. One can say that the pandemic has exposed the problems we have had in health care, both classly and regionally. I thought I'd take care of this. It is interesting that in 2018, Sweden had 2 care places per 1 000 inhabitants, Madam President. That is the lowest figure in the whole of Europe, which can be considered. At the same time, a report from the National Board of Health and Welfare shows that Sweden is in sixth place when it comes to money for health care per capita. Sometimes you just don't get things together. I would also like to say that we have a very good healthcare system in Sweden and that we should protect it. We must protect public health; I think that is extremely important. We can also see an increase in the population, especially the proportion of elderly and chronically ill. We must face this in different ways, Madam President. I would like to say that public health has had to stand back for decades. Sweden's hospitals have state-of-the-art premises with well-equipped intensive care facilities – but they are empty, because there are no staff. It is not the actual place of care that is the problem, but the shortage of staff. The resource deficiencies in intensive care have been more than doubled in the last ten years, and I think you can think about how to achieve a better balance. So this was already the case before the pandemic. There is a need for health care that meets the needs and where accessibility reaches those with the greatest need. Accessibility should be directed towards those who have the greatest needs; it is quite obvious. We can also see that care is being cut back, Madam President. You can also think about that. It is cut down in Västernorrland, Skåne, Stockholm, Västra Götaland and a bit everywhere. I think it's serious. We need to start thinking about how we should work, quite simply. As Dag Larsson previously suggested, I will also highlight the private health insurance that some consider not to be a problem. I might think it's a pretty dark cloud in our sky. There is a bias in the systems that hits those who are farthest away from the care. One can think of the 7 000 people who have taken out a private insurance policy. According to the Health Care Analysis, the largest proportion of this group are people working in financial services, law and economic consultation. These are occupational groups that generally do not tend to be very ill or have high health care needs, but they do have a high market value. There, then, inequality becomes quite clear. The fact that someone gets care faster than others with the same or greater need for care due to insurance seems to me to be a fairly clear deviation from the Health Act, I have to say. Perhaps we can agree on that. But now it is also the case that insurance companies are not covered by the Health Act, which means that they can build up these systems without obstacles, which are not based on the principle that the most sick go first. The whole point of private health insurance, insurance companies' advertising and so on is that whoever has the insurance should go first. Otherwise, no one wants to pay, right? This is at the expense of those who may also have a greater need for care. We believe that one way or another we must put an end to or limit this. Therefore, the Left Party wants to commission the appropriate authority to carry out an in-depth analysis and report on the impact of private health insurance on the financing of private health care, the business agreements that exist and what they look like, relationships between the companies, group grants, management incentive schemes, investor return requirements, the links to tax havens and the effects on healthcare consumption. This is a rather complicated story. We also want a review of the impact of private health insurance on health care and the impact it has had on people with high care needs, such as the elderly and multi-sickness. This is how it is: When I call my gynecologist, which is a private company that has an agreement with Region Stockholm, you can click in if you have an insurance policy. If you have an insurance policy, you press one, and if you don't have an insurance policy, you press two. Then you understand that there are two different flows to these health centres and that it is obvious that those with insurances go ahead. We want to lift reservation 15 when it comes to private health insurance. Homeless, dependent, those with mental diagnoses and undocumented – there are groups in society that in different ways are far from healthcare and do not have a safety net that can capture them. The National Board of Health and Welfare has examined the somatic overhealth in these groups and the under-treatment of somatic diseases in mental illness in general and psychosis in particular. It can then be clearly seen that the life expectancy of psychosis is 15 to 30 years shorter than that of the rest of the population. These are mainly the somatic problems, not suicide. You can compare them with heavy drug addiction, a group that has had a madly difficult time in Sweden for a very long period and has a 25 to 30 years shorter life expectancy. We would like an investigation into this. How to reach these vulnerable groups better? Now, in our committee, which is quite pragmatic sometimes, we have decided together that the health guarantee for dependent people should be strengthened. I think that's very good. I'm one of those people who've been exercising about it. It is good that we agree on these issues when we can, and I really think that the Committee on Social Affairs can do so. Digitization is amazing. During the pandemic, the use of digital systems by regions has increased. But the net doctors have not backed up during the pandemic either. For example, Doctor.se is now taking in SEK 500 million in new capital. The company's valuation has grown by over 200 percent in just 12 months. The net doctors are expanding. As you know, the regions pay for these visits. That's interesting. I hope we can regulate that. That is why we believe that the regions and the state must take greater responsibility for the development of the infrastructure for digital healthcare contacts. You have to hurry, because this doesn't make any sense. We want more resources for health care. We want to create more care places and more intensive care places. It's about getting more staff in. We want to invest in robust care centres with area responsibilities. We want to limit the benefits of welfare – it cannot be a direct surprise. We want to invest in the staff and hire more nurses and specialists. It's super important. We also want to review private health insurance. We want to limit the increasingly firm hand of the market over health care.
i-68c2a668d0eebeb4-154	Madam President, I would like The organisation of health care is an extremely broad area. And what does it matter? Well, that's a question. I'd say it matters all the time. The organization of health care is directly crucial when life breaks down and also directly determines how many people choose to work there and stay there. I am convinced that a whole lot of bigger and smaller details can give people better care when they get sick and better preventive care before they get sick. It can be anything from IVO's mission, which we have exercised about, to play therapy for severely ill children across the country, time for research and clinical trials in the regions, measures against over-bureaucracy, fees and high cost protection. There are many things that we believe need to be done. There are also many things that other parties think need to be done, but it is not always the same. It takes a hell of a lot of time. Sometimes I feel that it's like when I was a kid and danced folk dance: It's a few small steps forward, then you spin around the place for a little while and then you switch partners and you're going to take a few steps with someone else. Slowly, slowly, Madam President, we are getting somewhere. But it's frustrating, of course. I would like to tell you a little about some of the proposals that we have tabled and that we want to vote for today. One of the very good suggestions that looks like dancing all the way, so to speak, is that municipalities should have a medical head for rehabilitation. That's very good. I am very pleased that so many parties in the committee have agreed on that proposal. We did it with joy. I am also very pleased that the people who seek help and care for addiction will get help faster in the future. Clearly, if you suffer from addiction, you have to get your help in seeking it in order to have an opportunity to break it. Then there are other things where we liberals didn't get anyone to dance with. This applies, for example, to our de-bureaucratisation exercise. There will be no wide review of regulations, control functions, double reporting and so on to reduce the administrative time in healthcare and instead give the people who work there time to meet patients, for further training and for research. Nor did we get any sympathy when it came to reviewing high-cost protection and seeing whether they can be put together in any way. Today, there is a high level of protection for health care visits and other high-cost protection for assistive devices in many places. There may be an additional high cost cover for sick trips. Then comes high cost protection for inpatient care, which can tick on – every 24 hours all year round if it wants to hurt itself. Although high-cost protection helps me, Madam President, who almost never needs medical care, it is not certain that there will be protection against high costs for those who are really seriously ill. They are placed on each other in many places. But we don't give up. We're trying to talk about this next year instead. Elsewhere, we came closer, for example, on the issue of all regions having an obvious mission to contribute to research, development and innovation. There we had a lot of parties to dance with, almost all the way through. It was also about the need for clinical trials to be an integral part of healthcare, so that tomorrow's patients receive even better care than today's. There were also almost enough parties who felt that the health care system had to have a uniform system of records throughout the country. It is not the patient who should have to tap the information between health centres and hospitals across the country when, for example, you fall and hit yourself on your vacation. The state must take responsibility for critical infrastructure, in order to automatically refuel quality data in order to develop healthcare and to keep the patient's health data together as much as any patient wants. Finally, I would particularly like to highlight a proposal in which, unfortunately, we did not come all the way. But I am convinced that the droplets of water will eventually erode the stone and that everyone will understand that this is the right way to go. This is about dental care, Madam President. I would particularly like to highlight reservation 45 under paragraph 25. Even there it was solo dance this time. It is about letting dental care into the care chain, Madam President. It is about that more and more knowledge now emerges about how our diseases go out over our oral health and dental health and how our mouth affects the rest of the body. You can even see clear connections: One who has lost many teeth, has a lot of inflammation in the mouth and does not get his dental treatment more often suffer from cardiovascular diseases and heart attacks and dies earlier. This link ignores our health organization today. We see it as particularly important to first of all review the high-cost protection for those who really need dental care. This place can run off a lot if you're unlucky. Of course, it affects the mouth. It hurts and causes suffering. But we also believe that it affects the rest of the body. But this does not stop at costs. It is also about the need for better cooperation with primary care and care for the elderly. There is a need for action all the way from dental cracks to outreach dentistry when you begin to approach the end of life. I'm in favour of the reservation. In some places, as I have said, the other Committee on Social Affairs and the rest of the House is a little out of step here today, but I am very happy and grateful for what we have agreed. As for the rest, I keep asking.
i-68c2a668d0eebeb4-167	Madam President, I would like I shall begin my speech by mentioning, as some others here, what has been done under the coronapendem and also in this debate, a great thank you to all the staff and our regions around the country who have dealt with the pandemic in a great many ways. They have done many things far beyond normal. Then there is the rest of this debate. It is about the organisation of health care, which we have discussed very many times here. It is a very broad and broad subject. A lot of speakers have before me touched on the fact that there are many pictures of Swedish healthcare. We have the medical results that are very many times world-class. We, as Swedish citizens, and not just as citizens, can go to the Swedish health care system. Whatever our income and position in society, we can access one of the world's best health services when, for example, we have serious diseases. In parallel with the amazing results, there are also other images where patients sometimes get caught when it does not work between the different health care levels or different health care providers. We get pictures of the staff being stressed out many times. There are major health and safety problems. All those pictures are there, and they're right. We need to address the problems there, and we need to ensure that the good results we have are preserved and maintained. It's double work. Time is needed for good treatment in health care. If you turn to care, you need to feel sure that you are being taken seriously and that your visit will take the time required for you to explain and find a good treatment together with your doctor, nurse, rehabilitation coordinator and so on. Madam President, I would like Digitalisation has been mentioned here earlier in the debate. It is a bit of a grieving child in Swedish health care. We could certainly fill in a debate of our own with these reasons. It is about why, what problems exist and what needs to be done in those parts. I can say from this speaker's chair that a lot of the problems, of course, depend on legislation. In our eagerness to protect personal privacy, we have created some side effects in terms of getting coordinated and synchronised healthcare. This makes it difficult to communicate and share information between, in particular, different levels of care in primary care, inpatient care or, for that matter, municipal health care. There's work going on here. There is, not least, a maturity of the need for reforms to take place. Madam President, I would like For the Green Party, the preventive perspective is central. The need for medical care is not constant. It's possible to influence. Therefore, we shall continue to research, prevent and promote what can reduce the disease condition in society and for the individual. This is important not least for our ability to jointly finance health care. But above all, it's very important to the individual. The disease that can be avoided is best for the taxpayer and best for the individual. The preventive approach does not only have to shape the work of health care. It also needs to shape the role of employers and the work environment. Today we have major problems, or major challenges – depending on how you choose to express it – with the working environment in health care. Staff's working hard. Not least, this has become evident during the coronapndemine. But those problems existed before and were visible even then. That is why it is particularly nice today, June 1st, to stand here in the speaker's chair. Today it is possible for municipalities and regions to apply for the state grant called recovery bonus. This is something that the Green Party has fought for and pushed through in the government. It is aimed precisely at the work to find preventive and new methods for developing the working environment within Swedish healthcare. Now I see that speaking time is beginning to tick. I support all the reservations expressed by the Green Party, but in order to gain time, I am only calling for number 13 under item 4 relating to rehabilitation coordinators.
i-68c2a668d0eebeb4-180	Madam President, I would like We are in the third year of our term of office. From the current government, it has not exactly been drenched with proposals and suggestions on how Swedish health care should be developed. Madam President, I would like Today we have one of two major health policy debates in this House where we are discussing how to solve health problems and how to develop and improve health care. During the debate, Madam President, I have now listened very attentively to the statements made by the representatives of the two government parties. I have not been able to understand a single concrete new proposal on what to do in the future. Madam President, I would like On the other hand, the report contains 340 'no' from S and MP on proposals tabled by the Moderates and other parties in this House on how to develop health care. I would now like, Madam President, to give Mrs Attefjord another two minutes' speaking time to describe what the Green Party wants to do to shorten the queues in Swedish health care and to ensure that we succeed in what Attefjord highlighted at the end of his speech, namely to get a health care that is more preventive and health-promoting. Why, for example, has the Green Party said no to the Moderates' proposal for a specific health-promoting strategy? I hope that Mr Attefjord will be able to see answers to this during his next two minutes of speaking time. Swedish healthcare is world-class. But we also have significant problems. The honourable Member said in his speech that we need to address those problems. But then nothing more came. What is the Green Party's response? How do you want to address the lack of accessibility, inequality and the fact that Swedish healthcare is far too reactive and not very proactive in its work today?
i-68c2a668d0eebeb4-186	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much, Mr Hultberg, for the questions and for the opportunity to develop this. There are the points on which we have agreed within the January agreement. In particular, it is important to develop primary care or good close care. These proposals are in the process of manufacture and are on the way to the decision and position of the House. I'm really looking forward to those. As most of us here have noted, and as we have discussed many times, it has been an extraordinary year of pandemics which, of course, have put a lot of things on the table. This applies, among other things, to the work on the changed queue billions. There they have entered into a discussion with SKR about a change in it during the pandemic year. I can say that the figures for increased accessibility looked good before the pandemic struck. In most of Sweden's regions these curves pointed right; not least in our home region, for example, there were very promising figures. Then came the pandemic, and then you had to reprioritize the work and change the governance. I think that is a perfectly reasonable response to an acute crisis.
i-68c2a668d0eebeb4-190	Madam President, I would like The fact that the pandemic has put Swedish health care to the test is, of course, entirely agreed. It is obvious that a lot of the longer-term development work is losing momentum or even stopping both in Rosenbad and out in Sweden's 21 regions. Nevertheless, I am concerned, Madam President, about the low pace of reform that this government has. The answer to the problems and challenges of health care is often: that is the responsibility of the regions. Never is it the Minister of Social Affairs, the Government or the State that has a role to play in ensuring that accessibility is improved, that equality is increased and that healthcare is given better opportunities for digitalisation, for example. In his speech, Member Attefjord pointed out that the digitisation of Swedish health care is a child of grief. I really agree with that. But why not say yes to some of the concrete moderate proposals on the table to remove barriers to digitalisation and create better conditions for it? These are changes that are also important in order to achieve what we are pleased to agree on, namely the introduction of more preventive and health-promoting healthcare. Then we need to remove the obstacles that prevent data from being shared between different health professionals – data that could have been important for developing better decision support, for previously discovering people who are at risk of developing disease and much more. The fact that the government's bill list has been scrupulous throughout the term of office makes me concerned, because Swedish health care needs to be developed. Indeed, national leadership is also needed, and it is quite clear, Madam President, that the current government and the two government parties lack the power of that leadership.
i-68c2a668d0eebeb4-195	Madam President, I would like I don't share that picture. I can't stand here and now rumbling up the reforms that are on the bill list and that have been put on Parliament's table before – and for a lot of reasons, I was about to say. Perhaps we can come back to that in another debate. Above all, I think it is good that the government is pressing and has been clear about, for example, the differences in health that are tangible. The government has been clear in its target formulations to the regions. It is also a way of governing without interfering in the details of how the regions should shape exactly how to tackle this. When we look at health in Sweden, we see that there is an incredible amount of inequality. Only in the city of Gothenburg, for example, does it distinguish ten years in life expectancy depending on whether you were born in Bergsjön or Askim. How to address this, I do not think we should or cannot decide in this House. On the other hand, we can decide to reduce these disparities, and then it is up to the regions and politicians in the regions to find how to design this and what measures should be put in place regionally or locally to, for example, equalise these differences.
i-68c2a668d0eebeb4-199	Madam President, I would like I would have liked to have asked for the floor in order to have an exchange of views with Johan Hultberg, whom I think deserves some comments, but I will refrain from doing so. In fact, Madam President, I asked for the floor because I am sometimes a bit enthusiastic. When I was up and made my first speech, I supported all the reservations left by the Social Democrats. I understand that this is contrary to Parliament's code and order, and I would therefore like to clarify myself. Of course, we stick to all our reservations, but we decide to prioritise and call for the approval of reservation 12, which deals with infectious disease doctors.
i-68c2a668d0eebeb4-202	Madam President, I would like Helena Lindahl has asked me whether I and the government intend to contribute to giving small petrol stations a delay, that is to say postpone the deadline for the implementation of the requirements for moisture-insulated pipelines in land and whether the government intends to take any financial measures to support the petrol stations in changing to the environmental measures required and what this could look like. The Swedish Civil Contingencies Agency, MSB, has been authorised under the Law on Flammable and Explosive Products to issue regulations regarding environmental regulations for fuel stations. Consequently, MSB is responsible for the content of the regulation on tanks and pipelines for flammable liquids. According to MSB's regulation, existing hot galvanised pipelines in soils that are not moisture-insulated may be used until 1 July 2022 without corrosion protection. The requirement has been included in the Authority's regulation since 2014. I am aware of the challenges faced by smaller rural fuel stations, and the government is therefore supporting them to make the necessary investments. The aid consists, among other things, of national funds and aid that can be applied for under the rural development programme. It should be attractive to live, operate and live throughout Sweden, and a good access to commercial services is a prerequisite for this. In 2020, the government therefore invested more than SEK 152 million in various efforts to increase the availability of fuel and groceries in rural areas.
i-68c2a668d0eebeb4-206	Madam President, I would like Many thanks for the answer, Mikael Damberg, and for the opportunity to debate the challenge for the small sandwiches in the countryside! Unfortunately, the Minister's answer is no consolation for individual gas station owners or for all hundreds of thousands of rural residents who are actually dependent on the service provided by the gas stations. I am fully aware that the stations can receive support for the investments that the government, via MSB, has decided to implement. But of course it is much easier for large fuel chains, because they have money and a completely different buffer. They can afford to make an investment of hundreds of thousands of dollars and sometimes millions. Madam President, I would like However, it is not for their sake that we are standing here today. We stand here to ensure that the aid is applied retroactively. As the word suggests, this means that you can get back money in the form of aid after you have made the investment. That's where we have the core of the matter. It doesn't really help these many hundred small private stations around the country, who aren't sitting on this money. Nor are they allowed to borrow from the bank; it is also a fact. It is often not a lucrative activity to operate a gas station in the countryside. I think the Minister is aware of this, and I am a little concerned when I hear Mikael Damberg in spite of this hint that the stations have good access to support. That is often not true – not in practice. The support that the Minister is hiding behind simply shuts out the smallest ones who need the support money most. Madam President, I would like Unless the Minister sees the absurdity of claiming that this will make it more attractive to live, work and live in rural areas and enjoy commercial services, there are strong reasons for concern. It's not a good time yet. As the Minister said, it is another year until these rules come into force. Then there is also an opportunity to find a solution that allows the smallest rural stations to actually make this investment. Madam President, I would like A rural gas station often provides not only fuel. As the Minister probably also knows, a gas station is often the heart of a small town, a hub where you can buy food and which has postal services, parcel delivery and delivery of goods from Systembolaget. Many times tourist information can also be provided. But what if all this goes away? And what does it mean for civil defence if there is no fuel? Think, Madam President, if there are serious forest fires. Then the local fire department needs access to fuel, and very quickly. If the gas station is closed, then the gas station owner will still have to pay the clean-up cost. If you go bankrupt, it all falls to the municipality. The aim can hardly be the disappearance of services in rural areas and the eventual dumping of costs on small and often very poor municipalities.
i-68c2a668d0eebeb4-215	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Helena Lindahl, for an interpellation on an important issue that is really about how we create good habitats but also viable conditions for running businesses and living and living throughout the country. There, commercial service like small shops fills a very large and important role. That is why the government, in cooperation with, among others, the Center Party, has been discussing for a number of years how we can increase support for commercial actors in rural areas. I have chosen to be rather brief in my answer because I interpret the interpellation as that the questions addressed to me are mainly about MSB, about the authorisation process and about the regulations and requirements that exist. Then there is an interpellation debate with the Minister for Rural Development, I think, which is perhaps more about how different aid should be designed and exactly what framework should apply around it. I suppose we can come back to that in the discussion, but the division of responsibilities in the government is such that I am more responsible for MSB and that discussion. I am glad, then, that the regulations provide for the possibility of granting derogations from the time limit. However, it is not something that the government makes decisions about; it is MSB that can make decisions in individual cases. After all, there was a reasoning when the regulations were introduced in 2014 that these investments could be made in connection with other investigative measures that did not have to do, for example, two procurements, in order to make this more economically possible. That means big costs, not least for a small gas station owner, to do this. I would therefore like to inform you that the provisions provide for an exemption – not a permanent derogation but an exception on time, if there are reasons for planning to do such a study a little later and therefore need it. Individual gas station owners can always try that possibility. But as a member of the government, I cannot influence MSB's decisions in individual cases, and that is their regulations. I still understand that Helena Lindahl has nothing against the basic premise: that even sandwiches in the countryside should be safe so that we do not have any environmental problems or safety problems in the event of fires or whatever it can be linked to this. It is good that there is a broad consensus on the basic foundations of the reason for the regulation, which was first decided in 2014. This is a real question. We hope that more gas station owners will be able to take part in the public support that exists to reschedule. It is important that these activities continue in the future.
i-68c2a668d0eebeb4-221	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. A few weeks ago, Tillväxtverket produced a report on the importance of gas stations and supermarkets for Sweden's rural areas. The agency wrote that there is a real need for increased knowledge of the importance of commercial services. Even today, commercial services in many places are at a minimum level, not least in rural areas. It is clear that a further reduction, if many of the rural stations were to be shut down, would have major consequences for the possibility of living and living there. For me, it feels a little strange that the Swedish Agency for Civil Protection and Preparedness when making this decision did not make an impact description of how it could affect public services in rural areas in Sweden. There are many sandwiches covered, over 500 throughout the country. As Mikael Damberg said, there is nothing wrong with the measure. The problem is understanding the vulnerability of the stations, because they may not have such a large margin. That's what's troubling me. They want to do the action, but they can't. It's very expensive. In some cases it is hundreds of thousands of dollars, and in the worst case it can actually be millions of dollars. I have been called by gas station owners who say that the bank says no to short-term loans, and then you cannot make this investment. It's not like you just make these millions or hundreds of thousands of crowns out of your pockets. Nor can we afford to spend this money in order to be able to requisition, for example, support from the rural development programme. These sandwiches are turning every penny as it is today. The government is making a lot of money from fuel today. About 60 per cent of the price at the pump goes to the state in the form of taxes; the remaining 40 per cent represents the cost of production, the gross margin of the gas station. It can be said that the gas station owners must make pure fantasy investments for them to earn a few sausages per litre, while the state can continue to take out more than half of the sales revenue without investing a single crown. I don't think that's okay. I hope that Mikael Damberg does not see this as some kind of modern social democratic solidarity, that is to say that someone else should make investments, do all the work and take all the risk while the state will reap the benefits of the work. Of course it's completely unreasonable. There are strong reasons to secure the gas stations' pipes against rust and moisture attacks. However, this does not automatically mean that it is a cost that the station owners should bear on their own. In fact, the state has spent years and years collecting almost all the money from the sale, and nothing is saying at present that these conditions would change. It should then be reasonable for the State to bear all or part of the cost of investing in its own source of income. I hope Mikael Damberg agrees with me there, but I don't know. I'm sending you some good energy and hoping for a positive response.
i-68c2a668d0eebeb4-229	Madam President, I would like Exactly what impact assessments were made when the legislation came into being, I find it difficult to comment because I did not sit in the government. It was a former bourgeois government that decided on this legislation and gave MSB the right of regulation on these issues. In addition, the regulation was decided before the Social Democratic Government took office. Once again, however, I believe in substance that these requirements should be made, but that we need to discuss how we meet the opportunities in real terms and for a living countryside. I think that's good. I am not an expert on the support systems, but I have been studying for this debate. Looking back on just the last programming period, we can see that between 2015 and 2020 more than SEK 1 billion was invested in efforts aimed at supporting fuel stations and grocery stores in rural areas in various ways. This concerns measures financed partly by the rural development programme and partly by national funds under Category 19. Then the big part, I think, is grocery stores. Nearly SEK 572 million of the total amount of over SEK 1 billion has been spent on commercial services within the rural development programme during the last programming period. The government has recently decided that funds will also be available during the so-called transition period of the rural development programme in 2021 and 2022. These include investment aid for supermarkets and fuel stations. The support is managed by the county administrative boards. In addition, the Swedish Agency for Growth has a mission to announce funds for projects that may include, for example, developing and strengthening the role of fuel stations in rural areas. There is another way forward when you look at the very ecosystem that may be created around a fuel station. To this, too, the government has decided on additional funds during the transitional period. I'm not really an expert on all these support systems. I fully understand that this is a different funding discussion in rural areas than in the larger cities on the basis of population and the commercial market, which in some sense is not always sufficient. Therefore, I believe that the state and society have a need to help in these situations as well. The banks are also not always as present locally and may not have the necessary knowledge to properly assess the investments that may have to be made and the security that exists in the business. Since my time as Minister of Economic Affairs in Sweden, I have a great knowledge that these problems exist. Basically, in this interpellation debate, I would like to say that this regulatory framework has been in place for quite a long time, but that individual gas station owners can in fact apply for deferment from the deadline if you have good reasons why you want to push the investment forward somewhat in time. Then I think it would be better if the somewhat more circumspect debate on how support systems, rural programmes and such things should be developed in Sweden were conducted by the interpellant with the Minister for Rural Development.
i-68c2a668d0eebeb4-238	Madam President, I would like It's not that simple every time you ask questions that run across several different areas. In fact, I had to call the Chamber of Commerce and ask which minister I would ask the question to, and then it was Minister Damberg in this case. The reasons why these over 500 stations haven't made their investment are different. In fact, some have not even known about this. I've searched the Internet myself, and it's not easy to find this information. Most do not have the money to spend and then be able to seek them back retroactively. That is the big challenge that we need to do something about. Otherwise, we will see closures, which in turn will be a disaster for these communities. The baker in Harad, Norrbotten, did not receive loans from the bank. Finally, the local councillor had to enter the bank, and eventually the bank was persuaded to obtain a short-term loan in order to get money for the rural programme. Otherwise, home help would have had to drive 40 miles [60 km] of one - way journey to refuel the car. This is how it looks in many places in Sweden. Therefore, I would very much like, if the Minister would like and allow and if the Rural Minister would also like to join– I know you have a lot to do– book a meeting where we might perhaps be able to look at the situation and see what we could do in step one and step two. One is deferment and the other is a kind of financing solution. It doesn't matter how much money you spend on commercial services if these small businesses can't take part in this problem. The situation is acute, and this has to be resolved if the idea is that we should have some countryside left. I'll hand one hand to the minister, and I hope he takes it.
i-68c2a668d0eebeb4-243	Madam President, I would like We fully agree that we should have a living countryside and that we should make efforts to keep Sweden together. I believe that society and the state have an important role to play in smoothing out some of the conditions that exist across the country. It can also mean that we need to target support to grocery stores and sandwiches to keep Sweden going. We have budgetary cooperation with both the Centre Party and the Liberals, where we have also increased support for rural areas in order to make this type of support effort. My message has now been that the regulations provide for derogations from the deadline, but it is still based on meeting the requirements that apply and have been in force since 2014. It is therefore not an exception to the implementation of these environmental and safety measures, but, on the other hand, in individual cases that the Authority is examining, a different time limit can be set if it is justified, for example, to arrange for financing or the conversion period in a wise manner when carrying out the investments to be made. I am absolutely sure that the Minister for Rural Development is at least as involved as the interpeller on this issue, so I think that there can be a good exchange also in forthcoming interpellation debates that are a little more about exactly what support and conditions look like for these issues.
i-8cb14b5138a7c415-0	The minister didn't answer if we were to meet! )
i-68c2a668d0eebeb4-247	Madam President, I would like Edward Riedl has asked the Prime Minister about his view that the application of the Pandemic Act could lead to different results for the same kind of manifestations. The interpellant has also asked what the Prime Minister intends to do to ensure that the Pandemic Act is designed to lead to predictable and fair assessments. The interpellation has been handed over to me. Sweden is still in a serious situation. The burden on health care continues to be high, but the spread of infection has decreased. When the Pandemic Act was introduced, the government was clear that the Act would enable disease protection measures that are adapted to the different conditions of the operations to be carried out in a safe manner. The government considers it urgent that events that are important for people, such as religious gatherings and demonstrations, should be held despite the circumstances. According to the Order Act, the Police Authority examines questions about permission to organise general gatherings and public events. However, it is the organiser of the event in question who is responsible for ensuring that it can be implemented safely. During the Political Authority's licensing process, there are many aspects to consider regarding order and security at the event or convention. Since 10 January this year, account must also be taken of whether the arrangement will be held in breach of regulations or decisions under the special restrictions law to prevent the spread of the disease covid-19. An organiser shall state in the application whether the assembly or event is to be held in accordance with the limitations that exist to prevent the spread of the disease covid-19. The information provided shall be sufficient to enable the Police Authority to assess whether the restrictions will be complied with. This may include, for example, information on the number of participants or whether the event will take place inside or outside. However, the police authority shall not make any assessment of the types of disease control measures that are appropriate to take at a given event. The Police Authority strives to make uniform assessments across the country and is working hard to achieve this, including through various collaboration forums and regular reconciliations between permit units. However, two seemingly similar arrangements may differ from the given local regulations, the number of additional participants and the order and security situation in general, so the assessments must always be made on the basis of the individual case.
i-68c2a668d0eebeb4-252	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Let me start by saying that I grew up in the country myself. I had a mile of gravel road up to the asphalt road, and there were two municipal buses in each direction every day. We had school shootings that came a little closer, but I have grown up, just like many others in this country, where access to public transport is limited and in no way enables all people to cope with everyday life. It is not possible to use it to get to and from work, for the children to get to and from different activities or to go to take care of their old mother and so on. The car is an important part, and it continues to be, Madam President. It is a very important part for large parts of our country. I would like to thank Peder Bokenhielm and the gas uprising. I think they are doing an incredibly important piece of work that has gathered across party and block borders to say that the car has become far too expensive, especially with regard to fuel taxes. But there are many other things that have also made it more expensive. I'm glad I belong to a party that's improved. We certainly do not have a very good history in the Moderates of being a good party for the countryside, but today, Madam President, no party has a better policy than the Moderates for Norrland, for the countryside and for those who depend every day on the car. No party wants to lower the tax on petrol just as much as the Moderates want. I'm glad. We can combine it with a good policy to ensure that we also take responsibility for the environment and climate. But there are many ways to do it without sending the bill to those who cannot do without the car. Madam President, I would like I have called for this debate for the simple reason that the government has been given far-reaching powers in relation to pandemic legislation. There is an opportunity to do things that a government cannot do in a democracy. However, in view of the situation of the spread of infection and pandemic, all parties in Parliament have nevertheless felt that it is reasonable to make such a restriction in all that is at the heart of our democracy. But with that comes a huge responsibility for the government that deals with this type of legislation, Madam President. I have asked the Prime Minister one more question, because I think that the Prime Minister should be able to answer Parliament when this type of authority has been given. How can it be that the petrol uprising, that is, the people, must not demonstrate in a motorcade on May 1st, while the Social Democrats are allowed to demonstrate in a motorcade on May 1st? How can you give one permission but not the other? Apart from that, Madam President, the Minister's own party, the Social Democrats, as well as the Bensin uprising, carried out car-card victories and demonstrations without applying for permission. The gas uprising will have to pay a fine, but the power party Social Democrats will not have to pay a fine. How can one land so different from the same legislation, both in terms of the authorisation process and in terms of the sanction when someone breaks the law? In the democratic spine, it should hurt both me and the Minister when it happens. But this government gives an answer that is not an answer. It should also be a problem for the Minister that the law rewards his own power party but not the people. The people must not demonstrate. People get a fine when they break the law. The Social Democrats Party of Power will not have it. I think the Minister should answer that, Madam President.
i-68c2a668d0eebeb4-260	Madam President, I would like I have to say that I am surprised at both the wording of the interpretation and the speech I have just heard. There was nothing in that speech that the legislation, decided by the Riksdag, would be the reason why there may have been different assessments for licensed events in Sweden. To suggest that the government would somehow be involved in granting or rejecting the application for demonstrations in our country is to go very far in the Parliament's pulpit. This is not the first time that I am here as a minister discussing the exercise of authority. There is an increasing willingness on the part of MPs to get into and to force me as a minister to review or comment on the exercise of authority. In Sweden's democracy, we have created a system that means that the government should not interfere in the exercise of authority. The Government shall not comment on any individual exercise carried out by the authorities. I could end up in the KU if I comment on that. Yet the whole interpellation is built up as that it is the government that has decided that a demonstration may be carried out but that another may not be carried out. That's not true. That's why I'm upset. I'm going back to the point. We have had a period of very large spread of infection in Sweden. For this reason, we have had to limit our way of working, in this House and in society at large. It is also a matter of demonstrating, visiting churches or communities and exercising our religious beliefs, even though we think it is important. This applies, therefore, even to constitutionally protected rights. We have tried to maintain them, but in a small format. I am pleased that, as of today, it is possible for 100 people to demonstrate, not 8 as it was as late as yesterday. The spread of infection is now beginning to decrease in such a way that we can open up society. And if you'd also have assigned seats, but there's only a few people who have them on a demonstration, you can be even more. There is also a plan to lighten the restrictions even more in the future. Again – this is determined by the exercise of authority. It's the police department that's doing it. And I have explained in the answer how the Police Authority works to create consensus in the assessments, but it is individual officials who make the decisions. Sometimes there are also different assessments. I don't know these individual cases and I've had to dig into them. From what I have learned, one demonstration has requested permission and the other has not requested permission. If it was right or wrong to grant the permit, I would rather not comment on it. But it is the Police Authority that must be allowed to make the assessments, and the government should not comment on it. If we end up on such a sloping plane, it will be a way for the government to pressure the authorities to approve one or the other. We do not want such a democracy in Sweden where the government pushes the authorities to approve one and reject the other. I think that this interpellation, with the expression that was in the first speech, is problematic, and I would like to say this to the House.
i-68c2a668d0eebeb4-267	I agree with the Government that the Government cannot answer questions relating to the exercise of authority.
i-68c2a668d0eebeb4-268	Madam President, I would like That is why the question is raised in such a way: if there is a problem with legislation giving such different opinions. That wording is also approved by the Riksdag, and the Minister has come here to answer that question. So I think that is perfectly reasonable. Let me begin by saying that, as far as the spread of infection is concerned, I do not disagree. The entire Parliament is behind the legislation that gives the government opportunities. Other legislations that the government can use to limit the spread of infection are also for all parties in the Riksdag. In this respect, there is no difference of opinion. Madam President, I would like The problem that arises – it must nevertheless be Parliament's task to address it – is if one and the same legislation results in such different outcomes and to the advantage of the government-supporting party, the Social Democrats, as it is in this case. The demonstration in Mellerud, carried out by the Social Democrats, was granted permission at the same time as denying the petrol uprising, the people, to demonstrate in the motorcade – in exactly the same way. That's one part of this. Madam President, I would like It is problematic when legislation is interpreted in such different ways and when one of the parties of power is also given a premium. I have not accused the Social Democrats of steering this, even if the Minister understood it that way. I think that's a problem. That is also the question I am asking. The second part of this, which I also think is a problem, is that when the Social Democrats in Mark's municipality carry out a demonstration in a motorcade without obtaining permission for it, they will not have to pay any fines. When the petrol rebellion, the people, carries out that kind of demonstration, they will receive a fine. I think it is completely unreasonable, Madam President, both that it results in different interpretations and that one should be fined but not the other, as one of the parties of power, in this case the Social Democrats, comes out much better than the people do. On this basis, I have asked the interpellation if the government thinks that there is reason to revise the legislation, because it strikes so different. I fully understand that it is new legislation, because it is developed quickly and because it can be problematic for the individual officials who will then deal with it. But it should actually be dealt with in a similar way. It cannot be in that way that the people should be denied permission to demonstrate while allowing the Social Democrats to demonstrate, in the same day and in the same way. When one breaks the law, one should get a fine, but when the other, the Social Democrats, violates the law, one should not get a fine for it. I do not understand that, Madam President. It is on the basis of what I have asked the question whether the Minister, especially the Prime Minister, who was the one to whom I put the question, thinks that there is reason to review this. I have not asked for the Minister to go in and exercise authority. The question is whether there is reason to review existing legislation. Is there anything else that causes it to result in such different outcomes, as in this case? I find it problematic that this is the way it is, Madam President. It does not directly create confidence in neither the fight against infection nor people's ability to manifest, demonstrate and express their democratic fundamental rights in the same way as power.
i-68c2a668d0eebeb4-276	Madam President, I would like There is nothing in the regulatory framework that makes a difference in terms of the purpose of a demonstration. How the provision is applied in individual cases is a matter for the Police Authority. I have tried to explain that the Police Authority is trying to work with collaboration conferences in order to reach a joint assessment. They try to meet between the licensing services to discuss, so that they end up at exactly the same level in the application of the regulatory framework. There is nothing that I see or that the interpellier even has a single suggestion that the regulatory framework would create different conditions with different purposes for demonstrations or these collections. So that is hardly the question, if that is the case. Moreover, I think that the tone of words such as that of power, and of the people, and the fact that we are sinking so deeply are provocative. The Social Democrats in Mellerud are definitely part of the Swedish people. They have the right to demonstrate in Sweden in exactly the same way as the petrol uprising has. Right now we are demonstrating on a smaller scale, albeit on a slightly larger scale from today. However, my ambition is that this legislation should be removed. We're not keeping this pandemic restriction. At the moment, the spread of infection seems to be greatly reduced. The burden of health care is reduced. In addition, the rate of vaccination in Sweden is quite high. On this basis, I see that the elements where the Pandemic Act is used to limit the scope of the freedom of demonstration – it is still possible to demonstrate – will be scaled down and removed. We have no interest in maintaining a pandemic law that limits this longer than necessary. With this, I think I have answered the question. There is nothing in the regulations that discriminates against anyone from demonstrating or exercising their faith in Sweden. On the other hand, as a representative of the government, I am not appropriate to comment on the Authority's exercise of the legislation. If you feel that something wrong has been done, there is in a rule of law that Sweden is able to report, appeal and have its right tried. That is how I think a rule of law should work.
i-68c2a668d0eebeb4-280	Madam President, I would like I agree with the Minister that the Mellerud Social Democrats are part of the people and that they have the right to demonstrate in the same way as the Bensin uprising. The problem, however, is that this is not the case. The Social Democrats in Mellerud were granted permission to demonstrate in a motorcade on May 1st while the petrol rebellion was rejected in all places. The gas rebellion carried out demonstrations in different places anyway, which of course is wrong. But Social Democrats also did so in some places. They conducted first-May trains in motorcades without applying for a permit. The problem arises when the Social Democrats get a yes at trial, while the people – the petrol uprising – get no. It is also a problem that when the Bensin uprising criticises power, it is fined, while the Social Democrats avoid fines, periodic penalty payments, when they carry out a first-May demonstration in breach of the legislation. This is, in my view, a problem, Madam President. The minister can sigh, frustrate and find it embarrassing to answer this, but so different things have happened. In my interpellation on this, I therefore wondered whether it is a problem for the government that the assessments are so different for the same thing. I hope, of course, just like the Minister, that we can roll all this back as soon as possible when the spread of the disease so permits. However, it is a problem if people are handled in different ways, especially when a party is one of the government's parties. I understand that the Minister, and thereby the government, does not think the same thing. We simply think differently. However, thank you for the debate.
i-68c2a668d0eebeb4-283	Madam President, I would like I'll be serious in my answer. If there are different assessments across the country, that is a problem. It can be appealed and tested in the administrative model, the democracy that we have in Sweden. It is also a problem when I come to the House and individual Members constantly want me, as the Government, to comment on the exercise of authority and decisions that our authorities have to take on their own. If I speak on these issues, it will be an attempt to govern the authorities indirectly, and I shall not do so under our Constitution and Constitution. It would be a problem if I did. An even greater problem in this interpellation debate is the tone in which it is held. If it has been said in the debate that two demonstrations have gone wrong and that the police do not seem to treat everything the same, then there is a discussion about it. But if one says in an interpellation in the Swedish Parliament that power is allowed to make a manifestation while the people are stopped and that all democrats should then react, I think, even the Moderates have some internal problems.
i-68c2a668d0eebeb4-286	Madam President, I would like Louise Meijer has asked me what measures I intend to take to ensure that the proportion of police officers will be two thirds in 2024. She has also asked whether I intend to reconsider my positions on targeted pay for police officers, targeted efforts to reinstate former police officers and that police training should be paid. Enlarging the Police Authority is an important issue for the government. As a result, the Agency's appropriations have increased considerably. In addition, the government has started two new police training courses, initiated a new and faster admission process to the training and worked to increase the attractiveness of the police profession. The fact that the police's average basic salary is SEK 6 000 higher per month than in 2015 is an important part of explaining that fewer and fewer police officers are leaving the profession. In addition, the monthly salary of a new police officer is now SEK 5 800 higher than in 2014. Compensation for work on inconvenient working hours and participation in major police operations was increased in an agreement between the parties from 2020. Following successful re-employment campaigns by the police regions, many police officers who have ceased to work have been reinstated, which is also a sign that working conditions have improved. A report from the Parliamentary Investigation Service has recently been published, and I would like to draw the attention of the interpeller to the fact that its conclusion is that the target of 10 000 more police officers is likely to be reached by 2024, provided that recruitment remains at the same level as in the last three years. Therefore, it is gratifying that we now know at the beginning of June that the admission situation for the autumn semester looks relatively good, and the trials are ongoing throughout the month of June. The search pressure for police training is high, and the teaching goes too fully despite the ongoing pandemic. I am convinced that paid police training would not have the desired effect and will not pursue such a proposal. The Government's goal is for Sweden to have 10,000 more police employees in 2024 than we had at the beginning of 2016. According to the Political Authority's forecast, the target will be reached and the number of police officers per inhabitant will be higher in 2024 than in 2010. At the turn of the year, statistics showed that there have never before been so many police officers and civilian employees in the Police Authority. The figures also show that the number of police officers has increased in all police regions of the country in 2020. This year, approximately 1,400 new future police officers are expected to be examined from police training. Up to 2024, around 5 000 new police officers will be released into operational police operations. It is the Police Authority that is responsible for the division between police officers and civilian employees. I have full confidence that the Authority will carry out this task. I and the government are working hard to ensure this development.
i-68c2a668d0eebeb4-291	Madam President, I would like It is a pleasure to be back in this Chamber after a period of parental leave. I also hope that the Minister has recovered and taken some breaths after the previous interpellation debate. The subject of the day is the police. It has probably not escaped anyone that developments in Sweden are not going in the right direction. Moderates and Social Democrats have debated this before. I hear the Minister impaling his pen, and he will surely tell me what and what measures have been taken. Despite a 34-point programme, where not all measures have been implemented and where some measures announced at the beginning were not quite as planned after negotiations with the Green Party government, we are now standing here with a continued increase in shootings. At least they did in 2020. We also know that the number of deaths continued to increase in 2020 compared to 2019. Explosives remain at a high level. The development of violence is unique when compared to our Nordic neighbours Finland and Denmark. I understand that the government wanted to make a broader look than only in the Nordic countries and therefore ordered a report from the Swedish Crime Prevention Council on the state of development in some other European countries. Is Sweden really distinctive? It may still be assumed that the government may have hoped that Sweden would not excel. But hear and be amazed: The report, which the government itself ordered, concluded that Sweden is exceptional. We are at the highest level in Europe when it comes to deadly shooting violence. My question to the Minister concerned the proportion of police officers, who now appear not to be two thirds in line with the objectives set. Is this problematic? Does the Minister see the need to take steps to ensure that the proportion of police officers, two thirds of the total number of police officers, will remain when the Police Authority and the number of police employees are increased? Part of the answer was that the Minister did not see that paid police training would have the desired effect. Then I cannot refrain from asking whether he believes that the government's policies so far have the desired effect. In the light of the developments we have seen under the government of the Social Democrats, can this not be the case? When we have had a small break in the gloomy, negative spiral it has been because the French police have been able to hack in and listen to Swedes or because the Danish police have been able to lock up Swedes. Shouldn't it be up to the French or Danish police to fight Sweden's gang crime?
i-68c2a668d0eebeb4-298	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Louise Meijer, for the interpellation! I have taken a large amount of air and look forward to a constructive and important debate about police growth but also about the great security problems we have in Sweden. I would like to start by saying that the report that the government ordered from Brå we ordered precisely because we saw very few signs that other countries had the development that Sweden has. As far as explosives are concerned, we did not find at all any country that had the same development in a European perspective. Even when we watched the gang violence, we thought there was something different about the increase in gun violence. We see some countries where knife violence has increased sharply in the gang-criminal environments, but not precisely the gun violence. So it was for real to get black and white about what the situation looks like. I think it is an important report that shows that the enormous amount of power we are currently making for increased security is absolutely necessary in Sweden. We're not gonna get used to this. What is interesting about the report is that it shows that firearms violence in some countries that have had a high proportion of firearms violence has actually decreased. Brå also lifts up, for example, the work in Malmö, which became a small symbol of the gun problem in Sweden. The shootings in Malmö have now been reduced considerably for several years in a row. It shows that it is possible to reverse developments and that we do not need to get used to a situation where this is a major problem for society. It is quite correct that 2020 was a record year in the negative sense of shootings and killings. We now see, without drawing any major gears on it, that in the first third of this year the shootings in Sweden have decreased by a little less than 40 percent. And already in 2019 the explosions in Sweden decreased, in terms of full-year effect. We see that the explosions have also been reduced by 2020. So we'll see if we've actually gone into a different situation when it comes to detonation, where it decreases over time, or if it was a one-time effect in 2020; we'll have to evaluate it. The head of the Swedish police has gone so far as to say that we are in a new situation, where the pressure on the criminal gangs is so great and we have so many gang trials going on in Sweden that there is a window to break the recruitment and make sure not only to bring down the violence here and now but also to weaken the gangs in the long term. We must take this opportunity, both with what we in the government are responsible for – continuing police growth, ensuring that penalties for gang crime are tightened, making sure that the money is more clearly spent on tackling gang criminals – and with preventive measures, where municipalities are key actors, not least. It is about managing both school, social services and, not least, drop-outs to ensure that recruitment and these environments are reduced over time. These are important issues that I look forward to continuing to work very forcefully with. It is true that we are only at the beginning of the 34-point program. The big deliveries are ahead of us. Actually, we're only at the beginning of police growth. So far, most new employees at the Police Authority have been civil workers, as training police officers takes time. But only this year we expect 1,400 from the police trainings that are now getting employment all over Sweden. This will be a powerful change in the coming years to increase security throughout Sweden and not get used to the violence that gang criminals engage in.
i-68c2a668d0eebeb4-307	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister of the Interior. You're just at the beginning, the minister just said. Then one must ask how long it takes for the Social Democrats to carry out positive reforms to break a negative trend. After a government holding of almost eight years, can you not just be at the beginning of a job, when you have seen a downward spiral and have been able to follow a negative trend for several years? You can't say at the end of the second term that you're in the starting blocks, can you? It seems a little slow, I think. I understand that the Minister is pleased with the developments we have seen at the beginning of this year. But in many ways this is due to the massive arrests that have been carried out thanks to the Encrochat wiretapping, which was done by the French police. Corresponding legislation does not exist here in Sweden. We have secret data reading, which according to the minister himself is a game-changer. Yet I know it's only been used in one case to get a conviction. It's been used in more preliminary investigations than that. The Moderates have requested additional measures for the police. Not only the Moderates but also the police are asking for this: to listen to gang criminals' phones without a concrete suspicion of crime but where there is a strong suspicion that they are actually gang criminals, which can be ensured. This is also found in neighbouring Denmark, where blasts, shootings and deadly violence are at a completely different, lower level than here in Sweden. In Stockholm County alone, there are more active gang criminals than in Denmark as a whole. Something is being done right in our neighbouring country. The minister lifted the knife violence. The Brå report points, among other things, to the United Kingdom, where knife violence is used in gang-criminal settings instead of firearms. It is a development that one can imagine could also come here. The Moderates have been pushing for a long time to increase the penalties for firearms, which has meant that more have been able to be detained and sentenced to longer prison sentences. Now we see that the knife legislation needs to follow the same path, with increased penalties, so as not to change course of action to kill each other and have deals in criminal environments. I know it's a memo from the Justice Department in this area. I hope that the minimum penalty, which will hopefully be proposed for changes, will not be as little as 14 days in prison or the like, but that we will see a great deal of effort not to have a development in which gun violence is replaced by knife violence in the criminal environment. Having said that, I still wonder whether the government sees further measures that need to be taken to ensure that the proportion of police officers in the police office actually becomes two thirds by the end of 2024. Are there any such plans?
i-68c2a668d0eebeb4-315	Madam President, I would like This time-frame thing is interesting. I'm a little allergic to the cockfight that it's easy to get between the different government options. The opposition is going to say we're late, and I'm going to point out everything that wasn't done before we took office. However, we can take the examples raised here, such as police growth. It was not wise to reduce police training by 90% – it has caused major problems. In fact, at its lowest, 200 people were admitted to police training. There were more who ended that year. It is clear that the long-term weakened Swedish police. It created huge deficits. Now we have created two new police training courses and more than doubled the number of people admitted to the training courses. We are now seeing a very high search pressure for police training, which is good. But it takes time to switch up. Look at the serious gun crimes! During the time the Moderates ruled, it was not certain that a person arrested with a gun on the street was automatically arrested. The police brought the person into the police station, and sometimes they had to release the person in the afternoon. It was not a good piece of legislation. There was no preparation for more stringent penalties for serious gun crimes. It is these sharper penalties that allow the police to now arrest and lock people up for gun crimes in the way they do today. Look at the secret data reading, which was discussed here! It is true that it has so far been used in few convictions, but that is because it is quite complex cases. The clot is coming this year and forward. The head of the Swedish Police has said that using the maximum amount of secret data reading has the potential to lead to an Encrochat disclosure a year. If it is true that secret data reading can get an Encrochat disclosure a year in Sweden, why have we not done this before? After all, there was a proposal on it in 2012, but the previous government did not proceed with that proposal. What if we had secret data readings for nine years? Let us not argue so much about this, but it does say something about the fact that it was not prepared for the efforts that now need to be made to clamp down on the criminal gangs and to push back crime. There is a need for more police officers and more severe penalties. Let's look at Denmark. There will be an investigation in just a few months that has looked at just stricter penalties for gang-related crime. There will therefore be further such proposals. Then there is my proposal to tighten up the knife team, which I have put out a memo on. If you look carefully at the penalties there, I think you can see that we are going further than the Moderates in opposition have demanded. We can argue with each other or say that we agree in a long way that there will be a need for substantial strengthening of society to push back the gangs. But it will not be enough with just sharper penalties, more police officers and new tools for the police. It will take quite a great deal of social effort to reduce segregation in the vulnerable neighbourhoods, relocate society and ensure that schools in the most vulnerable areas are better placed to succeed with all students, as well as that we also catch up with the children and young people at risk and otherwise be dragged into the criminal environment. It will require long-term social work that is very targeted to combat segregation in Sweden, because otherwise we will not be able to push back the development in the long term, which I think both me and Louise Meijer want.
i-68c2a668d0eebeb4-326	Madam President, I would like In 2010, Sweden had about the same number of police officers as now. The difference is that the Swedish population has increased by about 1 million people, which means that the police density calculated per capita is much smaller than it was ten years ago. This is to be remembered when the Minister for Home Affairs criticizes the Moderates for what happened just ten years ago. As time goes by, one must update one's policy, and the Moderates have done so, both when it comes to migration and to law and order, where we have sharpened ourselves. Unfortunately, we have not held government power since 2014. However, it has been the Social Democrats. One wonders why the Social Democrats and the government are at the forefront of understanding and putting forward proposals and reforms to combat gang crime here and now. We don't agree. We seem rhetorically to be, but when you look at the political proposals, we see that we do not agree. The two different government options do not agree on law and order. They do not agree on migration. This is important to say when the Swedish people are going to elections next year. You get something else if you change government. Minister for the Interior Mikael Damberg is right, of course, that the crime prevention measures will be very important. It is about the school being there for every kid, wherever you live in Sweden, and that all parents should be able to go to work. Unfortunately, this is not the policy of the Social Democrats and the Green Party in government. But it is another debate, which is probably so important and which I like to have every day. I would like to thank you very much for the debate.
i-68c2a668d0eebeb4-332	Madam President, I would like I would also like to thank you for this debate. I think it is clarification and important, because this is one of our major social problems. The government is now implementing the greatest security programme that any government has implemented. We're expanding the Police Authority without precedent. What we are looking at – not just to talk about what we have done, but about what lies ahead in this change of power – is 5 000 more police officers in the coming years. It will increase security throughout Sweden. It is quite correct that in 2010 we had a police density that was higher than today. The problem is that the police training was reduced by 90%. This is what created the deficit. This means that we have not had enough police officers in the affected areas. We didn't have a strong enough cop to match the gang criminals. We're turning that around now. We're expanding the police. I'm proud of this. Expanding the Swedish police is the most important job of security we do. Louise Meijer is talking about another debate, but perhaps it should be the same debate. There have been major failures in creating an equal school. How can it be that in the poorest residential areas there are also the schools with the most problems? There, maybe half or more of the students leave the ninth grade without eligibility for upper secondary school. If you do not dare to direct resources to these areas and these schools will create even greater problems in the future. Unfortunately, in their first budget, the Moderates chose to cut down on the very money to be spent on long-term segregation efforts. We are happy to debate this another time. I think we need a comprehensive policy: we need to reduce recruitment, hit hard on the money but continue to be uncompromising with the gangs.
i-68c2a668d0eebeb4-337	Madam President, I would like Lars Beckman has asked me whether I intend to work towards a clarification and additional directive so that Boverket or other authorities understand that storage of assistive devices is to be ensured. Furthermore, Lars Beckman asks if I have had contact with the Swedish Municipalities and Regions to ensure that the people who need wheelchair garages receive it and what other measures I have taken or intend to take to ensure that adequate assistive devices and associated supplies can be prescribed to those who are in urgent need of them. Lars Beckman has asked the Minister for Equality and Housing whether she intends to commission Boverket to investigate why the housing adjustment allowance is falling and the consequences it entails. Furthermore, Lars Beckman has asked the Minister for Gender Equality and Housing what she thinks about Boverket acting as an expert authority so that the scope of the Act is reduced and thus also acts in violation of the basic purpose and purpose of the Act and what she intends to take for action in relation to it. Finally, Lars Beckman has asked the Minister for Gender Equality and Housing if she intends to work for clarification and additional directives to Boverket so that individuals can return to the electric wheelchair and the possibility of functional bathrooms. The work within the government is distributed so that I will respond to both interpellations, and I will respond to the interpellations jointly. As I replied to Lars Beckman in the interpellation debate on 21 January this year, the national objective of disability policy is to achieve equality in living conditions and full participation of persons with disabilities in a diverse society on the basis of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. The objective shall contribute to increased gender equality and to taking into account the perspective of children's rights. The purpose of the Housing Adaptation Grant Act is to provide people with disabilities with the opportunity to live independently in their own homes through housing adaptation grants. Housing adjustment allowance is provided to adapt and supplement fixed functions in and in connection with a dwelling. The fact that contributions can be made to complement fixed functions is an extension from previous legislation. The changes introduced by the new Act have not been reviewed in the judgment of the Supreme Administrative Court on 23 December 2020. Nor has there been any follow-up to the new law yet. The Ministry of Social Affairs has had contact with the Swedish Municipalities and Regions regarding the issue of storage of wheelchairs. However, there is a lack of knowledge about the medical authorities' guidelines on the provision of accessories to assistive devices such as weather and wind protection for wheelchairs, for example. The dialogue between the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Social Affairs continues. Boverket supervises the municipalities' grant activities regarding the housing adjustment allowance and related repair and rehabilitation grants. Boverket also has the right of regulation regarding the implementation of the Housing Adaptation Allowance Act. This does not mean that Boverket may prescribe how municipalities should interpret the law. As an aid to interpretation, Boverket publishes guidance with the reproduction of judgments on housing adjustment allowances. Finally, however, it is the municipalities that apply the legislation. Boverket is the administrative authority for the construction and management of buildings in general. It is also Boverket that issues regulations on how new buildings should be designed. The Authority has a sectoral responsibility for disability issues and shall pay particular attention to the impact that the Authority's decisions and activities may have on persons with disabilities.
i-68c2a668d0eebeb4-345	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Sweden's disabled have seen severe deterioration since 2014, since the Social Democrats took over government power. Anyone who is interested in the areas – I will be happy to list them as well – can visit the website of RBU, the National Association for Disabled Children and Young People. It lists 16 points, Madam President, in which this government has reduced the living conditions of disabled people. On RBU's website you can see that personal assistance has collapsed since 2015. The grant of activity compensation has collapsed. More and more people are losing their contact. Municipalities deliberately reject applications to push questions to the administrative court. Resources for the school to provide support are being reduced. In the case of assistive devices, it is the reduction of the range and the introduction of fees. We all know the car support broke down. We last had Dagens Eko on Friday that mentioned the consequences of bonus– malus– families with severely disabled children find it difficult to change cars. The emergency stop for re-examination of personal assistance does not work as intended. It is considerably more difficult to obtain parking permits. LSS accommodation, own apartment with assistance, is an effort that is rarely granted. Savings have been made on escort service. Short-term housing is granted to a lesser extent. Resource schools are being shut down. The care allowance has deteriorated. The service has deteriorated. And point 16 on RBU's list is that the housing allowance has collapsed. That is exactly what the Government says in its answer. In January, Madam President, we debated the issue of housing adaptation not working. In January, Madam President, I drew the attention of the Government to the fact that older people who have been working their whole lives and who have been paying taxes all their lives are now trapped in their apartments because they cannot have electric wheelchairs printed out. Madam President, I would like It was January. Then it has been February, March, April and May. And today is June 1st. The government has done nothing. That means, Madam President, that if it is a hot summer, I and the President and the Government will be able to go out on our healthy legs and take a walk while probably thousands of people will be trapped in their apartments because they do not get the tools they need. Madam President, I would like I don't think it's decent for a welfare society. I don't think it's decent for a government. The government has consistently made substantial cuts for precisely disabled people. The concrete interpellation is about wheelchair garages. It is mainly those who live in an apartment who are affected by this. Let's say you need to get a per-mobile, electric wheelchair, printed out. Then you have to be able to store it somewhere, Madam President. If you can't store it anywhere, the region can't print out the electric wheelchair as an aid. It makes sense – it costs hundreds of thousands of crowns. There was a judgment at the Supreme Administrative Court in December that said that municipalities do not have an obligation to grant this as an aid. The Boverket has been extremely progressive here. There has been extensive information that municipalities should not do so. Then, Madam President, the question has been put to the government. Then, of course, Madam President, it is expected that the government will act if the government believes that older and disabled people will be able to have electric wheelchairs in Sweden. The government must act. I would like to ask the Minister: how will the government act in the near future?
i-68c2a668d0eebeb4-354	Madam President, I would like At least the last few seconds were devoted to the interpellation. That's interesting. Just as I replied to Lars Beckman on 21 January, it is legislation on the housing adjustment allowance. It is not the government that interprets the legislation, nor Boverket. It's the HFD that does it. But I don't really know where Lars Beckman gets it from when you can't prescribe electric wheelchairs. To deny someone an instrument is not in accordance with either that judgment or any other decision that has been made. I can only assure Lars Beckman that we are working on this issue. I believe that Lars Beckman, as a Member of Parliament, is well aware that it does not take four months to change legislation and, if this is done, to change the conditions of the housing adjustment allowance. But the question is by no means forgotten, quite the contrary. We work intensively with it, and we do so regardless of whether Lars Beckman interpellations or not.
i-68c2a668d0eebeb4-357	Madam President, I would like I understand that this is a sensitive issue for the Government. I mean, you guys go to elections because you're the good guys. You go, as I said, to the choice that you should make improvements. I understand that it is embarrassing for the Minister when I read out the 16 impairments for Sweden's disabled people that you have done. The point of reading out the 16 impairments for disabled people that you have done is to add that the wheelchair garage and the housing adaptation are also part of the pattern that came from what the Minister of Finance said in a very attentive statement: that you would save on Sweden's disabled people. It's not a coincidence. You've systematically made cuts. Madam President, I would like The reason why you can't have an electric wheelchair prescribed is that you can't get it out if you have nowhere to store it. I've received emails from upset occupational therapists who have patients who need electric wheelchairs but can't get it. You can prescribe an electric wheelchair, but the patient cannot get it because there is no place to store it. That's the problem. There is a class issue in this too. If you live in a private house, you can probably keep the per-mobile in your garage or in a larger hall or something while the person living in an apartment cannot. Is there silence on this issue? Lena Hallengren says here that they are working on this regardless of whether Lars Beckman makes interpellations or not. No, I don't think Lena Hallengren cares about my interpellations. But I hope she cares about Sweden's General Benefits and the Swedish Housing Adaptation Industry Association, which wrote a debate article on 14 April: Unclear regulations and changed practice for housing adaptation risks hitting hard. And so they appeal to the government to act. May 17 is the title: Aids are becoming a class issue. Lena Hallengren, of course, doesn't have to worry about Lars Beckman. But perhaps she should care about the Neuroförbundet, Sweden's Occupational therapists, Physiotherapists, Association of Young People with Disabilities, Participation Freedom of movement, National Association for Disabled Children and Young People, Association of Hearing Harnesses, Association of Rheumatics, Federation of Swedish Logoped Association, Swedish Logoped Association, Audionomers, Federation of Rare Diagnosis, Psoriasis Association, Stroke-riksförbundet, Kidneyförbundet etcetera, which alarms in Aftonbladet about exactly the same thing. In fact, I could have listed another 20 covenants. This has failed, Madam President. The government is not acting. During the warm summer, people will be locked up and incarcerated. The government could have acted after the last interpellation debate on 21 January. The government has had all spring to ensure that those who have paid taxes all their lives and who, in the autumn of their age, need to come out in a per-mobile this summer could do so. So we will have a situation, Madam President, where people are trapped in their homes because the government has not acted on an issue that has worked for many years. In fact, when this judgment came in December, this became the responsibility of the government. It is the government's responsibility to ensure that people get the tools they need. As the government does not act, it is in fact the responsibility of the Government. So it is January, February, March, April, May and now June. Imagine, Madam President, if it is the warmest summer in 100 years. Then it is the Government's responsibility that the elderly do not come out with their per-mobile.
i-68c2a668d0eebeb4-366	Madam President, I would like My answer to Lars Beckman remains if he's interested in hearing it. We are working on this issue, but the Housing Adaptation Act is not changed in four months. Lars Beckman really knows that, but I understand that there is no interest in expressing it in the speaker's chair. To prescribe someone an aid is an obligation. On the question of ensuring that we can also take care of it, we have a dialogue with SKR and we are looking at whether we need to amend the legislation. It is not the case, Lars Beckman, that the Housing Adaptation Act lists a number of different interventions you can get and that we just need to add an operation called wheelchair garage or storage. It's not quite that simple. But it is clear that this judgment has meant that we need to look at the issue. Do not think, however, that you change legislation in four months, Lars Beckman and others who listen! I don't expect everyone to understand that, but perhaps I thought Lars Beckman as a Member of Parliament had a little idea about it. That's the answer. We are working on the issue, and we will deal with it in the future. But I can't tell Lars Beckman a date either now or if he's putting an interpellation in two weeks' time again.
i-68c2a668d0eebeb4-371	Madam President, I would like I note that the message to Sweden's elderly and disabled is that if it is a hot summer they will unfortunately be allowed to sit inside their apartments. It is mainly apartments that are affected. I note that Sweden's disability organisations have appealed in the debate article after the debate article that the government should act on this issue. But the government sits on its hands and unfortunately does nothing. And that's the result. That's why I asked the housing minister the question. The Boverket is the Minister for Housing's expert authority. But the Minister of Housing chose to hand it over to Minister Lena Hallengren. What makes a difference, Madam President, is not that the Council of State with a high tone is standing here rumbling over my interpellation. I think the government should look into the camera here and apologize for not acting. I think the Government should do this: put it in the camera and apologize and say that I am ashamed on behalf of the government that we have not acted better and faster. Clearly, if you wanted to resolve this issue, you could have solved it. One could have made a quick agreement with the Swedish Municipalities and Regions that during the time the investigation is going on – or whatever you do when you look at this issue – emergency solve the issue by saying: "Of course we will prescribe both shower cabins and wheelchair garages." After all, it is not reasonable for people entitled to an electric wheelchair to be trapped in their homes because they cannot get it. That would have been the quick answer, and then you had to solve it with a little money. The more long-term solution is, of course, that the government is urgently reviewing the legislation because it has not had the desired effects. If you wanted to solve it, Madam President, you would have done it. Rapid investigations have even been set up to close Bromma airport. There you would do an investigation in three months. Here you have had over six months, but you have not done anything. When will something happen? That is my question to the Minister.
i-68c2a668d0eebeb4-378	Madam President, I would like The intervention was made in January. It was not that the question came up then, but then Lars Beckman and I had a very good interpellation debate. To go on and describe this as nothing happening, that it would be incredibly easy to do something and that legislation does not take time, I think, is perhaps not a way to facilitate understanding of this issue, but rather the other way around. However, I welcome both this discussion and, not least, Lars Beckman's view that this does not affect everyone equally. It is clear that there are class perspectives and socio-economic perspectives on it. I am well aware of this, and we will come back to this.
i-68c2a668d0eebeb4-380	Madam President, I would like Mikael Oscarsson has asked me a number of questions about the government's work with a new gender law and about the care of patients with gender dysphoria. I thank you for the questions and answer them in the order in which they were put. But first I want to make it clear that I and the government have high ambitions to give transgender people power over their lives and identity. Transgender people are more affected than society at large by mental illness, and it is a group that is entitled to treatment. I would also like to give a picture of the government's work on new gender legislation. During the last term of office, the government took several initiatives to get a modern legislation for changing gender status in place. In August 2018, the Government decided to seek the Council's views on the Government's proposal for a new, modern legislation on gender change. The Law Council rejected the Government's proposal and expressed serious criticism. Within the Government Office, further legislative work is ongoing based on the views of the Swedish Law Council. It is important that people with gender dysphoria receive the right support and treatment, which is the focus of my work. Now to the questions that Mikael Oscarsson has asked. With regard to questions about the age limits currently being prepared within the Government Office, I cannot precede that work. When it comes to issues relating to the way in which care and treatment are to be carried out, I leave these issues to the profession and our expert authorities. The Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare has, on behalf of the Government, updated the knowledge support Good care for children and young people with gender dysphoria from 2015. The new chapters are being published as a separate publication to support young people and their families and to investigate gender incapacitation in children and young people. During autumn 2021, the National Board of Health and Welfare intends to publish updated chapters and recommendations on hormone treatment and surgery. The remaining medical chapters and the knowledge support as a whole are planned to be published in May 2022, when the assignment is also reported to the Government. The update is made to take into account new knowledge and changes in the area of care since the knowledge support was published in 2015 and to make recommendations for good care based on today's conditions. With regard to the issues relating to proposals on different age limits which are not included in the preparation dossier for the development of new gender legislation, there are currently no plans to legislate on these issues. As regards the question of identifying how many studies and treatments for gender dysphoria have begun, I would refer to the Socialstyrelsen report Development of the diagnosis of gender dysphoria from 2020. I would also like to refer to the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare's knowledge support at gender dysphoria. On the issue of the use of pubertetic and gender-contradictory drugs, the National Board of Health and Welfare has the task of carrying out such a survey. The assignment shall be reported to the Government by 1 October 2021. Finally, there are currently no plans to map local authorities' decisions when parents do not agree on measures.
i-68c2a668d0eebeb4-390	Madam President, I would like Transgender people have always been a vulnerable and discriminated group. It is indeed a group that needs evidence-based treatment. That must be the starting point. In May, Astrid Lindgren Children's Hospital acknowledged that it has little or no evidence of the treatment it has carried out since 2001. Thus, under 21 years of age, 700 children have been treated without sufficient evidence. The mission review sent out an attentive program soon two years ago, a Transtrainet, which showed that the number of young people diagnosed with sex dysphoria has increased avalanche. In 2001, 12 people were diagnosed with sex dysphoria. By 2020 there were 1,941 cases, most of them young girls who want to be boys. That's an increase of 16 200 percent. Over 7 000 people between the ages of 15 and 24 have been diagnosed over the past five years. Let me read from the decision of Astrid Lindgren Children's Hospital. The hormonal treatment of children and young people with sex dysphoria may consist of purulent blocking treatment that can be initiated at the onset of purity, and of sex-converting hormones that can be initiated from 16 years of age. These treatments are controversial and have been the subject of increasing attention and scrutiny both nationally and internationally in recent times. ..................................................... The state's preparation for medical and social evaluation shows a lack of evidence of this. It also points out that the studies carried out are small, uncontrolled observational studies with low evidence that the treatment has the desired effect and that there is very little knowledge of long-term safety. Reference is also made to the high profile case in the United Kingdom involving Keira Bell, which was brought to justice. It said about her in Svenska Dagbladet this weekend. She turned to the Tavistock clinic, and at 17 years of age she received testosterone. At the age of 20, she removed her breasts. She is one of all those who feel that they have been mistreated, and she must now live the rest of her life with removed breasts and dark voice. She herself points out transinfluencers as the main reason she began to think that the treatment for sex dysphoria would be, as she says, a quick fix. Madam President, I would like So such an irreversible decision is left to teenagers. Svenska Dagbladet writes that the case raises many questions. One question is about age limits. In Sweden, for example, it is an age limit of 25 years for sterilisation. This is because it is believed that the brain is only then developed. During adolescence there is not enough capacity to make life decisions because the ability to do a risk assessment and other things needs more time to develop. We also know that in almost all cases there is a different diagnosis. You can have autism, anxiety, trauma or eating disorders. For all of these diagnoses there is evidence-based treatment– additionally with mild adverse reactions that are not irreversible. But here we are talking about the government's stated desire to lower the age limit to 15 years for this irreversible decision. Does the government really stand by what they went out with in the run-up to the last elections?
i-68c2a668d0eebeb4-400	Madam President, I would like Mikael Oscarsson has asked eight questions in his interpellation, and I have answered all the questions. Why don't we spend the interpellation debate talking about these issues? Not at any time in my reply could Mikael Oscarsson hear that we are going to lower an age limit. The government has asked the National Board of Health and Welfare to look at these issues, and they have come back and feel that there is no reason to lower the age limit from 18. I still get some thoughts when I listen to Mikael Oscarsson, who has put out the words about gender dysphoria. I have to say that I think you should think about how to use the words: girls who want to be boys. We are talking about sex confirmation, not about someone who thinks it would be fun to change sex – so that we agree that it is not the basic condition in either case. We agree that it is important to lean on evidence. At least I'm guessing it. It is not a political question of what care you should receive. If there is evidence, knowledge, research, medical expertise, my opinion is that they should lead and make the medical assessments, not Parliament's chamber. There was some comparison with 25 years of age and sterilisation. Should I understand it so that Mikael Oscarsson thinks we should have a different age limit on this care than we have otherwise? I understand from Mikael Oscarsson's questions that he wonders if we should change an age limit. No, the proposal is not to reduce an age limit. That's what I said in my answer. It is also the basis that the National Board of Health and Welfare has returned to the government. This is a group. In all contexts it is difficult to talk about groups because of course it is always a matter of individuals and specific situations. The individual seeking may have one or more diagnoses. It's not unusual at all. I fully share Mikael Oscarsson's view that they are not often mentally ill. What is the right way to treat, care or respond to the individual seeking care must, of course, vary from time to time when making such multidisciplinary assessments. There are six teams working on these issues in Sweden. It is clear that it is important that they are constantly based on evidence. I don't think anything but that. Nevertheless, I would like to ask Mikael Oscarsson if it is not the case that healthcare should decide with the expertise, evidence and knowledge available. Or is it the policy that should assess and determine whether someone is entitled to a specific care intervention?
i-68c2a668d0eebeb4-406	Madam President, I would like We had a debate about two years ago. I asked the same question. It is now three years ago that the government representative, then Minister for Social Affairs Annika Strandhäll and Minister for Democracy Alice Bah Kuhnke, said that changing legal gender will be a simple process that does not require contact with healthcare. It should be possible from the age of 12, and the process should be made easier for those who feel that they are not born in the right body. The operation of the genital organ must be possible from the age of 15, without the parents being aware of it. Can we get a clear answer from the Minister of Social Affairs that this was all wrong? This was an attempt to politicise. The question is where the demand comes from. They went out with this for the election. What was behind writing to do that? The National Board of Health and Welfare's national knowledge support from 2015 says that for surgical interventions there is an 18-year limit. But the law regulates only intervention in the primary organ of sex. There is no age limit in the gender law for when hormonal treatments or surgery for secondary sex characteristics can be considered at the earliest. That is, girls can be given stop hormones and male sex hormones, and vice versa, earlier. The term is meant to mean primary breast, and according to Assignment review there are cases that have been operated on as early as 14 years of age in Stockholm. Madam President, I would like Is it reasonable to even think of having such a low age limit? Doesn't it have to be regulated? Then there is the matter of heavy medication for the rest of your life. We know that adult men doping themselves with testosterone have enormous side effects. They have heart enlargement, heart failure and a lot of problems. Here it is a question of off-label use of medicines that are not even tested for the group, and they should be used in children! That's remarkable. Two years ago I read the same list that Karolinska has now. It shows that there are extensive side effects, such as cardiovascular diseases, osteoporosis, infertility, certain cancer risks and blood clots. It is also said that the precautionary principle must prevail. That is exactly what I said two years ago in the speaker's chair; we must use the precautionary principle. It is a principle that we have praised in Sweden: If there is no evidence, we are waiting. Here we have a government which, in the run-up to the elections, was ready to write that it wanted to lower the age limit to 12 and 15 years respectively. Where was the research? Where was the base? Where was the evidence-based treatment method? Madam President, I would like Who takes responsibility for children and young people making irreversible decisions that make them sterile for life? In almost all cases, children have other diagnoses that can be treated. How is it possible after two years when the mission review has sounded the alarm, with the court ruling in London and the decision at Astrid Lindgren Children's Hospital? Are we now told that the proposal has been completely rejected?
i-68c2a668d0eebeb4-413	Madam President, I would like I come back to Mikael Oscarsson asking many questions. It would have been a good thing if we could have discussed the political part of this. Mikael Oscarsson apparently sits on knowledge of how each individual young person should be treated by the care, what care to receive, which medication is appropriate, what side effects can be accepted, whether to wait two more years or five more. I have great respect for medical expertise when it comes to the type of treatment, whether it be intervention or medication. I am not just talking about sex dysphoria, I am talking about all care. I do not think that, as Mikael Oscarsson does, one can break out specifically the diagnosis of gender dysphoria from everything else and turn it into such a political issue as Mikael Oscarsson does. However, it is self-evident that evidence, research and knowledge should guide all the teams in Sweden that meet young people, boys and girls who are seeking sex-confirming treatment, and they should not, of course, give them treatment or care or perform interventions if it turns out that they are not motivated. It is possible to refer to individual cases, but I do not think it is appropriate for us to base ourselves on them, but on the principles that apply to Swedish healthcare. Mikael Oscarsson asked about the same questions two years ago, and a lot has happened since then. It would be appropriate to change your speech to a post that is adapted to what is happening now. The question of legal sex is a matter. The drama I would guess that Mikael Oscarsson thinks is less because it is not an irreversible intervention involved, but it can be that important. As far as surgical procedures are concerned, I think I have said a couple of three times now that the National Board of Health and Welfare was commissioned by the government to look specifically at the age limit. They came back with a basis and said that there is no reason to lower that age limit from 18 years. Then there may be isolated cases – we have been able to take part in them – but they are exceptions. The question of legal sex is not irrelevant, I would like to say. Whether one should have the opportunity to both investigate and change legal sex earlier, I think we will see as a little separated from the issue of surgical intervention but still see it as two different parts of the proposal for a decision that will come. Again, we need to understand that care is care and that it is medical expertise that should decide that. The Government does not intend to make proposals that deviate from the National Board of Health and Welfare's recommendations and supporting documents. That is precisely why the National Board of Health and Welfare had to return to the government with a detailed basis on the age limit. It is tempting to land in individual cases, but I would still like to appeal to Mikael Oscarsson to see that we are working on the knowledge structures in healthcare and that there is research, knowledge and evidence. The precautionary principle can, of course, be viewed in two different ways. It may be that medical expertise makes the assessment that if a person does not receive adequate care it can produce greater but – it may be associated with suicide attempts and so on – than if the person receives the necessary care. It is not clear, then, that the precautionary principle means giving up care. It can also be giving care. With regard to what care it should be, I would like to appeal once again to Mikael Oscarsson not to make that issue too political. I would also like to say that when evidence, knowledge and research change, the sector must constantly take on board this. Of course, specialists need to be at the forefront and follow the current state of knowledge.
i-68c2a668d0eebeb4-424	Madam President, I would like Does this mean that we can once and for all write off plans that were some kind of election promise in 2018 to lower the age limit for operations in the gender to 15 years? Is it written off? Looks like it's still there. This is what you can do from the age of 12. Is it still there? The Government may well extend that answer. What about the fact that you can change legal sex from 12 years of age? Is it still stuck? The government said two years ago that she was leaning on research. Then the Government can take the opportunity to mention it. Where is the well-reputed research that shows that there is scientific support for puberty blocking drugs and gender-contracing hormones for children and adolescents up to 25 years of age? Where is it? This is how we have different age limits. You have to be 18 years old to drive, and 20 years is the limit we have set to buy out alcohol. For sterilization it is 25 years, because that is when the brain is fully developed. Then one should reasonably change either one or the other, because it will be the same result. We have a limit when it comes to sterilization because you become sterile. If we do not have the evidence to support this for young adults, should it not be a precautionary principle to have the same limit with regard to this irreversible decision? And it's about teenagers. We're handing over decisions. We're set to set limits, and we know that teenage time is very special. Having it this way, without borders, has led to the removal of breasts from 14-year-olds. Does the Government really believe that there is scientific and evidence-based support for such activities?
i-68c2a668d0eebeb4-430	Madam President, I would like To want to investigate something and also look at the result is quite reasonable. The question of age limits has been investigated. We have asked the National Board of Health and Welfare to look at it extra to really get it highlighted. Once we have landed in any changes, it will be presented in a bill to the Riksdag. Then Mikael Oscarsson and others will have to take a stand on it. But we do not intend to deviate from the recommendations of the National Board of Health and Welfare. Let me also say that the Health Act is clear: care should be provided as needed. Mikael Oscarsson is absolutely convinced that we do not need to give any form of care to someone who feels that he needs gender-confirming treatment, who suffers from gender dysphoria, who not only wants it himself, who is not just in line, who not only chooses to change sex but who turns to care, and after extensive investigations, assessments are made whether or not you suffer from gender dysphoria and whether one or other treatment may be needed. That he's trying to make it sound like someone's doing it casually, I'm very much against it. You have to feel like children, youth and adults that when you turn to Swedish health care, you should be assessed based on the care needs you have, regardless of what Mikael Oscarsson thinks about the care needs and what the treatment would be. Care should be based on research, evidence and knowledge – existing knowledge, one must add, because it is clear that there is a development. Monitoring this development is crucial for those who work in the health care sector as a whole. I would like to emphasise once again that it is not the case that teenagers simply choose for themselves that they want to change sex. I do not think that any of us should devote ourselves to describing it as a simple decision or procedure or that it is easy to seek treatment. But if you seek care, you should be taken seriously, regardless of age. I don't think Mikael Oscarsson should be the one to decide from what age you should have care as needed.
i-68c2a668d0eebeb4-436	Madam President, I would like Mattias Bäckström Johansson has asked me if I and the government intend to take any steps to ensure the operational safety of the power system. A secure electricity and energy supply with high security of supply, low environmental impact and electricity at competitive prices is a fundamental prerequisite for a modern and well-functioning society during an ongoing climate transition with increased electrification. Sweden currently has a robust and reliable power system. We have an average high net export of electricity with very low emissions of carbon dioxide, and the Swedish National Energy Agency, which is responsible for operational safety in the national electricity system, assesses the risk of power shortage in Sweden as still low. Nevertheless, network limitations and electricity price differentials sometimes occur between different bidding zones. In order to overcome these and to ensure that we continue to have a robust and reliable power system in the future, a number of measures are taken. In the long term, Svenska Kraftnät plans for extensive reinforcements of the transmission network, and nearly triples its network investments over the next three-year period. In the short term, measures and investments in stations are also implemented to optimise power transmission in existing lines. Furthermore, as part of the solution, we should not underestimate the potential for future electricity users to become more flexible in their electricity use and more active in the electricity market and thus also reduce their electricity costs. Finally, the work under way in the Government Office on the development of a national electrification strategy can also be mentioned. It will take a holistic approach to the conditions in the energy sector in order to contribute to the 2030, 2040 and 2045 climate targets in order to enable a rapid and socio-economically efficient electrification of the entire society.
i-68c2a668d0eebeb4-443	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. The background to this interpellation about the operational safety of the Swedish power system is the development we have seen over the past year with situations of power shortages and lack of transmission capacity, resulting in temporary unwanted effects and significantly higher electricity prices for parts of the country and times of the year. It is a fundamental task to ensure that there is sufficient production capacity and readiness to deal with extreme situations so that we can maintain electricity supply throughout the country. For a long time this has not been a problem, but our power system has historically been characterised by a robustness and a well-acquired production apparatus. We have had good margins in terms of transmission capacity, but these margins have been flinched time and again. Unfortunately, this has been increasingly jeopardised in recent years when energy policy has developed in an increasingly ideological direction and has focused almost exclusively on weather-dependent electricity production, which dominates. In a press release from Svenska Kraftnät this spring, it was stressed that all parties need to adapt to the fact that flows and electricity generation become more variable in order to continue to guarantee a high level of operational security. This also applies to neighbouring countries. At the same time, it was announced that this summer the transmission capacity will be limited to and from the central and southern parts of the country, which in practice means that the margins of the electricity system will be further reduced and the market will not have access to the transmission capacity that normally exists. This will again lead to significantly higher electricity prices in southern Sweden compared to the rest of the country. This is something that, in my opinion and in the opinion of the Swedish Democrats, should raise a fairly well-founded concern about the long-term operational and delivery security. In the response that the Government came up with, it was again raised that Sweden is a net exporter of electricity. It is worth repeating that it has nothing to do with this matter or the problem of whether or not you are a net exporter of electricity. This is something that the government, and perhaps the Government in particular, needs to take with it in the future. We need to be able to distinguish between energy and effect because it is not energy at all that we are discussing here. The parts that were lifted up and that are, on the other hand, relevant are the efforts to expand the capacity of the electricity grids, as well as not to underestimate the possibilities for electricity users to be more flexible in the future. There is no political dividing line at all in view of this. However, there tends to be a more naive belief that flexibility will be the main solution, whereas the problem is perhaps rather that the government overestimates the opportunities. None of what the Government has highlighted has in any way reversed the development we have seen in recent years. What is asked somewhere, Madam President, is whether there is anything in this area that has improved during the seven years of the Red-Green Government in government power. Has the balance of effects improved? Have the problems of lack of transmission capacity been reduced? Was the type of problem that arose last summer a coincidence? Will this not happen again? Can the Government mention something that gives reason to believe that we will not have any problems in this area in the future?
i-68c2a668d0eebeb4-453	Madam President, I would like Mattias Bäckström Johansson asked me if it was a coincidence that last year we had both a pandemic and extended nuclear audits. I guess the pandemine can still be counted on the random account. The prolonged nuclear audits were partly due to this and partly because the market price of nuclear power was so low that it was not profitable to operate the reactors further. Of course, there is a point in telling us that we have a surplus of electricity in Sweden and export more electricity than ever. This is, of course, pushing away CO2 emissions in other countries. Compare with the nuclear country Finland – they are in the situation that we in Sweden were in ten years ago, when we had to import electricity with a fairly high carbon content. This situation is now in Finland, and I think Mattias Bäckström Johansson and I agree that the Swedish situation is much better. It is better to export electricity than to have to import electricity. This is a positive development, both when it comes to releasing ourselves from an import demand and when it comes to increasing our electricity surplus. Another positive thing that Mattias Bäckström Johansson hardly ever mentions is that Sweden has the EU's lowest energy prices for business. The question then is what the energy policy outlined by Mattias Bäckström Johansson would mean. Is it subsidies that apply? In the UK, the government is subsidising nuclear energy strongly, with up to 93 øre per kilowatt hour, I think, depending on course changes. The price of electricity is two and a half to three times as high as the Swedish price. The Liberals, who, after all, Mattias Bäckström Johansson says they want to cooperate with, are prepared to go in with large subsidies of nuclear power. Is Mattias Bäckström Johansson? I am opposed to the idea that the whole government's energy policy would be about the less planned types of energy. We have more electricity from nuclear power now than we had ten years ago. We have a lot of hydropower – the more we get from wind power, the more important the hydropower resources become. Through the joint initiative, which Mattias Bäckström Johansson's party and the Left Party were alone in voting against, we ensured – renewablely – the production of cogeneration in Sweden's largest cities. Perhaps it is Mattias Bäckström Johansson who is expressing a little more one-eyedness and just looking at certain energy types. The government's policy is simple, and it has the support of a broad majority in this House. We shall be able to use all types of production. The most cheap and efficient types of production, both in themselves and for the production system, are those we should use. This is one of the reasons why we have Europe's lowest prices for business. This is one of the explanations why we have a growing surplus in Sweden while many other countries have gone in the opposite direction and had other problems with their deliveries. This is perhaps also the reason why the international bodies that rank energy systems rank the Swedish energy system highest in the world.
i-68c2a668d0eebeb4-464	Madam President, I would like It is still quite irrelevant for this debate to put energy and effect on an equal footing. It does not matter how much we have exported or imported in one year if we still have situations where shortcomings occur, whether it is that we do not have sufficient production capacity or whether the problem is that we have insufficient transmission capacity. What we are talking about is subsidies, of course, is the policy we have been able to see – it is the Government and the Government that have devoted themselves to using tax incentives, subsidies and various subsidies to eliminate the market where there is no fair competition between the Powers Act. This has led us into a situation where we now have annual deficits in the power balance reports that Swedish power grids produce, which we haven't had in decades. The Government pointed out that we have more electricity from nuclear power during this government than we had before, but that is not the case, of course. What has happened now is the early closure of four reactors, two of which were state owned. You could have made other balances but chose not to do so because you are the owner of the company that operated them. I note that this was not much of a response. Madam President, I would like Swedish power grids make annual power balance reports. Yesterday they came with an updated one that presents what the electricity supply looked like in the past winter and looks forward to the coming winter. It can be said that on several occasions we have had a strained impact situation, despite the fact that the past winter was relatively mild and our conditions were good. It is also pointed out that it will be more difficult to make forecasts with an increasing degree of wind power, which is a weather-dependent source of power. Another innovation this time was that not only is a forecast for the coming winter but also an operational safety forecast for the coming summer. This has never had to be done before, because we have not had those problems. It is, however, news. It is also announced that the forecast will be further extended by the coming summer, as it is seen that these problems will increase. The fact that you need to make operational safety forecasts for the summer months ahead is a bad rating. So we now need to do this not only during the winter months but also during the summer months. If this government can continue, we may soon have challenges and forecasts for each month and more. In the long-term forecast, which runs until 2050, the picture becomes even more problematic. According to this forecast, if the potential for flexibility is overestimated, we will have major problems with power shortages by 2035. The situation is described by the Swedish Energy Agency as untenable for 2045 with a large number of shortage hours. It is also clear that power adequacy will deteriorate and electricity customers will not be able to use electricity at competitive prices when needed. This clearly means that it is unlikely that some industries will even be able to operate in Sweden and that households will have much higher electricity bills in the future, as they may not be able to adapt to the weather conditions. This is something that does not seem to make the Government particularly concerned at all. Is it really a statement of strength that we should now have forecasts of operational safety in summer time that may risk a large part of electrification with the challenges that we see? A prerequisite for this to happen is that there is electricity available during all hours of the year at competitive prices, for which there is now a large warning flag.
i-68c2a668d0eebeb4-474	Madam President, I would like It is not clear to me what Mattias Bäckström Johansson means. Does Mattias Bäckström Johansson mean that it is good that we have surpluses, that we export more than ever and help other countries reduce their CO2 emissions? Or would he have preferred it to be as in Finland and as it was in Sweden ten years ago, when we were dependent on imports and had to import carbon-heavy power into Sweden? In fact, it was not clear what the answer was. When it comes to what forecasts Swedish power grids produce, I assume that they develop those that are relevant and that can be useful for the future. Better a prognosis too much than a prognosis too little. I think Mattias Bäckström Johansson agrees with that. As I said, more nuclear electricity was produced in Sweden this year and last year than it did in 2010, and that with fewer reactors, which was also expressed by Mattias Bäckström Johansson. And what's the background to that? Well, it is that those who own nuclear power have chosen not to invest in new reactors, even if that possibility exists, but have chosen to increase the power of existing reactors. And there is also that possibility forward. There's more to take there, if you wish. Mattias Bäckström Johansson is worried about the industry. I guess it's a good thing he's worried about it. But what is most important to it? Access and price picture. And the industry is investing in wind power, not in nuclear power. Why is that, Mattias Bäckström Johansson? Well, it's because today wind power is more cost-effective than nuclear power. It is possible that it will change at some point in the future. But if it does not, is Mattias Bäckström Johansson prepared to subsidise nuclear energy? Mattias Bäckström Johansson can stand here forever, unless the President interrupts him, and complains about the current situation. But if he is not prepared to open his wallet – the Swedish Democrats have not been in any of the latest budgets – there will be no more nuclear power unless nuclear power is profitable on market economy terms. Then this will only be a shadow debate, a marionetteater, where Mattias Bäckström Johansson pretends to have an opinion but where the outcome will be exactly the same. Then what does the government do? Well, the Swedish power grid triples investments in new power generation capacity, and the government recently put a proposal on the table of the Riksdag that nearly halves the lead times for the construction of new power lines. It is a proposal with the largest shortening of lead times for new management production that has been put on the table since Sweden was electrified. The last grip was taken in the 50's. But this is cutting more time. We have initiated an electrification strategy that in the first draft increases the use of electricity in Sweden and doubles the production of electricity in Sweden. What's the background to that? The background is that contrary to what appears to be the case in Mattias Bäckström Johansson's world of performances, industries are seeking to Sweden. Europe's largest battery factory invests in Sweden. It invests in the world's first carbon-free steel in Sweden. The challenger of the world's first carbon-free steel also invests in Sweden. We will see several similar investments. That's because we have good access to electricity, a secure system and low-cost electricity, because we let the market influence the energy modes and let technological development take effect in our energy system.
i-68c2a668d0eebeb4-482	Madam President, I would like The Government asks why the market invests in what the government subsidises? Maybe it's not that strange. It's because there have been subsidies. It is not a level playing field between the power teams. It is clear that this will then lead to what the market invests in. It is clear that there is every reason to be concerned about developments in the field of energy policy. In fact, it risks jeopardising the electrification that the Swedish democrats naturally resist, also with opportunities for the transport sector, but also in industry and for households. But then one must be able to expect that there will be electricity at competitive prices during all hours of the year and where the need exists. That's a prerequisite. Here we will not get away with a constant mantra about net exporters and that flexibility will solve all the challenges that exist, because what we have seen over the years with the Red Green Government is that we have a worse balance of effects than we have had in decades and that we have a lack of transmission capacity. It will take a long time to catch up, something that has been exposed. This, together, has contributed to the fact that we have huge price differences, greater than ever, between the country's various price areas. This is something that will of course affect the competitiveness of the country and create a development that we will probably not be able to afford if we are to succeed with electrification in general. What we need to do is to welcome all fossil-free power lines, ensure that we have as technology-neutral competition between power teams as possible and remove subsidies and other market-distorting incentives that exist at the moment. The main entrance is that both as an entrepreneur and as a citizen in Sweden in the future, one should also be able to expect electricity during all hours of the year and at competitive prices. But then the direction of energy policy must be changed.
i-68c2a668d0eebeb4-486	Madam President, I would like I did not understand whether Mattias Bäckström Johansson prefers the Finnish deficit situation or the Swedish surplus situation. But Mattias Bäckström Johansson is a diligent interpellant, so I guess we will find out the answer in a future interpellation debate. When Mattias Bäckström Johansson is going to try to define the Swedish democratic policy, he is doing so in the late hours that we should welcome all fossil-free forms of energy and that we should not subsidise certain types of energy. That could be a description of government policy. We have abolished subsidies in the form of green certificates. We welcome all fossil-free power strokes, and we have done so well in Sweden since the government Reinfeldt concluded its energy agreement with the parties that Mattias Bäckström Johansson wants to cooperate with or cooperate with. It is not the government's policy or the parliament's policy that has determined the balance of forces. It is technological development that is the big difference. The cost curve of renewable energy goes steeply downwards, while the nuclear energy curve goes fairly steeply upwards. This is why Swedish industry invests in wind power. We have no subsidies for wind power today. There are incredible amounts of money invested in wind power. Why? Because it is cost-effective, renewable and good for the climate. The reason why you do not invest in Mattias Bäckström Johansson's favorite energy law, nuclear power, is not a decision from the government, and it is not a decision from the Riksdag. The reason is the cost development of nuclear power. If Mattias Bäckström Johansson does not tear off those blinders, then any energy policy debate will be a shadow game, a puppet theatre, in the future.
i-68c2a668d0eebeb4-492	Madam President, I would like Gudrun Brunegård has asked me on what scientific evidence the government's view that the river valley is a dialect or a popular goal and not a language is based, whether the government has any intention of carrying out the investigation that was promised at a meeting in 2011 and how I and the government intend to respond to the invitation from the Council of Europe's linguistic committee and the Council of Ministers to report on the status of the river valley in Sweden. Let me begin by thanking you for the questions. During the year, I have noticed a growing interest in the Riksdag for River Valley and Language Policy. Questions about languages, dialects and cultural heritage are important and deserve space in the public debate. The government has previously made the assessment that the river valley is to be regarded as a popular target, and no new circumstances have emerged that gave the government reason to change that assessment. The assessment is based, among other things, on evidence from the Minority Language Committee. The question of language and dialects is complex, and there is no consensus among linguists as to whether the river valley is a language or a dialect. We should also be aware that Swedish is a language with great diversity, and there are many dialects that differ more or less from both standard Swedish and river valley. There are currently no plans to review Sweden's ratification of the European Charter on Regional and Minority Languages. The Committee of Experts of the Council of Europe has noted in its latest report that the Committee considers that the river valley meets the criteria for part two of the European Charter for Regional and Minority Languages and has asked Sweden to include the river valley in its report as a language corresponding to Yiddish and Romani Chib. However, Sweden's report refers only to minority languages covered by Sweden's ratification and established by the Riksdag. Finally, I would like to emphasise that the government sees great value in the preservation of the river valley as part of the common cultural heritage and local cultural history. The interest in the conservation and use of the river valley is therefore very pleasing.
i-68c2a668d0eebeb4-498	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Minister for Culture for his reply, although I would of course have liked a different approach to this. When I moved to Mora as a new nurse in the early 1980s, I was completely unprepared for the challenges I would face. It was not just about growing into a new professional identity in the beautiful Siljan district, which is the image of idyllic Sweden. My first job was in long-term care, and I was not prepared that most of the elderly had lost Swedish because of dementia. The language they had left was the Dalskan – and not the well-known, sounding, lovely Daladialecten from Leksand and Rättvik without something completely different. When I eventually worked in Leksand, I was told that even native playwrights don't understand the dialect, speech or goal – or whatever the minister now chooses to call it – from Ovansiljan, even if everyone lives along the same lake. But thankfully I had employees from that area, so when I didn't understand what a patient said or if the patient didn't understand me, I was able to find someone in the staff who had a pin with the text However, this challenge was not enough; it was just as bad in the staff room. There was Mora or Orsamål. But eventually I learned to hang out helpfully. After a while I started working at the medical clinic, and there were elfs. They were completely impossible to understand. It was then said that Älvdalen had been more linguistically isolated and that they had therefore retained more of the archaic character. My husband met it daily when he did some of his district medical practice in Älvdalen. When I have later followed the river valley and the desire to have it recognised as a language, it has been interesting to see how the Committee of Experts of the Council of Europe has, step by step, stated that the river valley actually meets the criteria for regional or minority languages, as the Government says. Compared to vocabulary, the distance between Swedish and River valleys is greater than the distance between Swedish and Norwegian or Swedish and Danish. But because there are borders between countries, they have been chosen to call them different languages, even though they could be called dialects. However, Älvdalska is as different, if not more, from Swedish as from Icelandic. But the government still chooses to see the river valley as a dialect. It is the upside-down world, you might say, and on what scientific grounds? The Government confirms that it is based on evidence from the Minority Language Committee in the 1990s. But this investigation was not tasked with analysing the linguistic position of the river valley. Madam President, I would like It is strange that the government, based on a mention of the river valley in passing in the 1990s, keeps the analyses made by both international and national linguists at arm's length.
i-68c2a668d0eebeb4-510	Madam President, I would like I have already discussed the river valley in this House, and I would really like to express my appreciation to the municipality of Älvdalen and all the civil society organisations that are making great efforts to preserve and develop the river valley. This is something that both I personally and the government see as very positive. Regardless of the status of the river valley, it is a popular destination, a dialect spoken by many, and that there is a commitment of the younger generation to learn the river valley is fantastic. Our expert authority Isof has in its mission to promote the use and development of dialects, so it is not a forgotten part of the government's language policy. When we come down to what is to be classified as a language of our own or not, it becomes complicated. It's a complex issue. I looked back at the Minority Language Committee's 1997 report. It was then investigated whether m eänkieli should be classified as a language of its own or as a variety of Finnish. Professor Kenneth Hyltenstam then explained the research situation and concluded that there is no simple definition of exactly where the dividing line between language and dialect goes. It is possible to find exceptions for different types of criteria, ranging from written language to understanding and national boundaries, but in the end it will be a matter of language policy balancing. Gudrun Brunegård himself takes up land borders as a reason for classifying something as dialect or language. What is also important in this context is to see what possible recognition of the river valley as a language would mean linked to the Language Charter. When examining the issue of minority languages, the Minority Language Committee concluded that one of the aims of the Convention is to strengthen the position of minority languages in public life, such as courts and authorities. Classified as a language in accordance with the Council of Europe's language charter and one can identify a country as it is for Finnish, eänkieli and Sami today, it provides stability in public intervention. It allows for the identification of an administrative area and the right of access to the language of elderly care, health care and childcare when visiting a public service, court or authority. The second part of the Council of Europe's Charter is the Council of Europe's view that the river valley meets, i.e. the same as romani chib and Yiddish. It does not offer the same possibility linked to the administrative area. But just as Gudrun Brunegård points out in its interpellation, those who push the issue of the river valley are not particularly looking for this. This is one of the reasons why the government has pointed out the language-promoting efforts that it is already possible to do through Isof's work with dialects, through popular education and through the activities of Älvdalen municipality. Madam President, I would like Today we have five minority languages, and we have great commitments to make with regard to them. If we are to take further steps and include more languages, a thorough investigation is required, and more than the river valley would then be considered.
i-68c2a668d0eebeb4-519	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the developed answer. It is strange that the government is convulsingly holding on to the investigation which, in passing, touched the river valley. It was not the subject of the investigation, but the investigation concerned the Toredal, i.e. meänkieli. Nevertheless, later, more in-depth, analyses, both international and national, continue to be kept out of it. I myself have been in contact with the scientist who did the investigation. He is genuinely concerned that the investigation is being used in this way. He himself appears as one of the 14 signatories to an article in the Language magazine on 28 April this year, in which he, along with 13 other prominent linguists, demands that the river valley be recognised as a language. The Government said in its first speech that there is no agreement on the status, but I would call that a mere misinterpretation of the situation. Today's interpretation of the minority language charter is different now than in the 1990s. Now exceptions are made in a completely different way. Linguistic varieties, such as Frisian in the Netherlands and Low German, have been accepted as languages. I would argue that it is unreasonable today to refer to the wording of SOU 1997:192 as an argument against giving the river valley language status. The municipality has indeed, as the Government mentioned, done a great deal. They have adopted an action plan to give all children the opportunity to learn river valley, not only for a museum or cultural historical interest in preserving the language, but for the very reason I experienced as a nurse in the 1980s: When the river valleys get old and dementia they need to be able to meet people who can understand their language. It is also important for the new generations to be able to talk to old neighbours and their grandparents in their mother tongue. The Government highlighted the fact that the municipality of Älvdalen, with its 2,500-3,000 people speaking in the river valley, does not require full support for court documents. Support is needed to continue the efforts that have been made thanks to the support from the General Heritage Fund, but is limited in time. It's not huge money, but it's enough to make a difference. When this money disappears, it is uncertain what happens and if Älvdalen municipality will be able to take it from its tax funds. In 2011, the representatives of the government at that time promised that the government could well investigate the question of recognising the river valley as a national language but that it could take a very long time. How long is reasonable to fulfill such a promise? It has now been ten years, and the Government does not open a door in that way. Apparently, even the linguistic committee of the Council of Europe has said that the river valley is a language and called on the government to take steps there. I have to say that it is the will that is lacking.
i-68c2a668d0eebeb4-527	Madam President, I would like What has been said in 2011 or not, I do not know. It does not sound like a promise that has been made, but rather that the government could very well investigate this. I would like to emphasise that, should it be appropriate to recognise the river valley as a language, it is clear that we need a proper investigation behind this. In my various answers on the status of the river valley, I have not just referred to the Minority Language Committee. It's an overinterpretation. I have also referred to what our expert authority, Isof, has presented in several different reports. It notes that there is no consensus on the issue of the classification of the river valley. I would like to say this. I am the first to welcome a discussion among researchers and linguists about the status of the river valley, but the picture I have received is that there is no consensus. We have a complexity in that there are a number of other dialects and popular goals that probably also, on the same basis, would like to be classed as language. Therefore, it is not possible for the government to appoint the river valley itself, but then it would require an investigation where you also include other dialects and popular goals. Then we come back to parts of the origins of my previous speech, namely: what is the purpose that we want to achieve? When I hear elfs talk about what you want with support for your language, it is quite much that you want to be able to continue with what is already being done. We are not really looking for the rights deriving from the Charter of Minority Languages. It is also the case that if the river valley were to be classified as a minority language according to the second part that the Council of Europe believes that the river valley meets, it does not guarantee support and resources, just so that we have this clear to us. However, there is every reason to continue to look at our dialectic policy, because it is not just for the river valley that there is such commitment. I will answer the question as to what was said in 2011, when it came to the fact that the government could very well investigate. Yes, the government could well set up an investigation, but ultimately it is the parliament that would land in deciding what is classified as a dialect or a language. For my part, at the moment, as the responsible minister for both language policy and our national minorities, I would like to say that we have an intensive effort to fulfil the commitments that apply and that are directed towards minority languages. We have drawn up proposals for action programmes for the revitalisation of these languages. They have been out for a referral, and we are now taking note of the views on them. We have developed proposals at language centres to further strengthen the long-term work. We know it's challenging. We know that these are languages that are at risk of extinction. The responsibility of the government and the state to support the revitalisation of our minority languages is an extremely important issue. I do not find here, from what I see and hear about the state of research, that there is a need to set up a study today to classify additional languages as minority languages. That is not to say that this will never be done. I welcome the discussion and the debate, but I would like to point out once again that many of the efforts that are being made to promote the river valley can be done with existing tools. I think this is well worth considering.
i-68c2a668d0eebeb4-535	Madam President, I would like Today, a large number of members of Parliament received a letter from Björn Rehnström, representative of Ulum Dalska, highlighting the consequences for children whose mother tongue is River Dalska. I'll give you a little bit here: In practice, children in Älvdalen do not have the right to develop their mother tongue at school. Despite municipal decisions, children are not allowed to learn river valley in school. In spite of this, the interest of children and young people in this remarkable language is increasing. The biggest obstacle to this right now is that Sweden does not recognise the river valley as a language. It is a measure that would not cost the state very much because the river valleys do not need to interpret or translate government papers, just a confession. As I have shown in my previous interventions, the position of the government lacks linguistic support. Both domestic and international language experts believe that the river valley meets the criteria for being a language of its own and not a dialect. This attitude causes a situation in which river valley children are discriminated against in relation to children with a different language background. I had hoped that today the Minister for Culture would offer an opening, a willingness to resolve the situation and take steps towards meeting both the river valleys, the language researchers, the Committee of Experts of the Council of Europe and the Commission. Unfortunately, the government seems to have locked itself in a position without scientific support. This is deeply regrettable.
i-68c2a668d0eebeb4-539	Madam President, I would like I wonder whether Gudrun Brunegård does not want to admit that there are different views on the issue of the river valley. That's the picture I've got. I do not think that a debate article, no matter how many people have signed it, can be an argument against this being the case. There are a number of other dialects and people's goals that could also meet these requirements, if one were to highlight only the river valley. And so we cannot deal with this issue. I would also like to comment on the report of the Committee of Experts of the Council of Europe. Sweden is asked to report on the river valley as if it were a language corresponding to the second part of the Charter. This is not an official recommendation; it is an assessment when it comes to reporting. The Council of Europe is asking a Member State to report on a language that is not recognised. Norway has also ended up in this situation. However, Norway has also chosen to report only on the languages covered by its ratification. Having said that, I would like to say that I am, of course, following the state of research on this issue. I think the conservation, use and development of the river valley is interesting and important. I think that the whole commitment to the river valley is a good example of how the common cultural heritage, including the local one, actually concerns us all. Then there is the question of the status of the river valley somewhere at the intersection between minority policy, language policy and cultural heritage policy. And it is clear that I and the government are constantly considering the need for change. Although the government has not seen any reason to change the assessment when it comes to the river valley in relation to the Council of Europe's language charter, we all therefore seem to agree on the goal that the river valley can live on and also be preserved for future generations.
i-68c2a668d0eebeb4-544	Madam President, I would like Jonas Andersson i Linghem has asked me what initiatives I take to ensure that the government's efforts regarding the democracy anniversary in question and the government's policies in general do not contribute to the benefit of Islamic social actors who falsely claim to have a democratic agenda. Let me begin by stating that the government is taking the challenge of violent extremism and other anti-democratic manifestations very seriously. Public funds shall only be allocated to organisations and activities that act in accordance with the fundamental democratic values of society, as formulated in the Constitution and in the international conventions on human rights. In view of this, work is also under way to ensure that government grants to civil society organisations are based on democratic values. In 2018, the Council set up an investigation to review the democratic conditions and how they are applied. The Government intends to come back during its term of office with proposals for a new clarified, legally secure and uniform democracy conditions for the state grant. Madam President, I would like As far as the government's attention to the 100th anniversary of democracy is concerned, a special committee, Democracy 100 years, has been set up. The Committee's task is to carry out a collection of actions and activities for a strong democracy and to carry out a wide range of activities throughout the country. One of these activities is Declaration for a strong democracy that Jonas Andersson in Linghem addresses in his question. The Declaration of Democracy from the Committee Democracy 100 years has been signed by some 170 authorities, municipalities, regions, organisations, associations, foundations and companies that thus support a number of important democratic aspirations and principles. United Islamic Associations in Sweden, FIFS, which is one of the signatories, is a national organization for 52 Muslim parishes around Sweden. FIFS was founded in 1974 and is a state-subsidised organisation. All the signatories to the Declaration stand for the equal value of people, fundamental rights and freedoms and the rule of law and reject discrimination, extremism, xenophobia, corruption and racism. Furthermore, all the signatories to the declaration commit themselves to contributing to the strength of democracy by promoting a good knowledge and awareness of the democratic system, working to ensure that more people participate actively and stand up for democracy, and contributing to a climate of dialogue characterised by openness and respect. Madam President, I would like Signing the Declaration of Democracy should be seen as a voluntary commitment by the respective actors. The declaration is not a legally binding agreement and there is no specific funding or financial support linked to the signature. Against this background, I do not believe that signing the Declaration of the Committee on Democracy contributes to legitimising Islamism or any other political orientation.
i-68c2a668d0eebeb4-550	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to thank Amanda Lind for her answer to the interpellation. We note that this year it is 100 years since both men and women were able to vote in parliamentary elections for the first time. It is a historical and significant event in Swedish history in every way. The fact that this is being addressed in different ways in the country is in order. The Parliament is paying attention to this, and the government is paying attention to it. I therefore see it fundamentally as perfectly reasonable that the government has made various efforts on the occasion of the democratic anniversary. The Committee for Democracy has been appointed 100 years to plan, coordinate and implement efforts to strengthen democracy in 2018 – 2021. As Amanda Lind mentioned, under the heading "Our Democracy" – worth protecting every day, efforts have been made in this area. This includes getting various social actors to sign a kind of declaration for a strong democracy, in which signatories subscribe to a number of values linked to a strong democracy. Actors who have signed are then highlighted on a website that has the Government Office as sender. Madam President, I would like This could be uncontroversial so far. But as the news channel Riks has reported, one of the actors highlighted on the website is an organisation that has links to Islamism. It is about the United Islamic Associations in Sweden and, above all, its President. The chairman and his association, which is highlighted on the website, which the Government Office is behind, have links to Islamism. This has SVT News Stockholm reported quite properly a number of years ago, specifically in May 2016. It is a question of the President having paid tribute to Turkey's President, Mr Erdo中an. It is about the President working for the Freedom and Justice Party in Egypt, a type of Islamic party with links to the Muslim Brotherhood. It is also a question of the President expressing approval for Islamism in general and the Muslim Brotherhood in particular. He has been captured in pictures with different Islamic symbols and so on. The same organisation and chairman are now highlighted on a website that the Government Office is behind. I find it extremely remarkable that the government's democratic policy leads to this. When we celebrate Swedish democracy, there will be Islamists. I find it equally remarkable that Amanda Lind is taking this lightly. I have asked the Minister a written question on the same subject. It was then said that the signing could probably be seen as something positive. I therefore wonder whether Amanda Lind does not see a risk of Islamic actors exploiting this naivety from public Sweden – that there is a chance here to legitimise themselves by appearing in these contexts with the Government Office as the sender.
i-68c2a668d0eebeb4-559	Madam President, I would like As I stressed in my interpellation response, the government takes the challenge from both violent extremism and various anti-democratic manifestations very seriously, whether this comes from Islamic environments, right-wing environments or certain left-wing environments. In the Government's democracy strategy, we highlight anti-democratic actors as one of three serious challenges to Swedish democracy today. Then I would like to emphasise that I do not think it appropriate to discuss individuals and what they might or might not have done in an interpellation debate and for me as a minister. I would also like to point out that the general principle of the state's contribution to civil society organisations, including religious communities, is that expert authorities are responsible for examining whether an applicant organisation fulfils the conditions for the respective support. In the case of State aid to religious communities, the Authority for Support to Faith Communities is responsible for the examination. One of the criteria is that the community of faith should contribute to upholding and strengthening the fundamental values of society. The activities of the United Islamic Associations in Sweden have thus been assessed by the Authority to meet this requirement. It is the organisation that has since also signed the Declaration of Democracy from the Committee on Democracy 100 years. Madam President, I would like Having said that, as Minister for Democracy, I am concerned that anti-democratic actors are moving forward their positions in Sweden and many other countries. These actors or environments use various forms of repressive practices, net hatred, misinformation, propaganda, violence and threats of violence to intimidate or silence people in various ways and to subject them to their extremist ideologies. The extreme rhetoric of these groups helps to shift the debate and normalise intolerance and extremism in public conversation. Madam President, I would like In the past, I have touched upon the important principle that public funding should only go to organisations and activities that meet the fundamental democratic values of society in accordance with both the Constitution and the international conventions on human rights. It is precisely for this reason that the Government set up an investigation in 2018 to review the conditions for democracy in connection with the grant. According to the additional mission we gave some time ago, the Special Investigator will also analyse whether there should be a support function for in-depth reviews of whether organisations meet the conditions of democracy. It is my intention and the Government's intention to come back before the end of the term of office with a proposal for a new democracy condition for state grants. Madam President, I would like The important democracy anniversary, which Jonas Andersson highlights, includes various important elements. The Declaration of Democracy is one thing – it is about getting a broad commitment to democracy-enhancing efforts from civil society, organisations and companies. Another important part of the long-term preventive work against different types of anti-democratic actors is to strengthen the knowledge and ability of the population for active citizenship. Here the government has reached an agreement with SKR that means that we will strengthen the work at the municipal and regional level to increase the knowledge of the population about the democratic governance and its principles. This is particularly important for people and groups who are far from democracy today.
i-68c2a668d0eebeb4-565	Madam President, I would like I thank Amanda Lind for her answer. It is about an organisation being highlighted on a website that the Government Office is behind with name and image in a context that is presented as very positive and important for Sweden and for our democracy, namely that we celebrate 100 years of democracy. In addition, various demands have been made for the declaration of democracy to be signed. Of course, this is not something that is neutrally charged, but I think Amanda Lind's interpellation response gave the impression that it is quite neutral. On the contrary, I believe that this helps to strengthen and legitimise the players involved and given space on the website through the Committee's work in this case. In fact, I find it rather remarkable that Amanda Lind cannot admit that there is a problem in this. This isn't neutral. It is in a very positive context that this actor is highlighted. I believe that the work of the government and the committee, which has led to this Islamic accident, is more of a disgrace to Sweden and Swedish democracy. This is embarrassing. We cannot celebrate Swedish democracy with Islamists. In her interpellation reply, Amanda Lind also mentioned that this is a state-granted organisation. She repeated this in her second speech. The way I see it, it only makes the problem bigger. Then we have an organisation with links to Islamism that also receives state subsidies. I believe that it does nothing better, but rather worse. Madam President, I would like A particularly remarkable detail in this accident, as I see it, concerns the Youth and Civil Society Authority, the MUCF. When MUCF 2018 decided to reject Sweden's Young Muslims' application for a state grant, they used statements from the person concerned who is chairman of the United Islamic Associations in Sweden to point out that Sweden's Young Muslims had violated democracy's ideas. That was the basis for that decision. We now see, then, that instead the same person is being highlighted when celebrating democracy after another authority has said that this is a violation of democracy. Could it be clearer than that the government's policy implies a dual message and inconsistency about Islamism? Does Amanda Lind not see that there is a problem here and that it can undermine democracy?
i-68c2a668d0eebeb4-571	I would like to remind the honourable Member that individuals who do not participate in the debate should not be the subject of debate in this House.
i-68c2a668d0eebeb4-572	Madam President, I would like I, too, can stress – again – that I do not think it appropriate to discuss individuals and what they may have done and have not done in an interpellation debate in the Swedish Parliament. I would also like to emphasise that I do not see it as my role as a minister of state to go into individual assessments of which organisations should be eligible for state grants or of which organisations an independent committee should choose to offer to sign a declaration. I do not consider that to be my role as Minister of State, and I would like to ask whether Jonas Andersson means that I should do so. What I chose to highlight in my second speech was how the government and I take the issue of anti-democratic and extremist environments very seriously. After all, our entire work to review the conditions of democracy is aimed at securing democratic civil society and its legitimacy and opportunities to operate. These are civil society organisations, religious communities, study associations and other parts of our civil society. That process is under way now. We have received the proposals from the investigations on what a developed and long-term democracy condition should look like. We also now have work to do to deal with the issues of confidentiality, so that it is possible to apply the democracy condition in practice. In addition, we have taken the views of Säpo to take the opportunity to also investigate the issue of a special strengthened competence function; it may be a question of difficult assessments when decisions are to be taken by authorities or by contributing organisations in place of the authorities. I am very keen that these decisions can be taken professionally on the basis of the knowledge needed and on the basis of a democracy condition that supports the authorities in making the decisions. The government has in various ways strengthened the authorities' competence and knowledge by providing more support to carry out audits of the contributions it has distributed and by supporting in different ways. I would like to emphasise once again to the House that this is a very important piece of work. It's not something I take lightly. I do not take lightly different types of extremist environments that take place in social media and try to exert pressure through threats in different ways. I also do not take lightly how you want to influence individuals in your environment. Here it is very important that we continue the democratic strengthening work to strengthen every person in Sweden. It is about every person's opportunity to be an active part of our democracy and make his voice heard on election day but also between elections. Work on media and information literacy is also extremely important in this context. It is about being able to exercise both source criticism and trust in which sources are credible or not. Madam President, I would like The strengthening of democracy is extremely important. Whatever the anti-democratic and extremist threat comes from, it is something that we in the Swedish Government and here in Parliament must continue to fight vigorously. Having said that, Madam President, it is not my role as Minister to examine individual cases on which different authorities decide. We shall also be too good to raise individuals in the debate in this House.
i-68c2a668d0eebeb4-581	Madam President, I would like It is important to put the question in the interpellation in a context. It's not about any individual cases, Amanda Lind. There are now very many individual cases in your policy. There is a common thread in government policy where, unfortunately, Islamism is a recurring theme all the time. I'm afraid I have to say that, because that's the way it is. It is a state grant for folkbildning that continues to go to the Islamist study association Ibn Rushd through the Folkbildningsrådet. It is authorities like the Swedish Media Council that cooperates with Islamist Ibn Rushd in terms of media and information literacy in Swedish society. It is the promotion of Islamist actors in an important Swedish democracy anniversary, as in the case we are discussing now. All of this strengthens and legitimises Islamic forces in several ranks. It's a pattern. At the same time, Amanda Lind and the government are now repeating that they are working to develop new sharper democracy conditions when state grants are to be awarded to civil society organisations. Then I wonder, and I think many people out there are doing it: how can anyone believe that the government succeeds in introducing new, sharper conditions of democracy with any effect in practice when at the same time you cannot even celebrate 100 years of Swedish democracy without getting Islamists involved?
i-68c2a668d0eebeb4-585	Madam President, I would like Let me remind you once again that the religion that Jonas Andersson questions is a state-granted organisation. This means that the government's expert authority is judged, among other things, to meet the requirement to contribute to maintaining and strengthening the fundamental values of society. Here I have great confidence that state authorities both carry out their tasks in an objective and correct manner and that they also take responsibility for the fact that, if the facts change, they also reconsider their assessments. Madam President, I would like Here I want to be clear. Should it turn out that any actor has signed the declaration while at the same time violating in its activities the principles that it has endorsed – people's equal value, fundamental rights, the principles of the rule of law, etc. – I am the first to think that it must of course be highlighted in the light. I would also like to remind you that signing the Declaration of Democracy is a voluntary commitment by the respective actors. The declaration is a legally binding agreement. There is no specific funding or financial support linked to the signature. Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Jonas Andersson for an interesting debate. Although Swedish democracy faces challenges that we work to meet in different ways, it is fundamentally strong. One of the strengths of our democracy is precisely our far-reaching freedom of expression. Here I think that Jonas Andersson, through his interpellation, has put his finger on the important issue that the state must show that it stands up for democratic principles and also communicates it clearly towards the surrounding society. Then, in this debate, I have given many examples of the efforts made by the government to strengthen knowledge of democratic governance, to ensure a clear democratic condition and also our work to combat various forms of violent extremism and hate crime. It's very important. It is also my strong hope to have broad support here in Parliament to continue this work.
i-68c2a668d0eebeb4-592	Madam President, I would like Mikael Strandman has asked me whether I believe there is a risk that newspapers that are critical of power and the prevailing discourse in society will become more moderate in their scrutiny and in their criticism for fear of being denied media support. Furthermore, he has asked me why the government has now introduced a subjective criterion for obtaining media support instead of previous quantitative assessments. It is a broad political agreement that underpins the purpose of media support. Media support will strengthen democracy by promoting public access to independent news media throughout the country. This is done through a variety of public news media with high quality editorial content. The aim has remained unchanged since the introduction of media support with broad parliamentary support in 2019. The ambition has been and is that media support should be allocated according to criteria that are objective. However, in a changing and largely digital media landscape, it is associated with difficult trade-offs. Some measurement points used in the pre-selection support based on pre-selected paper magazines are not adapted to the new media landscape. For support to be provided to a wide range of news media, regardless of media law and form of dissemination, other boundaries are therefore required. It is the Media Support Board at the Swedish Agency for Press, Radio and Television that examines questions about media support. The Authority has made the assessment that there is a need for regulations to develop transparently the grounds for assessing and prioritising applications for media support that are not rights-based. The authority has made decisions on regulations after the work on the regulations has been carried out in an open process. The Government has already announced that we will follow the development of press and media support to ensure that the support is effective and effective. It is also appropriate to analyse the impact of the Agency's new regulations and whether the regulations on which the press and media support is based are designed in the best possible way to contribute to long-term and predictable conditions.
i-68c2a668d0eebeb4-597	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answers! I would like to ask the Minister a question. All referrals – from far to the left, far to the right, in the middle, and up and down, everywhere – have been very big opponents of this. The reason for that is that here you cross a red line. We abandon the intentions we have in our constitutions regarding freedom of the press and freedom of expression and want to allow the state, via an authority that is under the government and whose Director-General is appointed by the government, to examine in detail what the media write about, including the criterion that there should be a high quality of the publicist content in order to benefit from media support. The Minister said here that some measuring points used in the press support are based on the conditions of subscribed paper magazines and are not adapted to the new media landscape. For support to be provided to a wide range of news media regardless of media law and form of dissemination, other boundaries are therefore required. When you think that you have to have some other parameters, why have you not stuck to it being quantitative, objective, parameters? These are the types of publishing frequency, how many viewers and readers it has, how much editorial content it has. Why has it been necessary to go in and introduce a subjective criterion? That is when it passes the red line and departs from what is the intentions of our constitutions and as it was before.
i-68c2a668d0eebeb4-603	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Mikael Strandman for bringing the matter back to the Chamber. It is a very important issue, it is important in principle, and it is also difficult. I hope that we can have some sort of basic consistent understanding here that this is the way it is. When the Authority decided entirely on its own to go forward with this process of new regulations, it was because it saw a need to clarify the criteria that exist and the purpose that exists. The current funds available were not sufficient to meet the need and all the requests from the press. This applies to both white spot support, innovation support and now, perhaps above all, what we created during the crisis – editorial support, which should go to a wide range of media. The rights-based pre-support is, as Mikael Strandman knows, based on edition. It has been very easy to measure and count on. I think we should realise when we look at this broadly that since the media sector has now changed and exists digitally, the thresholds for different actors to take initiatives in different ways within News Sweden are also lowered. I think that is fundamentally very positive. We need more professional, quality journalism for more people throughout the country. But we must also realise that, when these thresholds are lowered, it also means that we have a large number of new players who may be seeking support. It has been difficult to find rights-based components based on media support in the form of white spots, innovation support and editorial support. There are already a number of criteria in the Media Support Regulation that are of this nature. For example, it is a matter of meeting certain conditions regarding the proportion of editorial content and self-produced news coverage. You should be published regularly or have a good user base if you do not have that type of subscription service. There are also wordings to follow good media ethics. It is the Authority itself that has found it necessary to develop additional criteria in order to make a priority in all the applications that were submitted. The government's regulation and the purpose of media support have been based on: strengthening democracy by promoting public access to independent news media throughout the country via a variety of public news media with high quality editorial content. This was something that we agreed on widely in this House in 2019. It is a reasonable purpose of state media support that this is what we want to promote. Having said that, I think it was good that the process was made transparent. I welcome, and I welcomed, the debate that was taking place, and I also share the key points of the debate. It is, of course, desirable that we can find criteria that are objective. Now the authority has assessed at this stage that these regulations needed to be put in place. The authority has that freedom. But I can repeat what I say in my reply: we have announced that we will follow the development of press and media support. Parts of it have played, or are about to play, out as everything goes more and more from paper to digital. In this work, there is also a need to analyse the effects of the regulations and also the regulations that form the basis for press and media support and to see if there is a need to make adjustments.
i-68c2a668d0eebeb4-610	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answers! However, I am a little confused, because when you read the referrals from TU, the Publicist Club and others, you can see that they say that the Swedish Agency for Press, Radio and Television has misunderstood the quality requirement. It is not about the publicist content in terms of opinion and what the media write about, it is about that there is a sufficient proportion of editorial content, that there are enough journalists on the editorial board and such things. The referral bodies thus argue that the authority has misunderstood the regulations, while the authority says that they comply with the regulations that have come from the government that it should be a qualitative element in the assessment of whether it is misinformation or misleading about science. I would like an answer from the Minister: which one is right? Does the Minister want it to be an assessment criterion that a newspaper or medium of any kind has an element of something that the authority believes is spreading misinformation or misleading about science? Or has TU, the Publicist Club, with several rights in the authority's misconception of its mission? When it comes to misleading science or spreading disinformation, what is disinformation today can be information tomorrow or in a year's time. The same is true of misleading science. Science is not fixed; it is constantly changing. A year ago, MSB went out and said it was conspiracy theories to claim that the covid-19 virus would have arisen in a lab and spread from there. Probably it could have been a reason, or at least a sub-reason, for the Authority to deny a medium support because it then misled around established science. Today, this is one of the theories you have: that the virus actually comes from a lab. Last night, I think it was, I read that Tomas Tobé from the Moderates wrote in Expressen that this really is something you have to look at. And there are lots of such cases. Many scientific discoveries have been very controversial from the outset. This is about Galilei, who claimed that the earth is not at all the center of the universe but that it is the sun. He was banished by the Catholic Church until the 19th century. Einstein's Einstein of relativity was entirely groundbreaking in the 20th century when he departed from the mechanics of Newton solid bodies and claimed that the mutual greatness was interdependent. Many people thought it was pure madness, but today we know that it is right. This is what is so dangerous about having a government authority that, according to what is currently in force, should go in and check what is misinformation or misleading about science. We don't always know that until the future. Again: I do not really buy that there are no other, objective and quantitative criteria even in a digital media landscape. There is, for example, a release frequency. You can look at how many page views are taking place, that is, how big the medium is and how many people read it. You also get an impact on what people think is important news if you use these quantitative criteria for the media instead of letting a media support board sit and use subjective assessments of what they think today is a qualitative writing.
i-68c2a668d0eebeb4-619	Madam President, I would like I would like to start again by saying exactly what I said in my introduction. This is a very important fundamental discussion to conduct, and these are not simple questions. I concluded my last speech by saying that I also think these are issues that we will have to follow up and that I see as reasonable to follow up to see whether the media support regulation is properly adapted. However, I think that Mikael Strandman underestimates the challenge of the situation. When you want to have a large printing press and get paper magazines to subscribers in large quantities, as it was before, it is clear that it sets up quite high thresholds for those who want to start a newspaper. But we have seen new start-ups in the last hundred years, of which a great deal has also come into the pre-support system, which is a rights-based system. Translating this directly to the digital environment is not easy. There are a number of criteria that are objective straight off. Our authority has then assessed that the criteria have not been sufficient when it comes to prioritising among the applications that have come in or that they can directly form the basis of a rights-based system. That is also why it took the opportunity of an authority to issue regulations. I want to make it clear that it is the authority that has this opportunity. It is not the government that has neither demanded nor wanted this, but this is an opportunity that an authority has based on the wording that exists about the purpose of media support. There are wordings linked to the fact that the purpose of media support is to promote public access to independent news media throughout the country via a variety of public news media with high quality editorial content. I have also taken note of the referrals of the newspaper publishers, and, as I said last time, I share the principal entrances here. It would be very desirable to have a media support system based as much as possible on objective criteria. Madam President, I would like I see this debate as being in the middle of this intersection, where very much of our traditional consumption of news media via a paper magazine is now in a phase of change. This also means that the government and state support systems for independent news media throughout the country need to be adjusted. That is why we have presented a string of pearls of different kinds of reforms in recent years. In 2019 we added the new media support. That was when this purpose came about so that we could get the white stain support, which is so important to plug the gaps in local news that unfortunately still exist in our country. It was very good that we had it in place now during the pandemic, because it meant that we could quite easily set up editorial support and thus support a wide variety of media, both paper magazines and digital newspapers. However, there is still no rights component in media support. I think we need to keep looking at this issue. I share Mikael Strandman's basic view that we should have a press and media support system that is as predictable as possible and has as objective criteria as possible. It also has to work in a digital environment, because that's where a lot of readers are. Here I have said that we will continue to follow the development of press and media support and analyse the need for adjustments. As I said, we have already done several things. In this work, it is natural to also look at the issue of the regulation and analyse the outcome of the regulations.
i-68c2a668d0eebeb4-629	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for her reply. But does the Minister understand the danger of building such things into a system, that of having a government authority under the government test the media for truth? Actually, it's bizarre. After all, it is the media that are to review the state, not the state that is to review the media. Of course, it may not be as easy to measure digital media as paper media. I agree. I myself have worked on both Newspaper Statistics and Sifo Media and know how to measure media. But just because it is not as simple is not a reason to pass this red line and add a subjective criterion for what the media should write about in terms of content. What you could have done is spend more time looking at this. There will certainly be more applications than there are funds for. But then it becomes even more important that there are no subjective criteria that create an imbalance, so that a certain type of media should be supported because they write something that might fit power better. It is an extremely dangerous road. The Minister and the government talk very often about developments in Hungary and Poland, but you are going in that direction yourself when you do this. Lukasjenko would think this was great, including North Korea and the ayatollahs in Iran. I'm sure they have a system like this with an authority to test the truth of their media. I don't think we should go that way. I also think that the Minister should have listened more to the consultation bodies. If all these instances from right to left warn in this way, it should be an alarm clock. Nevertheless, the government has the ultimate responsibility and can actually govern its authorities when they cross such an important border in the way they have done.
i-68c2a668d0eebeb4-634	Madam President, I would like I must say that I am a little surprised by the tone of the honourable Member. I think that in my speeches I have tried to highlight the substance of the situation, the possibilities of an authority and that, in a broad political agreement here in Parliament, we adopted the purpose of media support in 2019 and then also gave the agency the opportunity to issue regulations. The process of regulations has taken place openly, in broad debate, which I have welcomed. The authority has adjusted the regulations some after the input received. I have also said here in the speaker's chair that I attach great importance to the points of principle that have been highlighted in the debate. Mikael Strandman completely avoids touching the complexity of the issue. Of course, it's not just about measuring how many people have clicked on a news site or not. Here we need to analyse which criteria are possible and which are sufficient to also form the basis for a priority. Again: We need to work for a diversity of strong, independent media throughout the country. It is something that I have been fully possessed of as Minister for Democracy since the day I took office. We have launched a series of reforms to reduce digital VAT and to protect the paper paper. We have introduced new editorial support and supported the media during the pandemic. It's saved a lot of journalistic jobs. Now we are in a very important phase of evaluating the press and media support we have. I have announced in the past that I see it as perfectly natural that we will have to continue making adjustments. Here I will remain active. After all, the Swedish democrats want to cut back the carpet for pre-financing by cutting the budget. I don't think that's the right way if you want to support the media in a serious way, as Mikael Strandman thinks we should. I look forward to further discussions on this. Then I hope we can keep the discussion factual.
