i-a48147b23dac5e79-4	Mr President, I would like to The last weekend's media reporting came to be dominated by another young man being shot to death. This time it was the famous raspartist Einár whose life was extinguished too early. It is perfectly understandable that this murder came to great attention. At the same time, it is with sadness that I note that we have had to get used to this type of murder. Only this year, more than 40 people have been shot to death in Sweden. Since 2018, it is about 170 people. In addition, 460 people have been injured in shootings since 2018. The shootings have become so common that what had previously filled the handbills today often becomes no more than one item in the newspaper. Mr President, I would like to Gun violence affects the entire community. When a gunshot echoes between the house bodies, fear spreads throughout the district. But it is also more common for completely outsiders to be directly affected. We all remember several tragic examples of this. The shootings and violence need to be brought to an end, and a wide range of measures are needed to better prevent, prevent, investigate and prosecute these crimes. One of the most central elements to prevent and prevent gun violence is to remove the firearms from our streets. It is against this background that the Moderates have been proposing for several years that the police should be given the opportunity, following a decision by the prosecutor, to establish search zones where the police are temporarily and in a limited area given increased powers to search for, for example, weapons and hand grenades on people and in vehicles. We have also been proposing for a long time that the police should be given increased powers to search the premises in so-called residences, even where they are a dwelling. The report we are now debating deals with the Government's proposal for new rules on searches for weapons and other dangerous objects. The bill proposes that the police be given a new power to search for weapons or other dangerous objects in common areas in or adjacent to apartment buildings for crime prevention purposes. For example, these can be shared laundry rooms and staircases. It is a welcome proposal that we, on the part of the Moderates, support. However, we believe that there are strong reasons to take further steps to enable the police to look to a greater extent for weapons. From experience, we know that criminals adapt their actions to the rules in force. It is therefore likely that when the police are given increased opportunities to search the premises in common areas, criminals will instead choose to hide weapons in other places in or in connection with multi-family buildings where police powers are weaker. Correspondingly, we have seen that the police have been given increased powers to search vehicles for crime prevention purposes. It is well known that individual apartment stores are used by criminals to hide weapons, narcotics or stolen goods. It is also common for other tenants' stores to be used, simply hijacked, by criminals. We Moderates have therefore proposed that the government investigate the issue of giving the police increased powers to conduct searches in individual apartment stores. It is therefore gratifying to see that it is a united committee that supports the motion in the moderate follow-up motion to investigate this issue. We also reiterate our demand that the possibility that the police had previously had to conduct searches in known criminal settings, so-called detentions, should also be reintroduced. I would therefore like to ask for the approval of reservation 2. Finally, we also note that in reservation 1, the Liberals raise an interesting question regarding the limitations contained in the Government's legislative proposal, which means that a policeman may only examine staircases, washrooms, garages, etc. in urgent cases without prior decision by the Police or the Security Service. We agree with the fears raised by the Liberals, but we also note that the motion is worded in such a way that further preparatory measures would be required for decisions and therefore urgent legislation would be delayed. As we see it, there may be reason to come back to that issue later.
i-a48147b23dac5e79-15	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating the report by the Committee on Justice on new rules for searching for weapons and other dangerous objects. There is no need for deeper analysis to understand the direction in which social development is heading, and this has happened during the time that the government, with the support of the Alliance, has ruled. How could this happen? That question would have to be answered and analysed carefully by the government. Why, 30 years ago, were there no alienation areas of the kind we are seeing in Sweden today? Why was there no organised crime to talk about in Sweden 30 years ago? At the time, the Narcotics Department was looking for Sigge, and the police were chasing Kenta and Stoffe. It was actually at that level, and it was not at all very long ago. The Swedish police, the judiciary and, not least, the penalties are still adapted and dimensioned for that time. The government repeats repeatedly that there have never been more police officers than there are today. In fact, compared to then, there have never been fewer police officers in external service than today. Mr President, I would like to What is needed is a huge effort on the judiciary, where police officers are allowed to be police officers and civilians relieve the police administratively to a much greater extent than is happening today. There is a need for a much larger budget for the police and for stronger legislation. However, we cannot just give the police the financial means they need to carry out effective police work. We must also give them the legal support they are asking for in order to make their tasks more efficient. One of these legal support is to give the police the opportunity to conduct searches in housing for crime prevention purposes. Mr President, I would like to Today we have an announcement in committee to investigate the issue of giving the police the power to search for weapons and other dangerous objects in individual apartment stores for crime prevention purposes. That's good. But the Swedish Democrats want to take it one step further and also include housing. Searching the house is a coercive measure that involves major interference in the individual's private sphere. The rules for searches in housing are strict and should of course be so. However, in the light of developments that have taken place, in which the violence of criminals has escalated, it is important to review the rules on searches in order to curb serious organised crime. The government proposes extended search opportunities for crime prevention purposes. However, the Government is satisfied with the application of these rules in certain areas or in connection with residential blocks of flats. The Government also proposes a restriction whereby police officers may only investigate staircases, laundry rooms, garages and the like in urgent cases without a prior decision from the Police Authority or the Swedish Security Service. However, a policeman can already search cars and boats for crime prevention purposes without a prior decision under the Police Act 20. The government even admits that today's rules on searches in vehicles and boats have fallen well out and are widely used by the police, but the rules have lost their value as criminals adapt their activities to the legal status of the law. I may think it should be less privacy sensitive to search a stairwell than to search cars and boats. With reference to possible privacy restrictions, exceptions are also made for housing. The consequence of such a delimitation is predictable as criminals immediately adapt to the new situations. Mr President, I would like to The aim of the proposal is to enable the police to prevent the use of weapons and other dangerous objects in violent crimes. The police authority notes in its referral that the need also covers housing, if it can be assumed in the circumstances that such objects are found and can be confiscated. If the police authorities say explicitly that there is a need to be able to carry out this type of search, should the police not be given the right to investigate all the spaces, including housing, that can be attributed to these cases? If we are to bring about the change that society so badly needs in order to combat serious organised crime, we politicians need to start taking the needs of the Political Authority and other authorities seriously. One of these is to enable the police to search homes for crime prevention purposes even in housing. I request the approval of reservation 3.
i-a48147b23dac5e79-27	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish judiciary must be given the tools to face the escalation of organised crime. The problems are considerable, and developments have been going on for a long time. Despite recent successes in the fight against criminal networks in Gothenburg and Södertälje, the problems are growing. In particular, violence affects society as a whole. Serious organised crime brings suffering and great harm to both individuals and businesses and also to society as a whole. The increasing use of violence is currently one of the main problems associated with organised crime. Violence is increasing both in scale and severity. More people find it easier to resort to violence. It is also younger people who use severe violence. The higher the hierarchy a person is, the less violence he or she tends. This can be explained by the fact that it has already proved its capacity for violence in the criminal career. The police also assess that arming has increased, i.e. that criminals are increasingly using firearms. Organized criminal networks operate throughout the country. Organised crime is responsible for the majority of cross-border crime, including trafficking in human beings and drug trafficking. Giving the police increased powers to search for weapons and other dangerous objects is of great importance in stopping gang violence. Mr President, I would like to The Government proposes in the bill that the police be given a new power to search for weapons or other dangerous objects in common areas in or adjacent to apartment buildings for crime prevention purposes. It is a welcome proposal that we Christian Democrats support, but we also consider that there are strong reasons to take further steps to enable the police to look to a greater extent for weapons. The police need increased powers to control properties and vehicles linked to criminal activities without there being a reasonable suspicion of crime. Vehicle controls can be important in border zones, for example. In addition, personal controls can become important in so-called search zones, as the Christian Democrats have been advocating for years. Visiting zones are defined areas in which the police's right to stop and search persons is extended to include persons who are not suspected of crime. It is an interference in the privacy of the individual that can be felt as great, but which can sometimes have a direct effect on crime in the area. The fact that the police can use search zones has been shown to have a significant effect on certain crimes. It should not be a question of state-of-the-art powers that exist in other countries, but given the increasing criminality and its very violent nature, it is of great importance that the police should be given increased powers to search people and search vehicles and premises. Mr President, I would like to In our society, we see that criminals find ways to circumvent laws and rules to continue their activities. It can therefore be assumed that, despite the proposals made by the bill, criminals who provide the police with increased opportunities to search the premises common to the residents, will hide weapons and explosives in other places in or in connection with multi-family buildings. We are already seeing that private apartment stores are a place where weapons, drugs and stolen goods are hidden. It is also common for criminals to use other tenants' stores for their activities to make it harder for the police to find and stop this crime. This problem is obvious to the landlords, as shown in the consultation document that Sweden's Public Benefits have submitted. They propose to supplement the bill by considering giving the police the power to conduct searches even in private apartment stores. We Christian Democrats agree with this analysis, and so we want the government to be given the task of setting up an investigation aimed at empowering the police to search for weapons or other dangerous objects for crime prevention purposes even in private apartment stores. This mission, which implies a necessary addition to the proposed powers in the bill, has been proposed by both the Christian Democrats and the Moderates. I am pleased to note that the whole committee has supported the proposal. The government will therefore receive an announcement to include apartment stores in the areas that the police may search according to the conditions set out in the bill. Mr President, I would like to The rules for searching a dwelling are strict, and they should be, because the search is a coercive measure that involves major interference in the private sphere of the individual. In the light of the developments that we are receiving on a daily basis in the form of threats, violence and shootings, there is a need to review the rules on search of premises as regards the possibility of countering serious weapons offences related to organised crime or countering the risk of retaliation when they have occurred. The review must, of course, include a thorough analysis of legal certainty and consideration of the implications for the protection of privacy. Furthermore, consideration should be given to re-establishing the possibility that the police had in the past to conduct searches in already known criminal settings without there being a reasonable suspicion of crime. Today, the police know very well what gang conflicts are behind shootings and explosions. The Parliament has made an announcement to the government about increased possibilities for search in housing, but in view of the escalating gang-related violence, there is reason to highlight again the need for a higher priority for this work by the government. That is why we in the Christian Democrats support reservation 2. As I have said before, I support the proposal for a notice on this matter, and I call for the approval of reservation 2.
i-a48147b23dac5e79-40	Mr President, I would like to The rule of law is the most Swedish we have. The idea is that together we make laws that we should comply with, and if someone does not comply with the laws, it is the state with its officials that will ensure that justice is done. We have got away from clan society and other traditions where power and so-called justice are created in other ways. The rule of law is therefore the most Swedish we have. It is important here that it is clear what the state can do. On the other hand, we have criminal law, which determines how long people will pay for a crime they have committed and perhaps also protect society in general. On the one hand, we have the toolbox that we are talking about now: When, where, and how should government officials be allowed to intervene in, for example, the personal integrity of the President and of me? At our house, in our vehicles, in our staircases or wherever? In our boats? The fact that we are in such a disastrous situation as we are in Sweden today, where people are slaughtered on the open street and we are at the top of Europe, is a rather sad development. I would like to stress that every young person who loses his life in the current situation is a lost brother or sister. There's talk of innocents and not innocents. Every young person is a loss, and we in this House have a responsibility. But if we are to change this, it will take time. A huge effort is needed with more district police. It takes leisure leaders and adults in the city. It takes work and school, successful school. I see students sitting in the gallery, Mr President. I can tell those students there's a single vaccine. I hope you're vaccinated against covid, but there's one vaccine that we know works against misery, crime, mental ice age and boring, broken lives. It's full schooling. There is nothing else that is as important as this. Let's get to what we're going to talk about today. It is important to keep a cool head when the heart boils over with grief over the development, when we see people taking the right to kill, threaten and destroy lives by force. As I said, it affects the most vulnerable, even though it can affect everyone anywhere today. That is why the Liberals think it is a good thing that we are now making proposals to facilitate searches. When will the police check? We have a framework for body visas – some have been involved here – but that's a different set of rules. It's about the police being able to go in if there's any suspicion that I'm running around with a so-called cold, a Kalashnikov, or any other weapon in my bag. It's about body visas and my personal integrity. But if I have it in the car or in the boat, the police will have to check it. There must be some kind of basis for suspicion. The police can't discriminate. We are also talking about this in both the bill and the report – to ensure that people are not controlled on an unfair basis. But I usually say that if you now look like a drug dealer or murderer, you might think about whether to change that look if you are afraid to be controlled in the same way as people are controlled for other reasons if at the moment it is being searched for birdwatchers or librarians. What should we do with what is outside the dwelling? Bostaden is our castle ever since Magna Charta, in the tradition that we have partly taken to us also in Sweden. But now we're talking about access to stairwells. We're talking about garages. We're talking about common stores and laundry rooms. I have lived in a lot of apartment buildings through my life and very rarely viewed the laundry room as a private space. But we know that it hides both drugs and weapons and explosives. The Liberals propose in reservation 1 that the police should be given the opportunity to apply without higher decisions. We need to see what reality looks like. We don't have enough cops. They are out fighting and trying to keep our society safe, and so they meet people who are likely criminals. They judge that with good reason, but to know, they want to check. Are there weapons here? Then they have to call in and get a decision from the lowest officer in charge to check out a laundry room and look in a staircase. Have Members of this Parliament ever met a person who keeps something sensitive, something private, in the staircase? I've never actually done that. But apparently you have the ones sitting here. Liberals think we need to sharpen this. I would like to emphasise that this is just a small detail. It is a legal clause; we add 20 b as regards when the police will have the opportunity to apply. We mean we should have gone a little further. We need to give the police more tools. But it's a step along the way. Liberals are behind this. I have heard and take to heart the objection that the Moderates just raised that if we were to go on our line, reservation 1 from the Liberals, then we would have to send this to be pulled in the long line. Now it can enter into force at Christmastime and make it easier for the police to prevent further murdering and slaughtering. Mr President, I would like to The Liberals are in fact behind both reservations, but for time-winning and for efficiency in this step forward, I only call for reservation 2.
i-a48147b23dac5e79-52	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to support the proposal and reject the motions on the matter. I intended to briefly explain the matter itself, but it has been repeated here three or four times what it is about: that the police should have the opportunity to search for weapons in common spaces and the like – for crime prevention purposes, I would add. We Social Democrats feel that the proposal for a regulation has a good balance between the need for efficiency but also proportionality when it comes to privacy issues. That is the balance we have to make all the time. What characterizes a sloping plane is that it constantly slopes a little too far so that you eventually find yourself in a different place than you had thought from the beginning. This applies not least to privacy issues. Having said that, we believe that the proposal in the Government proposal is fully compatible with our beloved constitution but also with the conventions, not least the European Convention, which regulates this. But we also see that we in this House must be fast-footed. We see relatively often a changed mode. It is nothing new that criminals hide drugs, weapons and stolen goods near where they live and not in their own homes. But we also see that when a changed mode becomes clear to the police and to those who are working on it, then we have to change our rules. That is why we Social Democrats have supported the announcement to the government of wind and basement supplies. That is such a question. To be clear, we intend to do what is in our power to break the backs of gang crime. There should be no doubt about it. We intend to eliminate the factors that drive people into crime and misery. As our party leader candidate Magdalena Andersson said: We intend to turn all the stones around. This report is about such a stone. Now the police are getting long-awaited tools. When you come to the opposition with your proposal, we read it and take it into account, and in this case we also meet a little. Maybe we need more of this. It is not the case that announcements from this House have been rare during the last parliamentary term. But we must also show the political courage to sit down and really try to solve the biggest societal challenges. We have done this historically in our country in terms of energy, education and defence. There has been a consensus on foreign policy. What we now see tearing our society apart in the form of gang crime with shootings and murder is one such issue where cross-block agreements should be self-evident. This makes it even more important that the agreements that have been concluded are kept and that efforts are made to honour these agreements. Once upon a time, the political price for breaking them was very high, but in today's political climate it is many times like writing in water. I say this with sadness, because those who pay the price for it are the ones who need politics the most. They are the victims of the merciless violence, and they are the ones who have a lump in their stomachs of concern that you cannot feel safe in your residential area. We've added the resources. This year we have a draft budget in which virtually all parts of the legal chain get what they want. We've scaled up police training. We have good hopes of achieving 10,000 new police officers by 2024, a historic achievement. That may not be enough, but we have made an important effort to scale up the police part of the legal chain. We have delivered from this House an unprecedented number of penalties and adjustments to existing legislation, precisely to meet these needs. The government on the other side of the water has not sat still and only waited for initiatives from here. For example, the 34-point programme on gang crime and the 40-point programme on men's violence against women have shown that they are prepared to take a holistic approach to deal with some of these scourges that plague us. At the same time, however, we are seeing a great deal of crime – not all of it, but there is a black-painting and a gloom in this House which is obviously populist – decreasing and very much positive development. We have talked about this many times. But we see that it is painfully slow to push up police resources in the local areas. We are not satisfied there. This was one of the main reasons for the major reorganisation of the police. We see, for example, that the recruitment of police officers of foreign origin is far too small and too slow. This is a systematic problem for our police organization. We feel a great frustration that the drop-out activity may be of high quality, but in large parts of the country it does not include the numeral that we would have liked. We see that the open drug scenes that citizens actually expect us to be able to get rid of cannot be disrupted either. And we see, as several speakers have mentioned, the ever higher lunacy of unsolved murders and the great tragedy in this. We do not close our eyes, and we will continue to try to do what is necessary.
i-a48147b23dac5e79-69	Mr President, I would like to I have just a few reflections about Petter Löberg's contribution, which was broad– it tends to be so. We are talking about a little detail now, and I will come back to it, Mr President. Nevertheless, the broad picture deserves some discussion. I agree that the range of crime seems to be narrowing. It should be remembered, however, that many crimes committed are not reported. There is a reason why people don't report a lot of crime. Either you feel it's completely pointless or you risk being exposed to new crimes if you go to the police. But in general, I would say that when Mr Petter Löberg and I went to primary school, which was a while ago, we were more criminal than the students sitting in the gallery today – yes, perhaps not just you and me, but generally. Much has thus improved thanks to investments in schools, social services and sports and leisure activities. Parents also tend to be even more competent. So that's where I want to get you right, and I don't want to black out. But I was going to ask Petter Löberg how he wants to describe today's situation. What's his picture? Even if we are not going to black paint and much has improved, we are still the country in Europe where we shoot the most. I have to ask what conclusions Petter Löberg draws from this. Does he really think it's reasonable that the police have to call a boss to check if there's a kalahnikov, that is, a kalahnikov, in a stairwell?
i-a48147b23dac5e79-73	Mr President, I would like to All of a sudden, there was a little wonderful philosophical discussion of criminal policy here between the Liberals and the Social Democrats. We may need that sometimes. There is also a need for some perspective, not least historical. We must remember that a lot of crime has disappeared from the crime map. We don't have bank or post robbery anymore because of the changed situation; there's no cash to steal, simply. This was something that affected Sweden once every other day, with enormous traumas for those who were robbed – cashiers and others who worked in banking environments. It was a scourge that has disappeared. We also see that violent crime in public places has been drastically reduced. A person who's been beaten up... beaten down or kicked down in the city... may have been for life. This type of crime has been reduced, due, among other things, to changing behaviour in restaurant and outdoor life and to the fact that, unfortunately, young people are increasingly looking at their mobile phones and playing games. We see a changed mode. But we also very much see a common picture of problems. It is about the shootings and the problems of integration and exclusion that lead to an unequal society, which in turn has led us to have young men who see no future but to enter a criminal environment in order to gain respect, status and material benefits. That's where we're hard. We're gonna do whatever it takes to crack this. When we meet you, for example in the case of cellars and wind stores, it shows that we are going to turn all the stones around in that case too.
i-a48147b23dac5e79-78	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for that. It is reasonable for us to look at the question of supplies, on which the committee now agrees. But I'd like to come back to the fact that we're always taking little bits. Basically, we agree that there is a need for police officers to investigate. Petter Löberg was talking about the lunts of murder. I would say that at the moment it is about stacks of unsolved murders, reaching pyramid level. We get reports from the police union and from the police that you get on your knees and you can't take it. Once you have reached the halfway point of an investigation, a new shooting takes place, and you do not have time for these crimes in practice. And we are talking about the rule of law, the most Swedish Sweden has. The government claims to have made strong progress, which Petter Löberg undeniably supports. You see the ministers on TV. They're talking and talking and saying that we're going to come forward hard. So today we allow the police to go in and look in my car, my canoe or my Princess boat and look for weapons. You have to follow the Police Act, but you don't have to call a guard officer in an emergency situation to see if you can look in the car. It's just to look, if there's a foundation. What is the difference between my car, where Petter Löberg and the government today think it is just to look at, and a staircase or a common garage, where you first have to call and it requires bureaucracy, which will slow down and worsen the conditions for Swedish police to prevent murder? We're talking about weapons that are only meant to kill other people on the street.
i-a48147b23dac5e79-82	Mr President, I would like to Of course, we already have resources today if you think someone has a weapon in any of these stores. Then the police have the opportunity to go in-- that's not where the shoe squeezes. The problem is that the resources to search for weapons have not been available from the local area police. It is about the prevention of crime. I wish that instead of just talking about the repressive side, which we have to do, we also talked about making sure that the stacks of unsolved murders are not filled with new ones. This can only be done through crime prevention. We also know that the deterrent effect of high penalties has no bearing on the people who commit these kinds of acts. We must, as Johan Pehrson said earlier, make sure that we get resources for school and social services and ensure that the police work crime prevention and through dialogue, receive intelligence information and create trust in the areas so that people dare to testify. We will then be able to clear up a large part of the murders that are not cleared up today because intelligence is simply not fully provided. There are great challenges. I think we basically have a consensus on this. As for the two small steps we are taking today, my assessment is that there will be further. There is an announcement from last spring about this with housing, and it prepares the government in the near future. We must constantly make a case-by-case assessment. But when we talk about privacy issues, we need to take it easy. We must do everything with care and thoughtfulness, because the consequences of all the logical little decisions can ultimately be a society that we do not want. As a liberal, I'm sure you'll agree.
i-a48147b23dac5e79-88	Mr President, I would like to The security situation in Sweden in 2021 leaves much to be desired. Developments must be described as alarming when it comes to serious violent crime. We see this when it comes to violence in close relationships, and we see it when it comes to gun violence by criminal gangs. The concerns we all feel are justified. Confidence in the rule of law is rocking. In many places the vulnerability to crime is still quite low, but elsewhere it is all the more serious. With constant news of new shootings, blasts and other atrocities, insecurity creeps upon us. This concern can only be allayed by a real and lasting reversal of development: that those who ruthlessly shoot and shoot to kill are put behind bars and that communities plagued by this indefensible criminality must rebuild their security and strength. Mr President, I would like to It is not through the brass headlines that we solve the problems. There is no single proposal that can prevent it from being pushed. The fight against violence must be long-term and smart, with a large number of tools, the right resources, leadership and commitment. We need to take a number of steps towards a better world and towards a safer society. The proposal we are debating today is one such step. The police already have quite a lot of opportunities to do both searches on the street and searches in homes and on other surfaces when there are reasons for doing so. However, there has been a gap, a rather serious gap, which the criminals have used: common spaces, such as laundry rooms, stairwells and basements, have not been covered by the possibilities offered by police law. There, weapons, narcotics and other things have been stored. We'll change that now. However, one aspect that the government has missed is the one that we are now announcing with a united committee, namely that apartment stores must also be able to be searched for weapons and other dangerous objects. Mr President, I would like to Confidence in the rule of law and our law enforcement authorities is based on our confidence that the security of our streets can be secured, that guilty criminals are prosecuted and that ordinary honest people can live and operate freely without fear of being subjected to crime. Confidence in the rule of law and in our law enforcement authorities is also based on the fact that the law enforcement authorities act correctly and put their efforts where there is good reason to suspect crimes. The search of a dwelling is something that is severely intrusive. Strange people come into your home and turn it upside down. They turn inside out what you only share with your closest ones — your children's toy box, stuffed animals. It is therefore imperative that decisions on searches are taken in a legally secure manner. Even though searches in common spaces are not as interventional, it is nevertheless important that there is a proper review with a clear regulatory framework when there is good reason to suspect that weapons, for example, can be found. In cases of urgency, the police should of course be able to enter immediately. Unfortunately, the debate on legal policy is often somewhat simplified. One of the simplifications concerns the relationship between repression and law enforcement capabilities. It is true that many effective tools to combat crime threaten the integrity of the individual. However, it is not necessarily the case that all proposals that threaten privacy are automatically effective as law enforcement tools. When we develop new measures, they must be carefully weighed, and the consequences must be analysed so that we are sure that the measure has the desired effect. Sometimes this is misunderstood as being such an accuracy to give criminals a chance to escape responsibility, but it is actually exactly the opposite. It is a question of protecting innocent people from being wrongly accused, partly to protect the individual, of course, and partly to make it easier for a guilty person to escape if the police and prosecutors put time and effort on the wrong person. Mr President, I would like to The situation is so serious that we have to do everything right now. We cannot waste time working on legislative proposals which, after a little reflection, we can assume will have little effect on law enforcement capabilities. I hope that we can take on board the continuing important work for a better and safer Sweden for all. A proposal that has been mentioned here today concerns so-called search zones. It has been said that it is not a question of something that involves some sort of exceptional state. Then you might misunderstand what the search zones are. Visiting zones are an exceptional condition in which all are subject to a search or search. We are not just talking about people suspected of crimes, because they are already covered by the police's right to conduct searches. Those who want to introduce search zones must respond to what is not enough with the Police Act 19 and 20 §, which gives the police the opportunity to perform searches. If there are shortcomings there, we can adjust them. Visiting zones mean that just every vertebrae can be subjected to searches. We are talking about eighty-year-old ladies who have been buying new underwear. We're talking about ten-year-old boys who have their first love letter in their pocket and don't know if they should dare send it. This is what the search zones are. It could be reasonable to introduce it if we think it would have a good effect in terms of raising law enforcement capabilities. We do not know if that is the case, but it has been tried in some places in the world. It has been well researched in the United Kingdom and the United States, and it has been concluded that the increases in law enforcement capabilities are extremely small, if any, while the risks are very high. The search zones are to be introduced into areas where confidence in the rule of law is already weakened. With these kinds of measures, we risk digging the ditch deeper between the majority society and the local population. It's something that makes it even harder to get people to stand up and testify or even report crimes.
i-a48147b23dac5e79-107	I would remind you that this debate concerns rules on searches.
i-a48147b23dac5e79-108	Mr President, I would like to However, some other things were mentioned, so I am slightly stretching the freedom we have in this House to touch on other issues. This concerns the question of specific areas in which persons may be searched for a limited period of time. My good friend and colleague Johan Hedin from the Center Party takes an example with love letters from ten-year-olds. I don't really know if you, Johan Hedin, have been seeing cops lately and asking what they're looking for. This is not what they're looking for, I can tell you. But let me take another example. This may involve the police being informed that something serious is going on. The police have intelligence. Take what happened in Lund the other month, when two clans had gathered for a regular settlement. It was like a scene out of the Squid Game. They gathered there, and no one knows how much weapons, knives, guns, and other things they brought with them. If, for a limited period of time and in a limited area, the police had been allowed to search people, I would say that much would have been won. The risks to life would have been considerably less, and one person or another could have been locked up. That is the way to imagine it to be applied. That is also how it is applied in Denmark. It has the possibility to search people in a restricted area, for a limited period of time and on the decisions of prosecutors. There's no police officer in charge here. This is one way of preventing the murder, and it should also interest the Center Party.
i-a48147b23dac5e79-112	Johan Hedin, the Center Party, naturally receives a reply, but I would remind you that the debate concerns the current legislative proposal and not the search zones or other issues.
i-a48147b23dac5e79-113	Mr President, I would like to I'm sorry about the subject flight. One explanation, if not an excuse, is that search zones were mentioned in several speeches earlier. So I feel compelled to replicate. I will answer Johan Pehrson's most legitimate questions. The situation is very serious and I do not doubt the good intentions of this. The problem of search zones is mainly what international research shows that it has produced results in different parts of the world. It's not flattering. In addition, it is a measure that would take a long time to prepare and get in place. It is an advanced legislative product that does not solve problems here and now. As I said in my speech, it is urgent. We have to do everything right. We have to make it smart. Spending time and effort on investigating and getting in place a bill that I do not believe in and that international research does not believe in is poorly spent time for us legislators. Let us say that these problems exist, as they may certainly do. Would it not then, as a counter-question to Johan Pehrson, be much easier to adjust in the police law 19 and 20 so that you correct what Johan Pehrson does not think the police are able to do today? There's a question I'd like to ask you.
i-a48147b23dac5e79-118	Mr President, I would like to I would also like to apologise for leaving here, but these issues are very topical, and they still concern privacy. My main objection in my main speech was that my colleagues here, Mr President, really think that this is a major problem. The government does not come up with the idea in the bill, and we sit here and deal with the fact that one cannot view a stairwell in the same way as one looks at a car. For me, my car is more private. There I can have a lot of love letters and underwear lying down, and whatever it is that worries Johan Hedin. I just want to get back to the research. With regard to American history, not least the work in New York, much was about bringing down the murder. It's about being able to keep the guns out. Right now, we have an extremely serious weapons situation. That is today's subject, Mr President, but I would still like to respond to the second one that has now been raised. In Denmark, this is being applied with full force, and I know that there are a great many center parties who are happy to go to Denmark without feeling a greater risk of being subject to limited control in a limited area for a limited period of time.
i-a48147b23dac5e79-121	Mr President, I would like to For the sake of form, I would like to say that I like Denmark, the Danish people, Danish food and also Danish beer very much from time to time. But back to the subject. As I said, implementing such a proposal would take a long time. It would take a long time to get search zones in place, and it is time that we do not have to lose. We need to get started now and make an adjustment to the 19 and 20 sections of the Police Act if necessary. If, in Johan Pehrson's view, it is necessary, it would be a more appropriate measure to put in place. There are many things that can be said about searches both in housing and in common areas. It is clear that common spaces are a less integrity-depressing place for searching. That is what I said in my speech. The problem is that it hits many more people than the one who is actually suspected of crime. Maybe that's not a big problem. It may even be a great advantage for other residents if the police actually come and visit when a neighbor commits crime. But these means should be used with extreme caution. All the laws we make here are to be properly evaluated. We will see where they go, how they are used, what effect they have on law enforcement capabilities and possible negative consequences. If we see in the future that it needs to be adjusted in the law, we will do so just as we do with all other laws.
i-a48147b23dac5e79-125	Mr President, I would like to More proposals on search are needed. No one should be able to hide weapons in their homes, and the police must be able to investigate and obtain weapons, explosives and other illegalities. It is not strange, but the legislation must take into account privacy. However, the big challenge is to ensure that weapons do not enter Sweden at all. Because when weapons are hidden in the home, the risk is far too great that they will also be used. Therefore, more control at the Swedish border is needed to stop smuggling. It is smuggling of legal arms parts that are bought in large quantities in, for example, Slovakia and that are taken into Sweden, but it is also illegal arms parts and weapons. Both legal and illegal armaments are built together into well-functioning weapons sold to criminal networks. Criminal networks, as we know, are run by power, status and money. The money flow that provides the gangs with income comes from drug sales and weapons management. These are weapons that kill both gang members and completely innocent. That is why arms and drug trafficking must be stopped. Mr President, I would like to Between 2015 and 2019 nearly 500 shootings were carried out in the police region of Stockholm. There, 444 different weapons were used. Semi-automatic weapons are the most common. It is weapons that are built together from both legal and illegal arms parts and that are sold on e.g. the arknet but also by approved arms dealers that exist both in Europe and in Sweden. According to the Crime Prevention Council, criminal networks are working to take over geographical areas to control drug sales. Violence is used to keep competitors away and to recover debts. It creates insecurity for residents in residential areas and houses. Ordinary people are affected by the activities of criminal networks. The smuggling of drugs is what provides the networks with black money, which is crucial to having the often rather costly lifestyle. It's about cars and clocks. There is a plethora of expensive products sold to clearly shady businesses, and companies are used to launder the money. There are huge gaps to close here. Here we need action, because otherwise the political system pumps in a lot more police officers that are needed but will be without a chance when the weapons flow into Sweden at the same time. The courageous politician dares to stop the crimes before they are committed instead of building more prisons when it is already too late. However, if we in Parliament really want to help the police and be the courageous politicians who dare to stop the crimes, we need to put an extreme amount of more resources into preventing the crimes. We need a social service with resources and tools. We cannot have it that young people who are convicted of murder almost always have already been investigated by social services. We cannot have a society where we know which young people will become criminals and then do not have the resources to stop criminal development. The billion to be spent on more prison years for young people of upper secondary school age could just as well be used to employ 2 000 special educators and teachers in preschool, comprehensive school and upper secondary school. There's money. It's all about what you do with them. I want there to be more teachers in school. The Moderates want to build more prisons. I want to curb crime and reduce the risk of young people having failed schooling. As usual, the liberals want more grades and sort out young people already in preschool. We also hear from the Liberal in this debate that it is a good way to try not to look criminal, because otherwise you can be searched by the police. Is that what the Liberals see? I want all the kids in Sweden to have the same chances in life no matter who they are and where they come from. The Swedish Democrats live as usual in their fantasy world, where people born and living in Sweden should be able to be expelled a little anyway because they live in a vulnerable area. We also hear in the debate from the Swedish Democrats that they believe that organised crime did not exist 30 years ago. Information is that it was during the 1990s that the criminal motorcycle gangs started with their crime. Stick to the facts! Proposals for proposals come from both the government and the blue, but when weapons and drugs are already in the criminal networks, it is too late. It echoes very empty in the government's drawer when it comes to proposals that really stop recruitment to the criminal networks. I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved.
i-a48147b23dac5e79-137	Mr President, I would like to In recent years, the Government and the Riksdag have provided the police with increased funds as well as tools and powers to carry out their law enforcement mission. Today, we will stick through the fact that the police will be able to make searches in public areas in multi-residential buildings easier than today to access, for example, weapons and drugs. It is important that this work and this direction continue and that we adapt police powers to the situation in which the gangs that have moved forward their positions must be repressed. Mr President, I would like to The other day I was amused to read a chamber record from a special debate held here in Parliament almost ten years ago, in February 2012, due to the shootings that plagued Malmö. At the time Morgan Johansson was Chairman of the Committee on Justice, Beatrice Ask from the Moderates was Minister of Justice, Maria Ferm represented the Environment Party and Kent Ekeroth represented the Swedish Democrats. What is permanent today is that Johan Pehrson is still present, even if it was then in the People's Party. It's nice that there are institutions that last over time. Mr President, I would like to This was ten years ago– not very long ago– when there was a completely different debate and the legal issues were not on the agenda as they are today. We who lived in Malmö and in some other municipalities tried to get the government and parliament to see and understand the situation, but few listened. Minister of Justice Beatrice Ask certainly went to Malmö a couple of times and participated in the municipal board meeting and met Ilmar Reepalu in a debate in News, but very little happened. Malmö received no police training, which they so badly wanted from the alliance government. They needed to train more police officers in southern Sweden but got no. It didn't happen until after the turn of the government in 2014. This was a time when people were not arrested for serious gun crimes. The police arrested heavily armed in the streets and brought them in, but then they were released. We shall not even talk about preventive measures, Mr President. The rate of social assistance increased enormously in the years under the auspices of the Alliance, and the municipalities had to take over the cost when the state backed out of their responsibilities and cut heavily in health insurance and unemployment insurance. The 15-year-olds present in the criminal gang environments grew up in Reinfeldt, Billström, Sabunis and Johan Forssell Sweden. Mr President, I would like to But then we, who have been in charge for seven years now, don't we have a responsibility? Of course we do. Ten of the state budgets of the last fifteen years have certainly been bourgeois, but five of them have been red-green. We have made efforts, but we will have to do much more. There are more police powers, and both the police and other law enforcement authorities will have to be expanded. It will also require things that the right wing makes fun of and rallies over, such as the municipalities being active, using the environmental code to make supervision and see if premises are used for their purpose. These are things that are ridiculed but that will be important to develop and continue to work with. In addition, many more measures, not least social prevention, are needed. With this, Mr President, I support the committee's proposal.
i-a48147b23dac5e79-147	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 1. The report means that the assessment of the capacity to work after day 180 in the rehabilitation chain must be made against gainful employment in a defined occupational group which includes jobs that are normally present in the labour market. I see many challenges and difficulties in this. The concept of normal work was introduced into the legislation as early as 1997 as part of the so-called step-by-step model. The model meant that the assessment of the work capacity was gradually broadened from an assessment of the work capacity in relation to the insured person's existing work to an assessment towards a normal job in the labour market. In 2008, the step-by-step model was replaced by the so-called rehabilitation chain with fixed times for assessing work capacity against different labour markets. The concept of normal work was replaced by that of regular labour market work. This gave a fundamental principle for Swedish health insurance, that it is the ability to work after a period of sick leave that should be assessed against some form of broader labour market concept than the existing work. Mr President, I would like to I am concerned that the new assessment that we are debating here today risks causing the Social Insurance Agency, when dealing with a health insurance case, to refer flatly to the professional category with the highest level of tolerance. I cannot see in the proposal why this would be desirable or how it would be prevented by the report. Many referrals were extremely critical of this change. Among other things, the Administrative Court of Växjö expressed concerns that it will present difficulties in the application of the Swedish Social Insurance Agency and bring legal uncertainty to the insured person. I do not think it is possible to see from the legal text what the work capacity should be assessed against, but it will be the case officer who will have to decide which review framework should apply. This means that decisions will be difficult to predict when it is only once the Social Insurance Agency has decided that the insured person knows the conditions for his or her right to sickness benefit. It is also important in this context to remember that the labour market is changing. Health insurance is intended to protect income in the event of reduced working capacity, but it is not a specific insurance for a particular profession. It must also be borne in mind that the task of Försäkringskassan is not to match job seekers and employers. It is the Public Employment Service that has this task. If we are to manage to avoid long sick leave and ensure that people are given the opportunity to get back to work quickly after sick leave, the total support from both Försäkringskassan and Arbetsförmedlingen is extremely important. I think it is possible to develop this cooperation between the authorities, so that people do not fall between the chairs. I am convinced that early intervention, combined with a well-functioning cooperation for returning to work between the various actors in the rehabilitation chain, will enable us to reduce sick leave. The number of sick leave has varied considerably between the years, far more than what differences in health can explain. Research has shown that the regulatory framework plays a role in the development of sick leave, such as reimbursement levels. But also the degree of control and attitudes to sickness absence contributes to the variations that we see over time. I think it is important in this context to highlight the development of an increased number of rejections of sickness benefits that have taken place since the current government introduced a target for a reduction in the number of sick leave days. It is clear that the case set by the Government has affected the handling of sickness benefit matters by the Social Insurance Agency, as shown in a report from the Social Insurance Inspection. The responsibility for the recent increase in rejection thus rests very heavily on the government's leadership and governance. With this new legislation, there is a significant risk that people will again be left without sufficient support and assistance. The risk of long-term sick leave and the difficulty of getting back to work is increasing. It neither helps the sick person or contributes to a well-functioning and stable health insurance in the future.
i-a48147b23dac5e79-161	Mr President, I would like to We are debating today, as I said, the Social Security Committee's report 5, which deals with the government's proposal for a specified occupational group. We in the Swedish Democrats, together with the committee, support the Government's proposal for a law amending the Social Security Code. The proposal provides briefly for the assessment of the capacity to work after 180 days in the rehabilitation chain to be carried out against gainful employment in a defined occupational group that includes jobs that are normally present in the labour market. Mr President, I would like to How the concept of normal work should be interpreted and how it has been applied by Försäkringskassan has for several years been the subject of debate and criticism. The decisions have been perceived by many as unreasonably harsh and difficult to understand. In practice, it has meant that an assessment has been made that a person can take a hypothetical job, any one, even though doctors and Arbetsförmedlingen say that the person is too sick to work. It has also sometimes been estimated that a person could take a job where you can rest a lot and which does not involve stress and so on. On that basis, the person has since been insured. Mr President, I would like to Let me give you a few examples. In a documentary in Assignment review at SVT we could for example follow how Marie-Louise-Louise got the assessment of both doctors and Arbetsförmedlingen that she was too sick to work. She had severe stomach problems and vomited up almost everything she ate. She wondered what kind of job she would apply for and was advised by Försäkringskassan that she could take a job where it was close to the toilet where she could vomit. Mr President, I would like to In Aftonbladet we have been able to read about Cathrin who had severe epilepsy, and where both doctors and an investigation of occupational health care had assessed that it was out of the question for her to work full time. Adjustments were made, and it worked well for her to work part-time. Nevertheless, the Swedish Social Insurance Agency felt that it should be possible for her to work full-time. The stress of full-time, however, made Cathrin worse. A new doctor's certificate was made to allow her to go down part - time. But she was rejected. Stress increased again, and three months after she was rejected, she had a serious attack and died tragically enough. That is something I deeply regret. We have also been able to read about Charlotte Ljungmark who was referred to Arbetsförmedlingen for a normal work while she was in a ventilator. As Charlotte for obvious reasons was unable to register with the Employment Service, she was insured and also lost her sickness benefit-based income. We have read about several cases of ME-sickness, including Claudia, which could only be active for one hour a day but which were referred to normal work and were insured. Mr President, I would like to These are just a few examples in the series of decisions that are very difficult to understand and beyond all the reality of what is reasonable for a person who is seriously ill. Of course, the goal must always be for people to get help and rehabilitation and for those who can return to work – of course. We must not leave people alone in a long sick leave without measures. However, the problem has been that too strict government governance with the aim of reducing the number of people with sickness benefit, combined with an unclear regulatory framework and unclear legislation, left room for the Social Insurance Agency to make such interpretations where people have been able to refer to work that does not exist, despite the fact that both doctors and the Employment Service have certified that these people are too sick to be able to work. Mr President, I would like to Reports from the Swedish Social Security Inspection and the Swedish National Audit Office have criticised the lack of quality in the Swedish Social Insurance Agency's investigations that form the basis for the rejection decisions. The state investigation A safe health insurance with people at its centre has also made relevant criticisms about how the investigations have been conducted. The investigation highlighted, among other things, that 150 cases show that the decision-making justifications of the Social Insurance Agency when the insured person has been denied sickness benefit after 180 days are not transparent and that there is no support for the conclusions drawn on the insured person's ability to make a living on normal work. Often it is stated that the insured person can cope with a job that does not require certain abilities. For example, the decision states that the insured person should be able to take a job that does not place high demands on stress resistance, is not cognitively demanding and where you can rest a lot on the job. However, there is no support for the existence of normal jobs which do not make these demands or which offer these opportunities. Mr President, I would like to The investigation also observed that the Swedish Social Insurance Agency did not in any of the cases obtain evidence from the Swedish Public Employment Service. Only in one case has activity investigation been sought. The decisions examined have therefore been very inadequately substantiated. Another problem has also been that Försäkringskassan had not previously had to specify a job or a professional area in which the insured person can make a living. Mr President, I would like to In view of these major shortcomings in the assessments, it is therefore very welcome that the government is now proposing that the assessments should be made somewhat more realistic, concrete and legally secure by referring to a defined occupational group containing jobs that are normally present in the labour market. This is a proposal that we have been pushing for a long time since the investigation came, and we are behind the bill and will vote in favour of it today. Then, of course, there is much more that may need to be done to ensure the quality of the assessments made and for people to really get the rehabilitation that they need. We also see with some concern that the focus of the proposal is primarily on making the assessments more comprehensible. I do not think that the proposal sufficiently highlights the problem that in many cases assessments have been, in substance, problematic and too strict, causing great suffering to severely ill people. This needs to be changed in order for health insurance to become more predictable, safe and legally secure. I hope that this change of law will actually lead to that. We welcome the fact that the Government has commissioned Försäkringskassan and Arbetsförmedlingen to develop a common knowledge base for the authorities to approximate their assessments. Here we have had a very big problem with the Arbetsförmedlingen saying that this person is too sick to be able to work; we have no job to convey to this person-– at the same time as Försäkringskassan says that the person is fully fit for work. This can't go on. A lot of people have been squeezed between the assessments of two authorities. It is good that a common knowledge base should now be developed. This is very important in order to ensure legal certainty and confidence in the whole of social security. Mr President, I would like to Due to the lack of clarity that I still think is in the bill on whether the amendment of the law will really lead to more legally certain, more realistic and more reasonable assessments, we would like to ask the government to carry out a follow-up of the effects of the change one year after implementation, in order to evaluate whether further measures need to be taken to really achieve a more humane and safe health insurance. In view of this, I would like to support Amendment No 3, which states that we want to see this follow-up. Mr President, I would like to We also believe, like the Left Party, that the time for implementation is too far ahead. It is understandable that it may take some time to get everything in place, but I believe that the old guidelines and the old regulations do more damage than to allow too quickly a reference to a specified profession. It has also been clear for quite some time that there is a majority in favour of this proposal, so some preparatory work should have been started. We are therefore also in favour of reservation 2, but in order not to extend voting time, I only ask for reservation 3.
i-a48147b23dac5e79-181	Mr President, I would like to The health insurance and Försäkringskassan's assessments do not work and have not done so for a very long time. What we are talking about today, the reference to pure find-out jobs, is one of the clearest examples of how bad today's system works – how it demeans people and deprives them of their rights. Mr President, I would like to Anna Bystedt, chief physician, worked as usual until she had such severe pain in the neck and arm that she cried between the patient treatments. In the end, her colleagues had to tell her to seek medical care. It turned out that she had difficult disc hernia and that it required an operation, but despite several certificates from a neurosurgeon, she was repeatedly denied sickness benefit from the Social Insurance Agency. She was referred to resigning and taking a so-called normal job. People who can neither sit nor stand in touch with me and tell me how Försäkringskassan declared them healthy, as by a magic spell, and referred them to the miraculous jobs where neither cognition nor physics is required – i.e. a so-called normal work. You can work at your own pace with many breaks, no stress and proximity to the toilet, a multi-sick person was told. Therefore, she was perfectly healthy, despite both Arbetsförmedlingens and the doctor's certificate to the contrary. There are not many such jobs in today's labour market, Mr President. There is not a single such job in today's labour market, I would say. Christine Udding worked in intensive care with covids, was infected and became long-term ill. Although she managed to work 75 percent as a nurse, she was urged to resign and seek another normal job. A nurse should therefore rather become unemployed than work part-time in today's Sweden. Is that a healthy line of work? Mr President, I would like to This is how I can continue indefinitely. People have paid a terrible price and still do. People don't get what they're entitled to. It is therefore completely incomprehensible to the Left Party why the government wants to wait almost a whole year for the new rules to come into force. They should have been introduced a long time ago. LO agrees and believes that the timetable is wrong. How many more will be secured while you wait for the bureaucracy to run its course? The Public Employment Service does not have time, says the Government – but at the same time goes on with the rogue chaos privatisations and reductions of the Public Employment Service, and this despite the fact that the January Agreement has fallen. It's about priorities. The trade unions believe that the documents can be produced more quickly, but the government does not approve the Left Party's proposal today. Mr President, I would like to On the other hand, it should be done quickly and efficiently in the case of other things. Subsidies with industry support to already profitable restaurant chains are in a hurry. Despite the break-up of the January agreement, the government continues to use funds from our employers' contributions to facilitate the burger industry in Sweden. Around 30 billion costs the party – far more than all the health insurance efforts made by the Left Party into this year's budget. It's not right. In addition, the restaurant industry now announces that they have a shortage of labour, so that not a single new job can be created. However, ordinary employees should wait for a full year because we are unable to ensure that their rights are put in place in a reasonable time. We can't have that. Mr President, I would like to A zero level of suicide has been observed in different ways during the autumn. It's about people who can't take it anymore and who finally see no other way out than to take their own life. In words, we all agree that it is terrible, but in action there is still much to be desired from politics if we are serious about the goal of zero suicide. In the wake of a dismantled safety net, citizens have come to be in very bad danger. Since the Alliance's rescheduling of health insurance, but also before, the safety net has broken. Sometimes I'm ashamed to be a politician. We should apologize and do it again. Mr President, I would like to When over a hundred thousand people were secured in a fist with the Alliance, and later the Swedish democrats, the consequences were obvious. You knew what you were doing. They said it would pay to work. Obviously, however, it was not the right of employees to take part in their social security schemes. The insurance policies then continued in the tracks of the so-called rehabilitation chain. S and MP wanted to reduce costs and therefore introduced a target of only nine sick days per year on average – well aware that reality was different. That is why, at the time limits of day 180 and day 365, we have seen thousands denied sickness benefit even though they are entitled to it. In the previous year, with a pandemic ravaging, record numbers were denied. The rehabilitation chain is nothing more than an insurance chain, which is why the Left Party is today proposing its abolition. Unfortunately, we stand alone in it. We also stand alone with the proposal for a more generous insurance policy if the Swedish Social Insurance Agency is to refer to finding jobs. The investigation in which today's bill was based suggests just that, but the government's bill has reversed it. It confirms that this should not lead to a more generous application but only a clearer one – as if it were a matter of choice of words and not of people's right to health insurance. Therefore, the Left Party proposes that the bill currently on the table be clarified so that Anna and the others can receive the compensation they are entitled to in the future. It is sad that we stand so alone there too. Mr President, I would like to It is not surprising that the Moderates, as the only party, are in favour of rejecting today's improvement. An imported American work line is what has taken over the Swedish work line. Previously, the Swedish model of strong social security and full employment has created jobs and given employees security. This is how we have modernised Sweden: through a safe transition for those who work and for society. Work has paid off in the past, both through increased wages and through decent pensions and stronger social security. But now we have a work line that keeps wages down and puts people affected by illness or disability on a bare hill. Pensions are low. There are no jobs, and those receiving benefits have very low levels. This is not a work line, it is a poverty line. It does not belong in the Swedish model. Mr President, I would like to It is not worthy of a country like Sweden that people push on, go to work, contribute to society and through abstinence pay into their own health insurance only because once it is needed – after an accident or sudden illness – know that what they have worked and worked for no longer applies. With a family to support, bills to pay and food to stand on the table, the blow is indescribably hard. Mr President, I would like to We've seen things get worse for a long time, but we're gonna change that. We will take back control and build Sweden strong again, with a functioning health insurance. Those who have been insured through the years shall have redress. Sick people, along with trade unions and the Left Party, have driven the government ahead of them. We have a lot left, but I want to thank all of you for what you've done. Without you, we wouldn't have gotten anywhere. I call for approval of the Left Party's reservation 2.
i-a48147b23dac5e79-197	Mr President, I would like to We Christian Democrats welcome the government's proposal that the assessment of working capacity should be made against gainful employment in a defined occupational group that includes jobs that are normally present in the labour market. This is something that we Christian Democrats have already supported. I further support the reservations that we have left in dealing with this bill. We believe that the decision taken here today must be followed up, both to ensure that only medical reasons are taken into account in the decisions and so that the decisions taken by the Social Insurance Agency will be seen as more clear than before. I therefore propose that reservation 4 be approved. Mr President, I would like to Recurrently, we have received reports that the rehabilitation process does not start in time and that people simply do not get the support they need and should have. When we Christian Democrats have been involved in reforming health insurance, the aim of our work has always been to bring about a process that better supports and helps people to return to their previous everyday lives and that after a sick leave they should be given the opportunity to get back to work. It may be worth noting and pointing out that the rehabilitation chain that we have is also based on accountability by employers, authorities and health care. So it is not only the individual who is responsible for being restored mentally or physically. The bill being debated today rests on the investigation An understandable and safe health insurance with a place for rehabilitation. This investigation is, to put it mildly, a less flattering description of what things look like in Sweden today. We are used to the government wanting to go into opposition with itself, and when we read the investigation it is certainly in every way very understandable. Let's take this with activities to be deployed when a person is entitled to sickness benefit. Investigating the need for rehabilitation has become a theory rather than a practice under this government. In 2013, half of all participants took part in reconciliation meetings, rehabilitation planning or what is called Sassam, which stands for structured work methodology for case investigation and coordinated rehabilitation. This should happen when the illness has been longer than 60 days. In 2013, half of them had access to this; in 2018 only one in ten had access to it. As for the figures for reconciliation meetings, which are also an activity to be deployed, 80 per cent had received these efforts in 2013 within one year. Compare that with the figure for 2018– it was down to 17 per cent. These are dramatic deteriorations that have taken place. The investigation asked Försäkringskassan what this development is due to, and Försäkringskassan replied that it is about available resources. The fact that we are today taking a decision on a change to the Social Security Code which involves the examination at day 180 of the rehabilitation chain against a specified occupational group cannot and must not hide the problems that still exist for us to address. Claes Jansson's investigation, for example, points to the need for increased flexibility. This is something that we Christian Democrats have raised every year in this House, not least when it comes to abolishing the fixed steps of 25, 50, 75 or 100 % in sickness benefit. They should be completely abolished. The investigator also points to shortcomings in coordination, which is something that we Christian Democrats have drawn attention to, and that work training while maintaining sickness benefit should be reintroduced. However, the study led by Claes Jansson makes an assessment that is why we have joined this. We believe that there is a point to this proposal. With the change that we are going to make here today, more people will apply for rehabilitation allowance, and more will therefore receive support in their rehabilitation earlier. It will be a work-oriented rehabilitation that can go beyond the time limit of day 180. This – if that is indeed the case, as we hope and believe – is a very welcome improvement. To deprive people of the chance to be fully rehabilitated must be described as a gigantic waste both for the individual and for society. Mr President, I would like to A specified occupational group is a technical construction; it does not exist. This is an overall concept for professions with similar tasks and with elements similar in medical terms. It is from this medical perspective that Försäkringskassan will now make an assessment of the insured person. The purpose of our decision here today is, among other things, to create a more understandable insurance policy, not least for the insured person. However, it is not certain that the insured person will understand the difference between the profession that the insured person had before the disease and the work that the Social Insurance Office considers that the insured person can perform after the sickness leave. At the same time, it should be added that this is a very clear improvement compared to today's situation. There has been criticism of pure find-out jobs and unrealistic jobs to which insured persons are referred. This is simply something that should exist if we want to develop a working process. What we Christian Democrats have a reservation about is that today's decision is followed up and that it is actually being examined whether the insured have perceived that the decisions taken by the Social Insurance Agency have become more clear. Here, however, the government parties unfortunately do not want to meet us.
i-a48147b23dac5e79-213	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating the SfU5 Mentioned Occupation – measures for an understandable health insurance policy. I would like to begin by calling for the proposal to be approved in the committee's report. I am delighted to see that so many of us today have been able to agree on this change in health insurance. It is certainly not a huge reform, but it is an important step in repairing health insurance. Now it sounds to some here like they would have always wanted to make this change. In fact, however, it is a long road we have gone since the last parliamentary term, when then Minister of Social Security Annika Strandhäll appointed the investigation that has formed the basis for the proposal we will decide on here today. This is one of many proposals for the change of health insurance that has come from the investigation A safe health insurance with people in the center. We have taken them step by step and, for example, implemented a first change in the 180-day trial of the rehabilitation chain. There is now more opportunity to complete their rehabilitation with the increased possibility of exceptions. That is a change in the substance of the assessment. Step by step, as we receive support in this House to implement these improvements, we are filing down the sharpest edges of the system. I am pleased that the Government's budget proposal takes greater steps with the other proposals of the investigation and much more that will make health insurance safer for those of us who have the misfortune of suffering illness or accident. I look forward to debating all these proposals a little later this autumn, as I and the other workers' movement have also looked forward to today's proposals. Mr President, I would like to A fundamental principle of our health insurance is that the ability to work after a period of sick leave is assessed on the basis of some kind of broader concept than our own work, that the assessment is gradually broadened. In 2008, the so-called step-by-step model was replaced by the current rehabilitation chain. The rehabilitation chain differs by, among other things, having fixed deadlines. The current deadline in today's proposal is a fixed deadline at day 180. At day 180, the assessment of work capacity is made in what is called normal work, i.e. no longer only in your own job or in your own employer. It is precisely the concept of normal work and how it has come to be used that this proposal aims at. The Regeringsrätten has clarified the concept of normal work as ordinary work in the labour market where the capacity to work of the insured person can be fully or almost fully exercised. It is a work with requirements for normal performance and where little or no adaptation can be expected with regard to disability or medical problems of the employee. The increasingly strict application of the acquis has given rise to a large number of rejections at day 180. It has been difficult for many to understand Försäkringskassan's decision, how they can think that they should be able to work when they consider themselves ill. With today's rules, Försäkringskassan does not need to clarify what work the assessment concerns. The investigation A safe health insurance with people in focus has shown that the Social Insurance Agency often states in the decision-making justifications that the insured person can cope with a job that does not require medical abilities that the insured person lacks, such as a job that does not place high demands on stress resistance or is not cognitively demanding. The reasons for the decision then do not give much support for the existence of such normal jobs at all. For me, such flat-rate refusals are unreasonable. This makes it extremely difficult for the individual to understand Försäkringskassan's decision. Even if the administrator imagined a job, it remains obscure and hopelessly difficult to deal with. Often it gives rise to frustration from the treating doctor when he has assessed that the patient is unable to do any work and has no explanation as to the work that the administrator has deemed the patient to be able to do. It is felt that Försäkringskassan sits above the medical certificates. Mr President, I would like to This proposal involves assessing the ability to work against a defined occupational group. This will make decision-making motivations more transparent and possible to respond to. The proposal does not change the basis of assessment itself. There will therefore be no changes in the rules on who is entitled to sickness benefit. It fully aims to make the current rules and decisions more comprehensible. Occupational group is a concept from SCB's professional groups in standard Swedish Classification of Occupations, SSYK, which the investigation indicates could be used as a basis. On the other hand, the proposal proposes that a material of knowledge should be developed on the basis of what the Social Security Inspection, ISF, has stated in its referral. ISF stresses the importance of the design based on the medical requirements of the work and points to the reference material available at Försäkringskassan, which is currently used internally to interpret the results of the activity assessment. The reference material is based on a number of different sources, including SSYK, and describes the demands of different professions on medical abilities. A material of knowledge needs to be developed. On the other hand, after the Government handed over the bill to us here in the Riksdag, the Swedish Social Insurance Agency and the Swedish Public Employment Service were charged with developing knowledge material. In addition to being able to use the knowledge material as support for the administrators at Försäkringskassan when assessing work capacity, it should also facilitate the dialogue between Försäkringskassan's and Arbetsförmedlingen's administrators. This reduces the risk of people falling between the chairs. In order to achieve a broad consensus, the social partners are involved in the development work. The knowledge material will be ready by 31 May next year. The fact that it has to be clear is why this change is proposed to enter into force only in one year's time. With this proposal, we are taking another important step in the repairing of health insurance. I am extremely pleased, while I am well aware that we have a long way to go.
i-a48147b23dac5e79-229	Mr President, I would like to Health insurance is a conversion insurance that shows that all people are needed in the labour market. The sickness insurance is also intended to protect those who need short-term or long-term support during a sick leave. It aims to enable you to get early rehabilitation and early reconciliation, and it should be clear who is responsible for helping you back to work. That's the idea. Here I think there are certain shortcomings. For this reason, in our budget, we have set aside money to clarify the pieces relating to early rehabilitation and early reconciliation. I think the rehabilitation chain is good. It is good because there are clear reconciliation points where you look over who is doing what to help a person get back to work, what is expected to happen and whether rehabilitation should continue, whether it should take a new path or whether it is time to think about whether the person needs to retrain for another job. This obviously requires that there is a good collaboration with Arbetsförmedlingen in order for it to work in a good way. It is good that there is also a mission to work with these parts now. The Swedish Social Insurance Agency has received a lot of criticism for being unclear in assessments. Then the work given is a proposal to remedy a lack of clarity. We think it is a good thing, and my predecessor was also doing this a year ago. As I said, it works well between Arbetsförmedlingen and Försäkringskassan, that they find common codes and make the same assessment of what support a person needs to actually be able to return to work. Mr President, I would like to I want to return to the importance of rehabilitation back to work. However, it is also important for health insurance to protect the person in need of protection in the short or long term and for help to be given to change if necessary. What I want to focus on in the future is that there must be early reconciliations and early rehabilitations, because if it is not where the work begins, there will be far too many people who are on sick leave for far too long, no matter what time limits we set in different regulatory systems. With this, I would like to support the committee's proposal in today's report.
i-a48147b23dac5e79-236	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to state that the Liberals support the proposal in today's report. It is a good, useful and clear decision that we will take today to lead this matter forward. Mr President, I would like to There is a need for ongoing reform to enable the social security system to deliver security and responsiveness to the individual at any time, while using taxpayers' money legally secure, understandable and effective in line with the work line that has served our country well for quite a number of years now. Sick leave must be seen as part of the nursing treatment and rehabilitation of the individual. It is not a system alongside which is disconnected from the process in which the individual is in. When the state authorities in our country make their own legal interpretations based on case-by-case judgements and the daily actions of other authorities or government signals perceived in one way or another, it is questionable whether, in some cases, legal certainty, intelligibility and clarity can be called into question. When the legislator, the right-holder or the public do not recognise and fail in confidence, the whole welfare society and the welfare system are on a sloping scale and at risk. Authorities which in one form make proposals to the government, the formulation of practices based on legislation and judgments, decision-making, follow-up, review of their own and others' procedures, the recovery of undue support and the prosecution of criminal offences and the prosecution of criminal offences in these cases present a clear problem of legitimacy. Sharing powers, power and execution is important in the rule of law. There should also be three completely independent bodies. Decisions taken in relation to individuals must always be transparent, understandable, legally secure and long-term, not least in relation to health insurance. It must also be different bodies that take beneficial and disadvantageous decisions in the area of welfare, precisely for the sake of legitimacy. It is essential that health insurance provides the insured with financial security if you fall ill. At the same time, insurance must make demands on conversion. There must be constant demands for rehabilitation to lead to recovery and a return. Conversion requirements need to be constantly borne up for objective reasons and individually tailored support measures. This is where it has broken, because that is not the case today. When Försäkringskassan developed a knowledge base in 2013 to make the work ability test more legitimate and legally certain, it was found that the administrators in accordance with the current regulations are, in principle, making reference to their own private picture of the occupational groups covered by the labour market and the requirements for medically related abilities imposed by these professions. This is engraving and, of course, places terrible demands on an administrator. That is still the case today. One's ability to work is severely limited by illness, but one is still regularly referred to fantasy or fictitious work, as some speakers have already mentioned. It is something that may be in the head of the administrator but which he is not even obliged to account for. I do not blame individual administrators, of course, but it is a system error. Let me therefore reiterate that the process of sick leave is part of the medical treatment and rehabilitation process. It is part of getting well and getting back where you were or to the new desirable situation based on your disease picture. Mr. Old President! This should be self-evident. Instead of denying sick people sickness benefit on the basis of fictitious work, all actors involved must work to provide sick people with support and guidance through the process and the best possible rehabilitation at any given time. Everything else is a socio-economic waste and involves unnecessary suffering and great economic damage to the individual. Mr. Old President! I support the committee's proposal.
i-a48147b23dac5e79-246	Mr. Old President! Those who are too ill to work must be entitled to compensation, entitlement to sickness benefit and right to rehabilitation and support in order to return as quickly as possible to freshness, to good health, to quality of life and to work, study or other employment. A person who is ill for a long time has a reduced working capacity and is not deemed to be able to enter or return to the labour market and where all rehabilitation measures are exhausted shall be entitled to sickness benefit. If you need help finding a job, you should get it from Arbetsförmedlingen. That is how social security systems should work. There should be no gaps, pitfalls or chairs to fall between. Nor should there be an end or a more distant time limit when the systems cease and you have to fend for yourself. Those who are ill, those who live with disabilities or those who are willing but unable to work should not be condemned to lifelong poverty. Today, the Riksdag will take a decision that represents another step towards the goal of a functioning and healthy health insurance. The decision will mean that those who are ill will no longer be able to refer to jobs that do not exist, fictitious jobs and find jobs. The Social Insurance Agency's communication with the sick person, the insured person, must be understood. You have to understand what the Social Insurance Agency is saying, and that is what this matter is about. The proposal that we are now debating and taking a decision on later this afternoon means that the Social Insurance Agency, when it has gone at least 180 days into the disease, will test the insured person's ability to work against a job in a defined occupational group that contains jobs that are normally present in the labour market. This is the legal text, and the new words are a specified occupational group. This is basically an exception rule. If there are jobs that you can manage within the defined occupational group, you should apply for those jobs to get back to work and get away from sickness benefit. However, if there are no such jobs, the exception comes in and you can keep your sickness benefit. Will this work then? Are we getting away from the fictitious jobs? Will more people be able to keep their sickness benefit after day 180? We do not know this today, but there is much to be said for it. Of course, we need to follow up on the decision and ensure that the authority has the tools necessary for the administrators to be able to make proper assessments. These are a few new words in the legal text, but they mean a major change in the insurance system. In order to avoid a flat rate or risk that the defined occupational groups become too diffuse, large and open and include all kinds of jobs and find-out jobs, the Social Insurance Agency and the Employment Service will be tasked with developing, together with the social partners, a knowledge material to support the administrators. Unfortunately, this work will take some time, but it is of course important that it be good. We have seen in the past what can happen to a very large health insurance system when it becomes wrong. Two parties, the Left Party and the Swedish Democrats, want to stress out, but I think it would be risky. We need this material of knowledge, and it needs to work. The Act will enter into force on 1 September 2022, and then the Government will of course follow developments closely. Mr. Old President! I began by saying that we are now taking a step towards achieving the goal of working and healthy health insurance. We have a way to go to achieve this goal. When the bourgeois parties introduced the health insurance we have in 2008 we came from a previous model, and we do not want to go back to it. Too many people retired early, and there was too little focus on rehabilitation. The bourgeois system, the model that was called the rehabilitation chain, gradually meant tougher demands and decreasing replacement levels. It meant thumb screws that would force the sufferer into work, and if it did not work, there was an end, a distant time limit, where health insurance stopped – a precipice. This proposal was not good. The Green Party voted against it and against the bourgeois, destructive, definition of the work line. Instead, we launched a completely different system that we still believe in many years later. It is based on trust, individual assessments and flexibility. We want to build up health and unemployment insurance and also bring the support into the model in a holistic way where there are no chairs to fall between. Rehabilitation should take place in a real way and does not need to be primarily aimed at a direct return to wage labour. The central thing here is health and quality of life and ultimately a sustainable and functioning working life. We want to implement this and are constantly seeking support for it. We are, of course, prepared to screw up the details if there are more people who want to hang on to the system. However, the key principles of sustainable life, sustainable working life, security, individual judgements and trust rather than mistrust are not to be doubted. Unfortunately, we have not yet received the necessary support, and that is why the Green Party is constructive in repairing the health insurance we have. One of the early measures when the Green Party and the Social Democrats won the 2014 elections was to grind down the most draconian parts of bourgeois health insurance. The later time limit was removed. Measures to reduce sickness were taken. But mistakes were also made, perhaps just because things went a little too fast. They wanted to hurry. The mistake was to introduce the 9.0-day target. That's not good. Although we made great improvements, a bad system was partly worse, but that is what we are well on the way to repair now. We often hear in the debate – we have heard it here today too – that other parties are pulling the issue and pushing the government ahead of them. But remember: It was the environmental party and social-democratic government that discovered that the insurances were running out! It was the MP-S government that took action and set up investigations last parliamentary term. It is the Green Party and the Social Democrats in the government that have received the investigations this parliamentary term. It is we who have read, pondered, and referred them. It is we who have produced proposals and proposals. Of course, we have encountered some opposition in the Riksdag. But it is the MP-S government that has pushed through the improvements. This applies, for example, to day 180 but also to the mission to the authority that we carried out last spring. We now see that the measures we took last spring have had an effect: more people keep their sickness benefit, and fewer are insured. We're on the right track. It is the environmental-partisan and social-democratic government that is also putting forward the proposal for today's decision. And we have put forward further proposals, particularly in connection with the budget proposal. We want to implement Claes Jansson's proposal in the investigation. Once we have done so, we will also repair the sickness benefit on the basis of the proposals that have been examined. There's no one running the government in front of him. The government is determined and determined ahead of it. We march away from the bourgeois destructive work line, where society fails and the sick are punished. We are now looking forward to this afternoon's decision in this House. And in this way we continue to repair health insurance step by step. That is what we do when we repair health insurance, and that is what is worthy of a welfare society. Mr. Old President! I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report.
i-a48147b23dac5e79-270	Mr. Old President! It seems that Mats Berglund and the Environmental Party have a different approach to stress than many in the rest of the population. The investigation that is the basis of the proposal has existed for a very long time. In no other way would one say that it is stressful when, several years later, after an investigation, you put forward a bill! The trade unions and thus large parts of the parties believe that this can be done more quickly and that it is a living material that you will get to update constantly. My question to Mats Berglund is therefore: Is it stressful when at the same time we see how many people are insured precisely by referring to find jobs? Can we not do what the trade unions mean and update this continuously and give the necessary resources to the Employment Service? Or is it this with cuts and chaos privatizations that have put a stop to it? Mats Berglund says that no one has pushed the government before him. It's a strange statement from the Green Party. The proposal on day 180 of health insurance did not appear in the government's own budget. It was the Left Party that put forward proposals for a committee initiative, and the government had to come up with an additional amending budget. If the government had intended to do so, Mats Berglund would have presented it in his own budget proposal. But I will be generous, and now we see that you have taken in even more of the demands that the Left Party has had in talks with the government. Now I hope that there will be even more in the future and that we will never again see such a nine-day goal. So the question to Mats Berglund is: How do you view stress in relation to people being secured in the tracks of the regulations?
i-a48147b23dac5e79-276	Mr. Old President! Thank you, Ida Gabrielsson, for the question and for requesting a reply! I think this is worth debating and that we should turn the questions around. I must say that the Left Party has been instrumental in raising the issue. We thank you for that. We need a debate on health insurance in which several parties are involved. I think it is great that the Left Party is also in favour of this, and I now hope that the Left Party will vote in favour of the budget we have put forward so that we can repair health insurance. When I hear the Left Party, I think you're so far floating a little bit on the target. Can Ida Gabrielsson confirm here and now that the Left Party is voting in favour of the budget and thus also implements the remaining proposals in health insurance? I wonder. Of course, what Ida Gabrielsson says is: It would have been very good if the government had come earlier with these proposals. We've tried. We've been investigating. But you shouldn't rush, because then it could be wrong. It takes time to conduct investigations, and this has been a rather lengthy investigation. The proposals have been referred to. We would have liked to have presented them earlier, but we have a parliamentary situation that has made it more difficult. When Ida Gabrielsson says that it was a committee initiative that led us to make the changes at day 180, it is perhaps right in substance. But it's also a different sense of history than I do. If we look at what happened, we can see that the government had announced that this would come. This is part of the investigation that the government set up during the previous term of office. The responsible minister was called to the committee, who told us that this is on the way. The Left Party then took the opportunity to make a proposal and say that it is the Left Party that is pushing the government ahead of it – despite the fact that the proposal had come anyway. However, we have a common objective: to repair health insurance.
i-a48147b23dac5e79-281	Mr. Age President and Mats Berglund! We tabled the proposal after the budget proposal had been tabled, and therefore the proposal of day 180 was not included. Anyway, I've got a thought. A government made up of the Social Democrats and the Green Party introduced nine days of illness, well aware that it was a little over eleven days on average that it was all about. Then insurance began to multiply at day 180 and day 365. That's why the Left Party thinks it's wrong to stand here and beat yourself to the chest. We in the Left Party are grateful that the government is better in these matters than the Moderates, which are absolutely the worst. But it's not a competition. Much thanks to the fact that the Left Party has pushed these issues into talks with the government – talks that I myself have participated in – they are included in your budget. A tip from me and the Left Party is otherwise to vote on the Left Party budget, because in it there is a lot more to health insurance. There are increased compensation levels and investigation for insured persons. Sickness benefits are included and are not long-lined. My call to all social democrats and environmentalists is: vote for the Left Party budget, and it will be excellent this autumn!
i-a48147b23dac5e79-285	Mr. Old President! Unfortunately, I do not hear Ida Gabrielsson promising to support the government's budget so that we can really get it through. After all, we must also have a parliamentary majority to enforce health insurance. I hope for the support of the Left Party there. I still have not received that support, but I hope so. Now Ida Gabrielsson may not be able to answer, but I heard in Ida Gabrielsson's speech that the Left Party is the only party that wants to abolish the rehabilitation chain. That's not really true. I believe that Ida Gabrielsson has missed all the motions that the Green Party has raised over the last ten or twelve years, where we have presented our proposal. I've written such a motion. I also said in the speaker's chair a moment ago, and I have said this throughout the term of office, that we want another system in which we sew together the various social security systems so that we cannot fall between the seats. It's a system. The Left Party wants to go back to the old system where very many became early retirements, as it was called at the time. I don't think that's good. Those who want to and can work should do so; those who cannot should of course receive compensation. We have a slightly different view of what we want, but if we talk together, I'm sure we can find some kind of common solution to this too.
i-a48147b23dac5e79-288	Mr. Old President! I did not intend to ask for a reply until just towards the end of Mrs Berglund's speech. This is what the honourable Member says: we are moving away from the destructive line of work. What kind of destructive work line is the honourable Member referring to? We know, for example, that 675 000 people today are not self-sufficient, according to the parliamentary investigation service. Just recently, just a few weeks ago, a new study showed that 1.3 million Swedes of working age are not self-sufficient, unable to support themselves. Every fourth person of working age in Sweden is therefore unable to make a living. And so the honourable Member says that we should move away from the destructive line of work! I am also reacting to the honourable Member's attempt to make the Social Democrats and the Green Party appear to be two parties which are certainly ensuring that things are going to be good in Sweden. In my speech, I just gave an account of what it looked like in 2013 visvi 2018. By then, the two parties mentioned had already been in government for four years. In 2013, we had a situation where reconciliation meetings – that these are important, I believe the honourable Member and I agree – took place with 80% of these people. In 2018, it was 17 per cent. It's a dramatic deterioration. Nevertheless, the honourable Member claims that here are two parties that make sure that it is good in Sweden. After four years this had dropped sharply from when one gained power. So I'm reacting to the beauty painting. But above all, I'd like to know, away from the destructive line of work, is that the new motto of the government?
i-a48147b23dac5e79-292	Mr. Old President! I thank Mr Eklind for the question. The quote wasn't exactly correct. It was the destructive bourgeois work line. A work line can be defined in many different ways – creating work, creating opportunities for people to change. We had such a proposal as we called development time. The Christian Democrats, together with the Left Party, the Swedish Democrats and the Moderates, unfortunately voted down. Now we have a new system under way with, for example, conversion study support. The destructive thing is precisely that there is a mistrust. Wage labour is everything, and anyone who does not wage labour is in some way alienated and marginalized. This can also be done again in health insurance, for example, where successively – through thumb screws and through fixed times where you are to be judged increasingly harshly and receive reduced compensation – you are forced into work instead of being rehabilitated. I agree with Mr Eklind that the rehabilitation chain needs to become a rehabilitation chain and not an out-of-insurance or exclusion chain, as it has in fact been for a long time – even under bourgeois governments. That's what we want to do. We want to create opportunities for people. It does not always have to be wage labour; it can be meaningful employment. It is quality of life, freshness and health that are important. The destructive thing is to send sick people to work because they have no other choice. That's the work line we want to get away from. There is a big difference between two different approaches to what is work and the work line.
i-a48147b23dac5e79-297	Mr. Old President! The honourable Member says we should move away from that approach. The same member thus belongs to one of the two parties that have been in power in Sweden since 2014 and who are in government positions, where, by the way, investigations and so on – something that the honourable Member petted himself on his shoulder for. It is a bit difficult to set up investigations as an opposition party, by the way. In 2013, half, five out of ten, took part in one of the activities that the honourable Member and I agree have to do in order to get a functioning rehabilitation so that people do not get caught up in sickness benefit or get long-term sick leave. In 2018, the same figure was one in ten. I also mentioned the reconciliation meetings: the same dramatic deterioration. And so the honourable Member is trying to claim that it is the bourgeois line of work that is wrong! I wonder how it is possible with this material to criticise the bourgeois line of work as the honourable Member does. It should be the policy of its own that the honourable Member is storming against. You've been in power for over seven years. That the work line doesn't work, I've listed numbers on here. However, I should like to return to this point: I think it is reasonable to safeguard the work line in view of the situation that has spread out in Sweden, where so many people do not get the benefit that I and the honourable Member have, namely to go to a job and be able to support ourselves. This is also a sloping plan in Sweden: that more and more people are not privileged to support themselves. We should therefore protect the work line in the Swedish parliament, I think – not stand and orer that we should away from a destructive work line.
i-a48147b23dac5e79-301	Mr. Old President! I may well repeat what I said, namely that it is the bourgeois line of work that I see as destructive because it is about forcing people who cannot work out in work. When you are ill, you should primarily have the opportunity to get well and get back to quality of life and good health. This will also give us a sustainable labour market. It is, of course, the sustainable labour market that is important. It is also about retraining, lifelong learning, but also about perhaps allowing breaks in working life, as we have proposed, if you need it to last a full working life. That's what's important. It will be an unsustainable working life if you are forced to work as a wage earner and you are excluded if you do not work as a wage earner. It is also a matter of shame. When you talk to people who are sick and long - term sick, they say that they want nothing but to get back to work. There's a deal. But it will also be a disgrace, and it has been very destructive. I think it comes back every time you talk to someone who is on long-term sick leave and receives sickness benefit or sickness benefit – or unfortunately does not receive it and does not receive any other support either. That's what we want to get away from. Now we have also got away from quite a lot of the bourgeois line of work during these two terms of office. For example, we removed the lower time limit in health insurance. There should be no longer a deadline for the end of insurance systems and for self-sufficiency and for those who do not will be condemned to some form of lifelong poverty.
i-a48147b23dac5e79-305	Mr. Old President! We are debating today the suspension clause in the maintenance aid. I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation number 1. We Swedish democrats are a family-friendly party. But when it doesn't work to keep the family together for different reasons, none of the parents should suffer financially because of this and certainly not the children. We believe that the starting point should always be that parents who have financial opportunities should contribute to their children's livelihood on their own. The current system needs to be modernised as well as reformed. Hence, we want to set up a study that will produce proposals for a new modern model that simply means that more parents pay maintenance corresponding to their own standard of living, which is calculated on the basis of annual income and takes into account actual ability to pay. Low-income parents are required on full maintenance support up to the minimum level for several children of wealthy living parents who comparatively lack the need for financial support, such as for a parent who has formed a new family with two steady incomes. It can mean a financial crash for the parent, who is in debt and who never has the resources to offer the child either activities or celebrations. Enabling participation in the child's life should be given greater consideration within the system than is evident today. The investigation should therefore also take into account the financial situation of the visiting parent versus the resident parent, including the parents' income and actual payment possibilities. Mr. Old President! The Swedish Democrats have long had views on the six-month rule that was introduced in 2016 and that means that all matters within maintenance support will be examined by Försäkringskassan after six months. This rule has become problematic in cases where parents do not get along and in particular in cases where cooperation difficulties or threats and violence are involved. The fact that parents in conflict are forced to deal with maintenance themselves also has negative consequences from a gender perspective, since the majority of living parents are women and benefit parents are men. In other words, with the introduction of this reform, the government weakened the impact of women on their own economy. When the government presented a bill in spring 2021 proposing that the six-month rule be changed to twelve months, we welcomed this. Mr. Old President! What we Swedish democrats are critical of is the specific period of time when specific reasons should apply. We agree with the criticism that the National Organisation for Women's Support and Girl Support in Sweden, R oks, and the National Organisation Unizon have highlighted the problem with a longer deadline, specifically in cases of threats and violence. The aim of the proposals is to ensure, with the best interests of children, financial security in cases where there may be conflicts but also in cases where the parent liable for benefits may have temporary financial problems. It is a fact that with the six-month rule, or as it is now proposed, maintenance support can be used as a means of power to control and influence the other parent in a negative sense. Mr. Old President! We therefore believe that the Swedish Social Insurance Agency should also be able to decide that, in certain cases, there are exceptional reasons why a shorter time limit cannot be set, but maintenance support runs until the last day that maintenance support can be provided. We call this extraordinary reason. It may be a case of parents living under protected identity or it is clear that the parties will not be able to deal with it on their own. There is, in our view, no reason to consider and process. We also agree with Försäkringskassan's opinion on the clarity of how an appropriate period of time for specific reasons should be determined. It is important to us that the intention of the law is made clear so that we get an equivalent assessment across the country and that any legal uncertainty is minimised. We also believe that the government should clarify what is meant by specific reasons.
i-a48147b23dac5e79-316	Mr. Old President! Policies exist to improve society, and from that point of view should be to improve for those who are the furthest or most difficult in society. Today we are debating a report based on the Government's proposal Adjusted suspension clause in maintenance support. It is a proposal that points to rectifying the shortcomings of the 2016 reform in the area of maintenance support. Of course, we welcome the ambition to do this, even if we see that the proposal is limping. How does it work today, and how will it work with this change? What does it mean in practice for the single mother who has to relate to a father who uses the economy as a means of power? I would like to mention that I choose to describe it as the mother being the one who gets maintenance from the father and that it is the father who has to pay maintenance because the vast majority of cases are like that. Today, when the dependent parent has paid maintenance support to the Social Insurance Agency without delay for six months, the resident parent will receive a letter explaining that, from next month, the dependent parent of the children will pay maintenance directly to the resident parent. If the maintenance payment does not work, you may again turn to Försäkringskassan to regulate maintenance support. If you do not have special reasons why maintenance should not be paid at all by them, the process is done in this way. For example, a mother has a protected identity because of his father's violence. The government and the committee now propose that in cases where there are no special reasons, maintenance support should be suspended after 12 months if the debtor parent has behaved. The parents then handle the maintenance allowance among themselves. If you have special reasons, the suspension of maintenance allowance may be postponed for up to four years. As a single person and with many cases around me, I know what it's like to live in a situation where the economy is used as a means of power. Naively, I thought we were more protected in Sweden and that the situation of the singles was put first. In order to invoke specific reasons, you must submit documentation. It is important to have the documentation in place. Otherwise, you will have to start a process to ensure documentation, and of course it takes time. There are also many borderline cases, where it may not be physical but psychological or economic violence. It can then be difficult to get the maintenance done through Försäkringskassan. The proposal actually means maintaining the same shortcomings, but of course it provides more breathing space. When you have received the letter that the maintenance should be carried out among the parents, you have one month to prepare financially for the possibility that the dependent parent will not pay the maintenance. If you have a high income, you may have saved money. But many live on the margin, and then you live month by month. If, after the maintenance allowance has been withdrawn, the dependent parent chooses not to pay maintenance or to pay less, the process in Försäkringskassan must start over. So it may be a while before you get money. It is a huge strain on families with low incomes. Mr. Old President! I tried calling Försäkringskassan to see what would happen if the maintenance allowance were to be withdrawn after my child's second parent has paid the maintenance allowance in time for six months. That would mean that once again I have to prove that there is a reason why I should not be dependent on the good will of the other parent, even though I may know that the cooperation is not at all at the level that I can feel confident that they will pay on time. Of course, it causes concern. But that wasn't enough. The information I got to calm down was that I don't have to worry about a withdrawal before Christmas. To parry so that single people should not stand without maintenance during Christmas holidays, the administrators have simply paused the withdrawals for Christmas. It gives me the signal that the administrators are very well aware that the transition from maintenance support to maintenance is anything but painless for many. The Left Party believes that we should turn the issue around, so as not to end up in blackmail situations or economic disaster. It is good when parents can work together and do maintenance among themselves. But there is basically a reason for having maintenance support. If the parent receiving maintenance support does not consider that the form of maintenance support can be left behind, there are reasons for this. These may not be covered by the proposed provision on specific grounds. The relationship of power between the parents and their relationship in general may also make it inappropriate to have that kind of contact. The government should therefore come back with proposals that require maintenance to continue to be treated as maintenance support where a parent wants to. This would provide some security and security for parents who have suffered various forms of violence. It would change the power relationship in cases where a parent uses maintenance to exercise power and violence. It would also address the concerns of women's shelters and the single organisation of the proposal. I request the approval of reservation 2.
i-QNwqBhB7CM6X4T1gcQG9VK	Mr. Old President! I would like to begin by calling for approval of the Social Security Committee's proposal in the report Adjusted suspension clause in the maintenance aid and rejection of the reservations. Maintenance support is obviously good in situations where it is really needed. When a child's parents do not live together and the child lives with one of the parents, the other parent should still assume his or her financial parental responsibility and ensure that the child is as well as possible. It is in parental responsibility, both caring and financial. If you end up in this situation, you can get help from, for example, Försäkringskassan to see about how much maintenance you have to pay. So maintenance allowance is called when one parent pays to compensate the other parent financially. Unfortunately, there are times when there is no maintenance. It may be that the parent who does not live with the child does not have a job or that he – it is usually a he – is dangerous for the resident parent to have contact with. That is when we are talking about maintenance support. The government raised maintenance support again this summer. Today, SEK 1,673 is paid out each month for children under the age of 11 and SEK 1,823 for each child under the age of 15. After that, the total is SEK 2 223 per month. So that's what you get if you have maintenance support. In the case of maintenance, when the parents themselves settle the sum between themselves, the amount is often higher. In the calculation you then look at what the parents have income, what the resident parent has for expenses and what the respective children usually have for needs each month. Anyone who has children can probably figure out that it generally costs more than SEK 1,600 a month per parent for food, rent, clothes and all that you might need to live a good life here in Sweden. Therefore, maintenance is usually a better solution than maintenance support. In addition, maintenance is a smoother solution for the vast majority of families. You avoid the intermediary Försäkringskassan when you pay in and out. The maintenance allowance is paid from the authority to the resident parent. It is also the authority that collects the money from the liable parent. Mr. Old President! I shall now move on to the matter we are dealing with today. This is precisely about maintenance aid and specifically about a change in the suspension clause within it, i.e. when maintenance aid is withdrawn. If the parent liable for payment pays the maintenance allowance to Försäkringskassan in time for six consecutive months, the right to maintenance allowance shall be examined with the current rules. The change we are talking about now means that it will take a year of payments that are handled properly before that test is carried out. It's generally better for everyone involved. In a year you can have both ups and downs in your economy. For example, a fixed-term employment for six months, perhaps a seasonal job, when you have been able to pay can be followed by a time without pay when you cannot pay. This means that the maintenance allowance is stopped to – usually – the mother while maintenance is not paid out either. Then a new trial will be carried out, and the mother and children will end up in a pinch while they do not receive any maintenance at all. Now I have said that it is usually the mother who is the resident parent and the father who is the liable parent. I base this on the statistics that show that of some 150 000 parents with child support, 127 000 are mothers and women. So it's not all living parents, but almost. It will continue to be possible to have a longer time without trial if there are special reasons, which has also been discussed and debated here. You can then be entitled to maintenance support for four years before a review is carried out. If the specific reasons are deemed to remain after four years, maintenance aid will continue to be paid without a re-examination. Mr. Old President! These are really good proposals that the government is delivering in order to strengthen the economy of families, and they are further steps in the right direction to make society a little better, reform for reform.
i-a48147b23dac5e79-341	Mr. Old President! In the first place, it is the best interests of the child that we should take into account when legislating on children. Children have the right to express their opinions, and we will listen to children t. We have to listen to children. These are some of the elements of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, the UN Declaration on the Rights of the Child, and Swedish law. The matter we are now debating is ultimately about the right of the child. The issue is whether the child's parents are able to make the payment of maintenance support on their own. It is also a matter of clarifying the rules on whether there are specific reasons for continuing with the Social Insurance Fund's payments. Maintenance allowance is normally provided between parents who do not live or live together when the child lives with one parent – the costs should of course be shared between both. If the payments do not work properly, the authority will enter and pay maintenance support, which will then be refunded in whole or in part by the parent liable for the benefit. If the repayments work well, the Swedish Social Insurance Agency will cancel the maintenance allowance after six months. The handling should then return to being handled entirely between the parents. According to a review of the Social Security Inspection, the ISF, six months is too short a period of time. There is quite a risk that the problems will reappear during this time. Of course, there may be a variety of reasons for this. Abuse, threats, violence and such things are, of course, the most serious. However, even periods of economic decline and unemployment are among the reasons why we now need to extend time. The government has investigated the issue and is now presenting this bill, where we extend the period from six to twelve months. There is a consensus in the Riksdag for that. On the other hand, there is concern among at least two parties that the specific reasons, which we are now clarifying the regulatory framework, would still not be sufficient. I understand and sympathise with the arguments in the accompanying motions, but I do not really see that there would be support for this concern either in the investigation or in the ISF report. I therefore urge that those motions be rejected. We want to strive for parents to manage the economy on their own and to get along. Where there is no agreement, the specific reasons are there, with the possibility of postponing it for up to four years. However, it is also important that parents do not abuse the system and use the authority as a kind of bank or brokering service for the maintenance allowance rather than agreeing, if there are conditions to do so. It is not good for the relationship between the parents and not good for the child either. It is simply not the best interests of the child, which was the guiding principle for the entire handling of this matter. We should not have a policy that unnecessarily separates parents even more. Children have the right to both their parents – or all their parents – even if they are more than two. And there we actually have the next step: to legally recognise several parents, but also to change parental insurance, so that more adults in the child's vicinity get and can take responsibility. A first step is now to pick up the Parental Insurance investigation and implement a three-part parental insurance with more paternity months and opportunities to transfer parenting days to other adults in the child's vicinity. But I think we should come back to that proposal. Maintenance support is important, not least for single parents with poor economics – or single mothers with poor economics, we should probably say, because this is a gender equality issue as much as a question of the child's rights. It is also an issue of reducing child poverty. When the system of maintenance support was revised in 2016 and the six-month rule, which we are now extending, maintenance support for children up to eleven years of age was more than SEK 1,500 a month. It had been on the same level for quite a few years. Before the increase made in 2015, it had remained still for over 20 years at about SEK 1,200. Now this summer the government finally raised the level of SEK 100 for children up to eleven years old and with SEK 150 for older children. It is a distribution policy measure, a very accurate measure to strengthen the economy of, above all, single mothers and a way of reducing child poverty. It's good and it's really important. We need to move forward in this direction with more proposals. We in the Green Party have announced that we want to continue to increase the maintenance allowance and that there should be substantial increases. We also want to increase the housing allowance for families with children. In addition, we want to index these subsidies so that they do not continue to be eroded over time in the way that has happened when there have been very long periods, year after year, without any increases being made. Then, of course, there are a lot of other measures to reduce child poverty and the effects of children living in a poor economy. These include, for example, the right to preschool, Fritis and homework help – so that you don't fall behind in school – and to counteract evictions of families with children. These are issues that are very close to the Green Party. It is about building a socially sustainable society, always taking into account the best interests of the child and listening to the child when we make decisions and laws concerning children. With this in mind, Mr President-in-Office, I am in favour of the proposal in the report and of the Government's proposal for an adjusted suspension clause in the maintenance aid.
i-a48147b23dac5e79-354	Mr. Old President! On 30 June 2021, the Commission presented the Communication "A long-term vision for EU rural areas – for stronger, interconnected, resilient – i.e. long-term sustainable – and prosperous rural areas in 2040". The Industry Committee has been asked to give a statement to the House on this European document, and that is what we are doing here today. Following the decision in the Chamber, the Riksdag Administration sends the statement for information to the European Commission and to the Government Office. Mr. Old President! We agree with the Commission's view that no human being or place should be left out of the development that the EU offers. Rural communities have an important role to play in building the future of Europe, and they should be given a stronger voice and better opportunities to develop. There are certainly different views on how this should then be done. For us Moderates, it is extremely important that the policy is based on creating growth in order for development to take place. Therefore, we want to see a focus on enhanced competitiveness by the fact that products and services are and continue to be attractive and stand well to attract buyers. In this way, we increase welfare and the opportunity to live throughout the country. In that part, we also share the Commission's view that Europe's rural areas cannot be seen as a whole. It is therefore important to look at the individual and different countries' circumstances from a European perspective. Here in Sweden, for example, there are large differences between different rural areas. Therefore, national country knowledge must be the basis for different measures and proposals should be designed in such a way that they do not give rise to misallocation. It must be possible to live in all parts of the Union. For example, the Commission refers to the road network and transport in the Communication. For our part, we would like to emphasise the continued importance of the car as a means of transport for rural areas, particularly in sparsely populated areas where public transport is not available or is not an option. The car is essential to get where you're going. In this context, we believe that what should be considered to be reasonable prices in public transport is not reasonably a matter for the European level. This is where one gets a little worried, as writing at that level of detail does not belong at EU level, but in our regions and municipalities. The Commission writes about the interconnection of rural and urban areas. We also need this within our own country. It is extremely important for a country that is geographically as vast as ours that we can shorten travel times by air, not least to provide opportunities for tourism and business travellers, but also for family ties. The Moderates see a future of electric aviation that needs to continue to be a natural part of rural and sparsely populated interconnection. The CAP has an important role to play in rural development. In this case too, however, we are concerned about developments which are moving towards more detailed regulation. In this respect, we would also like to remind you that we are opposed to the European Pillar of Social Rights. We do not believe it belongs to the review of EU regional policy. That is also why we strongly question the Commission's wording which suggests that the social pillar should be woven into rural policy. We do not believe that it belongs in this context. Forests differ significantly between Member States. Forest policy clearly shows that national decision-making competence is therefore crucial. There are currently a number of proposals at EU level which are, in substance, harmful to Swedish forestry policy. Examples include taxonomy, LULUCF, RED II, and the EU's forestry strategy. We believe that there is a need for greater support at both EU and national level for a better understanding of differences in the forestry policies of different Member States for recreation and sustainable use. We also think that there is a lack of clear impact assessments for most legislative proposals or measures that affect forests today. We would therefore like to emphasise the importance of Member States being and should remain self-determination in designing and implementing their national forestry policies. We therefore see it as incontrovertible that future proposals for regulations and measures should respect national forest competence. The Commission needs, as we see it, both to be familiar with the various functions of the Member States and not to make any interpretations other than those of the Member States with rules and measures. For example, this is clear in the case of taxonomics, where too narrow definitions risk being counterproductive in the process of transition towards sustainable development. Mr. Old President! It is important to avoid detailed regulation at EU level where national solutions are more effective, cost-effective and proportionate. Furthermore, it is important that the measures do not lead to detailed management of the activities of national authorities or to increased administrative burdens for authorities and for businesses. We advocate a budgetary-restrictive approach in which proposals with budgetary implications are to be financed through a re-prioritisation within the existing framework, both within the Multiannual Financial Framework and in the state budget. The initiatives should be implemented in a socio-economically effective and inclusive manner within the framework of long-term sustainability of public finances, and we are also opposed to binding measures. Mr. Old President! A long-term vision for EU rural areas includes:
i-a48147b23dac5e79-371	中 operators to provide food security, the economy, goods and services
i-a48147b23dac5e79-373	中 inclusive societies
i-a48147b23dac5e79-375	中 places that take full advantage of digital innovation 中 places with entrepreneurial, innovative and competent people 中 living places with efficient and accessible services 中 places of diversity 中 prevention and resilience to disasters and crises
i-a48147b23dac5e79-381	Long-term sustainable rural areas and stronger rural areas, including ensuring access to water, sanitation, healthcare, energy, transport, financial services, digital communication. We can certainly endorse this overall. But we also want to see what it will mean in concrete terms when the proposals come forward. The government states that it intends to take a position on each individual proposal as the Commission presents and concretises the proposals for measures. The government says that it should not go towards detailed management and administrative burdens. It's good, and it's important. We will follow up that this does not happen. We will follow very closely all the basic values with economic aspects and the burdens and administrative details we are concerned about. With this, we have put forward the critical points that we see taking roads in Brussels that are undesirable. At this level, we already want to be clear about the journey we are looking forward to making sure that countries' differences and knowledge and understanding of countries' own competence are taken into account before decisions are taken. With this, I would like to call for the approval of Motivation 1 written by the Moderates and the Christian Democrats.
i-a48147b23dac5e79-387	Mr. Old President! Between 1994 and 2002 I drove trucks in Europe. My job took me to Lapland in the north and the Mediterranean in the south. It took me to countries that we have long regarded as the West and countries to the East that have until recently been behind the Iron Curtain. For a few intense years, before Swedish haulage industry was completely outcompeted, I managed to drive a truck in more than 20 countries, all with their unique distinctiveness and charm. Before that, I had come home from a longer stay in Australia, a country on the other side of the world where I also took my first truck pass. It is a country that, with its vast and inaccessible outback in fact – despite the fact that it is so horribly far away and has such a very different climate and fauna – in some respects has more similarities with parts of Sweden's sparsely populated area than the countryside in many of our EU neighbours. I could start my week in Blekinge, take the ferry to Poland, drive through the Czech Republic and Slovakia to continue to Hungary to unload. Then the trip could go on to Croatia where I could pick up a load that I drove through Hungary, Austria and Germany before I unloaded it in Denmark. Once in Denmark I could pick up a new load, with a final destination in Finland. Often it was not so. Often it was about quick return trips from Sweden to countries such as Italy, Germany, France or the UK. Not infrequently it was stressful, and often it was monotonous. But one thing I can assure you is that I have seen all sorts of European landscapes roll by outside the truck cab in a way that I think few others in this House have done. It was instructive. I really learned to appreciate what the various countries had to offer, from winding serpentine roads in the vineyards' Italy to left-hand traffic routes between moors full of sheep in northern England, from the mountains of the Basque Country to a flat agricultural country in Denmark. The differences were, as you may understand, great, but similarities were not missing either. Although two decades of water have now run under the bridges since I was a foreign driver, I believe that the conditions and differences are similar to today. Mr. Old President! Where, then, do I want to bring this anecdote from my life? Well, Mr President-in-Office, it is the case that, like the Jönsson League, the EU has a plan, or rather a vision. It is a long-term vision that concerns the EU's rural areas. You might think that's a good thing, and a plan is actually better than nothing. At least this means that the challenges facing rural areas are on the agenda. So far, so good. But there are also question marks or rather objections, and hence our motivational reservation. The EU is a big one. The countries are different. Population density, history, geography and culture mean that we actually have different conditions. Yes, even within an elongated country like Sweden, conditions and challenges differ between rural areas in the north and south. I think it's important to affirm it. Therefore, such a product as the EU's vision for rural areas is slightly watered down and general. That is not a criticism in itself, but rather a statement. There are, however, parts of the vision that deserve criticism. Apart from the fact that the Swedish Democrats are opposed to the Commission's references to the social pillar, we also have reservations about, for example, wording relating to forests and natural resources. The Swedish Democrats are committed to national self-determination regarding the use of our forests and other natural resources. We also believe that welfare issues are something we should decide for ourselves, here in Sweden. That is why we believe that the wording of the European Pillar of Social Rights does not belong in a review of EU regional policy. We have also criticised the fact that in the vision too little importance is attached to the importance of the car and aviation in connecting the city and the country. Sweden is large, and in some places the distances are gigantic. The population base is in some places far from being realistic to rely on collective solutions. The flight is barely mentioned with a word in the vision, which I find strange. There is also far too little talk of the value of road infrastructure for the transport of people and goods in the EU's vision for rural areas. Consider that from places in northern Norrbotten, such as Abisko or Karesuando, it is almost 70 mil to the nearest Swedish university hospital. It is about as far as it is from Poland's northwest corner to the Ukrainian border in south-eastern Poland. For example, I do not believe that the conditions and conditions for people and businesses in rural Romania are the same as in rural areas in the Netherlands. In fact, I am absolutely convinced that the differences are great. The fact that the EU's vision speaks of preserving natural resources, restoring landscapes and creating rural areas that promote well-being gives the impression that it wants to turn rural areas into pure reserves or recreational parks for urban dwellers. That, if anything, is actually a little troubling. I hope that my concern is unjustified and that these are not the real intentions of the vision. The use of our natural resources and entrepreneurship in our rural areas is, in many places, an important part of creating the long value chains that form the basis for financing our welfare system. Similarly, the use of our natural resources is a prerequisite for creating opportunities for entrepreneurship and growth in our rural areas. This, if anything, is something that really promotes well-being. Mr. Old President! During my years as a driver, I loaded and unloaded many companies far from the crowds of big cities. It was companies that are unknown to many but that produce everything from sawn boards or meter-thick paper rolls to vehicle components or advanced parts to the manufacturing industry. Often they were amazed at what know-how and what skills are available in places you would otherwise never have visited. As a member of the Committee on Economic Affairs, one has a unique opportunity to get to know and establish contacts with companies in the country, far beyond SL's route map. Let me say that without people in our countryside we have no farmers, no foresters, no miners, no mountain guides and no operators in hydroelectric power stations. We have no country stations and no country shops – no living countryside. Rural conditions are therefore important and close to my heart. Much of what needs to be done to strengthen our Swedish countryside and create the conditions for regional growth is, in fact, our own control through decisions taken in this House. The fact that the EU then has a vision of strengthening the position of rural areas throughout the Union is, of course, not a bad thing in itself. That does not mean, however, that I share the view of everything in the document in question. Having said that, Mr President-in-Office, I would like to endorse the Swedish Democrats' motivational reservation 2 for the opinion of the Committee on Economic Affairs.
i-a48147b23dac5e79-407	Mr. Old President! I would like to begin by calling for the approval of Amendment No 3 from the Center Party. In the communication we are discussing, the Commission highlights the importance of rural areas for European lifestyles and notes that the social and economic changes of recent decades, such as globalisation and urbanisation, are changing the role and character of rural areas. An ageing population and a declining number of inhabitants lead to a erosion of infrastructure and the provision of essential services in rural areas, concerns about job losses, income reductions and constraints on transport and digital infrastructure. This EU Communication addresses a dozen points of view which are in themselves good, although they are very general and contain words such as potential, opportunities, participation, dynamism, inclusiveness, sustainability, innovation, digitalisation, accessibility and diversity. These are the words that should be in this type of document, but does it make any difference? Mr. Old President! The rural areas of Sweden as well as the rest of the EU show a wide variety of social, economic and environmental conditions. It is therefore justified to talk about different kinds of rural areas. We often talk about differences between municipalities, although we know that the difference within municipalities is often greater than between municipalities. The differences in conditions between different rural areas in Sweden are very large. But there are also common denominators for different rural areas, not least the challenges of sparse structures, long distances, limited access to local markets and demographic imbalances. These challenges affect the supply of public and private actors and services, such as healthcare, transport, culture and finance. Mr. Old President! As a centre party, I am sceptical that the EU has the ability and the right tools to solve all the different difficulties that exist in Sweden. I am not even sure that this House or the Government Office should overrule, but should hand over as much responsibility and resources as possible to the level where the citizens live, namely to the municipalities. The Center Party welcomes the Commission's initiative and communication on a long-term vision for the Union's rural areas. There are policy areas which we, too, consider to be particularly important to highlight, namely that decisions and measures relating to rural issues must include the fact that rural areas do not look alike everywhere. In Sweden, rural areas differ significantly, not least when it comes to distance and population. In this context, it is also important to emphasise that the transport opportunities are very different in Sweden. In some places there is not even a feature of public transport by train or bus, and for that reason car, truck and flight are important for living, living, operating and operating businesses in large parts of our country. Mr. Old President! The aim, of course, is for these transports to change and become more climate-friendly, but it must be undisputed that transport has an important role to play in Sweden, the EU's second most sparsely populated country. With regard to legislative proposals and other measures, we would like to stress the importance of reducing the level of detailed management from the EU, as the administrative burden is constantly increasing for both authorities and businesses. This hampers the development of regions and rural areas throughout the EU. In addition, it is important to emphasise that forestry policy should not be steered from the EU but should remain a national issue. Today, several proposals for action are on the table of the European Union, proposals which, by their design, will have a very negative impact on Swedish forestry. The proposals may be fundamentally good, but the detailed regulation proposed will do more harm than good. The overall processes I am talking about are the EU's Green Deal, the taxonomy proposals, the Farm to Fork strategy, Biodiversity Strategy and CAP, which in turn flows into the EU's forestry strategy, deforestation, nature restoration and Fit for 55, which contains LULUCF. This will reduce the amount of wood available that we need for the climate transition. We also have the Renewables Directive RED, which prevents us from using forest residues to make bioenergy. On this we put the taxonomy proposal, which proposes that forest bioenergy should not be a sustainable investment. With the different conditions in place, a common EU-wide solution to how forests should be managed cannot be found. The detailed regulation that the EU is about to implement is, from a Swedish perspective, bad for the climate, nature conservation and jobs. It is time for the government to stop protesting in the quiet way it has done so far. The government must hook arms with other forest countries in the EU and roar seriously. Now it must be over with the courtesys of Sweden – before it is too late!
i-a48147b23dac5e79-421	Mr. Old President! On behalf of the Christian Democrats, I would like to call for approval of the motivational reservation that we have together with the Moderates, reservation 1. The title of the report contains the beautiful word vision. Visions are important! This is how vision can be defined: A vision is something far greater than a goal. It should give a clear picture of where you are going and why. The vision paints a picture of what the individual or organization strives to be in a future that you have the courage and passion to believe in. Being able to deal with courage and passion in a report is a privilege. After all, however, it is important that the vision at least has some grounding to do with reality. There must be realism and a link with where we are today and the circumstances. Mr. Old President! When we talk about Sweden and the countryside, there are some given parameters that we cannot change – however visionary we want to be. Sweden is an extremely elongated country. The population is sparse in large parts of the country, and the conditions are different – just as our country's conditions are different compared to other EU countries' rural areas. There are, of course, rural areas in the Netherlands, for example, but as everyone understands, the Dutch heartland has different conditions from the Swedish one. It is therefore important that we remind ourselves of the Christian Democratic idea of subsidiarity, that is, that decisions should be taken at the lowest possible effective level. The EU Community should not govern but support and help the lower levels to fulfil their responsibilities. What can best be decided at national level should not be unnecessarily raised to the Community level in Brussels. What can it mean for us in Sweden in this particular report? Mr. Old President! It is not without my wanting to highlight the continued importance of the car. For example, the Commission refers to the road network and transport in the communication, but what I lack is precisely the importance of the car. This is particularly true for Sweden, where rural areas and particularly sparsely populated areas depend on the car. I have said this before, but it can be repeated, namely that it is not the transports we are going to chase away, it is the emissions. That is why, among other things, we Christian Democrats repeatedly raise the importance of the expansion of charging poles for trucks and cars. Electrification is one of the most important parts of the green transition. In this context, too, I would like to highlight the importance of rapid and reliable communications between major cities and sparsely populated areas, i.e. aviation. There we also see a future of electric aviation as a natural way of connecting the long distances. In addition, I would like to emphasise what should be considered reasonable fares in public transport. It is a matter for each country and not a matter for the EU to decide on. The development should not move towards detailed management, where we see, for example, wordings that suggest that the social pillar should be woven into rural policy. We do not think it belongs there. Mr. Old President! Another issue I would like to raise in this context is the Swedish forest, which we have heard several colleagues raise. The absolute demand from us is that we in Sweden must be able to control the future of forests, so that the greatest possible benefit can be achieved in terms of both climate and economic growth. An often overlooked factor in the forestry industry is the importance of Swedish peat. It deserves to be reminded that the forest plants that are planted each year do not come out of nowhere. They must be driven up, and then peat is a very great good. If we did not have the Swedish peat, the conditions for continuing Swedish forestry would be dramatically deteriorating. It is therefore extremely important to create a regulatory framework that allows continued use of peat as part of both forestry and horticulture. We are therefore opposed to measures relating to peat, which could mean that Sweden becomes dependent on importing peat from other countries outside the EU where sustainability requirements are unclear.
i-a48147b23dac5e79-433	Mr. Old President! As a new Member of Parliament, it is nice to be able to participate in the debate of the Committee on Economic Affairs. I would like to begin by calling for the Liberals' motivational reservation number 4 to be approved. First of all, I would like to say that it is very welcome to have launched a review, a vision, at European level to promote thriving rural regions throughout our European Union. It is a good start, and we look forward to what it can lead to. It is of the utmost importance that tax money in the Union is used as efficiently as possible in places where it is needed and where it makes the greatest possible use. At the same time, we shall demand a quid pro quo. Mr. Old President! We are a union. We belong together in a joint project, namely to create a better life for everyone no matter where we live. I would like to take the image of the EU as a wooden barrel. It is never possible to fill a wooden barrel to more than the shortest board in the barrel. I hope you see it in front of you. No matter how much water we try to pour into this barrel, it cannot be filled to more than the shortest length of the board. No matter how much we point out that parts of our country and other countries are flourishing, our Union can never be better than the part that fights the most. The Union as a whole benefits in the same way if all parts of it grow economically. Therefore, the financial contribution must be increased to investment in the poorest and most vulnerable parts of the Union. Investment should be directed towards projects with clear European added value, and this is best done with support that goes directly to the regional or local level. Mr. Old President! A few years ago, I got to know Andrei. Andrei is a boy who lives in the eastern part of the EU's countryside. He was then nine years old, and he had just lost his father in sickness. Andrei lived with her five siblings and mother in a shed built of overgrown building materials. The food was provided by a relief organization that had a soup kitchen a few days a week. The other days he looked for food wherever he could find it. This is the European Union, our Union, our wooden barrel that we want to fill. This is the reality in parts of our rural Europe. Through a Swedish aid organization, Andreis's family was given the opportunity to buy building materials with the help of collected funds. A church in the middle of the village in the countryside helped the children with schooling. A bunch of men from Småland went there and helped build a small house instead of the shed for the vulnerable family. The house was finished just before the cold winter arrived. Can you understand the joy I met in the eyes of my mother, who had now received a house, school for the children and help and support from the small church in the village? In rural areas there is entrepreneurial power and confidence in the future. It is the belief in every person's inherent power to change his situation. We see major challenges in our rural areas here in Sweden and in the EU. The challenges vary, but they are there, and they are very tangible. Mr. Old President! I wonder why our countryside does not bloom everywhere. Perhaps those who struggle are not quite able to raise their voices as well as in the cities. Not infrequently, it is precisely in our rural areas that discontent is growing and growing and there is an injustice that leads to mistrust of the democratic system. This usually places vulnerable and weak groups against each other. This is the heart of the European Union: democracy, peace-keeping, sticking together. Rural areas are an incredibly important element to protect, and therefore the heart of the European Union needs to keep beating. That is why the social pillar is also needed when we talk about rural areas. Our Swedish countryside has an incredibly proud history of commitment and association life. We have a civil society and a popular movement that we may often take for granted. Where municipalities are small and struggling, where no good sports arenas are built, where schools are closed and trains stop walking, where there is usually a viable association – perhaps a Scout Corps, a sports association or a small congregation. That is why we in the Liberals believe that it should be possible to provide EU support directly to those civil society organisations that are working to pursue the same line as the EU funds. This is to ensure that as many people in the EU as possible can contribute to ensuring that the whole of the EU stays together – including rural areas. The EU's social pillar sets out a set of minimum rights relating to school, unemployment insurance, health insurance, childcare and care for all citizens. This is to press for all Member States, regardless of their geography and countryside, to implement these necessary reforms. That is why we in the Liberals believe that the Commission could have had more focus, not less, on the exclusion that exists in the Union. The EU countries need to raise their eyes and perhaps not always look to their own in the first place in order to implement the vision of a common Europe in which all parts, including rural areas, stick together and have the same opportunities. Then I think especially of the children and the young.
i-a48147b23dac5e79-450	Mr. Old President! Today, we are debating the Commission's communication on a long-term vision for Europe's rural areas. I support the committee's proposal and reject the reservations. We welcome the proposal on the Commission's vision for the EU's rural areas. We note that this is in line with the objectives of Swedish rural policy and the food strategy and that the vision can contribute to the green transition. What we highlight is that it is important that the promotion measures proposed create added value for citizens and that they are adapted to local and regional needs. One of the most important things for Sweden's rural areas is that welfare works. If there is no care, school and care, it is difficult to live, live and work throughout Sweden. We simply need a stronger society, because we know that Sweden consists of many different rural areas. This is the case across the EU – there are many different rural areas. Detail regulation at EU level must be reduced, especially where national solutions are more effective, cost-effective and proportionate. The measures must also not lead to an increased administrative burden on authorities or businesses. We also want to see budgetary restraint. Proposals with budgetary implications shall be financed through re-priorities within the existing framework. Mr. Old President! The purpose of the Communication is to address the challenges and concerns related to the situation of rural areas. This by building on the opportunities created by the EU's green and digital transformation, but also by taking advantage of the lessons learned from the covid-19 pandemic. The aim is to find ways of improving the quality of life in rural areas, achieving development in all parts and stimulating economic growth and rural development. The Commission has identified a number of trends, challenges and opportunities for the different rural areas of the EU. On this basis, the Commission presents a long-term vision up to 2040. In this context, the Commission has identified four areas of action that provide a long-term vision for stronger, interconnected, resilient and prosperous rural areas in 2040. The common ambitions are summed up in ten points, which contain what they want rural areas to develop into. Mr. Old President! The overall objective of the coherent rural policy in Sweden is a viable rural area with a level playing field for entrepreneurship, work, housing and welfare that leads to long-term sustainable development throughout the country. To this we have linked three sub-objectives dealing with rural capacity, what rural areas contribute to and that rural areas should have a level playing field. The EU's rural vision includes this, and that is a good thing. But it is important to understand that Sweden's countryside is also different, just as the rest of the EU's countryside is different. The measures that fit in one place may not fit in another. At the same time, there are common denominators for different rural areas – not least the challenges arising from sparse structures, long distances, limited access to local markets and demographic imbalances. All of this affects the supply of both public and private actors in the form of, for example, health care, transport and culture. The government will take a position on each individual proposal at the pace of the Commission's presentation and implementation of the proposals and measures. The most important thing is that they do not lead to detailed management of Swedish authorities' activities or to increased administration for authorities or companies. The proposals will of course be financed within the existing framework. Mr. Old President! Furthermore, we stress that measures must be effective and adapted to local and regional needs and, as I said earlier, create added value for citizens. We do not want detailed regulation at European level that affects us when national solutions are better and more cost-effective. Forest policy is an area in which we believe that national competence should govern. Forestry is a cornerstone of the transition to a fossil-free society to create jobs and sustainable growth throughout Sweden. The forest is located in rural areas, and the forest programme is important for promoting sustainable, competitive and bio-based industries based on the forest. It is also important that the EU regulatory framework allows small-scale food production. Mr. Old President! Investments in rural areas are important and have been done by the government in recent years. With this vision, we can shift those efforts even more. For example, we can speed up the digital development, which has taken major steps now during the pandemic. We must, of course, continue to ride that wave. The government spends 1.4 billion on broadband in next year's budget. This is really important for Sweden's rural areas. The government is making and will make major efforts to ensure that the whole country stays together.
i-a48147b23dac5e79-466	Mr. Old President! We are debating the opinion of the Committee on Economic Affairs, which is actually the European Commission's communication on a long-term vision for the EU's rural areas. Mr President-in-Office, I would like to start by making it clear that I think we have a consensus in all parties on many issues. Then it's unclear– I think this barrel sometimes leaks at the bottom even when we start, but that's another thing. The committee has examined the Commission's communication on a long-term vision of the EU's rural areas for stronger, interconnected, resilient and prosperous rural areas by 2040 and proposes that the Parliament include the opinion. What does the communication say about opportunities and visions for Swedish rural areas, for example? Among other things, mention is made of the food strategy and that the vision has the potential to contribute to the green recovery. In addition, the committee highlights in particular the importance of promotion measures that create added value for citizens and are adapted to local and regional needs. All of this is perfectly okay, and we can all sign the visions. In addition, the committee argues that detailed regulation at EU level must be avoided where national solutions are more effective, cost-effective and proportionate. Furthermore, measures must not lead to increased administration or to a burden on authorities or businesses. The committee also advocates budgetary restraint, and proposals with budgetary implications should always be financed by re-prioritising within the existing framework. However, we have heard this before, and we know where it usually lands. The government welcomes the vision of stronger, interconnected, resilient and prosperous rural areas by 2040. Certainly, there are similarities and lessons that we can build on as regards the interconnection of rural areas, and here the Left Party has agreed with the Government's proposal to add the statement to the documents. In a Tornedal song that I think you should all learn, for it is fun, it is sung about what unites two brotherland more than it separates us. They mean villages and towns located on both sides of the border in Tornedalen. But, Mr President-in-Office, I am afraid that in this case the risk is obvious that there are far more things that separate rural areas than that unite them. Only in our own country can the challenges and conditions for our rural areas differ enormously. It is therefore a matter of the government taking a position on each individual proposal as the Commission presents and implements proposals for measures. What feels reasonably good and hopeful in what has been lifted from the government's side is that equal conditions should be given to rural areas so that they contribute to strengthening Sweden's competitiveness in a development towards a circular, bio-based and fossil-free economy and to sustainable use of natural resources and to the fulfilment of relevant environmental quality objectives. It is therefore a question of a level playing field for people to live and live in all rural areas – fully in line. What made the decision for me and the Left Party and made us not start to work on a motive reservation was that the committee now chooses to lift small-scale food production as something that really should focus more on national solutions. However, I often see the EU's common agricultural policy there as something that actually hampers the opportunities that we could otherwise have. The same applies to clarifications about national self-determination about our forestry policy, which has been discussed several times. Mr. Old President! Let me take just one example. We can compare France with Sweden. France is 633 000 square kilometres, and Sweden is 450 000 square kilometres. Sweden is 70% covered by forests and France 12%. In its forestry strategy, the EU wants countries to give up 30% in favour of biodiversity. All good – the important thing is, of course, that biodiversity is protected and developed. But here comes the question, colleagues: Why are the endangered species of France so much wiser than our Swedish? In France, 22 000 square kilometres of endangered forest species need protection, but in Sweden 95 000 square kilometres are needed. Mr. Old President! What do I want to say about this? Well, we cannot let the EU decide how we work with sustainable forestry and biodiversity, because the conditions and opportunities are completely different not only between but also within countries. I'm not going to go into the number of species and their location, but I could pick that off. This already distinguishes between northern and southern Sweden, where we do not get the money right. I want to say with determination that national competence will provide solutions for both biodiversity and sustainable forestry, but then I assume that both the forest industry and environmental movements sit down and design plans based on independent research and experience built up for decades by actors who have worked closely with the issues – and I mean actually from both camps, if I can now call them that and label them.
i-a48147b23dac5e79-478	Mr. Old President! We are discussing a long-term vision of the EU's rural areas for stronger, interconnected, resilient and prosperous rural areas by 2040. Sweden has a comprehensive rural policy that is fully in line with the EU's vision for rural areas. The vision clearly contributes to the green transition. In the introduction of the vision, Ursula von der Leyen is quoted, and she says: The diversity of landscapes, culture and cultural heritage is one of the most distinctive and remarkable features of Europe. They are a central part of our identity and economic potential. We will look after and preserve the countryside and invest in its future. ..................................................... I think these are pretty good words, and I am absolutely convinced that we in the Swedish Parliament can sign on to this. When we talk about interconnected, resilient and prosperous rural areas, I'm going to focus on resilience. According to the Commission, preserving natural resources, restoring landscapes and greening agriculture is central to creating rural areas that promote well-being and that are more resilient to climate change, natural disasters and economic crises. The Commission also points out that it is important to shorten supply chains. This means that more local production is important. It is also important to promote varied forestry and agriculture that is more environmentally friendly and that promotes carbon storage and local production of high quality. Rural areas provide services that protect ecosystems and climate adaptation solutions. Rural areas have an important role to play in combating climate change and in creating a sustainable bioeconomy and a circular economy. Climate policy and many other policy areas are therefore increasingly drawing attention to the need for climate change to be fairer. The promotion of rural life is probably an extremely important part of having an effective climate policy. I think that we in the Swedish Parliament need to think much more about it. We have a national centre for food crafts in Sweden, Eldrimner. Eldrimner had his annual meeting last week, Sarimner. The theme of this year's meeting was resilience. Mathantverket's resilience, i.e. the long-term ability of a system to manage changes and continue to develop, can be described in three parts: 中 Perseverance, i.e. the ability to hold on to what you already have. 中 Adaptability. The adaptability of small food businesses during the pandemic has been very much tested, and many such examples were mentioned. 中 Changeability, that is, the ability to change into something that is getting better. Resilience is a fairly new concept, but it fits very well into food crafts. The seminar also began with an introduction to the concept of Line Gordon, who is head of the Stockholm Resilience Centre. I will not go into all the things she raised, but one thing that I find very interesting was that there have now been resilience analyses of Swedish farms, including Jannelund's farm in Örebro County. It provides a good basis for us in politics when it comes to working on the concept of resilience. The Commission also believes that prosperous rural areas are achieved by creating added value in agriculture and in the food sector. Organic farming and sustainable development in agriculture are considered to be extremely important. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy's report highlights in particular the importance of promoting measures of various kinds to create added value for citizens and to be adapted to local and regional needs. As my committee colleagues have said here before, we also want to avoid excessive administrative burden, of course. Mr. Old President! All debates on the EU are forest debates. EU Environment Commissioner Virginijus Sinkevičius came to Parliament, but we did not invite him. He invited himself and wanted to meet the Environment and Agriculture Committee in June, the same day that he would also meet the Prime Minister, the forest industry and many other important actors in Sweden. The Environment Commissioner pointed out that the bare-cut forestry we have in Sweden can contribute in part to harming the EU's climate work and biodiversity. I think it is extremely important that we listen to the European Commissioner for the Environment, but also that we are active in the dialogue with the European Commission on forestry issues. All parties agree that we should have a national forestry policy. I am also convinced that all parties agree that the EU should continue to have a climate and a policy for the environment and for biodiversity – possibly with the exception of Birger Lahti, who did not think we should have a policy for biodiversity. I am extremely concerned about what the Moderates point out in their reservation about strengthening competitiveness. The dairies often say you want to cut your tails. That is to say, the group of dairy farmers with the lowest profitability will no longer deliver to the dairies. No group has contributed more to efficiency and modernisation than agriculture, but it has gone to such a level that the specialisation also turns into a structural change involving the closure of Swedish agriculture. The closure of farms is not news, but it continues despite the fact that we have a food strategy that says that we want more agriculture and more farms in Sweden. The farmers' organisations are also pushing for greater structural change and increased competitiveness. I sometimes wonder why. I believe that we need a strengthened food strategy that more clearly addresses how we can develop Swedish agriculture and Swedish agriculture in accordance with the vision that the EU has now put forward for the rural area. Mr. Old President! I would like to conclude with a quote from Po Tidholm, who wrote the book Situation in the Country a few years ago. Now the situation in the country may be a little different from when he wrote his book. Today we see that there is an exodus in many of the country's different rural areas. He writes that the rural population needs to feel involved in the modern project, which is where we need to get to. ..................................................... Several of my colleagues have spoken here today about many of the modern projects linked to climate change, not least electric cars. I believe that the electric car can be an engine for creating greater involvement of the rural population as well. On behalf of the Green Party, I would like to point out that we need to rethink the question of the electric car and the countryside, because the electric car is very good for rural areas. You don't even have to go to a gas station to refuel; you do it at home. The cost of fuel is about $2 miles (U.S.). It is extremely beneficial, and we must make it even more beneficial for those living in rural and sparsely populated areas to buy both used and new electric cars. Therefore, we from the Green Party are now proposing a rural bonus linked to bonus malus to get this development going.
i-a48147b23dac5e79-503	Mr. Old President! My question goes to Mr Gardfjell, of course, because she quoted me a little in the speech. I never said that I think biodiversity is not important. But I said that we are not meeting right with the EU's forestry policy on biodiversity. It sounds a little like the Green Party would agree that Swedish forestry policy is a national matter. I took the example of France and Sweden. I know that there are redlisted species on what are called hot spots, where they are significantly more threatened than the species we have in Sweden. Nevertheless, it is worth pointing out that 30% is what is needed to protect biodiversity. I could never say that biodiversity is not important and that we can only run over the species. I do not think anyone wants that, because we do not know what is needed in medical research or anything else in the future. But I would like to ask Maria Gardfjell: Is it right to do what is done in France? According to the Commission, four times less of their forest species are needed to cope with biodiversity than is needed in Sweden. I can't get it together. Why is it so important to listen to the Commission when it comes to biodiversity? That was the example I took. I'd be happy to wait for answers.
i-a48147b23dac5e79-508	Mr. Old President! Many thanks for the question, Birger Lahti! This really is something that needs to be discussed more. After all, the EU has a climate and biodiversity policy. Although we have a national forestry policy, the EU's environmental and climate policy will of course affect Swedish forestry policy. Then we need to adapt our forestry policy so that we can live up to the ambitions that exist to protect biodiversity. This is an interesting example that Birger Lahti cites. It is about comparing France with Sweden. 70% of our country is forest. In large parts of Sweden there are still valuable natural areas in the forest, not least along the mountain chain. That is something we want to preserve. But it is then a very interesting question why France would have to set aside less areas than Sweden. Yes, it is partly about France having destroyed many of its natural values for longer than Sweden. Maybe you don't have as many natural values left. Environmental work is about protecting the biodiversity that we actually have here and now. Sometimes this is the case: if you eradicate species or habitats, they will no longer exist.
i-a48147b23dac5e79-513	Mr. Old President! Thank you for the answer so far, Maria Gardfjell! You didn't really answer what I asked you about. There are forested red-listed species also in France. With the European Commission's approach to this, only quantity will determine what we need. We do not even meet right in Sweden with that ambition. What does it help that we leave 30 percent and protect everything in northern Sweden when there are considerably more species in the belt that we call northwest Sweden, which many want to protect completely? We do not meet right even if we would achieve 30% in the country if everything is located in northern Sweden. There are considerably more species in southern Sweden. It is noble leaf forests and natural pastures where there are other species than in northern Sweden. It will be a bit the same if you compare France and Sweden when it comes to which species need to be protected and to what extent. I just want to point that out to Maria Gardfjell. Biodiversity is absolutely important, and we will fix it in Sweden. But to resort to a Commission where quantity has been identified as an objective to achieve this will only be wrong. That is why I say that it will not then be national competence that will ensure that we manage the forest so that we can manage both biodiversity and production that means that we have long-lasting products from the forest, which is the goal, as I have heard from most parties.
i-a48147b23dac5e79-517	Mr. Old President! I'm incredibly concerned. I know that many people in Sweden see the Left Party as a party that thinks environmental issues are important. But here Birger Lahti is in the speaker's chair and clearly points out that the Left Party does not want the EU to pursue environmental policy and work on the basis of international agreements on biodiversity. I think it's tragic. I also think it is a pity that Birger Lahti is not more familiar with the work that is now taking place within the EU on the biodiversity strategy on the efforts to be made with regard to nature protection. It is not yet established exactly what the strategy will look like, but it is absolutely the case that we in Sweden and the government now, with a clear policy, point out that the protection of Sweden's nature is extremely important. Otherwise, we would not have invested as much in the state budget as we have now done with a triple of the money pool. It is absolutely the case that we need to protect the forests along the mountain chain, which is a coherent area of international value for biodiversity, while protecting the valuable forests of southern Sweden, central Sweden and other parts of northern Sweden. In fact, this is the first time that the government has presented a budget that creates the conditions for it.
