i-d7866810a675b8e7-2	Madam President, I would like David Josefsson has asked me if I am prepared to set up an investigation to clarify the responsibility for climate protection of vulnerable cities such as Gothenburg. The risk of natural disasters is expected to increase in a changing climate. It is important that Sweden has a good ability to prevent and manage natural disasters. Responsibility for the protection of property lies primarily with the owner of the property. It provides a driving force to avoid building in hazardous areas and to take appropriate protective measures. This applies to all property owners and to individuals and companies as well as local and state authorities. The question of burden-sharing is complex. Several studies have been set up on this, and it is not obvious that a new investigation will provide the answers that are being asked. D is why I would first like to see the results of the missions that have been given as a result of the Government's national climate adaptation strategy, which was adopted in 2018. The Government has a high ambition for work on climate adaptation, and there is a lot of work going on at both municipal and regional as well as state level. State coordination has increased significantly as a result of the proposals of the national strategy. This brings great benefits for municipalities, for example, who can benefit from more and better decision-making documents developed by state authorities. An addition has been made to the Planning and Construction Act, so that the municipalities in the master plan will assess risks due to the impact of climate change on the built environment. The county administrative boards shall support municipalities with evidence and knowledge. As David Josefsson notes, some areas in Sweden are more vulnerable. The area along the Göta River has been considered to be the area in Sweden where the risks for race andslides are greatest. Therefore, the Government is making special efforts to protect that area by climate. The government has also recently decided on a higher level of support, which means that the municipalities around the Göta river can now receive grants for the entire cost of fraud insurance. In May, the State Geotechnical Institute and the Swedish Civil Protection Agency will report on a government mission to identify risk areas for race,slides, erosion and flooding that are climate-related. This shall take into account, inter alia, the impact on socially important activities. MSB plays an important role in climate-proofing cities through its task of promoting prevention of natural disasters. The MSB is responsible for the implementation of the EU's directives in close cooperation with the county administrative boards. Gothenburg is part of the areas in Sweden with significant flood risk identified under the Directive. For these areas, the county administrative boards have developed risk management maps and plans. In 2018, Boverket was commissioned to be the coordinating authority for climate adaptation in relation to new and existing buildings. They support municipalities in their planning to prevent extreme weather events and natural disasters. A commonly agreed priority for the cooperating authorities in the context of this mission is precisely the question of responsibility and funding. In order to get a comprehensive picture of society's vulnerability to climate change and how the work on climate adaptation in Sweden is developing, the government has also established a national expert council for climate adaptation linked to SMHI. The Council's basis shall be the basis for the revised national climate adaptation strategy to be presented by the Government in 2023. The need for climate adaptation in the future will be affected by decisions we are taking today on emission reductions. As David Josefsson states, the costs can be very large. The Government has high ambitions in line with our climate law and the goal that Sweden should not have net greenhouse gas emissions to the atmosphere by 2045.
i-d7866810a675b8e7-14	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. Anyone who has read about Gothenburg's history knows that the city is originally built in a swamp. With the help of Dutch engineers, the land could be drained and the blocks spread between the harbour canals during the 17th century. What not quite as many people know is that also the river in many ways is built by human hand. Actually it was the Nordre River that was the main road from the sea up into the river. The part of the river that runs through central Gothenburg was from the beginning closest to swamp land, covered with wide reed belts. So what the Dutch engineers did when the city was built was as much to create navigable water as to create buildable land. Hundreds of years of dredging have since fortified the river's stretch. This is also one of the reasons why the city today is extremely exposed to climate change. What has historically been Gothenburg's lifeblood, the river and the harbour, risks becoming our greatest danger in the future. A city built in a swamp presents challenges. When extreme weather is becoming more frequent, there is also an increased risk that Gothenburg can sometimes end up under water. Madam President, I would like The fact that Gothenburg is particularly vulnerable is due to the fact that three factors interact. As storms pull in from the sea, the sea's waters are pushed up to land, while the flow from the river is increasing. The water level increases from two directions. Add to it a persistent rain that now has nowhere to go, as the storehouses that the river makes up are already full. Therefore, the city of Gothenburg needs to be climate-proofed at very high costs – up to 30 billion, the municipality assesses. The financial responsibility for these costs is rather unclear. The Government has previously referred to individual property owners and municipalities. This is also what the Government begins with in its interpellation response. That is the easy answer, Madam President. However, as the Government states, the issue is complex, and the state also has a responsibility, for example through state authorities responsible for important infrastructure. The measures that the Government mentions that the Government has taken are absolutely positive. But the consequences of floods in extreme weather in Gothenburg may be at a significantly worse level than, for example, collapse or erosion, even if these risks are in no way to be minimized. The Government also refers to the national climate adaptation strategy and the missions that come from it. The problem is, as I see it, Madam President, that the government in the national strategy states that it should be individual property owners and municipalities that are mainly responsible for the measures, which in Gothenburg does not apply in view of both the scale of the measures and the consequences of floods. That strategy simply does not answer the specific question. That is why I believe that a special and dedicated investigation should be set up, an investigation that looks at how the financial responsibility could look like for measures of the size class required in Gothenburg. In my view, it is not reasonable to believe that individual property owners, together with the City of Gothenburg, can finance or implement such measures alone. Therefore, the Government is encouraged to clarify what tasks within the framework of the national climate adaptation strategy he refers to. What answers do we get to the question of financing responsibility in Gothenburg, for example?
i-d7866810a675b8e7-23	Madam President, I would like I thank David Josefsson for the interpellation. I welcome Moderates' interest in climate adaptation issues. That is not something I have noted before, so it is welcome to wake up to the risks of climate change for our country but also for the whole world. As David Josefsson points out, the consequences and risks are very great. The costs will be dramatic for the world. That is why the government has been so committed to climate change adaptation issues. Unfortunately, the red-green government came to a government office where there was really no work at all. We had to start a lot from the beginning. We have done the same, and we have taken great steps forward. I would say that we are well ahead in tackling the issue of adaptation to climate change. It is about developing knowledge and preparing ourselves so that we know what needs to be done and where the major risk areas are located. It's hard to act if you don't have knowledge in your back. We have developed a national strategy. We have much better national coordination, which is also needed because the risks are not evenly distributed across the country but different in different parts of the country. We have tightened up the legislation, such as the Planning and Construction Act, to point out and point out that there is a responsible authority, Boverket, and the county boards that are responsible for helping municipalities and regions with the work that they have to do. This also applies to property owners, who ultimately have a responsibility for their properties. You can't get away from it. That is what the legislation we have today is like. We have also gone into concrete action. We have ensured that we devote money, resources, to remedy the most vulnerable areas. As David Josefsson well knows, Götaälvdalen is located in close proximity to Gothenburg. What happens up in the river also affects Gothenburg. According to our experts, this is where we know that the risks to race and scrambling are greatest. Should a big wreck occur in Göta River it will affect everything that then happens downstream. It starts with the water quality in Gothenburg, which would be a rather dramatic effect. This could lead to significant costs. But it can also have other consequences for all downstream parts. It is therefore important that we begin to address this. We have set aside a great deal more funds there. There is 215 million for action. We have now also given more generous support so that you can get cover for the entire cost of making adaptation measures to reduce the risk of debris and race in the Göta River. Let's move on. We have given a mission to the State Geotechnical Institute and the Swedish Civil Protection Agency to identify risk areas for climate-related breeds,slides, erosions and also floods, which is what the interpellation is all about. There you should also look at how important social activities are affected. It is important to develop data and knowledge in order to then be able to act on that knowledge. We have set aside money that the municipalities can use for planning. We have also set aside money via MSB to provide direct payments to the municipalities. There is no doubt that this government has done more than any previous government to adapt Sweden to climate change. But it's a big job. Neither the municipalities, the regions, the state nor the property owners will be able to do everything. We need to work together in order to move forward. I will, of course, give this issue a headway. It's very crucial. That is why we have already done so much, and that is why we will continue to work actively with climate adaptation of Sweden.
i-d7866810a675b8e7-33	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. But I asked for an answer to the question: what is the answer in the national strategy to the problem of Gothenburg? I fully agree with the Minister about the discussion about Göta River and the problems it causes downstream in Gothenburg. But my question is really about: What is happening upstream in Göta River with the problems in Gothenburg? Let me elaborate on that a little bit. As we experience increasingly extreme weather conditions, Gothenburg faces a worst case scenario where three factors interact. You could say that it will be a perfect storm. What happens in such a worst case scenario, in addition to the obvious fact that the central parts of Sweden's second largest city are being flooded, is, for example, what impact it has on the backland infrastructure around Sweden's largest port. Directly adjacent to the river are three European roads in Gothenburg. There are also several railway connections, including the Port Railway and Marieholmsbroarna. It is the railway route that is perhaps the most important in the whole country for the supply of goods. The consequence is not only that tens of thousands or perhaps hundreds of thousands of people are directly affected both in Gothenburg and in the villages further up the river valley by floods. This also means that the supply of goods is at risk of being disrupted in a critical situation. It can be observed that social costs are enormous in such a scenario. To transfer responsibility for preventing this to an individual municipality or property owner is, Madam President, not to take these problems very seriously. These are measures that end up at a completely different level from securing existing buildings or new constructions. I would say that the city of Gothenburg is at the forefront of such climate protection. Among other things, the city's quays are continuously renovated and raised. In the urban development plans that exist for the so-called central Älvstaden, climate protection is a natural part. But that is not what this issue is about. This is about far more radical measures than that. Perhaps the greatest need that the city of Gothenburg sees is the so-called storm gates at the mouth of the river just outside Älvsborgsbron. It is a measure or a technical installation that is not only to protect Gothenburg but also to protect upstream so that the river is not flooded. Storm ports do not exist today in Sweden. But it is a solution that exists, among other things, in Dutch Rotterdam. It is simply a technical device that prevents the influx of the sea into the river in extreme weather conditions. Just like when Gothenburg was built, we are now looking at Dutch engineering to find solutions to our problems. Maybe it's an irony of fate. Storm ports are estimated to cost up to SEK 15 billion. It cannot by definition be imposed on an individual property owner. Nor is it an investment that the City of Gothenburg has the opportunity to take on its own. It is also not fair that the City of Gothenburg should take that cost. It doesn't make sense. Basically, it is not a local issue. It's a national issue. Madam President, I would like It is also not an issue on which there should be any political disagreement. The Government's party partner from Gothenburg, Anna Sibinska, has been working well in the Riksdag to get exactly what I am asking today. It is a report on the financial responsibility for the climate protection of Gothenburg. In an article in Gothenburg-Posten from 7 October last year Sibinska is interviewed about this. In the article, she also says that the division of responsibilities must be investigated urgently and that the state must go in and take part of the cost. It will be a bit of an irony of fate again if there is an environmental-partisan climate minister who says a stop to an environmental-partisan proposal.
i-d7866810a675b8e7-45	Madam President, I would like I think that David Josefsson heard very clearly in my speech that I am not saying a stop to climate adaptation measures. On the contrary, the government has put in the highest gear when it comes to adaptation to climate change. It is because we know perhaps more than anyone how great the risks of the changed climate are that we are now entering. We have significantly increased funding for direct climate adaptation measures that will be important, but also for municipalities and regions in general. Of course, it is also a prerequisite for being able to do your work locally. Due to the extreme efforts made by the government, we also have a record surplus in municipalities and regions at present. This is welcome because it can just be used to prepare for future risks. With the tone I hear from David Josefsson – which is welcome, as it shows commitment – one could expect the Moderates to have prioritised this issue. But if you look at the Moderate Budget Movement, you can see that there is no more than one crown for climate adaptation than is in the Government's proposal. Here we need to work together to increase knowledge. That's exactly what the government does. We have knowledge that shows that Götaälvdalen is a particular risk area, and there we also make direct efforts. Madam President, I would like I think that with the commitment shown by David Josefsson, one could expect a little more involvement from the Moderates in reducing risks overall. At the end of the day, it is about reducing emissions and climate impact. No matter how much technical solutions we find in the form of lock gates or other measures, the problems will only increase as we worsen the climate and the more we move into the climate disaster. Madam President, I would like It states that the Moderates have, in principle, opposed any proposal put forward by the government to reduce climate emissions. It has been resisted, stopped and stopped. Of course, this has made it more difficult to move forward. Let us remember that when we pushed the airline tax through, the Moderates threatened, among other things, the removal of government ministers. In principle, the government would be convicted of stopping aircraft from also paying for its climate impact. When we decided that coal that is fired in combined heat and power plants in Sweden will pay for the climate impact it has, the Moderates were opposed. But that decision has now led to a significant reduction in emissions in Sweden from the heating and energy sector. It will, of course, reduce the problems that may arise in the future. The Green Party achieved through the government's action that the emissions trading system in the EU would be tightened up. This has led to a significant increase in the cost of emitting carbon dioxide. This is now leading to the closure of coal power throughout Europe. At that time, the Moderates and the party group to which the Moderates belong in the European Parliament were opposed to it and wanted to stop the proposal. There is point after point where one can show that the Moderates' actions and words are not interrelated. If you are committed and want to combat climate change that leads to disastrous consequences for municipalities such as Gothenburg, but also for the rest of Sweden and the rest of the world, you also need to show a little commitment to actually address the problems at source, i.e. to reduce emissions that lead to climate change. There we are still waiting with great excitement for the Moderates' commitment. As I said, we have already made a large number of efforts. We have also ensured that we now gain better knowledge through an expert council for climate adaptation linked to SMHI that will be able to help us develop measures to secure Gothenburg, but also many other cities. It is important to remember that this is not just about a single city in which we can make a point-by-point effort. There are large areas with a large population in Sweden that are exposed to flood risks. We also have many other climate events that will be able to affect us extremely much with global heat waves and the like that can affect and increase death rates. We therefore need a general and wide-ranging work here.
i-d7866810a675b8e7-59	Madam President, I would like I note that the Government is not answering my question at all this time, so I will have to ask it again: what is specific in the strategy that answers the questions about Gothenburg? We can have a general debate on climate policy. We note that the Government says that the Moderates don't spend a penny more than the government on climate action. But we don't put a penny less either. We're on level. We can say no to your placard policy. We say no to plastic bag taxes, for example, because we are pursuing a climate policy that actually makes a difference. That is also what the Climate Policy Council says. They note that the government's climate policy is not working. They highlight a number of proposals, including the conversion of industry, which is precisely what the Moderates are pushing. But that is not the issue today. The question today is whether the Government understands how special the issue of a climate safer Gothenburg is. I certainly do not doubt the Government's willingness to address the issue, but sometimes I wonder how much you understand the situation. It's not just a matter of scrambling, race or erosion. It is a major problem, but this problem has been addressed by both the government and the municipality and individual property owners. As I said: Do you understand the consequences of such a situation for Gothenburg – for tens of thousands and hundreds of thousands of inhabitants in Gothenburg and in the river valley, but also for Sweden as a country? What does it mean if, for example, the backland infrastructure for the port of Gothenburg is destroyed? What does it mean for urban development if, apart from around quays, you can't secure up with storm gates at Göta River? These are the questions I want answers to. The Government will very much want to make long speeches on climate policy; we can take that debate. But today I want answers to the questions: Is the Government listening in Gothenburg? Does the Minister understand Gothenburg's problems? And is the government prepared to set up an investigation to sort out these issues? These are things that are about decades to come. We don't need the money now, but we have to share the responsibility now.
i-d7866810a675b8e7-65	Madam President, I would like I have answered David Josefsson's questions very clearly. We have added a large number of investigations and with them as support also made a large number of changes to really tighten up Sweden's climate adaptation work radically, compared to the almost zero condition that prevailed before the Red Green Government entered the Government Office. Then there was no commitment or work for climate adaptation to talk about. But it is clear that the work to combat the climate disaster is also a work to adapt to climate change. These two things are connected. If you don't understand it, you also don't understand how you can counteract risks such as those that Gothenburg now faces. David Josefsson also shows his ignorance by linking the work against littering by reducing the use of plastic bags with this. It is not a climate action but a measure to reduce the problems of litter that we have. I would really like us to be able to get traction help from the Moderates in both of these jobs – both in terms of climate adaptation and in terms of reducing the need for climate adaptation, that is to say, actually reducing the climate disaster. Unfortunately, we see no support there, but only a counter-worker on the part of the Moderates. On the other hand, it is gratifying that the policy implemented by the government actually has positive effects in both parts. We are making greater efforts than ever for the adaptation of Sweden to climate change, and we are also making greater efforts than ever – and larger than any other country in the world – to reduce emissions. It also leads to effects. Last year, emissions in Sweden from the trading sector, which is industry and energy, decreased by 12 per cent. It was partly as a result of the pandemic, but much as a result of the measures taken by the government. This involves, among other things, charging a price of carbon dioxide from heating and combined heat and power plants, which the Moderates opposed because they wanted to continue burning coal in these power plants in Sweden. We will continue to work from the government to produce all the data we need in order to be able to adapt the whole of Sweden to climate change, and Gothenburg is also included.
i-d7866810a675b8e7-72	Madam President, I would like First of all, Staffan Eklöf has asked me how much of the EU's sea basins consist of shallows and seabanks and how much would be exploited if the European Commission's plans were implemented. Secondly, he has asked: now that there are so many uncertainties about the impact on biodiversity, is it consistent with the precautionary principle to increase the expansion thirtyfold and exploit such a large part of existing foundations and offshore banks? Thirdly, he has asked whether I will support such exploitation. Fourthly, he has asked whether I will act to ensure that the expansion is done with caution and with sufficient scientific evidence with regard to adverse effects on species before decisions are taken, and that the effects are monitored after decisions and that wind turbines are dismantled if major negative effects on species appear. The Government welcomes the European Commission's strategy for offshore renewable energy, which aims to ensure that offshore renewable energy can contribute to achieving the EU's ambitious energy and climate goals. The expansion of offshore wind energy is deemed necessary to meet the energy and climate policy objectives as well as future increasing electricity needs and efficient electricity grid development. Regardless of the proportion of shallows and sea basins that make up the EU sea basin, these marine habitats have important habitats for many species. I share the view that these environments are important as refugiers, foraging areas and rejuvenation sites. Several of the offshore banks and other basic areas are covered by site protection, not only in Sweden but also in other Member States, partly because these habitats are covered by the EU Species and Habitats Directive. The technological development of offshore wind power has been rapid in recent years, and it is now possible to build on greater depths than in the past. Among other things, floating platforms for sea base d wind power on the march. It is therefore possible to establish wind power also in places other than shallows and offshore banks. The expansion of offshore wind power is being tested, depending on where in the marine area wind power plants are planned, according to the environmental code or law one on Sweden's economic zone. In both cases, an assessment of whether the project in question is likely to have significant environmental impacts shall be carried out before the permit assessment is carried out. If the project is deemed to involve it, the operator shall carry out a specific environmental assessment. This includes the implementation of a consultation process and the production of an environmental impact assessment. Before any authorisation is granted, the assessment authority shall then ensure, inter alia, that a planned wind farm has an appropriate location, that the best available techniques are used and that appropriate and sufficient safeguards are taken to address any adverse effects on the environment. Authorisations also normally include requirements for control programmes to monitor the relevant environmental impacts during the operational phase. The impact on species and habitats shall be assessed on a case-by-case basis. However, in general, areas sensitive to marine species and habitats shall be avoided in the case of offshore establishment. H strip-based e wind turbines can also have positive effects on biodiversity. For example, the concrete foundations of the erken can serve as artificial reefs with a build-up of mussels or algae that can attract both invertebrates, fish and marine mammals. Within the Government Office, proposals for national sea plans for Sweden are currently being prepared for the Government's decision. The purpose of the marine plans is to contribute to long-term sustainable development. The plans shall integrate economic, social and environmental objectives. They shall also contribute to the achievement and maintenance of good environmental status in the marine environment and the sustainable use of marine resources in order to develop marine related industries. H the plans will provide guidance to authorities and municipalities in the planning and testing of claims for use of the areas covered by the plans, so that the areas can be used for the purpose or purposes for which they are most suitable, taking into account the nature, location and needs of the areas concerned. The plans shall also promote co-existence between different activities and uses. In marine plans, areas where energy extraction is deemed to be the most appropriate use will be identified.
i-d7866810a675b8e7-84	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. This is a strategy proposed by the European Commission and welcomed by the current government. According to it, today's 12 gigawatts of offshore wind are to be increased to 60 gigawatts in 2030 and 300 gigawatts in 2050 – five and almost thirty times more than today, respectively, plus an awfully large cable network. It is therefore a question of transforming the marine environment and of exploiting untouched environments whose like history has not seen. The European Commission defends exploitation from an environmental point of view in its document with one single argument: that it is only about 3% of the sea surface. The same only argument is copied in the government's memo: As it is today, wind turbines are only built on relatively shallow foundations, and they should not represent more than 3% of the sea surface. So you're going to build all the shallow bottoms? There are a large number of reports of adverse effects on biodiversity of wind power. These are dead eagles, falcons and other birds, migratory bats, and perhaps even insects. Other species shun the works and must leave their spawning areas. This is just an ax. Ocean-based wind power also affects fish behaviour. Stockholm University has shown that the sound generated when a park is built can disturb and even kill fish. Disruptions of important biological functions can occur at a distance. Even during operation, sound from wind turbines can spread and stress the fish. There are very large gaps in knowledge. Research has shown that most migratory birds of prey on their way south or north pass a few bottlenecks in the landscape, such as North Kvarken and Falsterbo. Wind power in these places poses a great risk to these species. What kind of environments are we talking about when we talk about shallows and seabanks? The UN Conference on Biological Diversity (COP 14) identified nine areas as the most important biological areas of the Baltic Sea. One of the areas includes three of the four large offshore banks of the Baltic Sea. The banks are shallow areas that are far from the coast and are vital for certain species. Some are already Natura 2000 sites. Some of the areas are almost unaffected by man, according to the Maritime and Water Authority. A large offshore bank, Södra Midsjöbanken, is now being tested for wind power expansion. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency advises against this; the government has not decided. Sometimes the risk to different species is dismissed by their locality. But the project we are discussing here is intended to build parks like this soon to be built everywhere. It is precisely the scale of the project that is the problem. Is it really sensible to build wind turbines on almost all foundations in the EU and Sweden? There is considerable uncertainty about the impact on biodiversity. Shouldn't we be careful? Should we not do the roll-out in small steps and monitor the effects of each step before we take the next step? It's hard to back up. The Minister says that there is now an opportunity to build wind power in other places than shallows and seabanks. However, the European Commission does not believe in its strategy that floating wind turbines will be available for commercial production until after 2030. This means that at least five times more bottom-fixed wind turbines can be built. Both Sweden and other EU countries have already built many foundations, so the question is whether the foundation ends by 2030. If the Minister is right, and perhaps he is, in that it is possible to build in places other than shallows and seabanks, that is very good news. But then there is really no reason to build in these biologically rich environments. Every wind turbine that is being built on a foundation from now on is, in that case, unnecessary environmental damage, such as the Södra Midsjöbanken. Let us hope that the responsible authorities will listen to this debate.
i-d7866810a675b8e7-95	Madam President, I would like I thank Staffan Eklöf for a very welcome debate. I am pleased that we can have a discussion on biodiversity and its importance. I can admit that I have lacked the commitment of the Parliament when the Green Party has pushed those issues, so it is amazing that we can raise interest in them. I also hope that this commitment will spread to more areas than just resistance to wind power. I haven't seen that yet, but we'll see if it shows up too. It is incredibly important that we protect the seas as a habitat. The oceans are an important part of mankind, and mankind's needs are largely covered by what the oceans produce. It is about billions of people around the world who depend on protein from the oceans. We also know that there are major threats to the marine habitat. It is about climate change, which we know affects the seas to an extremely large extent, both by heating and by the fact that carbon dioxide itself leads to acidification that affects the habitat of very many species. There are also many other risks, such as overfishing. It is about plastic litter, where there is a very worrying development. If we continue this development, we will have more plastic than fish in the oceans in just a few decades. This is a development that the government is very strongly fighting against. We have been an international champion of the marine environment, not least under Isabella Lövin's leadership as Minister of the Environment. I'm very proud of that. It is important to remember that environmental policy must have an overall picture. You can't just look at each individual issue separately. We know that wind power is of enormous importance in reducing the use of coal and fossil energy in the EU at all. The exploitation and development that we have now seen not least in Sweden, where wind power is growing enormously fast, allows us to export a record amount of electricity that replaces both lignite and coal in Europe and thus also reduces Europe's climate impact very significantly. In that comparison, I would say that climate change and its effects on the marine environment are probably a greater challenge than wind power expansion at sea. Staffan Eklöf is trying to make it possible for wind turbines to be built everywhere. It's very far from the truth. It is very large sea areas that exist both around Sweden and in the EU, and no one has proposed that the entire marine environment or shallow bottoms should be built everywhere. It is also very easy to look at how the government has acted on these issues. Staffan Eklöf himself can go in and see that the government has repeatedly said no to offshore wind power exploitation, precisely on the grounds that it is particularly sensitive areas and species that need to be protected and that it actually takes precedence in some cases. At the same time, the government will continue to be a strong advocate and champion of the renewable energy law. Unfortunately, in this struggle, we miss the Swedish Democrats. On the contrary, the passion of the Swedish democrats seems to be about opposing renewable energy in all its forms, not least wind power. It is difficult to get away from the suspicion, Madam President, that the commitment to wind power in reality is only about Sweden's democrats' love for nuclear power and that one sees the fantastic expansion that is now taking place of renewable energy in Sweden and in Europe as a threat to nuclear power development. In that case, I agree with Staffan Eklöf. Renewable energy is the cheapest, fastest-to-exploited energy which also makes both fossil energy and nuclear energy unprofitable. That is where our policy is linked, that is to say, the fight for biodiversity and climate change. Unfortunately, we miss it from the Swedish Democrats.
i-d7866810a675b8e7-105	Madam President, I would like First of all, I will correct a few questions following the Minister's speech. The Minister has not seen the Swedish Democrats' commitment to biodiversity in areas other than wind power. I can then say that his predecessor has seen it. Then the question was whether it would be an exaggeration that it is a question of building wind turbines everywhere. The crux of the matter is how much of the EU's and Sweden's sea surface is grounded. If you are now to build 3 percent of the sea surface and only 3 percent of the sea surface is shallow, it becomes all the foundations that are built. Then there was the issue of renewable energy and climate change. We take the climate issue very seriously. We invest half a billion more than the government in technology development for renewable energy. It spreads myths and myths, both in the Chamber and outside the Chamber. Let us look at the examination of permits, which is important, and the link with the strategy that is being translated into decisions within the European Union. Indeed, the existing proposal for sea plans identifies areas for the wind industry. But these are almost always just shallow and lake banks with rich and sensitive environments. In truth, it is not the richest and most sensitive environments that are identified, such as Måkläppen and Norra Midsjöbanken. But it is a sad journey if only these remain. Moreover, it is not certain that these will remain. Demands for five or even thirty times more wind power than today – and we already have quite a lot today – will of course affect the assessment of the authorities. They're supposed to take into account the needs that exist. It's in their instructions. With EU decisions, there will be a much greater need for offshore wind turbines. In short, the calculation does not go together with five or thirty times more wind power and at the same time protect sensitive habitats. It only does so if you manage to develop liquid wind power, which would be very positive. It is true, as the Minister said in his reply, that wind power and species will be able to coexist. As far as we know, it will work for many species – at least through some adjustments, which the Minister also addressed, as well as the fact that some species may even benefit. But it is true of any change in habitats that certain species are favoured and others are disadvantaged, for example when you make a bare skin or urbanise. But, and it's a rule of thumb in biology, often it's about species that are generalists. The rare species that live in distinctive environments and that are specialized are often ironed on the foot. One example is that already a wind power exploitation of Södra Midsjöbanken would jeopardise the alfågel's survival status. Alfågeln shuns wind turbines and is completely dependent on offshore banks for survival during the winter. There, a large part of northern Europe's populations overwinter, not just Sweden. Construction on the offshore bank may also be the nail in the coffin for the Baltic porpoise population. There's a lot that's not known. I mentioned a number of examples in my first speech, but there are others. You just scratch the surface. Then it is unreasonable to decide on a gigantic expansion today, is it not? Can we not wait for the technology for floating wind turbines and invest in this technology development? The minister says it's close. When else should the precautionary principle be used?
i-d7866810a675b8e7-114	Madam President, I would like The precautionary principle has been a cornerstone of environmental policy for decades and also of course in the work of the Green Party. That is also the principle we are working on. That is why our commitment to combating climate change will never fail, but we will continue to fight to take every step needed to reduce our climate impact. It cannot be avoided that climate change, or the climate disaster that we are about to enter, will also have a dramatic impact on the seas. Whatever Staffan Eklöf says, we lack the voice of the Swedish democrats in this matter. The lack of interest shown by the Swedish Democrats over the years in the climate issue has been fatal and has often made it difficult to reduce the impact of climate change. The Swedish democrats' melody has been rather an overall climate denial rather than actually taking the fight seriously that it deserves. It is important to point out that what Staffan Eklöf is asking for has already been acted upon, including with the precautionary principle as a base bolt, i.e. that when we have seen that there has been a risk that species that are threatened could risk being adversely affected by the expansion of wind power, the government has acted and said no. For example, it is about porpoises, which Staffan Eklöf talked about. I myself am a trained marine biologist and have a great deal of commitment to the marine environment. One could say that it was marine environmental issues that brought me into politics from the start. Of course, I and this government will always put marine environmental issues first. That's what we're doing, too. That is also why, among other things, we are so actively fighting to increase the scope for renewable energy production, which is a must for us to reduce the use of fossil fuels which are a huge threat to the development of the whole world but, which is important to remember, also poses a threat to the seas and the many different species that Staffan Eklöf highlights in his interpellation and speeches. I think it is always welcome to have a commitment to biodiversity, but somewhere politics must also be connected. As far as the Swedish Democrats are concerned, it is easy to say that it does not. Staffan Eklöf himself mentions the kalhyggen as an example. Where is the Swedish Democrats' commitment to more sustainable forestry? This has not been stated, as I have seen in any case, but, on the contrary, it is a champion of continuing with forestry, which leads to many forest species being threatened. As far as predator management is concerned, it is the same. When it comes to funding for protection of a valuable nature, such as the marine environment, the Swedish Democrats are the force in parliament that wants to make major cuts, i.e. they want to cut back on the money that goes to protect the most valuable land and sea areas. There, the Red-Green Government has acted forcefully and brought about a dramatic change. At present, 14 per cent of the marine areas around Sweden are protected in the form of marine reserves. I would like to see the commitment of the Swedish democrats propagated to other areas than just to combat wind power. For example, we have now agreed to stop bottom trawling in protected areas. We know that bottom trawling has a dramatic effect on biodiversity, and in many cases it destroys species and habitats for species, such as the species that Staffan Eklöf highlights. Can we count on the commitment of the Swedish democrats to this issue so that we get support in stopping bottom trawling? We know that it has a dramatic effect on biodiversity. Unfortunately, I do not dare to count on it, because I can see that the policy of the Swedish Democrats is not connected. We do not want to do what is necessary to create a sustainable environment and achieve our environmental objectives on land and at sea.
i-d7866810a675b8e7-123	Madam President, I would like Yes, we have a commitment, but it is a commitment based on realism. Much of what the Minister says is very good, but something is very sad, and these are the myths about the Swedish Democrats, for example that we would be climate-denial. That's wrong. It's about different strategies. The fact that the minister doesn't see it is actually a little scary. If the EU is falling and China doubles its increases, it does not matter with the EU's reductions. Technology development is at the heart of the solution. There we can get a global exchange. We have supported such initiatives and said no to inefficient initiatives proposed by the government. Wind power has become popular and got a good stamp, and then you take it all the way from your toes. The result is a lottery about the environment that is likely to have environmental impacts for an incalculable future. It's a gigantic biological experiment. That's what we're reacting to. Who knows if hiking patterns of eel, herring and cod are being moved by these industrial establishments? Careful progress is better. Is the Minister prepared to risk the destruction of the environment, and why? Swedish electricity production is almost fossil-free already today. Is it about nuclear power going away? Is it that bad? What if this is an environmental scandal on the rise? I appeal to Mr Per Bolund: do not make this mistake! Do not endanger marine biodiversity for a very uncertain climate benefit.
i-d7866810a675b8e7-129	Madam President, I would like I can at once reassure Staffan Eklöf that the Green Party and the Red Green Government are the strongest champion of the marine environment that Sweden has ever seen. There is no government that has done near the efforts that we have made in Sweden and internationally to protect the marine environment. I hope that the Swedish Democrats will continue to show commitment and be an active party to this work. That is not what we have been able to see through history, unfortunately. There is no reason to stand here and mislead the Swedish people on this issue, but it has been an active counter-work by the Swedish Democrats in principle in all environmental issues in terms of both climate work and biodiversity. We see that there is an opportunity to combine this and use the oceans as a source of clean, renewable energy, which both Sweden and the world need. Even now, the production we have got in place, with the resistance of the Swedish Democrats, means that we can replace many, many tons of emissions from coal power plants. It is, according to some estimates, 12 million tonnes of coal power in Central Europe that we can replace by exporting green electricity from Sweden. There are now proposals for sea plans from the Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management to indicate that it may be up to 31 terawatt hours further in annual electricity production. It will in itself be able to replace even more harmful coal power in Central Europe. This is a development that the Swedish Democrats should welcome if, as Staffan Eklöf pretends, they are really involved in the climate issue. Instead, we see that the Swedish democrats' habit continues to be faithful to putting their heels on the ground and preventing, stopping, obstructing and delaying climate policy and environmental policy. It will not lead to either a sustainable world or to the purposes that Staffan Eklöf highlights in his interpellation. On the contrary, it will be much more difficult to achieve the targets that the government has set for biodiversity with the work of the Swedish Democrats.
i-d7866810a675b8e7-134	Madam President, I would like Cecilie Tenfjord Toftby has asked Minister Märta Stenevi if she intends to work for a proposal that will enable existing housing to be converted into owner-occupied apartments and work for the government to set up an investigation into a rental purchase system according to Parliament's announcement. The interpellation has been handed over to me. The Government has taken many measures to increase housing construction and to ensure access to different types of housing. Since the government took office in 2014, housing construction has increased sharply. In 2019, 90 per cent more dwellings were completed than in 2014. This is due, among other things, to the government's investment aid. 45 000 homes have been granted investment aid. It is housing with lower rent that is provided with reasonable demands on the applicant's finances. The Government has also commissioned a special investigator to propose measures to facilitate first-time buyers to enter the owned housing market. Following the Riksdag's announcement on owner-occupied apartments and rentals, the Ministry of Justice held a follow-up consultation meeting on the issues with some of the market players in November 2020. There is no common definition of what a rental purchase of a dwelling means. The consultation meeting also did not express a clear interest in a model where part of the rent is a partial payment of a future purchase of the apartment. On the contrary, concerns were raised as to how the security of the tenant paying in advance could be met by such a model. In the 2014 report From rental right to ownership, submit their proposals to enable existing rental apartments to be converted into owner-occupied apartments. However, several consultation bodies questioned the need for reform. Following the consultation meeting, it can be concluded that there is also no real interest in owner-occupied apartments on the market today. One reason for this is that the right-of-occupancy is a well-established form of housing for those who can and want to invest in their housing. The views expressed by stakeholders at the consultation meeting are currently being analysed within the Government Office.
i-d7866810a675b8e7-140	Madam President, I would like I must thank Minister Morgan Johansson for his answer. However, it does not contain any indication that the Government intends to live up to the announcement addressed by the Riksdag to the Government in spring 2016 – that is, five years ago – to return with a proposal that will make it possible to convert rental apartments in blocks of flats into owner-occupied apartments. The Swedish Parliament has also issued an announcement to the government to investigate the rental purchase system. Since 2016, the Government has not taken any more significant preparatory measures to meet the Riksdag, unless we include the only meeting that, according to Minister Morgan Johansson, has been held in the context of the Riksdag's announcement on owner-occupied apartments and rent purchases, the Ministry of Justice held a follow-up consultation meeting on the issues with some of the actors in the market in November 2020. ..................................................... In accordance with the proposal in the Committee on Civil Liberties's report of 2020/21, Parliament has now again announced to the government that it should come back with proposals that will enable existing housing to be converted into owner-occupied housing and that a rental purchase system should be investigated. Madam President, I would like Since the Government's answer does not answer my question if the Government intends to follow Parliament's repeated announcements, I ask again: Does the Government intend to work for a proposal that will make it possible to convert existing housing into owner-occupied apartments and work for the Government to set up an investigation into a rental purchase system, according to Parliament's repeated announcements?
i-d7866810a675b8e7-144	Madam President, I would like After all, there has been a debate, which has been held by the Prime Minister in particular. He talks about democracy being threatened if the Social Democrats do not have government power. But what could be a greater threat to democracy than a government that does not follow Parliament's orders, will and announcements? This is a typical example of this. The Swedish Parliament has said that we want to give more people the opportunity to own their home. That's the point. Therefore, the Riksdag has given the Government a direct order in broad agreement: Get a proposal, and come back with a bill! Why is this issue so important, Madam President? Well, there are a number of people who haven't scrambling money into an effort to buy an apartment. There are a number of young people who do not have rich parents. There are a number of young people who should be given the opportunity to own their dwelling. In other countries there are systems for that. There you can move into a rental apartment, for which you pay your rent every month. After maybe 15 years, you have two possibilities. One means that you continue to rent as usual. The second means that the owner of the property says:. Now, Lars Beckman, you get the opportunity to own your apartment, and part of the rent you have paid each month goes to your bet. So there is a system. It seems, however, that the Social Democrats hate that people should be able to own their homes. Discussions are being held on the reintroduction of property tax, which would push older people away from their properties. It would also make it impossible for young people to buy housing. It wants to reintroduce the amortisation requirement in the autumn, which would mean that even fewer people will have the opportunity to buy and own their home. We can look at how young people want to live. There are well-defined surveys, such as the Youth Barometer, which have asked young people how they want to live in the future. There we see that most of Sweden's young people actually want to live in a villa. The second most common is that you want to own your dwelling, i.e. the right-of-occupancy apartment. Rent purchases could be a model for removing the threshold in order to own their accommodation. It is a model that would enable people who come from families who do not have the capital input needed to buy a home. Madam President, I would like It is extremely surprising that in six years, as Mrs Cecilie said, the government has not managed to get more than one meeting. It's a direct rude answer. It is a rude response to all young people who want to own their housing. It is a rude response to the Swedish parliament, to the 349 MPs who are democratically elected and who have sent a signal to the government in an announcement. Madam President, I would like It threatens democracy when the government does not follow Parliament's will, when the government acts in a way that is incompatible with our fine democracy. The question asked deserves an answer. When will the government follow Parliament's announcement? And why do the Social Democrats not want young people to own their homes?
i-d7866810a675b8e7-151	Madam President, I would like I want to thank Cecilie Tenfjord Toftby for a good and relevant interpellation. Just as Lars Beckman mentioned recently, the Swedish Prime Minister said in a rather famous media play that democracy is in danger unless he is re-elected as Prime Minister. But the discussion of our constitutional democracy is more pressing than the Prime Minister's view of the outcome of the next free and universal elections. Basically, this interpellation debate is about our form of government and the relationship between the elected parliament and the government. Is it, Madam President, the parliamentary will that will govern the work of the government? Or are parliamentary announcements only freely chosen work for the government to follow when one so pleases and ignores when it does not fit? Five years ago, the Riksdag decided on two announcements. One was to make it possible to convert existing dwellings into owner-occupied apartments. The second was about investigating a rental purchase system. It happened five years ago. Since then, literally nothing has happened. When Parliament discussed the report on rental rights from the Committee on Civil Liberties earlier this year, it therefore adopted two new announcements with the same meaning. It is distressing that the question whether the Government intends to follow those announcements at all needs to be asked. At the same time history shows that the question is highly relevant, for the answer is not given. In the debate on the report on rental rights on 11 February this year, the environmentalist Member who took part in the debate said why nothing has happened that there are other issues that should be given priority in this area in view of the situation on the housing market. The Minister for Justice's party partner went even further and said that a rather meaningless circus is to keep making announcements. A rather meaningless circus, Madam President. I'm sorry if I'm upset, but what we're talking about here is respect for democracy. respect for the constitutional process; Respect for the work that is being done in this House, in this pulpit, on these benches. You can see these comments from the government parties in two ways, Madam President. The benevolent way is to note that these Members were extremely crowded in the debate. They were set to defend that the government has remained completely passive for five years. Then the wording yviga and the answers become rather questionable. The second way of looking at the comments is that they may reflect a real view of the democracy of the government's parties – that it is actually considered that the Riksdag's announcements are freely chosen work and that the views of the Riksdag and the elected representatives are not what the government should prioritise in its work. In fact, one might think that it is a meaningless circus that the Riksdag is doing when it issues announcements. My question to Minister of Justice Morgan Johansson is very simple: does the Minister of Justice share the view of his party colleague that it is a meaningless circus that Parliament is doing when it issues announcements?
i-d7866810a675b8e7-162	Madam President, I would like We can begin with the question of the principle of parliamentary democracy. It works in this way, and has always done so, that the Swedish Government is on mandate from the Riksdag. That is how it works in a parliamentary democracy. Then there is the possibility of minority governments in Sweden, which means that from time to time there can be majorities on individual issues in relation to the government. Then the government will have to deal with them, and that's what you do when you handle the announcements. The duty that we in the government have in relation to the announcements is to report regularly to the Riksdag how we handle them. We also fulfil this duty every year in a separate letter to Parliament and also in interpellation debates such as this one, but also in the activities that we have in the respective areas. We have dealt with these announcements as well. That is to say, after the announcements we have contacted the industry and seen if there is any interest in this type of activity, for this type of legislative change. Is that a priority? I can only say that the contacts we have had show that there is no interest in this. You can't whip a dead horse, Madam President. If there is no interest in this kind of reform, then the Moderates must reasonably be able to take on board the argument that there may be other things in this area that are more important. Am I surprised that there is no interest in this on the part of the industry? No, actually, I'm not. It turned out when the Moderates pushed through legislation on owner-occupied apartments that there was a complete flop. They did so in new form in 2009, and since 2009, very few owner-occupied apartments have been built, almost none at all. I think we are now up to 2,100 out of a total of 2,3 million apartments on the Swedish housing market. It is therefore less than 1 per mille which consists of owner-occupied apartments. Even when you pushed through the reform, there was no interest whatsoever in this in practice. I think the Moderates, too, must take it to heart. Now you want to take one more step and say, "Okay, you don't want to build new owner apartments." There's no interest in that. But then you might want to transform rental apartments into owner-occupied apartments. Now that's what you're into. My answer to that question is that what Sweden now needs is not fewer rental apartments. There are more rental apartments. It is precisely in this way that needs are met, such as by youths and people who do not have large fortunes at the bank or rich parents. For them, it is important that there are rental apartments to rent. It is also my answer to Lars Beckman, who is trying to speak for these young people when he is in fact in favour of a policy that is quite the opposite. If you sell out the rental apartments, if you reduce the stock of rental apartments, then also the availability of rental apartments will decrease. Then there will be less opportunities for those who do not have a fortune in the bank or rich parents to leave home. Here there is an ideological conflict on the substance of the matter. That's it. When we go in with major investment aid – we have almost doubled housing construction during our term of office as a result of investment aid with government money – we are investing in building rental rights so that also those people who do not have large wealth and income can manage to move away from home. It has been very fortunate – as I said, we have doubled the construction of housing during our term of office. The latest figure, from 2019, is 55 000 dwellings of which almost half are rented. That investment support wants the Moderates to remove. This would mean a manslaughter battle against housing construction in Sweden.
i-d7866810a675b8e7-173	Madam President, I would like Yes, Minister Morgan Johansson is happy to talk about what the government has done. But he has a great deal to do with the responsibility that the government actually has to comply with Parliament's announcements. This indicates a lack of respect for Parliament, Madam President, and I find it very unworthy. There is no interest in converting rental rights into owner-occupied apartments, Minister Johansson defends himself with and refers to a conversation with some parts of the industry. There is also no interest in rent purchases, the Government continues. Instead, he highlights concerns that emerged at what appears to be the only meeting the government has endeavoured to carry out in response to the announcement. On the basis of what exists and does not know what a particular proposal will contain, it is only natural to raise concerns. It is on the government's table to come up with a proposal that addresses the challenges that the industry claims to see and highlight the benefits that the possibility of converting rentals into owner-occupied apartments actually offers, benefits that, among others, my colleague Lars Beckman highlights. If the Government lacks an answer to why a conversion of rental rights to owner-occupied apartments is positive or why rent purchases is an opportunity for people to enter the market for owned dwellings, he can take part in the following writing in Moderates' housing policy exercise: . Re-organisation from right-of-occupancy to right-of-occupancy or owner-occupied apartment means an opportunity for residents to gain greater influence over their housing. This also means that it is possible to obtain relatively quickly more owned dwellings in areas that are currently dominated by rental rights and where the market conditions for new production of residential units or owner-occupied apartments are small. Enabling larger parts of owned housing in areas dominated by rental rights also means that people who live there today do not have to move out of the area in order to start their housing career, which promotes the social composition of society. ..................................................... Rent purchase, Madam President, is a collective concept for different models, which means that a household initially rents a dwelling for the purpose of eventually owning it. Hire purchases are a very widespread and frequent business deal in the purchase or rental of movable property, but this is still very rare in the case of renting and selling of dwellings. Madam President, I would like The work done by Minister Morgan Johansson and the Government to produce a proposal following the announcement of the Riksdag is minimal, almost non-existent. The Government Morgan Johansson himself highlights the annual letter 75, which shows how the Government handles the Riksdag's announcements; it came this week. There we could read that at the earliest in spring 2022 we can expect a proposal on the conversion of rental rights into owner-occupied apartments and a study on rental purchases. It is therefore at the earliest six years after the decision was taken by Parliament here in this Chamber. I therefore wonder, Madam President: does Minister Johansson consider six years, a meeting and an analysis by the Government Office to be a reasonable handling of parliamentary announcements?
i-d7866810a675b8e7-182	Madam President, I would like I would first like to agree with Minister Morgan Johansson. I am absolutely convinced that this is an ideological issue. We Moderates protect all forms of housing: tenancy, right-of-occupancy, owner-occupied apartments, villas, free-time residences – you name it. The Social Democrats, on the other hand, seem to be on the hot chase against those who want to own their housing. I think it is deeply worrying that leading social democrats, ministers of state to Morgan Johansson, want to reintroduce the hateful property tax. But it's purely ideological. I share that view – it is ideology. But, Madam President, for me it is incomprehensible why a socialist does not want to give people the opportunity to own their homes but wants to deprive those who come from less well-off families of the opportunity to actually own their homes. If I don't have money for a cash transaction, I can move into a rental agreement with a monthly cost, and after 15 to 20 years I get two choices: either continue renting exactly as usual, although many say it's a poverty trap for someone who has lived in a rental agreement for the rest of his life, or get to own my accommodation and use part of each month's payment as a capital contribution. That is what this model looks like, Madam President. But this is ideology. Morgan Johansson and his socialist friends don't want people to own their homes. Why not? I can understand that the Tenants' Association is campaigning against this, and it is perhaps one of the actors that Morgan Johansson met on the coffee rope who did not think that owner apartments are a good idea. That is not clear from the answer. But, Madam President, the question remains: why do socialists not want people to own their homes?
i-d7866810a675b8e7-187	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. This interpellation debate is not really about rental systems or owner-occupied apartments, because that debate has already been settled. It was decided in February in this House, when a large majority in Parliament addressed two announcements to the government. And it was decided before then, in 2016, when the Riksdag also addressed two announcements to the government, which it has not yet handled. This debate is about respect for our democracy, about respect for the work of this House, about whether Parliament's announcements are for the government to follow, Madam President, or whether they are freely chosen work, to give priority if it is appropriate. It is about whether the work of the Riksdag is, as the Minister for Justice's party colleague put it, a rather meaningless circus or not. In the February debate, the representatives of the government parties could have apologized for the slowness of the government and noted that there would now be a change. In the debate today, the Minister of Justice would have noted that the Government is of course following Parliament's announcements and that work to investigate rental purchasing systems and amended legislation on owner-occupied apartments should begin as soon as possible. The Minister of Justice would have noted that the work of the Riksdag is not, of course, a meaningless circus and reject all such statements. We're not there. The Prime Minister says in SVT that democracy is in danger if he is not allowed to remain. I wonder, Madam President, whether the danger to parliamentary work is more pressing than that.
i-d7866810a675b8e7-191	The interpellation is about rent purchase and conversion to owner-occupied apartments, as the interpeller has marked.
i-d7866810a675b8e7-192	Madam President, I would like It's actually an important mark. One hears that the Moderates want to raise this to some kind of general discussion of the principle of democracy. I think it is because the Moderates are simply overwhelmed by that discussion when we are now going to settle with the Swedish Democrats and take the support of them, as the idea is for the next parliamentary term. Then you can't really handle that discussion here and want to transfer focus elsewhere. No, the constitutional part is ready for announcements. The Government's duty is to regularly report to the Riksdag how we handle announcements. That is exactly what we are doing in the annual letter, and we have done so with regard to this announcement as well. On the substance of the matter, we say that the problem for the Moderates is that there is no interest in owner-occupied apartments. Not only did this come to light at the consultation meeting, but it also shows the reality. The Moderates introduced this possibility in 2009; it was ten years ago. Since then, it has been built minimally with owner-occupied apartments. If there had been a huge interest in the industry and among consumers in this form of housing, tens of thousands of owner-occupied apartments would have been well built. But that is not the case, so far 2 100 have been built in ten years. There is nothing to prevent the industry from building owner-occupied apartments. This can be done at any time after the reform, but there is therefore no interest. Even less is the interest in converting from rental to owner-occupied apartment. I have nothing against any forms of accommodation. I have lived in a rental apartment, a right-of-occupancy apartment and a villa myself, and all three forms of accommodation have worked very well. But there must be a balance for this. With their policy, the Moderates had directed a manslaughter battle against the tenancy estates. What Sweden needs now is not fewer but more rental apartments. That is why we have designed the investment aid in such a way that we have now pushed for the construction of more rental apartments than for many years. This is the way many who have low incomes and lack large wealth in the bank can use to move away from home. Thus, when it comes to rental purchases, there is no proper definition of how a rental purchasing system could be designed. But what I understand from how you describe the rental purchase system should be based on that the landlord in some way acts as a bank for the tenant. Lars Beckman nods. Think about that for a second. The landlord should save the tenant's money for ten or fifteen years, and then, after ten or fifteen years, the tenant should be able to withdraw the money and use it to buy his rental apartment. What happens if the landlord goes bankrupt or fails? So, what's with the tenant's money? Where will they go? Normal banking is a fairly high standard. It's supposed to be nice relationships, and you're supposed to be able to take advantage of people's money. But what would happen if the landlord failed? Where does the tenant's money end up? They're probably burning inside. These are the kind of issues you have to think about before just saying that you should set up such a system. Of course, I don't mind people buying their apartments at all. I've done it myself, and even bought a villa. However, we still need to have secure forms for those who make these major investments. That is why I believe that there are many concerns to be resolved before entering such a system.
i-d7866810a675b8e7-200	Madam President, I would like This debate became much more fundamental and much more important than I could have thought, even though I knew this was important. This is an extremely important debate! Now we have listened to a number of speeches from Minister Morgan Johansson, where he spent more time telling us about other things the government has done and about defaming other parties' policies than actually answering the question. Now he mentioned that interest in the Moderate proposal is low. Yes, but the Moderates do not have their own majority in the Swedish Parliament. It was not the Moderates who directed the announcement to the government twice over. There was a majority in the Swedish Parliament consisting of a number of parties. Of course, it would have been great if the Moderates had had their own majority, but we have not. So this is not the announcement of the Moderates. That is Parliament's announcement, Madam President. Morgan Johansson criticizes the idea behind rentals and thinks it is indefinable. Yes, of course. That is why the Government will investigate, define and propose according to the mandate given to it by the Riksdag in the announcement. This is a matter, Madam President, which is not only important for the actual case of owner-occupied apartments and rentals. This has principled bearing. This is about the government's respect for Parliament's announcements. Madam President, I would like I am very disappointed in the way in which it is handled. I am also very saddened by the government's disrespectful attitude towards the Swedish Parliament. It shouldn't have to take at least six years. Preparation must consist of more than one meeting. And the government actually has to follow Parliament's announcements, not only what concerns this matter, but all the announcements addressed to the government by the Riksdag.
i-d7866810a675b8e7-206	Madam President, I would like The government handles this announcement just like all other announcements, that is, we report regularly to the Riksdag how we act. We do so on this issue too. Here we have had the consultation meetings that we have had. It emerges, as we thought, that there is little interest in this industry. Had there been an interest in owner-occupied apartments, owner-occupied apartments would have been built. But that's not happening. So there is little interest in it. Then the Moderates cannot really figure out what they mean by rent purchase and what to do if the kind of situation that I just described arises. The idea, as I understand it, is to pay a higher rent for 10 to 15 years. And the money should be put away by the landlord so that the tenant can then buy the apartment. So the idea is that the landlord should act as a bank for the tenant. I point to the great risk of that. If it is that I have money left over, which I can save for a future home purchase, I might as well go to the bank with that money and save it there. At the bank, they're safe. I know then that I can get the money out when I need to buy my apartment. I don't understand why the landlord should be given the role of bank in this way. Actually, I think it's a very uncertain model for the tenant. This must be taken into account. The Moderates have not answered the question: What if the landlord fails and the money is suddenly gone? What should you do as a tenant? If the Moderates were to take over housing policy, we know that two things would happen. One thing is that housing would collapse. This has been the case every time the Moderates have taken over housing policy. Then housing construction has fallen dramatically. This is because the money is being deducted from housing construction. The second thing is to sell out rentals. That's what you really want here: to transform rental rights into owner-occupied apartments. This will make it worse for those with low incomes to manage their housing.
i-d7866810a675b8e7-212	Madam President, I would like Boriana Åberg has asked me what conclusions I draw from the data in a research report that shows that the majority of men convicted of rape have an immigrant background. Furthermore, Boriana Åberg has asked me what measures I intend to take to ensure that all women enjoy the security that is laid down in the said article as a right for everyone. The fact that people with foreign background are over-represented in crime is known for a long time. We also know that the people with foreign background who commit crimes represent a very small proportion of all people with foreign background in our country. The important thing for me is to ensure that the crimes are combated and to have effective penalties against those who commit them. This applies regardless of whether the person was born in Sweden or in any other country. We also know, from the studies of the Council of Crime Prevention and other studies, that people who are in socio-economic vulnerability are more at risk of committing crime and of being subjected to crime. Factors such as lack of labour market participation, lower income, lower school outcomes and precarious housing conditions can affect individuals' tendency to commit crime. These factors contribute to the overrepresentation of foreign-born persons in crime. It is therefore important to continue to combat both crime and the causes of crime. The government has reformed sexual crime legislation, and Sweden now has the most stringent legislation we have ever had. The Crime Prevention Council has carried out a follow-up which shows that the legislative changes have had an effect. The number of convictions increased by 75 per cent as early as the year after the legislative changes came into force, compared with the previous year. So I'm talking about rape sentences. The Government has also commissioned a special investigator to review, among other things, the scale of penalties for sexual offences and make suggestions for any changes that may be needed to adequately reflect the seriousness of the crimes. When someone who is not a Swedish citizen is guilty of serious or repeated crime in Sweden, it must be possible to decide on expulsion. The government has therefore commissioned a special investigator to review the rules on expulsions due to crime. The investigator shall make proposals on how to achieve a more stringent regulation that provides for the possibility of expelling foreigners who commit crimes in more cases than at present and making the enforcement of such expulsion decisions more effective. A key issue for reducing crime and increasing security in the short and long term throughout Sweden is to significantly increase the number of police employees. The number of employees at the Swedish Police Authority had increased by nearly 5 500 since the start of the initiative in 2016. To combat crime and increase security, long-term and structured crime prevention work involving the whole of society is needed, especially in those areas where insecurity is greatest. During the last term of office, the government developed a new national crime prevention programme – Together against crime. The implementation of the crime prevention programme has contributed to the fact that there are now better conditions for structured and long-term crime prevention work in society. In December 2020, the Government gave the National Board of Health and Welfare a mandate to distribute state grants for social interventions in the areas defined by the Swedish Police Authority as vulnerable areas. The investment amounts to SEK 250 million per year from 2021 to 2023. Through the initiative, municipalities are strengthening activities in the field of crime prevention, for example through more field workers in the evenings and weekends. The government's efforts to reduce crime and increase security continue with full force.
i-TxKFbWu12JuEriC8EgVGAY	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. This interpellation is prompted by an article published by the government on 8 March, International Women's Day. In the article, the Minister for Justice and Migration stated: Men's violence and oppression of women must be made visible and combated. In order for violence to stop, it is the men who must change. Safe women provide a safer Sweden. ..................................................... I agree that violence and repression against women must be combated with all possible means. On the other hand, I find it very difficult to lump together all the men in the same group of perpetrators and oppressors. I think it would have been much more fair if the Minister of Justice had said: for violence to stop, politics must change radically. And there is much to change in today's criminal policy. It is about everything from preventive measures to more severe penalties that discourage the perpetrators and restore the victims of crime. But a change in migration and integration policies is also needed. Women's freedom and security should be a top priority for a government that calls itself feminist. What the Minister says is true: the fact that people with foreign background are over-represented in crime has been known for a long time. There have been too many, but obviously not for the government. Only last autumn, Stefan Löfven denied any connection between immigration and crime and then turned 180 degrees. For decades, mantras have been repeated about socio-economic factors, as if it is lower incomes and unsafe living conditions that make someone a criminal. The Minister says that people who are in socio-economic vulnerability are more likely to commit crimes and be subjected to crime. That's the wrong way to express yourself. You choose to commit crimes. There is a big difference, but the Social Democratic rhetoric lacks its own responsibility. It's all someone else's fault. Madam President, I would like I do not feel that I got an answer to my question about what conclusions the Minister draws from the study of the four researchers at Lund University, Ardavan Khoshnood, Henrik Ohlsson, Jan Sundquist and Kristina Sundquist. They have mapped the variables and characteristics of all 3,039 people convicted of rape and attempted rape between 2000 and 2015 and found that a majority, 59 percent, of these men had immigrant backgrounds. Most of them were first generation immigrants. 35 percent came from North Africa and the Middle East and 19 percent from Africa. About half of them had committed crimes before. These are the facts that need to be taken seriously, and so I repeat my question: what conclusions does the Minister for Justice draw from this study?
i-d7866810a675b8e7-229	Madam President, I would like As stated in the article of 8 March referred to by Boriana Åberg, this government has two main priorities in criminal policy. One is gang crime, which we are fighting with continued force. The other is men's violence against women. These two priorities are equivalent. That is also evident, I would say, in the efforts we have made, not least in this area. I often say that we have done a great deal in the field of criminal law. We have tightened the penalties for almost all of the serious violent crimes: aggravated assault, gross illegal threat, gross illegal coercion, the most serious drug offences, serious gun crimes– across the board we tightened the penalties for the last parliamentary term. Nevertheless, I always come back to the, as I think, single most important criminal justice reform that we did in the last parliamentary term, and that was reforming sexual crime legislation. We introduced consent legislation, tightened the penalties for aggravated rape, introduced a particular negligence crime, and also improved the position of victims and the possibility of getting help during the process. Sweden now has the most stringent sexual crime legislation we have ever had, and it has had an effect. An evaluation just a few years after the consent legislation was introduced showed that the number of rape charges increased by 80 percent. The number of convictions had increased by 75 per cent. So it has had an effect, in fact, more than I thought it would have. Moreover, this legislation has the important feature that it not only increases prosecution but also has a strong preventive effect. It gives more opportunity to arrest the perpetrators and to condemn them to responsibility, but it is also the opportunity to say that sex should be voluntary, and if it is not voluntary, it is a crime. It is a very clear signal out in society, and it should be in the spinal cord of every man and boy in Sweden that that is what applies. We have also followed this up with specific information campaigns. The crime victim authority has conducted a campaign called By free will, not least directed at new arrivals, and then followed it up. It was a special campaign that reached a total of over 11⁄2 million people. Just a few weeks ago, I was told how this campaign has been carried out in order to have an impact not only on the legislation itself, so that we can change and increase prosecution, but also to ensure that, in addition to the consent law, there is a culture of consent, that is, a change in the attitude itself. Much has been done, therefore, and we will continue to do much in this area. It does not matter how harsh the punishment we have if we do not catch any criminals, and so it is important that the police, the prosecutors and the other judicial authorities also put the necessary resources into prioritising these crimes. Last year, the Police Authority recruited 380 new investigators specifically targeted at particularly vulnerable victims, including for sexual offences. There are also honour crimes and crimes in close relationships. It is also an essential reinforcement on the investigation side of this. Furthermore, the Sexual Crime Investigation, which was set up in 2020, brings me a report this spring. There, the penalties are further reviewed in relation to sexual offences, including the rape crime. You look at the penalties for buying sex, you look at the design of sexual harassment and what that legislation should look like, and you also look at the abuse at a distance, that is, over the web, and what that legislation should look like. All in all, therefore, I think that there is an enormous amount both as we have done and as we will continue to do. However, the question I would like to ask Boriana Åberg is: Why did the Moderates do nothing of this during the eight years that were still based for the Ministry of Justice? Virtually everything that has happened in the sex crime field has happened during our time in government. How can that be?
i-d7866810a675b8e7-238	Madam President, I would like I understand that the Minister is quite alone in seeing the government's work against the gangs as successful. The opposite is true, and the same is true of sexual and other crimes. It has never been so insecure in Sweden, and crime has never been so widespread. The Minister boasts of the number of new employees in the Police Department, but is it about police officers or about another type of employee? I would like to remind the Minister that at the start of the spring term at the Police College, every third place was empty. Last year, 40% of the seats were empty. Police leave their jobs for other private guarding and insurance services. It is not that the availability of police really provides security. I also wonder why the Minister is so reluctant to touch on the cultural aspects of sexual violence. I would like to point out that it is always about individuals who commit crimes. It's not about ethnicity or skin color. It is about individuals, and individuals are influenced by the culture in which they are raised. There are cultures where women are not worth anything, where women are totally subordinate to men, where women are sexually stymied and their sexuality controlled rigorously. There are cultures where women are not allowed to choose even how to dress and who to meet – cultures where women are regarded as men's property. These cultures are wrongly called honorary cultures. There is no honor in oppressing women. For a very long time it was denied in public Sweden that honorary culture even existed, and those who dared to raise the issue, such as the minister's party colleagues Nalin Nalin and Soffan Hermansson, were expelled from their party. I do not think it should be controversial to research or say that cultures where polygamy or genital mutilation is common are not entirely adapted to Swedish society. They're not adapted at all. Nor can it be controversial to say that young migrants from the large migration countries are totally unprepared for the sexual freedom that prevails in Sweden and who perceive that ordinary friendly behaviour is a sexual invitation or that women who have short skirts want to have sex with one. The training of an hour or so here and there that the Minister is referring to is not enough. There must be a holistic approach, and there must be zero tolerance of such crimes. The Minister mentioned a penalty. Since 2018, there has been an announcement here in the Riksdag that the punishment for rape should be tightened. But what has the government done? Yes, an investigation has been set up!
i-d7866810a675b8e7-246	Madam President, I would like Let me answer the last question. That is what you do when you change legislation. I'm sure Boriana Åberg knows that. If you are going to change a law, you must first set up an investigation so that you can sort out what the legislation should look like. The inquiry will then be sent for a referral, and then you will return to the Riksdag when the preparation is complete. I mentioned the review of sexual offences precisely because I will soon receive the report from the investigation, and then we will proceed with the investigation. That is how we work with legislation. The Constitution says that there is a processing obligation. Law cannot be passed without first examining the consequences of the legislation, its cost implications and so on. That's how it's done when you make a law. There's a lot to be said about. First, there was the matter of the police department. We have set ourselves the target of increasing the number of police officers by 10,000 more employees by 2024. We did that in 2017. Since then, we have reached more than halfway. There are 5 500 more employees in the Police Department. About a thousand of them are police officers and about 4,000 of them are civilian employees. This is because training police officers takes longer – it takes at least two and a half years. Of those remaining from the growth of the Police Authority up to 2024, the majority will be police because the police are now starting to leave the new training courses. We have started new courses in Borås and Malmö. We are training three times as many police officers as the Moderates did in their day. The only thing the Moderates did when the Moderates were in government was to cut police training by 90 percent in two years. That is what we are now taking back, and we are making sure to deliver more resources and employees to the police. There are fewer who leave the Police Authority than before, and more are coming back, that is to say, police officers who have been out in other sectors now seeking to return to the police because they see a lot happening and they want to be involved in fighting gang crime and men's violence against women. It is fantastic that we have also succeeded in re-recruiting police officers who have previously left the force. That's great! And, as I said, more are being trained. No, the culture of honor – the patriarchal structures – is by no means unknown to us. Boriana Åberg mentions Nalin Nalin and AnnAnn-Sofie Hermansson. I sat during my first period in Parliament with Nalin Nalin in the Committee on Justice, and we talked about this on many occasions. Last year, I gave Ann-Ann-Sofie Hermansson an investigation mission to see how it is possible to improve local crime prevention work. There are two people who are not at all ostracised in any way. On the contrary, my party has learned much from these people on these issues. We will continue to fight against that kind of culture of honour – patriarchal structures – with great force. Last year we pushed forward a penalty for honour crimes, that is, the crimes committed with these motives. We have imposed an exit ban on those who are at risk of being taken abroad to be married away under force or to be genitally stifled. It was used on a large number of occasions in the last six months. The ban was introduced on 1 July. We are moving forward with a special crime classification for honour crimes, to further raise the scale of penalties. No, this is certainly nothing new. On the contrary, I say that we are the first government to really and seriously take on the old conservative and oppressive patriarchal structures, and we say clearly that they do not have a place in Sweden.
i-d7866810a675b8e7-254	Madam President, I would like It is fascinating how the Social Democrats first manage to deny a problem and then once the problem is known take all the credit for having always stood in the front line and fought the problem. I would like to ask another question about how to punish or deal with foreign criminals who have committed rape in Sweden. To serve a sentence in Swedish prison is not a deterrent to a criminal who comes from, say, Afghanistan or Somalia, or for that matter, my country of birth Bulgaria. Deportation is therefore very dissuasive. Can Morgan Johansson answer the question of how many rapists have been sentenced to deportation and how many have actually been expelled? If you are going to start from cases that have received a lot of attention both in Sweden and internationally, the Swedish judiciary is extremely restrictive in condemning them. It is looking for various excuses: unstable situation in the home country, rapists have rooted themselves in Sweden, rapists have had children in Sweden – as if these men were an asset to the children they usually have no contact with. It has been known for a long time that only one fifth of all foreign rapists are expelled, but the government has come no further than to set up another investigation. It is a scandal and a poor failure – the only words that fit in this context. I hope that Morgan Johansson will devote her last speech to answering the questions I put in my interpellation and now in my last speech.
i-d7866810a675b8e7-258	Madam President, I would like It is somehow typical of the Moderates these days that all questions in one way or another should be turned into an immigrant issue. You're using that rhetoric. Boriana Åberg asked me what conclusions I draw from the study. I have replied that immigrants are over-represented in the crime statistics, but at the same time we must look at the proportion of the total immigrant group we are talking about. Consider the proportion of foreign men who have been convicted of rape. The study shows that it is a single per mille. What conclusion can I draw from the way foreign - born men are and behave because a single per mille of them has been convicted of rape? Not much, in my opinion. That is why it is important for me to point out in all the debates that it does not matter to me whether you are black or white or where you were born anywhere. If you commit a crime, you must be prosecuted for the crimes you have committed. I am also in favour of a policy of tightening sanctions for these crimes and ensuring that we can clear up more crimes. I also stand for more of those who have committed these crimes that have a foreign background and are not Swedish citizens to be expelled from Sweden. That is why I have set up the review. It is not a sedkatus; on the contrary, we went to elections to review the expulsion rules. My view is that if you are not a Swedish citizen and commit serious crimes in Sweden, the main rule is that you are expelled from the country. We are looking at the type of crime that will increasingly lead to deportation. We also review the rules for how long you are expelled from Sweden – a travel ban. We are also looking at the issue of connection, which Boriana Åberg is talking about. The investigation has been set up and is working, and I look forward to receiving a report so that we can move on to Parliament.
i-d7866810a675b8e7-263	Madam President, I would like Jonas Andersson has asked me if I think that Sweden should encourage more non-integrated immigrants to leave unemployment, exclusion and poverty and return home. Since the government took office in 2014, there has been a gradual improvement in the entry of newcomers into the labour market. Many believed that unemployment would increase and public finances would deteriorate as a result of the large reception of refugees during the last parliamentary term. But it was just the opposite. Unemployment fell, the number of recipients of financial assistance decreased and the public debt decreased. This was due, among other things, to an increasing number of newcomers getting into work faster and integration into the labour market improved. Sweden has the EU's highest employment rate in the 20-64 age group and a fundamentally well-functioning labour market. The Finnish Immigration Service has long been tasked with providing support for those who are considering returning to their home country. It may be a question of providing information on practical issues, but there is also the possibility of financial support. The grant may consist of grants for travel expenses and a financial contribution of a maximum of SEK 10 000 per adult and a maximum of 5 000 for minors. This requires that the person can present a valid passport, enter an address in the new home country and account for debts and assets, including a plan for how any debts are to be handled. In order to further improve the conditions for voluntary re-migration, they provide the Government with additional funding last year to the Finnish Immigration Service for work on re-migration preparations and for re-migration grants. A total of SEK 2.5 million has been set aside for this.
i-d7866810a675b8e7-268	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. I thought I'd start at a slightly different end than usual today. I am doing this so that the debate can, as far as possible, deal with the substance of the matter, namely Denmark and the repatriation policy initiated by the Social Democratic-led government there. Unfortunately, Minister Johansson's interpellation debates often tend to be about the Swedish Democrats, or rather about the government's image of the party's views. It seems a bit like a waste of time, Madam President, and I would therefore like to make a few brief clarifications that the Minister has raised as problematic in previous interpellation debates with me. Firstly, the Government does not have to worry about racism. The Swedish Democrats have zero tolerance and will continue to exclude members who have not understood the simple fact. The parties which today are completely preoccupied with skin colour and ethnicity are left-wing parties such as the Social Democrats and the Green Party, for example, and so are the Nazis. The latest example came last week, when the Minister for Gender Equality in the Government Löfven that white native born women must be prepared to move – for the benefit of foreign born, then. Perhaps Minister Johansson should keep an extra eye on this. Secondly, Madam President, Minister Johansson usually worries that the Swedish Democrats do not talk about immigrants who work and work and go to work every day. I can reassure the Minister by saying that we obviously appreciate good examples and that we are well aware that there are lots of ambitious and talented foreign-born people in Sweden. For example, Norwegians and Iranians are groups where many are actually self-sufficient. However, as the Minister may understand, it is my job to focus on all the problems that the Government is unable to solve, and the fact is – as I have shown in hard figures in debate after debate – that the Minister and the Government are completely paralysed in terms of both migration and integration. Madam President, I would like Nor do the Swedish democrats want to hermetically close all the borders, which the Minister has addressed a bit inventively in the past. However, unlike the government, we want healthy and controlled migration based on the integration capacity of the country and the needs of, for example, the labour market and research. Finally, the Government does not need to worry that the Swedish Democrats would not want to help refugees from Syria, for example. On the contrary, with our policy we can help more people in their neighbourhoods. It is about basic needs: The women and children who remain when the men leave and the poor who can never afford to pay refugees smugglers can get shelter over their heads, food, water, medicines and protection with the policies of the Swedish Democrats. With all this out of the world, Madam President, let us talk about the issue – about or how the Swedish Government can get inspiration from Denmark and the Danish Repatriation Act! This is something that the Minister carefully avoids in his interpellation response. Last decade, Denmark granted around 340 000 residence permits of all kinds, according to Eurostat data. During the same period, Sweden granted more than three times more, up to 1.1 million. The fact that Swedish reception has caused major integration problems, a growing exclusion, widespread poverty among immigrants and a high dependency on benefits is widely known. We need to be more honest and direct. Some immigrants have had long-term benefits. They have never been able to become part of society. Perhaps it would be better for everyone if they returned home to their own country.
i-d7866810a675b8e7-276	Before continuing the debate, I would like to remind you that the subject is support for the return of immigrants in exclusion. I note that three quarters of the honourable Member's speech concerned other things, and I hope that the debate will not continue in that direction.
i-d7866810a675b8e7-277	Madam President, I would like I was just going to say: if Jonas Andersson wants to debate with Märta Stenevi, he may request an interpellation debate with her. Instead, we are sticking to this issue, which is about integration and re-migration. After three minutes, at the end of his speech, Jonas Andersson still comes to the usual description of misery that the Swedish Democrats are engaged in and that we have heard for many years. When we had the major refugee crisis in 2015 and 2016, there were over 160 000 asylum seekers in a single year, and we had a difficult situation. Then we had to intervene by the government and make sure that the legislation was tightened in such a way that the number of asylum seekers was reduced – as it has now done, by about 90%, so that we now have the lowest number of asylum seekers to Sweden in 20 years. In 2015 and 2016 the Swedish Democrats were out almost every day and said: Now unemployment will increase. Now social security benefits will increase. Now the state finances are going to fail, and everything is going to collapse. That was the message you had then, Jonas Andersson. But you got it wrong. It turned out that the Swedish Democrats were wrong in this. Despite the fact that we provided very many people with protection from war, unemployment decreased during the last parliamentary term. The rate of social assistance decreased and government finances strengthened. We amortized SEK 130 billion on the public debt. It did not collapse in any way, but rather the opposite; we managed to strengthen both the labour market and public finances during that term of office, which is really remarkable given the great humanitarian effort that Sweden made. Sweden has the highest employment rate in the EU and has had it for many years. So there is no other country in the EU where the population works as much as it does in Sweden. In fact, this is the case, and it does not matter whether you count the proportion of hours employed or worked. That explains why our public finances are so strong, namely that Sweden has a working population. This also applies to most of those living in vulnerable areas. They work, pay taxes and go to work every day – on construction, in industry, in commerce and home care, and not least in health care. 34% of all our doctors, who are currently working in the pandemic, were born in another country. The same applies to 39% of our nurses and almost 30% of our nurses. Sweden would not have made it through one day, I say, without all the people we have who were born abroad but who help build up Swedish welfare. The Swedish democrats have never recognised, or actually understood, that this is the way it is. If the Swedish Democrats had been allowed to decide, none of these people would have been allowed to be in Sweden. Well, that's true. Jonas Andersson highlights the issue of re-migration. He wants us to set up support for those who want to repatriate, and so he refers to Denmark. Guess what? Sweden already has such support. Not only do we have it, but we've had it for at least 30 years. I have tried to go back and see when the aid was set up once, and we are talking at some point in the late 80s. Support for the return of those who want to leave Sweden has thus been here for over 30 years, and we even increased the funding for this particular support last year. The aid has thus been in place for at least 30 years, long before Denmark. On the substance of the matter, therefore, Jonas Andersson opens up open doors, Madam President.
i-d7866810a675b8e7-285	I note that the debate continues to move mainly alongside the subject.
i-d7866810a675b8e7-286	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. I would also like to thank the Minister for once again wanting to talk about the Swedish Democrats and precisely the things I mentioned in my opening speech, which perhaps also explains to the President why I wanted to raise them in advance. Otherwise, I think it is a good thing that the Socialist Minister for Migration has come to light on certain issues. Unfortunately, however, this is not about the Swedish Minister for Migration, but about his colleague in neighbouring Denmark. So what I concluded my previous speech with was a statement from the Danish equivalent of Morgan Johansson, namely the Social Democratic Minister for Migration Mattias Tesfaye. Maybe Morgan Johansson should keep an eye on him, too. I will give you the whole statement, which is taken from Danish public service: we must be more honest and direct. Some immigrants have had long-term benefits. They have never been able to become part of society. Perhaps it would be better for everyone if they returned home to their own country. I am therefore pleased that we are now introducing a dedicated return call, where we can talk about the possibility of going home voluntarily with financial support from Danish society. The statement concerns one of the proposals put forward by the Danish Government a few months ago under the Danish Repatriation Act and supported by a majority in the Danish Parliament. This concerned mandatory repatriation talks with long-term unemployed foreigners about the possibility of going home voluntarily with support from the Danish state. Morgan Johansson mentioned a contribution. When it comes to re-migration, or repatriation, for people who actually have the right to be in Sweden, there is indeed some support from the state. You can get travel expenses paid and a cash payment of SEK 10,000 for adults or a maximum of 40,000 per family. In recent years, on average five people per year have benefited from these grants. But when it comes to people who do not have the right to stay in Sweden, the government is all the more generous. Persons who have been refused, who have been found to have no grounds for protection and who have used the asylum system for their own benefit may receive 30 000 per adult or 75 000 per family. Minister Johansson is therefore behind a system that uses taxpayers' money to bribe foreigners without the right to be in Sweden to comply with Swedish law and leave the country. So we have homeless poor pensioners who can't afford to go to the dentist – every fifty plays a role for them. Their tax money takes the Red-Green Government to generously sprinkle illegal migrants. Isn't that a little interesting? We in the Swedish Democrats are aware that it will take time to sort out everything that the other parties have been doing in Sweden since the turn of the century. It's kind of like turning an oil tanker in the Suez Canal. It'll take time, and it'll cost you in the meantime... maybe not blood, but at least sweat, tears, and taxes. But we have to start somewhere, and we have to start now. Madam President, I would like When does the Minister of Migration intend to take inspiration from his Danish colleagues and start speaking clearly about what will be required?
i-d7866810a675b8e7-295	Madam President, I would like This is just getting a little more woozy for every line. I have just described that we in Sweden have had the system that exists in Denmark, where you have the opportunity to get support to return home if you want to do so, for at least 30 years. We had it long before Denmark set this up. Jonas Andersson, once again, is just breaking in open doors. He also draws a parallel to the support we have for those who have been asylum seekers and who return and talk about people who have used the system. Seeking asylum is, of course, a human right; it is not using the system. You apply for asylum and you get your case tried in a legal process according to the rules we have. If you get approval, you can stay in Sweden. If you get rejected, you have to go home. Many of those who receive rejection can be completely destitute, not least because they have sometimes had to sell everything they own and have and sometimes have had no assets at all. As an opportunity for them to go back to their home country and rebuild their lives again, we have these support measures, which I would say are hugely important – otherwise the return would not have worked at all in the way it actually does today. Between 2014 and 2020 almost 90 000 people have left Sweden; it is about 1 100 people per month who have left Sweden. They have either gone to their country of origin, after having been refused, or to another EU country where they have first applied for asylum. I would say that the return part of migration policy also works much better than in many other countries. That is why we have this support and, as far as I know, the Swedish Democrats do not want to abolish it. Or is that news? Do you want to abolish return support? In that case, return would deteriorate dramatically, I would say – it would be much more difficult. In his first post, Jonas Andersson mentioned that instead he wants you to help on the spot. I have nothing against this, but why do the Swedish Democrats want to cut aid by 30% at the same time? You have also proposed this in this House. You do not want to help people from other countries who are fleeing from war and oppression; you should keep them out of Sweden. You do not want to help them in the refugee camps on the ground either. It is false when Jonas Andersson claims that he instead wants to help on the ground – the Swedish Democrats do not want to do so either. This return money has been in the Swedish system for over 30 years; it is no news for us in any way. The foundation must nevertheless be that the people who are in Sweden, of which more than 1 million are born abroad, should have a good opportunity to develop here, to get jobs and education and to become part of the Swedish welfare system and Swedish society. But when I listen to Jonas Andersson, I rather get the impression that he actually wants to force people away. Everyone who does not have a Swedish background – or most of them – should, according to the Swedish Democrats' way of looking at it, be mass deported out of Sweden. That was actually the meaning of an interview that Jimmie Åkesson did here. I can take this opportunity to ask Jonas Andersson: How are the Swedish Democrats doing here? Do you think, if you get the opportunity, to initiate a policy of mass deportation from Sweden by people who have perhaps been here for many years? I believe that a great many people want answers to this.
i-d7866810a675b8e7-306	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for this incredibly imaginative answer! I can imagine that after his political career is over, the Minister can make a career as a writer of some kind; perhaps it would be interesting to read those books. In recent years, on average, five people per year have applied for this return subsidy. Return aid to asylum seekers who have been refused and who do not actually have grounds for protection is another matter. That's where the government wants to spend big money to bribe people; you want to throw cash at them to get them back. I think it's shameful, and I'd be ashamed if I were Morgan Johansson. But, Madam President, this is not just about money and the economy, although I believe that Swedish taxpayers think it is important, but it is also about providing support and assistance to foreigners who, for various reasons, have not been integrated into Swedish society. These people, as Morgan Johansson said, may have invested all their money or even been in debt to reach this promised country in the north, just to end up in alienation, dependency, unemployment and overcrowding and be surrounded by moral policemen, gang criminals and drug dealers. It can be understood that voluntary return, or repatriation, as the Danes choose to call it, can be a good and morally justifiable alternative for both individuals and society. Minister Johansson boasts of an investment in which 2 1⁄2 million has been added to the Migration Agency for work on return migration. The Swedish Democrats are budgeting in the coming years, Madam President, for a total of 800 million for efforts to increase voluntary migration. We are closely following what is happening in Denmark to pick up proposals that can also be implemented in Sweden, and my advice to Minister Johansson is to do the same.
i-d7866810a675b8e7-311	Madam President, I would like I do. I live on the border with Denmark, and I know Mattias Tesfaye, the Social Democratic Minister for Migration in Denmark, for a number of years. We have a lot of contact on many different issues. Here we use a loose quote from the Danish debate in the Swedish debate. I can only say that the system requested by Jonas Andersson exists in Sweden and has existed for a long time – long time before Denmark introduced it. Jonas Andersson returns in these debates all the time to the extreme black-painting of Sweden, most recently in his latest speech. I would just like to point out that the Swedish Democrats have said this year after year, not least after the refugee crisis in 2015– 2016. The result, however, was exactly the opposite. Unemployment decreased. Social security benefits decreased during the previous term of office. We amortised the public debt by 130 billion. Actually, it is. This shows that, if you put in the right effort, you can accept people fleeing oppression and war. Sweden has made a huge humanitarian effort. Since the war broke out in Syria ten years ago, Sweden has provided shelter for 180 000 people who have fled this war. I am basically very proud that we have been able to give so many men, women and children protection here in Sweden. I am also proud of the work we have done to ensure that they can receive education, enter the labour market and become part of Sweden for the future. But it's about being able to go in with continued integration efforts to make sure that they really come into Sweden. This is something we will continue to work with and prioritise very high.
i-d7866810a675b8e7-317	Madam President, I would like Jörgen Berglund has asked me how I ensure that the defence decision can be implemented according to the timetable decided by the Riksdag, if there are additional measures that need to be taken to secure the Riksdag's decision and how I see the proposals that, among other things, the Swedish Armed Forces and the Union of Officers put forward to enable growth and increased military capabilities. The current defence decision was taken by the Riksdag on 15 December 2020 and covers the period 2021-2025 with a view to 2030. The implementation of the defence decision will be followed by the government through the reporting and other evidence provided by the authorities, and on this basis the government will take the necessary decisions. Of course, the implementation experience is still limited, and the Swedish Armed Forces' recently received budget base for 2022 is the first in the defence decision-making period. The budget basis is currently being prepared in the Government Office and will form the basis for the budget proposal to Parliament this autumn, the regulation letter to the Swedish Armed Forces for 2022 and any other decisions by the government. In general, I would like to point out that the Swedish Armed Forces' budget base is well in line with what the Riksdag and the Government have decided. The Swedish Armed Forces also note that the established direction of military defence means a substantial strengthening of the national defence and a focus on continuous growth during the next ten years within both the war and basic organisation. I share this view.
i-d7866810a675b8e7-321	Madam President, I would like Let me first state that answers to the questions I have asked were not given to me by the Minister for Defence. I didn't get it either the last time he was on the defense committee. I asked the same questions at the time. I hope that this time the Minister for Defence will at least say something about what I am asking because Swedish defence and security policy deserves long-term answers, decisions and clear guidelines. I have asked the Minister for Defence if he sees that there are measures that need to be taken to ensure that the defence decision taken by Parliament can also come to an end. I took as an example that the Swedish Armed Forces have, among other things, made the request a number of times. There are suggestions from the Officers' Association, which organizes Sweden's professional officer, the Swedish Financial Control Agency and others. Madam President, I would like The defence decision that was made here before Christmas was only the start of a long journey to strengthen Swedish defence capabilities. But to be more specific about what I am calling for and want answers to or reasoning about from the Minister for Defence, it is about that if we are to increase Swedish defence capabilities, we need more conscripts, more officers, new materials and more exercises, for example. Some of these things have, of course, been dealt with in the defence decision. But training opportunities are a key element for a better and stronger defence. And practice is at the very heart of getting capable military units, because without more, larger and longer exercises, the new material and the number of conscripts and officers are not so much worth. In order to practice, the Swedish Armed Forces also need to have training and shooting fields with current environmental permits, which takes a very long time to get. It takes 5 to 20 years to obtain a permit, which I find completely absurd. Here the government itself bears a responsibility. So there are proposals that have been on the table with the government since 2012, but decisions have still not been taken. But it does not have to take this long, Madam President. The Swedish Armed Forces have previously asked the Government for a number of measures that could remedy this in order to get faster permit processes, including giving the county administrative boards a constitutional mandate, i.e. that the government itself can decide on, to handle these matters from the Swedish Armed Forces regarding exercise and shooting fields promptly. On this request, however, the Swedish Armed Forces received a no. Therefore, the Swedish Armed Forces have again made a request to the government on this issue. It would be interesting to know why the government does not think that our county boards should act swiftly when we talk about the defense of the kingdom. I would like to return to a few other points about this. I would also like to point out, Madam President, that the licensing processes that I am referring to and which the Swedish Armed Forces themselves raise are not about getting lighter demands. It is not about noise that affects bird life or anything else, it is about the time to get the decision. And we know that with the new units we also need to ensure that the training and shooting fields are ready to receive training troops. Again, why does the Minister of Defence not think that the county boards should act urgently?
i-d7866810a675b8e7-328	Madam President, I would like The defence decision, which was taken in December last year, is relatively new. There is a planning directive from the government to the Swedish Armed Forces, and there are timetables for how things should be carried out. Anyone who takes the time to read and understand the defence decision and its preparatory work and also take part in the Swedish Armed Forces' documentation will get clear answers on this point. It is also a question of the level of ambition of information gathering. It has been reported to the committee on a number of occasions how the proposal has developed and the various consequences of it. I have also stated in my reply that the Swedish Armed Forces have just submitted a budget base for 2022, and that is the first for the defence decision-making period. We follow up on this regularly on the basis of what the authorities report and the information that we have in general, and we return with continuity to the Riksdag on this matter. I believe that there are both timetables and guidelines. Then we have made a substantial capacity increase and strengthening of the military capability since 2015. Today we have a much better defence than we had in 2015. We have also broken the trend and changed from the old defense to now defending Sweden. It is also a clear difference from what it looked like in your time, when you were in government. The defence bill decided by the Riksdag represents a 40-percent increase in the level. It is not possible to compare with any other level increase than that in the early 1950s. This is an enormous search for ambition. It is mentioned here that more conscripts, more exercises and more material are needed. This is all part of the bill. It's decided, so it's nothing to stand here and report in Parliament, much like it's something we shouldn't have thought of. There should be 8,000 conscripts 20 2 5. Today is 4,900. We have a considerably higher exercise rate today than we had before, 2015, and this applies to both national practice activities and international exercises. Then, unfortunately, it has been affected by the pandemic, but I believe that neither Jörgen Berglund nor I can handle it, but we must take the necessary account. But the ambition is to continue to develop the practice activities. It is self-evident that the exercise activities are a core of how we strengthen the Swedish Armed Forces. More equipment is a very heavy part of the entire defence decision, so that is not news either. However, it is described here in the debate rather like that we should not have thought about that issue. It's about a lot of equipment, new weapons systems, upgrades, repairs and maintenance. There are enormous investments that are taking place here. And these are new weapons systems that are extremely qualified and also directly contribute to a higher threshold effect for Sweden and our partners. I believe that there are probably timetables and guidelines, and there are probably parliamentary decisions that are valid. In addition, the Swedish Armed Forces have made it clear that they are well placed to complete the content of the defence decision.
i-d7866810a675b8e7-336	Madam President, I would like I don't know if the Secretary of Defense misunderstood me. I just said that new equipment, more officers and more conscripts are included in the defense decision and that we Moderates are behind the defence decision, except for the long-term funding. My point and what I wanted to draw the Minister's attention to is that everything that needs to be done to strengthen the defence does not fit in the defense decision, for example the request the Swedish Armed Forces have made to get more practice and shooting fields started. This is included in the Swedish Armed Forces' budget base for the Government, which the Government has received. But more needs to be done that does not fit in with the defence decision, so let me be extra clear. The training and shooting fields are one thing, but another issue that is at least as important concerns the supply of personnel within the Swedish Armed Forces. It is perhaps the most critical thing if we are to achieve the Parliament's objectives for Sweden's defence and security policy. Last time the Secretary of Defense and I were standing here, we were talking about the reserve officers' right to leave the Armed Forces. Today, instead, I was going to bring up the professional officers, the group officers, the soldiers, and the sailors. These are things that are not included in the defence decision that ensure a good supply of skills and can be one of the most important things that can be done to secure growth. We do not come from the fact that the issue of wages is central to officers as well. Neither politics nor the leadership of the Armed Forces can ignore this. The entry salary for officers is low, and the possibility of good wage development is largely linked to the change of rank and position. We need to look at wage increases and opportunities for wage developments in the profession, such as those given to the teaching staff in the form of first teachers. I know that the Minister for Defence has said in the past that this is a matter for the social partners, and that is what I think in essence. But I also think that the policy is obliged to intervene in order to address problems that cannot be addressed, because this affects much more than the salary of individuals. After all, the Socialist Government had no problem going into the area of the parties with regard to the rules of rotation, if I remember correctly. Madam President, I would like When a survey carried out by the Union of Officers shows that six out of ten officers are considering a change of profession and one third of the officers' corps retires within ten years, we must act politically. If we don't, a strained situation will get much worse. Swedish defence capabilities will be affected, and Parliament's objectives will not be achieved. It would be interesting to hear more from the Minister for Defence about how he sees wage developments, career opportunities and the issue that has sailed up from this year onwards, namely the possibility for our employees' group officers, soldiers and sailors to become permanent employees. Today the limit is 12 years, and those who were first hired are up to it now. There is a great deal of both knowledge and experience if they stop because they do not get extended. This affects our ability to achieve the goals we have jointly set and decided upon. A major debate is about the regalonation. I know it's a matter of authority, but it also affects. Politics must have an idea of these things. I don't expect the Secretary of Defense to say this, because it would be wrong of him.
i-d7866810a675b8e7-346	Madam President, I would like This is very interesting. First they list a lot of things where they demand views from me, and then they understand that I should not have any comments. It'll be a strange way to debate. I have not misunderstood anything but relate only to the picture I get of your speech, Jörgen Berglund. You describe a wide range of issues that are handled in the bill. You want to create a picture that we don't have a grip on the situation and that everything is on the loose. That is what I reacted to, and that is why I referred to the bill. It's good that you basically confirm that I'm right on that point. In the case of county administrative boards, these are balances between environmental policy objectives, legal certainty in permit processes and defence benefits. These questions are under preparation at the official level of the Government Office. We agree that the employer question is delegated to the authorities, not only to the Swedish Armed Forces but generally. It seems to me that the honourable Member understands my limited opportunity to go into it in detail. However, I note that there are demands for higher target figures for professional officers and K-employees. There are concerns that today's organisation is too narrow to cope with enlargement from today's 4 900 conscripts to 8 000. There are comments on wage levels, development opportunities and attractiveness. It is clear that an employer with responsibility must always evaluate and review the whole spectrum. That is how it must work in a labour market. In my opinion, the Armed Forces' leadership is continuously working on this type of issue. I am also following up on this type of issue, and I also have contacts with the trade union side so that I can inform myself about how they view the situation. This is very important, especially with regard to the possibility of recruiting staff for the new start-ups planned. If it is to work, the units must be able to provide their own staff. This involves the supply of skills, attractiveness, geographical location and how it should be clarified in relation to other benefits. It is about building stability in the places where new activities are started. This is part of the challenge that needs to be addressed when, in addition to creating the infrastructure for the new units, it is necessary to ensure that these objectives are met. The Swedish Armed Forces have also made it clear in their documentation that they believe that they can manage both the infrastructure and the staff supply. It's not the same as me thinking there won't be any problems. From the very beginning, I have said that, with regard to the implementation of the defence decision, there will be costs, delays and various unforeseen problems that we will have to deal with gradually. However, I believe that we are in a good position to do so.
i-d7866810a675b8e7-354	Madam President, I would like It is certainly not a question of undermining the defence decision. I pushed the yes button for the defense decision myself. I repeat that the reason for my interpellation is that I want to raise the fact that everything is not peace and joy and will go well just because the defense decision is taken. The Secretary of Defense also confirms my picture. But sometimes it is not enough just to confirm that there are problems and challenges. One must also have a political idea of how to solve this and see the context for how we solve this. As I said, the Secretary of Defense is not allowed to comment on every detail. But here he keeps coming back to the overall defence decision. The problem is that nowhere in the defense decision is the problem raised with or suggestions for solutions for, for example, training and shooting fields, wage developments for officers or how to do with employees of group officers, soldiers and sailors, which are a prerequisite for growth. That is why I am raising this issue, and what I want from the Minister for Defence is for him to simply confirm that it is and that one looks at it. But here I don't feel safe because he keeps coming back to the big overall picture, which makes me worried. I believe that these issues will play a crucial role. The Minister of Defence reiterated that environmental permits were being prepared. But so were they in the fall, and then you got a no. It was two weeks after I had put an interpellation to the then Minister for the Environment and Climate, Isabella Lövin. The Secretary of Defense will be happy to convince me. Will there be a yes this time?
i-d7866810a675b8e7-360	Madam President, I would like I think it is in this debate that I have deepened the discussion on both the pay side, the targets, tight organisation, development opportunities, attractiveness and how we deal with this in the various new establishments. I feel that it was I who, to a greater extent than the honourable Member, raised the real problems here, while the honourable Member expressed himself in a little more general terms. I do not know if the honourable Member has followed my possible efforts, but if there is anything I have done, it is to say that we are in danger of being put in both delay, expense and unforeseen events. Sometimes it feels like the opposition wants to think that part of reality away when you say it. Then some other situation emerges, and that is the reasoning. I've been talking about this the whole time. With regard to the processes that the honourable Member is concerned about regarding the environmental code and environmental testing, I say no more than what I can say. If I say anything more than what I can say, this will be an ice which will then be addressed here by Jörgen Berglund in some way. I talk when there is something to talk about, and right now these questions are being prepared. That is the message I can give today. We are not ignoring anything in these contexts. We see the overall picture and the context here. Then there is a division of labour between the department and the authority, where the authority will do its job. I know that they are aware of the infrastructure problems and that they are working on recruitment strategies in the long term. The trade unions obviously have their views on this, which I take note of with a certain frequency. I think we have a defence decision on as solid a basis as we can have today. It is a stable defence decision that the Swedish Armed Forces believe we can implement.
i-d7866810a675b8e7-365	Madam President, I would like Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm has asked me whether I intend to take any measures in the field of health insurance in order to clarify the rules applicable in different cases and the certificates to be used, in order to improve the conditions for consistency in the assessment of the Social Insurance Agency. During the covid-19 pandemic, the government has worked to limit the damage caused by the pandemic in different ways. Several temporary measures have been taken in a short time in the context of social security to reduce the negative impact of the pandemic. During the pandemic, the government has also acted to quickly implement a permanent change in health insurance based on proposals submitted in the investigation A safe health insurance with people at its centre, to address health insurance deficiencies, which have become particularly evident during the pandemic. The rule change came into effect on 15 March 2021 and involves lowering the proof requirements at day 180 in the rehabilitation chain. The change of regulation gives more people the opportunity for longer to be rehabilitated back to their own work, including those affected by postcovid. The Government is actively working with the other proposals in the investigation. In the light of the quality deficiencies identified in the Swedish Social Insurance Agency's investigations in the autumn of 2020, the Swedish Government gave the Agency the task of improving the quality of health insurance in matters relating to the right to sickness benefit. The mission aims to identify and remedy any shortcomings in the handling. For the government, it has been particularly important during the pandemic to continuously provide up-to-date information on the government's website on the status of the temporary measures. More information about the various compensations, and the applicable conditions for them, has been provided on Försäkringskassan's website.
i-d7866810a675b8e7-370	Madam President, I would like For over a year now we have had a pandemic that has hit us all more or less, in different ways. I have to say that during the past year the government has acted slowly and sometimes on behalf of Parliament in the form of committee initiatives. Therefore, my question to the Government is: does he see the need to have more uniform assessments in health insurance? I do not feel when I hear the answer that the Government has understood the questions in my interpellation. The Government refers to an investigation that has been carried out: a safe health insurance with people in the centre. But this is not really what my question is about, but it is about all these different compensation systems that are offered to people who are victims of covid-19, people who are at risk of suffering from covid-19, people who have relatives in their vicinity who have covid-19 and so on. I would say – without resorting to upper words – that this is a jungle. The Government refers to Försäkringskassan's website. I've been trying to go in there and read. I think I have pretty good knowledge of how the Social Insurance Agency works, but I can't say that I get particularly wise when it comes to which compensation systems should apply if I am ill, if my child is ill, if my husband is ill or what it looks like now and which certificate should be written and who should do it. This leads to a summary word for the whole pandemic management, and it is inconsistent. New regulations have emerged after new regulations. There is no jacket in each other, and we have not seen a holistic approach to take height in order to give people security and security to be able to handle the pandemic properly. I understand that the Government does not have answers to all these questions because it is so clear that I do not get answers to the questions in my interpellation. In one of our latest committee initiatives, we looked at regulatory simplifications for when to assess after day 180 against normal work in the labour market. I find this very strange – there are no abnormal jobs in the labour market. The limit has been extended to day 365, and it can be extended even further, until day 555. It is still important that we maintain the rehabilitation chain. It's rehabilitation we're looking for to be able to come back after long-term covid or other symptoms-based diagnosis. I still don't understand the answer.
i-XigrLjG4GKFbns8LSL3mah	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm, for the question but also for the commitment to health insurance issues! I have said it before in this House and I say it once again: Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm shows that there are people in the Moderate Coalition too who care about health insurance. Unfortunately, Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm does not seem to bring her party along. If you look at how the Moderates voted, among other things, in the vote that we had in this House when we were going to change the regulations, so that the people affected by postcovid would not be secured after day 180, you can see that the Moderates did not vote in favour of the proposal. That's remarkable. I cannot find any other situation in any other Nordic country where ideological locks and blindfolds to that extent stop a party from seeing reality as it is. We have had the most restrictive regulations in Western Europe. We saw that this regulatory framework had the consequence that people are secured at day 180 even though they have not had the time to get their rehabilitation and care. In view of this situation, we proposed some relief in the proof requirements so that more people can keep their sickness benefit, complete their rehabilitation and care efforts and go back to work. And so these ideological blinders are in the way of a party taking a stand on this – the obvious. Madam President, I would like The difficulty with politics is to actually manage to throw away these blind spots from time to time and to see reality from a different perspective as well. Yes, there was a situation in 2006 when some of the criticism of health insurance was justified. But it is undoubtedly the case, based on investigations that have been carried out and based on audits that we have received, that the legislative changes that came into force in 2008 made our health insurance far too restrictive. The ambitions expressed about people getting rehabilitation were not achieved because the regulatory framework was so restrictive that people left health insurance day 180 regardless of whether they had become healthy or not. Madam President, I would like There is not a single person on earth who can say that people are healthy from being insured. You can say that, but that's not the case. I therefore think it is important, Madam President, regardless of the debate and regardless of the unfortunate position of the Moderate Coalition Party on the issue of the 180-day rule, that there are people like Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm who at least see the need for health insurance from the moderate perspective as well. With regard to the measures taken during the pandemic, we have acted quickly and introduced a withdrawal allowance right at the beginning of the pandemic, so that people could receive compensation from the first day of illness. This would give people financial opportunities to stay home from the first day of illness and help to reduce the spread of infection. That compensation has been extended. We have introduced a completely new benefit in the social security system, a benefit for those who are at risk and who are unable to work. A new social security benefit has probably never been introduced so quickly before. That is because we have this obligation to our citizens. It is their needs that should be put in focus, not our political fights, not any prestige struggle between parliament and government. It is citizens' needs that need to be the focus. There we had a good cooperation with the Riksdag. I really appreciate that from time to time we actually manage to put aside ideological locks and perspectives and actually ask ourselves the question: how can we work together to put Swedish citizens' needs at the centre?
i-d7866810a675b8e7-383	Madam President, I would like I will begin by saying that I fully agree with the Government that it is human beings that we should put in focus – absolutely – and especially in this pandemic that has now been going on for over a year. From my own experience, I know how terribly tired all people are on this isolation, on all the restrictions imposed and on all the new regulations that are introduced, extended and densified. I fully understand that people are now just waiting to get their first dose of vaccine to see the light in the tunnel. However, I am a little perplexed by what the Government says that we do not agree to change the assessment of normal work at day 180, because it was a committee initiative from the Social Security Committee. It was a united committee that handed over this committee initiative to the government to extend it and review it. If it was not possible to make this assessment by day 180, it would be done by day 365 against a specified employer. It is not just this that I have been thinking about why I have not been given an answer. In the past, before the pandemic, there was also something called infectivity pay. It was something that was quite unique to get. Infectious pay could be obtained if you had received salmonella or some other kind of disease that prevented you from working, i.e. a contagious disease that was in danger of spreading further. An extremely large number of new parameters have now been introduced, which also fall under infectivity pay. It is definitely not easy to understand who should write the certificate. First, a doctor had to sign a certificate. However, as of 6 February, it has been removed that a doctor is responsible for writing the certificate, without the individual being able to go in and apply for a disease carrier's allowance. The same applies if you have a child who is infected. Then you can be at home with compensation for temporary care of children. If you're afraid that a child with a severe illness will risk being infected, you can be at home. There is – excuse me – a jungle of rules on Försäkringskassan's website when it comes to corona restrictions or corona deviations. If you click on a link there you get very confused. The government has taken away Karen's Day. And we have introduced that you can stay home for three weeks without having a sick certificate. This has meant that many of course have used this benefit to be able to stay home for three weeks, regardless of whether you are ill or not. It doesn't have to be proven. You call in after 14 days and say that you are sick, and then you have to stay home. It is very difficult for the individual to know, and also for the entire healthcare apparatus, which certificates to use, who should write certificates and how long these certificates last. My interpellation is addressed to the Minister on the basis that I think it is a big mess among all the certificates.
i-d7866810a675b8e7-390	Madam President, I would like What Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm describes as mess and jungle are thus different rules that are introduced to increase the financial security of people affected by the pandemic based on different situations. If we hadn't introduced the carer's allowance, people would have lost money by being home on the first day. And then we would probably also have had a negative effect on the spread of infection, since many people cannot afford to lose their income. If we had not introduced a special allowance for people at risk, then those who cannot work because they belong to a risk group and cannot adapt their work would not have received any compensation. If we had not removed the requirement for a medical certificate, we would not have lost the health care system, and then it would have been difficult for a lot of people to be able to be at home and isolate themselves when they are sick. We have been very careful to put in place the right measures as quickly as possible for the different groups affected by the pandemic. I would like to say that we have done this in close dialogue with Parliament, and I would like to emphasise that very much. I do not want the government to have the full credit for that, but it is a collaboration in a very difficult situation. But I really want to maintain that these were the right assessments. It was right to introduce a remuneration for risk groups. It was right to remove the requirement for a medical certificate. It was right to introduce a carer's allowance. It was also right to adjust the regulatory framework to make it easier for people affected by the pandemic. Is there a risk that there are people who are using this incorrectly? Yes, it does. But in this situation, in the midst of a pandemic, we must focus the interests and needs of our entire population. We cannot, on the grounds that some might abuse this system, refrain from doing anything about the fact that we have people who belong to risk groups and who need compensation for being unable to work. We cannot, on the grounds that people may use this carer's allowance in the wrong way, fail to compensate for the loss of income for nurses and all occupational categories who work in health care and care for the elderly and take risks for us. They need compensation from the first day of illness. Politics is about balancing interests. We are well aware of that. But I'm sure we're focusing on the right thing. How do we support Swedish citizens in a difficult situation? How do we make life easier for our citizens? How do we ensure that class is actually taken into account in our decisions, so that we have as equal an effect as possible from our actions? In fact, it does matter that we put in, for example, the carer's allowance. Some may feel that the carer's allowance is not large enough. However, for those who are affected and who have a weak economy, this benefit is quite high. This is what it is about: to see the whole picture, to see the need that exists in a society under a pandemic, to dare to let go of their blind spots, to dare to let go of the ideological locks and to put the country's interests in focus. If we get more of that atmosphere in health insurance, it may also create conditions for the Swedish left and right to agree on a number of issues that are about making security better for our citizens. As long as we get stuck in the political games, the locks and the blinds, it is ultimately our citizens – the sick, the disabled, those in need of social insurance – who are affected. I don't think any of us want that. I am convinced that Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm is equally committed to ensuring that this part of our population also has better conditions and better lives.
i-d7866810a675b8e7-395	Madam President, I would like The government knows as well as I do that covid-19 doesn't make a difference to class. It affects people equally or unequally. It affects us no matter who we are, where we live and what we work with. It doesn't matter. Therefore, I think it is important for us all to understand what kind of compensation levels there are and what kind of compensation you can have the right to apply for when you suffer from covid-19. We are affected very differently, and there is currently no research that can point to how a long-term covid disease affects the individual. It can affect us very differently. That is why we took this committee's initiative to extend the assessment of normal work at day 180; there is too little research on long-term covid. I will return to the question in my interpellation. I feel that there are far too many different types of rules and levels of compensation. There are constant changes, and it is difficult for the individual to keep up. The Government says that the government is acting swiftly. On the contrary, I feel that the government acts on the basis of the committee initiatives that Parliament gives to the government to act on the issue of getting a safer health insurance for the individual.
i-d7866810a675b8e7-398	Madam President, I would like I thank Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm for the interpellation. I hope that we can continue to have a dialogue and a discussion on how to improve financial security in the event of illness. I would like to emphasise once again the need for us to make different adjustments to our security systems and to adapt them to the needs of our citizens during the pandemic. Citizens have different kinds of needs depending on which group they belong to. That is why we have also put in place specific measures for different groups and categories of insured persons, such as parents, persons belonging to risk groups and pregnant women. That is quite right: we cannot put the coherence of the systems first. We must put the needs of our citizens first, and the needs of our citizens differ. These systems must then be adapted to the needs of citizens. It is just as Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm says: When it comes to postcovid and other types of symptoms and diagnoses, it is difficult to have the sure information. That is why our health insurance system must have flexibility, and it was precisely that flexibility that was lacking. That was why it was necessary to change the regulatory framework for the trial day 180, and it is definitely also necessary to amend the regulatory framework for the trial date 365. Otherwise, it's people who get hurt. Life does not work so that you get sick and get an exact date for when you will get well. In some diagnoses it is, but not in others. The health insurance system must also be adapted to those diagnoses. Now we have at least taken one step in relation to the 180-day trial, but we probably need to do more also for those who have longer sick periods, who pass 365 days. There are also many who have not had time to receive their treatment during the past year due to the concentration of the healthcare sector's activities in the management of the pandemic. I would like to extend a great deal of thanks to Elisabeth Rahm, Björnsdotter, for the question and the discussion.
i-d7866810a675b8e7-404	Madam President, I would like Lars Beckman has asked me what conclusions I draw from the sharp increase in the number of people who are now receiving supply support instead of remuneration from the Swedish Social Insurance Agency, whether I have any plan to give a mandate in the regulation letter to the Swedish Social Insurance Agency to remedy the situation, what measures I intend to take to ensure that people who have daily activities receive activity compensation from the Swedish Social Insurance Agency and do not refer to supply support, what shortcomings I see in today's regulations, what measures I plan to take and what I will do in concrete terms with regard to the Inspection of Social Security Report, which shows that 40% of those who receive withdrawals are referred to supply support for their income. Lars Beckman has asked similar questions in several interpellations. I welcome his commitment to this important issue and I look forward, in cooperation with several parties, to continuing work on improving the security of this group. Work is ongoing in several different parts to address shortcomings in the current regulatory framework. The government has commissioned a special investigator to review the sickness and activity benefit ( Dir. 2020:31). The aim is to ensure a high level of security in the event of long-term reduced work capacity, good predictability for the individual and stability of application over time. The regulatory requirement for an insured person to be granted the benefits shall be made more appropriate and, as far as possible, make use of the occupational capacity of the insured person. The assignment must be presented no later than 30 July 2021 and will be an important basis in the continued work to ensure the security of the target group. In addition to the review of the regulations, the Government has commissioned the Swedish Social Insurance Agency to improve support for young people who are denied their application for activity compensation (S2019/ 03413/ SF). Those who are refused an activity allowance shall receive assistance and support to be able to work or study. The Government has also commissioned the Social Security Inspection to examine and analyse how the Swedish Social Insurance Agency applies the obligation to investigate cases concerning sickness benefit and activity compensation where the claim for compensation has been rejected (S2019/ 03411/ SF). ISF has also analysed, on behalf of the Government, the variation in refusals and new grant of activity compensation (S2019/ 03412/ SF). Försäkringskassan and Arbetsförmedlingen also have a joint task in each authority's regulatory letters to collaborate around, among other things, young people with activity compensation to ensure that the right support is given and that relevant efforts are made. It goes without saying to me that health insurance should provide security in the event of illness and disability, and the government is working intensively to ensure this.
i-d7866810a675b8e7-408	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. There is one thing that I and Minister Shekarabi fully agree on. It's that Brynäs will win tonight and stay in the SHL. Unfortunately, however, Madam President, it also seems to be the only thing we agree on. Anyone who wants to see what the government has been doing for politics in this area since 2015 I think should go into rbu.se, the website of RBU, the National Association for Disabled Children and Young People. They have compiled, Madam President, what the government has done since 2015 and how they have worked with this target group: Sweden's weakest people, who need the support of society most. I would say that young disabled people are. RBU writes on its page about 16 deteriorations that have occurred since 2015 during this socialist government's time. They list: Personal assistance has collapsed since 2015. The granting of activity compensation has collapsed. More and more people are losing their contact. Municipalities deliberately reject applications to push the questions to the administrative court. Resources for schools to provide support are being reduced. As far as facilities are concerned, there has been a reduction in the range of products and the introduction of charges. Car support has become more difficult to get. The emergency stop for reviews of personal assistance does not work as intended. It has become considerably more difficult to obtain parking permits. LSS accommodation – own apartment with assistance – is an effort that is rarely granted. Savings have been made on escort service. Short-term housing is granted to a lesser extent. Resource schools are closed and very few new ones start. The care allowance has deteriorated. The service has deteriorated. The latest thing, Madam President, is that the housing allowance has collapsed. This is what solidarity socialist policy looks like in reality. This interpellation is therefore about Sweden's television's terrible news. That is exactly what the Government says in its reply. This is the third time that I have called the Minister here to Parliament to explain how it is that the government is acting as it does to Sweden's weakest group. This is, for example, the person who has Down's syndrome, the person who was in a daily activity. That is the group we are talking about. It is the group that has been kicked out – to use the Minister's words in another debate – from the security of the Social Insurance Agency, the security of being in an activity benefit. It is the group in which 40 % of the withdrawals have been increased since the last debate. It's been a few years since we stood here. The minister then used a high tone. Since then, twelve months later, it has increased by 40 percent. Madam President, I would like This is a moral issue. We Swedes basically want to help our fellow human beings. That's why we pay taxes. That is why it is a community of solidarity. It's about us helping the weakest. Then where is the minister's focus? Well, he goes country and country and writes debate articles about family weeks. He wants to use 30,000 million, according to Nordea's Chief Economist, 30 billion, to give healthy families a few days' leave. At the same time, he says in the answer he has just read out that the municipalities and the Swedish Social Insurance Agency will help put the weakest in the community's support. It is shameful, Madam President! I would like to know from the Minister: what does the Minister intend to do specifically to help this group?
i-XczE4sgzJWkZiThsrUcaoZ	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lars Beckman, for the post and the interpellation! I hope, Madam President, that Lars Beckman, through his commitment and knowledge of the issues relating to the financial security of persons with disabilities who lack the capacity to work, will bring his party with him and will change the approach to sickness and activity benefits. That would be a huge success. That would certainly be a big step for Sweden and not least for all our citizens who in different ways have reduced working capacity. I promise Lars Beckman that I am prepared to help him with what is needed to convince the Moderates too that sickness and activity benefits need to be restored. Madam President, I would like We could stand here, me and Lars Beckman, debating whose fault it is. Lars Beckman can say that it has to do with government control and can definitely also point to ISF reports that show that there have been deficiencies in governance. I could say then: this is because of the legislation that was amended in 2008, and which became much more restrictive. That's how we can do it. But it does not help those affected to blame each other. Madam President, I would like Our duty at this point is to ask ourselves: what can we do about this here and now in the short term, but also in the longer term? I shall be incredibly clear about what can be done and need to be done in order to restore people's financial security and especially for the group that has been affected by more restrictive legislation and more restrictive application of the right to activity compensation. The law needs to be changed. There's an investigator right now. It is not an investigation that will take two more years, but within a few months we have a proposal. That proposal will deal with how to strengthen the activity compensation and how to strengthen the financial security of the group to which Lars Beckman rightly has a very strong commitment. Let's put aside all the prestige and all the ideological locks. Everyone knows that Lars Beckman and I are far apart on many issues. But on this issue, we should be able to work together. It would be fantastic if the Swedish right and left said: Now we put aside the ideological conflicts and resolve the question of the activity compensation. I think that is exactly what is needed if this is to be resolved. Otherwise, we'll be here in a year, in two years' time, and nothing has been resolved. We need to change the regulatory framework. Everyone who has followed this debate on sickness and activity benefits knows that. Since the 2008 amendment, the legislation has been fundamentally restrictive, and so has its application in recent years become more restrictive. It has the effects that Lars Beckman has described. So, what can we do here and now, waiting for the investigation? In connection with ISF's recent review, which is very serious and shows that there are serious investigation deficiencies in the Swedish Social Insurance Agency's investigations, we have had a direct dialogue with the Board during this week. We intend to continue to have a very close dialogue with Försäkringskassan. Försäkringskassan has been given a mandate to work with investigations in the assignment concerning health insurance. But we intend to have an intensive dialogue. I know that Försäkringskassan has initiated a process of its own that deals with the handling of these kinds of cases. While we are waiting for the bill to be passed on to us, we are doing what we can in the dialogue and in government governance.
i-d7866810a675b8e7-427	Madam President, I would like The government seems to be concerned about the Moderates. Let me just say that that Government should go and talk to is, of course, the Minister for Finance. The Minister of Finance was very clear in an interview on 22 October 2016. Then the Minister of Finance of SVT said: Assistance compensation is an area where it becomes necessary to save money to cope with increased costs of refugee reception. It was a statement that caused a rage in the disability movement. However, it was not just the assistance allowance that the Minister of Finance raised. She said: It is also a question of curbing the development of costs in other areas, i.e. increasing costs, such as sick leave and assistance payments. There are measures in the budget that really need to be reviewed in Parliament now. It is therefore the party friend of the Government who says this. I don't think the government has to worry about the Moderates. We introduced the LSS. You voted against it in this House when it happened. You pressed the "no" button. You didn't want personal assistance. Why don't we know? This statement by the Minister for Finance in 2016 made Mr Ifa's chairman say: "Help for the country's most severely disabled against refugees is being put in place. It is a cynicism that will only go home because we are not visible in the streets. I appeal to the government not to pay tragedy with tragedy. That's what Ifa's chairman said. Susanne Berg, head of Stil's political department said: To set groups that need support from society against each other is to go dark forces' business. RBU President Maria Persdotter said: To put groups against each other in this way does no good. On the contrary, it is a directly dangerous development. This is not the way that Sweden needs to go. These were statements that were said in 2016. Madam President, I would like The problem is not that the Minister of Finance said this, but the problem is the reality. It is just as RBU shows on its website rbu.se. Please go inside and look at it. I think the government should also go in and read if he hasn't. There are 16 major cuts in the area by area that are directed directly towards Sweden's downgraded function. This interpellation debate is about the weakest in society. I think very few people think that someone with Down's syndrome, Linnea in Gävle, will be able to take a wage-subsidised job. That is why we are paying taxes, Madam President. That is why we have decided in the true democratic spirit that this group of people really needs the support of society. For me, it is incomprehensible how to subsidise electric bicycles for 1.6 billion. How can we even discuss the idea of introducing a family week at a cost of 30 000 million, 30 billion, while at the same time receiving reports that the group that needs the support of society is receiving the most cut-backs and that that group has increased by 40 %? They would be more reasonable for the Government to devote its time and energy to trying to remedy the major shortcomings, the 16 points that RBU is flagged with, than even to consider introducing a family week. You want to give extra days off to families with healthy children when there are those who really need the help of society.
i-d7866810a675b8e7-437	Madam President, I would like I do not doubt Lars Beckman's commitment to the people who will have their financial security secured by the activity compensation. Nevertheless, I must urge Lars Beckman to show a greater degree of self-criticism, because the government takes our responsibility very seriously. We are now looking at ISF's review that the governance of Försäkringskassan has to change, and we have started this work. But even the parties involved in drafting the law that has tightened up in a very restrictive direction must be able to critically review their own positions. If it had been the case that there was no legislative change process, it could have been said that it remains to be seen and all that is usually heard in political debates about carefully considering the possibility and so on. But Lars Beckman doesn't have to make it so difficult. The investigation is currently under way, and it is in the final phase of presenting a proposal which means that the exact trials that Lars Beckman has views on will be regulated in a different way to increase the security of these groups. I have stated very clearly here that we are on the ball when it comes to steering the Social Insurance Agency. I humbly call on Lars Beckman to do what he can to influence the conditions for this House to take the necessary decisions so that the law is amended as well. We must demonstrate to our citizens the ability to examine politics self-critically. The government's efforts to change the governance of the Swedish Social Insurance Agency must be combined with regulatory changes where we have too restrictive regulations. It is not enough with empty words, with this debate or with Lars Beckman's views in this House. It does not help those affected by these abuses, on which we agree, unless we also ensure that the debate and oral positions are followed up by the right printing when the issue of legislative change is to be dealt with in this Parliament. I call on Lars Beckman also to include this debate in the party he represents so that we are given the opportunity to amend the legislation, because it is clear that the situation we have with regard to sickness and activity benefits cannot be accepted. It is so obvious that the combination of the restrictive regulatory framework and the restrictive application of this regulatory framework has had terrible consequences for our insured people, and that unfortunately also applies to sickness benefits. It also has far-reaching consequences for other groups. It is rarely possible to be this clear, but now we can be so on this issue. The question can be resolved quite soon; that is what is so good! Politics is what is shaped by us in the government and parliament. If the government has now taken this initiative and set up an investigation to present a concrete legislative proposal that solves exactly the problem raised by Lars Beckman in this debate, the way should be quite easy to address this. I interpret kindly and humbly Lars Beckman's commitment as proof that the change is possible.
i-d7866810a675b8e7-445	Madam President, I would like Sounds like the government's not a minister. It sounds like the Government has no responsibility whatsoever for the policy that this government has pursued since 2014. It is a policy that has had devastating consequences for Sweden's disabled people and has led to the entire disability movement having fought against this government. I think it's just like Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson said in 2016. Surgical precision has focused its efforts on reducing the living conditions of those who need the support of society most. The 16 points that RBU has listed are for real. It is this government that pursues this policy. I've received a desperate email because I've engaged myself in wheelchair garages. I understand that the Government is not so committed to this, but it has thus removed the possibility for Sweden's disabled people to get wheelchair garages. That means if you live in an apartment, you don't get it. The interpellation debate on this has been spread in social media, and I receive desperate emails every week. I received an email from Gothenburg just before this debate. The weakest society, which needs the support of society most, you have focused on with surgical precision, in accordance with what Magdalena Andersson said in 2016. It's your policy. It's the government base of the government. That is the agreement you have reached with three other parties in the January agreement. I can regret that, and I find it deeply unfortunate. I hope that the Government will withdraw the proposal for a family week at a cost of 30 billion. I hope that the Government will withdraw the proposal for a free year, which costs EUR 17 billion, in order to use this money instead to ensure that those who really need the support of society will get the most of all.
i-d7866810a675b8e7-450	Madam President and Lars Beckman! Nevertheless, I take the view that there is some kind of support for the necessary legislative changes, although Lars Beckman seems to have difficulty in admitting this. But we must all be optimists, so I choose to interpret Lars Beckman's speech optimistically and assume that there is a will also on the right side of the block line to do something about the restrictive regulation that we have. The process ahead is quite clear. We will have a proposal on our table within a few months. The proposal will very likely involve changes to the regulatory framework for sickness and activity benefits in order to increase safety. I can assure Lars Beckman that the Government's ambition is to do what is necessary to increase the financial security of people with illness and disabilities. I can assure Lars Beckman that, pending the amendment of the law, the government is doing what we can in the dialogue with the authority in question to ensure that the investigations are of a higher quality and that we have an application that is in line with the requirements that we should have on the handling of cases in Swedish administration. But again, we do not get away from the need for legislative change. I very much hope that the intentions expressed in this debate will also be followed by practical action on the day that such proposals land on the table of Parliament. Finally, I would like to agree with Lars Beckman's wish that Brynäs IF remain in the highest league.
i-d7866810a675b8e7-456	Madam President, I would like David Josefsson has asked me what measures I intend to take to ensure the power capacity and stability of the electricity grids in western Sweden. The government is actively working to ensure a stable supply of reliable electricity throughout the country with various measures on electricity market issues, including grid capacity and charging infrastructure. For example, the government has recently referred proposals to address problems of capacity shortages in electricity grids. The Government has also commissioned the Swedish Enterprise Agency's Swedish power networks to submit proposals for remuneration models and regulatory changes for so-called support services. The Government intends to return with proposals to the Riksdag to shorten lead times in the permit granting of new electricity infrastructure. It is the task of the Swedish power network to, among other things, expand the transmission network and operate and develop a reliable power transmission system in Sweden. It can be noted in this context that Swedish power networks are planning record investments in the next three-year period, 2022 – 2024, of SEK 23 300 million. For example, the Swedish power network's business plan with its investment and financing plan 2022 – 2024 shows that the Swedish power network is planning the construction of a new 400- kilovolt pipeline between Skogssäter and Ingelkärr in Västra Götaland. The increased capacity enables, according to Swedish power grid, the connection of new wind farms in the area and increased a socket in western Sweden. The Government has also begun work on a national electrification strategy that will take a holistic approach to the conditions in the energy sector to contribute to the 2030, 2040 and 2045 climate targets. The strategy will contribute to a fast, smart and socio-economically efficient electrification.
i-d7866810a675b8e7-460	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. Basically, I think it is a positive answer. Nevertheless, it shows an understanding that Sweden has major problems with electricity grid capacity. Gothenburg, my hometown, has so far not had the problems with electricity grid capacity that have occurred in Stockholm and Skåne and that we have been able to read about in the media for quite a long time. However, the development is also going the wrong way in my hometown. Or let me turn over the steak, Madam President: in fact, developments are moving in the right direction in Gothenburg, and that is what is going to be the problem. In Gothenburg we have an automotive industry that is at the forefront. This is where cars, trucks and electrified buses are developed. In a city that is proud of its automotive industry, we also want to be at the forefront of applying the technology that is being developed there. This is why public transport, among other things, wants to switch to electrified vehicles at an increasingly rapid pace. Gothenburg also has northern Europe's most important port, a port that is a forerunner in the connection of electricity to ships. The work has come so far that even ships loading energy products, such as oil and kerosene, are about to be connected to electricity when they are at berth. In Gothenburg and West Sweden there are also heavy industries that switch increasingly from fossil energy to electrification in their processes. This is a positive development which I believe we in this House are all receiving with open arms. But, Madam President, precisely because developments are moving in the right direction, the demands on the electricity grid, on the power capacity and on the stability of the electricity grids in Gothenburg and West Sweden are also increasing. At the same time, two of the four nuclear reactors in Ringhals, which have just provided power stability, have been shut down. In several media the municipal company Göteborg Energi stated a month ago that their analyses showed that the core network in the Gothenburg region had to be expanded significantly because of this. Göteborg Energi is the owner of the local electricity network and now notes that the capacity of the surrounding core network is about to hit the roof. In Today's industry on 14 March, the company's CEO notes that the necessary transformation of the transport sector and industry will be impossible to implement unless immediate action is taken. At the same time, he notes that Gothenburg does not share the assessment made by the Swedish power grid. Swedish power grids say that the capacity position is yellow or green. Göteborg Energi believes that the situation is actually red and that additional investments are needed in addition to those already planned and mentioned by the Government. The electrification of the fleet of vehicles, of industry and of other transport operations is fast, Madam President, and is rapidly making greater demands on the electricity network. That is why my question to the Minister for Energy was also what action he intends to take. Göteborg Energi believes, for example, that the extension of a 400-kilovoltsledning between Ingelkärr and Stenkullen should be supplemented by a corresponding line between Ingelkärr and Hisingen. My question is therefore whether the Government is prepared to work for further expansions, in addition to the already planned ones, to take place in the core network around Gothenburg.
i-d7866810a675b8e7-470	Madam President, I would like Thank you, David Josefsson, for the question. My simple answer, of course, is yes. I have developed an electrification strategy that aims to double electricity generation in Sweden, triple transmission capacity expansion, i.e. electricity lines, and halve the extension time for pipelines. The reason is precisely what David Josefsson described: a fantastic development – in Gothenburg, in Stockholm, in Norrbotten – where more and more companies switch from fossil fuels to electricity and where more and more people choose to invest in Sweden, thanks to the fact that we have the EU's lowest electricity prices and the largest electricity surpluses ever. Both David Josefsson and I naturally want us to be able to use these strengths for Sweden to make Gothenburg stronger and to make Sweden stronger. That is why, of course, I am prepared to look at all the productive, cost-effective ways to make this possible.
i-d7866810a675b8e7-472	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. As has been said, it is positive that the government is taking a number of measures to strengthen electricity grid capacity. The big question is whether these measures will suffice. As I mentioned earlier, Swedish power grids and Gothenburg Energi, for example, make completely different assessments of the status of the core networks around Gothenburg. Where Swedish power grids consider the situation to be good or at least acceptable, Göteborg Energi states that comprehensive measures are required, in addition to the planned ones, in order for investments that are on the way or planned not to be pushed in the right direction. Madam President, I would like Society is currently changing from fossil dependence to fossil-free. The transport sector is electrified, and large parts of the heavy process industry are working hard to reduce their climate footprint, as the Government highlights. This also means an increase in electricity demand. The Confederation of Swedish Enterprise believes that the electricity demand will increase by at least 60 per cent by 2045. But it may impose even greater demands on electricity grid capacity. At the moment, we rely very much on the expansion of renewable energy sources. Their doing so is basically good, but renewable energy in the form of sun and wind places extremely high demands on our electricity grids under Swedish conditions. Sweden does not have an even sun or wind supply, but it varies according to the season, between weather and also over the day. At the same time, weather variations create an almost equally uneven need for energy. Unfortunately, there is not always a link between needs and supply. Sometimes the connection is even negative. What has saved us so far, Madam President, is that the energy mix has been on a stable basis in the form of nuclear power. When nuclear reactors are shut down and replaced by renewables, a new component is required to be included in the equation. This component may be that the transmission capacity is expanded from northern Sweden to the southern parts. However, if this component or any other component is not in place, making these investments is a major risk for the business community. The risk is that the business community is actually reluctant to make the investments they want to make in Gothenburg and Sweden. Similarly, investments in technology in the port of Gothenburg, for example, can be very difficult to implement or the transformation of the fleet of vehicles within public transport can be slowed down. The examples can be made many. It is therefore also of the utmost importance that the core network capacity be expanded around Gothenburg. That is why I ask the Government whether he is prepared to make further efforts. Among other Gothenburg Energi believes that it is not done enough. The great risk, as I see it, is that in a few years' time we will have to note that the transition to a more climate-smart society that I believe both the Government and I and most others want to see is not feasible because we do not have the power grid capacity to do so.
i-d7866810a675b8e7-479	Madam President, I would like I have already answered David Josefsson's question with a yes – a simple and straightforward answer in this policy too. We will build an incredible amount of power lines in Sweden. There will be an incredible amount of electricity generation in Sweden. I think we have a common challenge in getting popular support for this in the places where these power lines are to be drawn. There is not a municipality in Sweden that has not tried to stop a power line. Now the same municipalities stand in line in front of the Swedish power grid or the government and say: Why do you not build electricity lines? We need electricity! You don't get electricity if you don't have power lines. It's that simple. Let me also say, if I may, just a little deeper, that it is also a question of building the right electricity lines in the right place. If we build too much power lines or if we build them in the wrong place, it is consumers who have to pay. In this case, instead of contributing to increased competitiveness, the extension of electricity lines risks reducing Swedish competitiveness and increasing prices for consumers. That is why we want the investments made to be truly productive. That said, we are facing a paradigm shift. We have had 20-30 years of management of the electricity grid where we have not built. People have believed that the power grid has been completed. Now we are facing 10 to 20 years of huge expansion of the electricity grid to cope with a doubling of electricity consumption, and perhaps more so, in Sweden.
i-d7866810a675b8e7-484	Madam President, I would like As I said, I appreciate the Minister's answer. The problem is that it is one thing to say something and another thing what you are doing. That's what my question is about. Göteborg Energi believes, for example, that more measures and more investments are needed than is planned. We have moved away from a situation, as the Government mentions, where the availability of stable energy supply was one of the competitive advantages of Swedish industry. Instead, this risks becoming an Achilles heel for Swedish industry. Much of this is due to the closure of nuclear reactors. If you do not want to give nuclear power the conditions to remain in Sweden so be it, but then you have to tell and explain how to solve the problems instead. Just over a year ago, the Government and I debated what measures he intended to take to secure the power grid capacity in West Sweden when Ringhals l and 2 were shut down. At the time, the answer from the Government was that the question was misplaced because the Swedish electricity network was largely flawless. Now the local network owner warns that the core network must be expanded in order not to risk future business ventures. It is positive that the response today is more oriented towards action being taken and taking place. But, as I said, they risk not being enough. That is a risk to Swedish competitiveness, Madam President. There is also a risk of climate change, because without a stable electricity grid it will be difficult, for example, to implement electrification of the vehicle fleet. I'm a little upset when the Government tries to blame the municipalities for not wanting to build power lines. I would like to say that what is needed is a government that not only says that it wants to make these efforts but also explains how they should be done. I would like to thank you for a good debate and for the fact that the Government and I share at least the view of the problem.
i-d7866810a675b8e7-491	Madam President, I would like Let me just say first that the Social Democrats and the Moderates agree on the conditions of competition for nuclear power. They are an effect of the Energy Agreement, and the party leader of the Moderates stated when it was concluded that the Moderates had We must have the municipalities with us when we build electricity grids. It is a fact, because we have a municipal plan monopoly in this country. I did not try to blame the municipalities, but I just stated that this has been the case. We have a power grid that is among the top rated in the world. We have the biggest electricity surpluses ever. But that's not supposed to make us not expand. We're going to triple the build-up of power lines. We have planned to double our electricity production over the next few decades. It's a fantastic development. Those who have heard this debate can say that I and David Josefsson, the Moderates and the Social Democrats, agree on the main features. I hope that we will come to a development where you can also agree with us on that in reality and come back to the broad, cross-block agreements that would be so good for Swedish energy production and the competitiveness of Swedish industry.
i-d7866810a675b8e7-495	Madam President, I would like Jörgen Berglund has asked me if there will be an exception to the reduction obligation for the Swedish Armed Forces when the bill is presented in spring and if I believe that this requirement for the involvement of biofuels affects Swedish defence capabilities in any direction.
i-d7866810a675b8e7-496	As Jörgen Berglund points out, the Swedish Armed Forces have special needs for the fuel supply. The reduction obligation does not require that every litre of petrol and diesel sold in Sweden should contain a certain percentage of biofuels. There are also mechanisms in place to enable operators who need to use fuels with specific characteristics to continue to do so. However, the needs of the Armed Forces are different from those of other operations. Among other things, the Agency needs to be able to store fuel for a long time, and certain information in its activities is covered by confidentiality. It is not entirely clear how the Swedish Armed Forces would be affected by the fact that petrol and diesel used in the operations continue to be subject to the reduction obligation. The Government therefore proposes an exception for the Swedish Armed Forces in the legislative referral. In the next control post for the reduction obligation, the consequences of the exemption should be investigated in more detail and a new position should be made on the basis of the outcome of the investigation.
i-d7866810a675b8e7-498	Madam President, I would like Earlier today, I debated with the Minister for Defence, and I noted that I did not receive any answers to what I had asked, either orally or in writing. But right should be right, because in this debate I can note that Minister Ygeman has answered my most central question about the reduction obligation for the Swedish Armed Forces. In addition, I am in principle satisfied with the answer. I'll come back a little later on to why I'm saying in principle. I think there are some concerns left. I asked this question a month ago as a written question. Then I got like no real answer and thought that I could write an interpellation. As I said, I would like to emphasise that, in relation to the central issue, I am very pleased. Madam President, I would like Why is this issue so important? The short answer is that introducing a reduction obligation – that means making a higher incorporation of biofuels, or renewablely, into diesel and petrol – would have quite serious consequences for the Swedish Armed Forces. It would greatly reduce our ability to defend our country. That is why I believe that this is an issue that is extremely central and important. The idea now is to do this relatively soon, but the Swedish Armed Forces are exempt, at least according to the advice of the Law Council. I would like to emphasise that this reduction obligation in relation to fuels is essentially a very positive thing. That is not the issue here. The problem is that an organisation like the Swedish Armed Forces has an incredible number of vehicles. Some vehicles are also specially adapted. There are a lot of older vehicles, and they cannot be driven with such a high blend of biofuels. This means that if biofuels cannot be incorporated, the vehicles cannot be used either. This type of fuel also works worse in cold weather, and the task of the Swedish Armed Forces is of course to be able to operate throughout the country, year-round and in all weather conditions. Another thing that is at least as important is that when you store such fuels, the durability of the fuel is shortened. Precisely the storage of fuel is important not only for the Swedish Armed Forces but also for civilian preparedness. This could be fuel for spare power plants for hospitals, cooking kitchens, etc. I said that I am basically satisfied with the answer, but here I would like to hear how the government has been discussing the consequences for civilian preparedness, which we also know needs to be built up and which we will build up in the next few years. There you may also need to have stocks to solve your mission. Madam President, I would like As I said, I am basically satisfied with the answer, but I want to double-check one thing. This is a council referral and not a bill. Can I be sure, then, that this will also be included in the bill?
i-d7866810a675b8e7-505	Madam President, I would like The simple answer to Jörgen Berglund's question is yes. The only thing that could prevent this is if the Law Council were to say that it would be illegal to have such an exception. I find it very difficult to imagine, but I still want suspenders and belt straps in this regard. Otherwise, it will be included in the bill. Biofuels are not one but there are many different biofuels with different characteristics. We therefore need some time to analyse the various biofuels and their storage properties. Some may have significantly worse storage properties than the fossils while others may have as good or better, but it is too early to say. The reduction obligation does not make it impossible to sell a pure fossil fuel. It only requires that those who sell it can increase the share of biofuels in something else or sell it. It is this market that needs to be built up so that one could possibly remove the exemption from the Swedish Armed Forces. It will also help others who need an old machine or something like that. It will surely be a little more expensive with a clean fuel, but it will still very likely be possible to buy on the market.
i-d7866810a675b8e7-508	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. This is, as the Government says, not black or white – it should be remembered – and it also makes it particularly complicated, of course. As far as civil preparedness is concerned, it is municipalities and regions that are largely responsible for this. I imagine that much of what remains and is still part of our civilian preparedness is ageing. Do you know anything about how this is going to work? Will it have to be bought in new equipment – do you see it in front of you? And who's going to pay? I'll tell you the truth, I didn't read the answers from every referral, because there were quite a few. But what has SKR, which usually represents our municipalities and regions in a good way, said? It may seem like a small question. But it has quite far-reaching consequences. The Government was concerned about the availability of fuel. It's incredibly important. If the large majority of users have a requirement to use higher-interference fuels, it is clear that access can be reduced. Market economy is a fantastic system that regulates it very well. But if demand for a cleaner fuel is reduced – by cleaner, I mean, in this case, dirtier, that is, there is more diesel and petrol in it – it also risks becoming more expensive, if there is more of a special solution. It should be remembered that in a national perspective and in an even larger, international perspective, the needs of the Swedish Armed Forces are still small. That's what we're supposed to call it anyway. There's a lot to think about here. I would like to hear from the Government how they have thought about this linked to the civilian part with perhaps large new investments, who pays and so on. It will also be interesting in the future. As the Government said, it is conceivable that the Swedish Armed Forces' exceptions will disappear in the future. That makes sense. But this also means that the Swedish Armed Forces' new vehicles will have to be able to operate with this fuel. The defence market is a special market. I will admit that I do not have precise control of reduction obligations and any designs internationally. But Sweden is a rather small player in these contexts. This could lead to a much more limited supply of new vehicles and to more expensive purchases for Sweden and the Swedish Armed Forces. I am happy to listen to what the Government has to say about how you have reasoned.
i-d7866810a675b8e7-517	Madam President, I would like I do not believe that the difficulty of driving vehicles with the fuels involved should be exaggerated. It is probably mainly about certification, ensuring that a vehicle is able to drive on a particular fuel. There are probably many vehicles that can be driven on far more mixtures. During the war cars were driven on gas in Sweden, and it was not a certified fuel before then. There are a number of questions to look at here, including the storage resistance of the fuels. While we are on the bigger picture, I would like to say that there is enormous potential here. Sweden could free itself from energy supplies from Russia and Gulf states and produce our own fuel. This would prevent us from being cut off in the event of a crisis or war situation. In the long run, of course, it is much better for Swedish defence capabilities. But until we get there, we have to sort out all the issues that Jörgen Berglund and I have discussed in this debate. I would also like to emphasise that the fossil fuel we buy to Sweden is unmixed. It is mixed in Sweden. This enables everyone who imports the fuel to Sweden to sell it to the Swedish Armed Forces or other customers unmixed. But that fuel will be a little more expensive, because someone else then needs to have a little more involvement of biofuels.
i-d7866810a675b8e7-521	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answers, Minister. I fully share the view of the Government that increased involvement, as we have here, reduces our dependence on foreign fuel from the Gulf states or Russia. That is quite correct. I may sound somewhat negative, but I would like to emphasise that I am not fundamentally so. However, I feel a genuine concern that it might affect. There are consequences that need to be further investigated. I assume that the Government is honest when he says that you can look at these things further. I very much hope that we will get to the bottom of all the various branches and consequences that can result, not only for military defence but also for civilian preparedness where our municipalities and regions play a crucial role. As I said, I am basically satisfied.
i-d7866810a675b8e7-526	Madam President, I would like Jörgen Berglund has written a good interpellation. The government has essentially followed the line proposed by the interpeller. Now we have a number of years to push the development forward so that the reduction obligation that both the government and the Moderates are behind will be the best possible for both society and the Swedish Armed Forces. I would like to thank you for a good debate.
i-d7866810a675b8e7-528	Madam President, I would like Håkan Svenneling has asked me how to intensify the work to take responsibility for Swedish citizens in the camps in northeastern Syria and whether the government still believes that children's rights and safety weigh more easily than the principle of not helping their parents to return. He has also asked how I intend to increase support for Kurdish self-government and I and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will, like Finland, appoint a special envoy in order to be able to work more effectively on this issue. Let me first say that the humanitarian situation in north-east Syria is deeply worrying. The issue is of paramount importance to the government, and we continue to give priority to efforts to help children with a connection to Sweden. The goal is for the children in the camps to be brought to Sweden if and when possible. The complex consular work is carried out intensively. We have an ongoing dialogue with the local self-government, Aanes, who is responsible for the camps in al ‐ Hol and Roj where Swedish children reside. Personnel from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs visited the camps in October 2020 with a special focus on the children's situation. We hope to carry out a follow-up visit in the future. I myself have discussed the situation of children on several occasions in meetings with the highest management of self-government, no later than 29 March. A key factor in this complex situation is that Aanes has the ambition to investigate and, if possible, prosecute women in local courts for crimes, including dealings with Daish. Aanes opposes the repatriation of children only in the light of the principle of family unity in the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. An exception can be made if the mother gives her consent. The Swedish mothers with whom the Ministry for Foreign Affairs has spoken have therefore been asked if they would like to come into contact with the social services in their municipality of residence to talk about the conditions for sending the children home to Sweden. So far, none of the Swedish women have expressed their wish to the Ministry for Foreign Affairs for such a dialogue with social services. It is also essential that self-government authorises a direct dialogue between mother and social services in Sweden. The Ministry for Foreign Affairs has, after determined work, made it possible to return to Sweden for seven orphans. In addition, eleven children have come home with their mothers after leaving the camps on their own and have subsequently been expelled to Sweden. According to the Ministry for Foreign Affairs, 18 children who were in the camps have thus arrived in Sweden. Sweden has a close, broad and productive relationship with Aanes. Our commitment to the region ranges from cooperation within the framework of the global coalition to combat Daish to our development aid and humanitarian aid. Since I took office as Foreign Minister, I have held a number of meetings with both the leadership of Aanes and representatives of civil society in the area. Sweden is one of the largest donors to the Syria crisis and since the start of the conflict in 2011, has contributed over SEK 3.3 billion in humanitarian funds. Last year alone, the figure was SEK 529 million. A significant part of this aid has gone to north-eastern Syria. In addition to our need-based humanitarian support, we are also acting to strengthen humanitarian access to north-eastern Syria. In 2016, Sweden has also contributed more than SEK 1.8 billion within the framework of the Swedish strategy for the Syrian crisis. This includes the SEK 100 million that the government decided in 2019 to earmark for operations specifically directed to northeastern Syria. Just before Christmas, the government decided to change and extend this strategy for another three years. The decision means an increase of SEK 1.41 billion, an increase of more than 30 percent per year compared to the previous strategy period. The accountability and prosecution of the violations of international law committed in Syria is of the utmost importance. Sweden has supported and will continue to support efforts to gather evidence for future legal action. Sweden has close contact with other countries that have citizens in the camps. They face similar problems and obstacles. There are no simple answers in this complex situation. Other countries also handle each case on the basis of their individual circumstances. Swedes who, despite the strictest form of travel advice, have travelled to Syria cannot count on the help of the Swedish authorities if the latter wish to return to Sweden. The exception is children of IS-affiliated Swedes, who will also continue to receive the help that is possible. I would like to reiterate that there should be no doubt that the government is doing what it can for the Swedish children in north-east Syria, as if and when possible to be brought to Sweden. Children should not have to stay in camps like this.
i-d7866810a675b8e7-539	Madam President, I would like After two years, several written questions, media pressure and debate, Swedish children are still stuck in camps in northeastern Syria under terrible conditions. Despite the demands of the Left Party, together with the commitment of countless civil society organisations, the government has not moved away to assume its responsibilities on this important issue. That is why I have called the Foreign Minister to debate today. I would like to start by thanking you for your reply. The Minister for Foreign Affairs says that there should be no doubt that the government is doing what it can for the Swedish children. Unfortunately, the truth is that there are doubts, great doubts, not least in view of the letter sent by the UN to the government and the government's reaction to that letter. In the letter from the UN, the current camps are called the Guantánamo of Europe. It is, of course, a strong description, but also a graphic description, given the poor conditions in the camps and the fact that European countries, compared to other states, have failed to bring their citizens home. Madam President, I would like Despite great similarities, there is a clear and distinct difference between Swedish Social Democrats and Finnish Social Democrats. This is the responsibility and responsibility of children who are trapped in the camps in north-east Syria. These are children who are in a conflict area where distress is great and conditions are difficult. These are children who have most likely seen terrible things and experienced the terror cult IS cruelty. These are children who have not themselves chosen to travel or grow up in this area. These are children who, if they are not allowed to return to Sweden, risk having a dark future where there is a great risk of radicalisation. What, then, is the Finnish Social Democratic-led government doing that the Swedish government is not doing? Yes, Finland recognises its responsibility. Finland listens to the UN. Finland has appointed an ambassador, a special envoy, responsible for bringing the children home. Finland is in place and engaged in an active dialogue with the Kurdish counterparts to overcome the obstacles to the return of children. In this way, Finland supports Kurdish self-government in building democracy and well-being in the area. That is the difference compared to the Swedish Government, which gets angry at the UN, does not take responsibility and does not act to the same extent. Where the Social Democratic shoe seems to squeeze is in the case of the mothers of these children. These are people who in a lot of cases have deliberately travelled down and engaged in the terror cult IS. You simply do not want to help them, whether the children pay the price or not. This is despite the fact that a mother who returned home on her own recently was sentenced to arbitrary procedure for travelling to Syria with her children. The situation is urgent, and the Foreign Minister must act. I wonder if the Foreign Minister can promise that when we celebrate Christmas later this year, in 2021, there will be no children left in the camps in northeastern Syria.
i-d7866810a675b8e7-550	Madam President, I would like I can begin by saying that the Finnish Foreign Minister from the Greens and I have very close contacts on this issue. But as I said, the government continues to give priority to efforts to bring home the children in northeastern Syria who are linked to Sweden. It is important that we turn all the stones around for the good of the children. During the Ministry for Foreign Affairs' consular visit in October, women were asked if they wanted to have contact with the social services to discuss a possible repatriation of their children. There may be such a possibility of voluntary care under the Social Services Act. None of the women have so far expressed requests to the Ministry for Foreign Affairs for contact with social services. It is also essential that self-government authorises a direct dialogue between mother and social services. There's a lot of things that have to fall into place. As I said earlier, I have many contacts at the highest level with the leadership of self-government – I would probably even say more than Finland at the level of foreign ministers. Svenneling is trying to make it seem that I am not acting, as Svenneling knows is completely wrong. Deciding on forced action is a matter for social authorities, and the Ministry for Foreign Affairs can never do so. In addition, the practical implementation of forced removal abroad is accompanied by major difficulties, both legal and practical, and security issues. I wish it was possible to find a simple solution, but there are no simple answers in this complex situation. The children are in different situations. A few may be orphans; others have a parent or both in custody. Most of the children are with their mothers. Each case must be handled individually. It is important that this is handled legally, in accordance with international law and Swedish laws and with the best interests of the children in focus. We work methodically for the Swedish children who in no way could or could affect the difficult situation they now find themselves in. Our goal is for the Swedish children to be brought to Sweden in order to have a safe upbringing. We share the belief that this is the long-term best solution, not only for children but also for Swedish society.
i-d7866810a675b8e7-558	Madam President, I would like In the Swedish debate, it sometimes sounds as if there is a contradiction between Sweden taking its responsibility to bring the children home and prosecute possible crimes in Sweden and that Sweden supports Kurdish self-government in its administration of justice. I believe that there is no such contradiction and that attempts to create such a contradiction must cease. Sweden can take its responsibility both in the global coalition against IS and for the Swedish citizens who fought for the terror cult, for mothers and their possible crimes and for children. At the same time, we must support Kurdish self-government in building democracy, functioning well-being and functioning justice systems. By shifting responsibility to Kurdish self-government, the Swedish government is trying to avoid responsibility and point in another direction. I mean, it won't last. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs states in his reply, several children have returned to Sweden by paying bribes so that they could escape from the camps and then be deported to Sweden. It's not a sustainable path. Sweden must take its international responsibility and act to support Kurdish self-government. The Foreign Minister says that she has a good dialogue, and that is basically a good thing. I know the Secretary of State had several meetings. I have also met Kurdish self-government. The problem is that the responsibility is always placed with Kurdish self-government, when it is really a question of the European countries not wanting to. Let's be honest. According to recent reports, the so-called court buildings in this area are so far empty concrete shells. The Kurds are still under constant threat of being attacked by Turkey – missile shootings took place as late as last month. Trials against IS terrorists in Iraq, i.e. across the border, are over in an average of four minutes. There are strong reasons to question the government's unilateral focus on the Kurds and Iraq solving the legal challenges. Sweden, in comparison with other countries, is well placed to investigate the Swedes who have come home and prosecute them, and if they can be bound to IS terrible crimes, they will of course be convicted. It gets so weird when the government focuses on the mothers and they've got a question. You don't have the children's perspective, you put the lock on the fact that the mothers don't say they want to send their children home. The problem is that the mothers want to go home too. That's why they answer no to the Ministry for Foreign Affairs' request if they want to release their children. What mother wants to give up her own child, even if she knows that the child has a better future? It's an incredibly difficult decision to make. It is therefore necessary to focus instead on meeting the demands that Kurdish self-government has reasonably set out on the basis of the UN regulations. Then repatriation can take place by people to Sweden. Here social services can then take responsibility, and any crimes can be investigated and prosecuted so that they can be brought to justice. Why is the government being criticised? When you listen to Ann Linde, you might think that the government has this issue at the top of the agenda every day, even though we have seen that nothing has happened in two years. Well, it is because civil society organisations such as Save the Children, the Red Cross and others criticise governments in Europe, and that is because the UN Special Rapporteur does not feel that the European states take enough responsibility and support the UN in resolving the situation on the ground. The government is doing a lot of good work. Ann Linde is on the money that has been sent to the area, aid and humanitarian access. But that is not enough, because the Swedish children are still in camps in northeastern Syria, even though it has been over two years since the war ended.
i-d7866810a675b8e7-570	Madam President, I would like Håkan Svenneling says that you should not ask the mothers if they want to give their children the opportunity to go home. However, I still have to put a great deal of responsibility on the parents when they themselves have chosen to take the children to this area. Due to the security situation in Syria, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has been advising against all trips to Syria for 10 years and calls on all Swedes to leave the country. It is the very highest degree of disadvantage, and it applies to all parts of Syria. This should be seen as a clear signal of the extremely serious security situation and that the Ministry for Foreign Affairs does not think you should go there. In line with this strict advice, the external administration is not represented on the ground. We've been there anyway. Håkan Svenneling seemed to question that this is the top priority and suggest that we do not work with it every day. But I can assure Håkan Svenneling that we work on this almost every day. Almost every week I get an update on exactly what it looks like. So don't come here and try to say that we're not doing anything and not prioritising, because that's not true! That's taking cheap political points. Like many other EU countries, we are doing consular work at the capital level. It is a close dialogue with local self-government, and it is not a question of shifting responsibility on them. It is about having a joint dialogue on how to clear up these situations. The interpretation of what they say or don't say, I think I'll have to stand by them myself. I don't think Håkan Svenneling can do a better interpretation than they can. We are monitoring the issue of criminal investigations and possible prosecution very closely. We're trying to follow up on the questions. We have support for organisations in Europe that help to see how this kind of prosecution is to be done on the ground. We are also in close contact with other Nordic and EU countries, and we can see that they face similar obstacles as those we encounter in Sweden. Of course, all countries that have citizens in the camps in north-east Syria organise work on these issues according to their starting points and national legislation. I can assure you that the consular work of the Swedish Foreign Service is carried out by professional and experienced employees, who, if necessary, can represent Sweden at the highest level.
i-d7866810a675b8e7-575	Madam President, I would like The Secretary of State is absolutely right that mothers have a great responsibility. But the children should not be punished for either their parents' decisions then or their decisions now. This is where I believe the Swedish Government must act in the interests of the children and for their good. It is great that the Secretary of State and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs are working on this issue every day or every week. But the reason we have criticisms is that it has been over two years. It is something remarkable that the Foreign Minister does not even regret that it has taken so long to bring the children home and that they have grown up every day that is dark, difficult and very tough. This must be seen as a foreign minister, and we must therefore act more forcefully than we see the Swedish Government doing today. We constantly see and lift examples of Finland acting better. In Denmark it has been clear that there is a greater risk if the children stay down there than if they come home. Madam President, I would like Today I asked three questions about whether the Minister intends to intensify the work of Swedish citizens in the camps in north-east Syria. I think there seems to be some increased commitment from the Swedish government. I think that is a good thing; I welcome that. I asked whether the rights and safety of children outweigh the principle that their parents should not be allowed to return. There the government seems to stand firm – you don't seem to want to help when it comes down to it and the mothers say no. I have also asked the Minister whether, like Finland, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs intends to appoint an envoy in order to be able to work more effectively on this issue. It does not seem very clear that you intend to work in any other way. So far, for two years, we have not seen any results. For me, the results will be happy to come next week, but I demand that all children at least be home by Christmas.
i-d7866810a675b8e7-582	Madam President, I would like As I mentioned earlier, it is not a matter of repatriating women who voluntarily want to leave the camps in north-east Syria. They will be investigated by the local self-government for crimes, including the association they may have had with Daish. We are now awaiting the criminal investigations and possible prosecutions of local self-government. When that process is completed, self-government is likely to expel remaining women, and they can then get home to Sweden. If and when Swedish citizens who have stayed in the camps come to Sweden, our authorities are well prepared. They are well prepared to ensure controlled reception of both women and children. Any crimes must be investigated, if they have not already been prosecuted locally, and children must be treated. The Government prioritises efforts to help children in northeastern Syria with links to Sweden. The goal is for these children to be brought to Sweden if and when this is possible.
i-d7866810a675b8e7-585	Madam President, I would like Kristina Axén Olin has asked me what measures I intend to take to find a solution that will enable the introduction of digital national tests. The background to Kristina Axén Olin's question is that the Swedish National Agency for Education has announced that the introduction of digital national tests will be delayed following a judgment by the EU Court of Justice on the processing of personal data under the EU Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). The Swedish National Agency for Education has the task of developing digital national tests and assessment support. The test platform that the Swedish National Agency for Education 2018 procured by an external supplier from outside the EU uses servers for the storage of sample and personal data owned by an American company. In a judgment in the Schrem II case in summer 2020 m ot background of US security and surveillance legislation, the European Court of Justice has ruled that if there is technical access for a US supplier or if data is transferred to the US at any stage, the EU Data Protection Regulation is not complied with. A press release from the Swedish National Agency for Education on 1 March 2021 shows that, in view of the new legal situation in the nan test platform can be put into service, the authority needs to ensure that the supplier and its subcontractors really live up to the new requirements of the Schrem II judgment. According to Skolverket, it is clear that the implementation of the digital tests will be delayed and will not be possible starting in 2023. The Swedish National Agency for Education is now investigating the legal, technical and operational aspects of the new legal situation. The Swedish National Agency for Education states that the agency will return with more information and an updated time plan during the spring. I share the Swedish National Agency for Education's assessment that the current legal situation is a serious, unforeseen obstacle to the task of digitising the national tests. At the same time, it is important to emphasise that the underlying reason for the Swedish National Agency for Education's announcement that implementation is delayed is to protect the protection of e-lives and employees' personal data, which has a special protection value under both EU and Swedish law. It is, of course, unfortunate that the work of digitising the tests is being delayed. In the meantime, it must ensure that personal data can be protected. Sensitive information on pupils should not be disseminated. The Swedish National Agency for Education is now working to investigate various options to ensure a workable and legally secure solution in accordance with existing requirements. The government is closely following developments on this issue.
i-d7866810a675b8e7-591	Madam President, I would like There are some matters that are a little extra important for the school, for us Swedes and for us who want to improve the school. This includes the digitisation of national tests. This is actually the case for a number of reasons. A first reason is that unfortunately we do not have annual quality measurements where we compare classes or schools, as many other countries do. For example, in Norway and England. We Moderates have often suggested that we introduce it. But when we do not have these measurements, the national tests are of course incredibly important to be able to follow the knowledge situation in Swedish schools and compare different schools. A second important reason is that teachers want this incredibly much precisely because it reduces the administrative burden. This is something that I and the Minister for Education Anna Ekström have talked about several times. Teachers feel that a lot of time is spent on paperwork. Correction of national samples, especially in certain substances, is a major burden. The possibility of a central, and preferably external, correction can give them more time to engage in both teaching and preparing lessons. That is why it is a very strong desire from teachers that the national tests be digitised. A third reason concerns another subject that we often discuss here. We did so only yesterday and the day before yesterday during the school debates, when the Minister for Education Anna Ekström unfortunately could not attend. In the parliamentary debates we had on sports, we talked about grading inflation. It is also a concern we have in Sweden. It's about knowing if some schools are more generous with high grades, or vice versa, than others. The national tests are one way of ensuring that schools follow the same rating criteria and that we do not get more than a reasonable grade inflation. Therefore, it is incredibly unfortunate that this process is taking even more time with the Schrems judgment, which came in the summer of 2020. We will of course follow the GDPR and also the Schrems judgment and ensure that we do not leak information that should not come out to others. But I wonder, Madam President, in my interpellation, what the Minister for Education Anna Ekström can do to speed up the work and ensure that we get the digitised national tests that will be central, and preferably external, corrected.
i-d7866810a675b8e7-596	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by agreeing with much of what Kristina Axén Olin says. National tests are important. They are important for pupils and to ensure that pupils receive a grade where they have support for equivalence. This is due to the national tests. This support can be maintained regardless of whether the tests are digital or not. They are also important for teachers. They provide important support in the difficult grading work. It is also a support that can be maintained even without digitised tests. The national tests are good. They follow the content of curricula and curricula. They ensure that there is a charter around curricula and curricula. To the extent that they have an impact that means that teaching is more adapted to what curricula and curricula contain, it is of course a positive impact, although I can sometimes be worried that you control the teaching too much based on the students being able to respond to different tests. However, national tests can never replace a trained, competent and experienced teacher who has the best overview of how much students have learned and can. But, Madam President, they can be a very good support. What we are talking about now is that the National Agency for Education has experienced a very unwelcome delay in the work of digitising the national tests. Here, too, I can agree with much of what Kristina Axén Olin says. The digitalisation of national tests is extremely welcome. It's a long-awaited one. There is a very great desire, not least from teachers, to be supported in the management of national tests. And it is at least my assessment, Madam President, that support can be better with digitised national tests. At the same time, work by the teacher must also be done with a digitised national test. Someone should still make the assessment of the answers that students give. Although digitalisation can make some answers work out mechanically – it remains to be seen, as the Swedish National Agency for Education is not done with this yet – there will always be a need for an experienced teacher's judgmental look. No matter how well we construct the national tests, that look will be needed to determine what is acceptable reasoning and what is a reasoning that does not really measure up. This is the case as long as the tests are to follow the curricula and curricula we have, which require students to develop reasoning, analyze and solve tasks. Madam President, I would like We're in an unfortunate situation. To the extent that there are things that can be done by the department to ease the situation, I am no stranger to taking such action. But in this situation, it is necessary that the National Agency for Education continues to analyse the situation and act in such a way that we can get the national tests digitised as soon as possible. It is something that is longed for by a lot of people in Swedish school.
i-d7866810a675b8e7-603	Madam President, I would like It's not just the National Board of Education that's been subjected to an unwelcome sentence. Perhaps the whole of Sweden and, above all, the school world have done so with the Schremsdom. It is unwelcome in view of the procurement made by the Swedish National Agency for Education in 2018. Let me just say that I share the view of the teacher of the Minister for Education Anna Ekström. The teacher is absolutely the most important. We can also discuss how to design the national tests – the government has chosen them to be grade-based – but we can do that another time. But there have been trolls in the case of the digitisation of the national tests. It did so from the start. In letter 75, among other things, you can read that the Riksdag already 2015/ 16 decided – I also think it was a unanimous parliament – on digitised national tests with external correction. It was repeated in 2016 and 2017 and 2017/ 18. 2017/ 18 stated a unanimous training committee, where I sit, that the matter had not been dealt with in accordance with Parliament's announcement and that this was not therefore met. Then we repeated these decisions. At some point in 2019 the Swedish National Agency for Education received a commission on digitalisation and the external correction. But, Madam President, there has been some magic going on in this. It was more than five years ago, perhaps even six years ago, the Riksdag decided to do this. And now it won't happen, according to the National Board of Education. First, it would have been a test period 2022. Then it was shot at until 2023, and now came the Schremsdom. Now you don't know when it'll happen at all. This is not the way to deal with such important issues. The Ministry and the Minister for Education must be able to act for the speedy implementation of what Parliament has even repeatedly decided.
i-d7866810a675b8e7-610	Madam President, I would like I should like to start by pointing something out. If Kristina Axén Olin understood that I thought the verdict was unwelcome, I have expressed myself unclear. I do not, of course, have any comments on the Schrems judgment. What I think is unwelcome is the legal situation that has arisen, as there has been a delay as a result of the new legal situation. It is a legal situation that was previously unknown. I would also like to remind you that, with regard to the announcement presented by Kristina Axén Olin, the government submitted a bill with quite substantial changes in the way rating is to be done in relation to national tests, where the government also received the support of the Riksdag to say that the national tests should be rating supportive and that the results of the national tests should be taken into account in particular in the rating. On the other hand, grading criteria should not be used for the national tests. It is not clear from any constitution, nor is it the government's intention to do so. If I do not remember completely wrong, and here I have to make a reservation for my weak memory, Madam President, I have just the impression that when the Parliament in this House took a position on the bill that laid down the guidelines for rating and national tests, the announcement that Kristina Axén Olin presented was also taken up. We can argue about why we do not have digitised national tests on the ground, and I could stand here and spend time complaining that nothing, but active positions against the digitisation of national tests, was done on this point during the period of alliance that preceded the time of the government. I will refrain from this and concentrate instead on ensuring that we have the best possible conditions for the digitalisation that we now all agree on to happen. That digitalisation, Madam President, must be carried out with care. We have far too much experience in the school system of decisions taken in the Riksdag, in the Government Office or at the level of the government and which are far too poorly placed to be implemented. The implementation of digital national tests is a test for the Swedish school system. It will require a good IT infrastructure and a good IT security. It will require that there be opportunities for connectivity and opportunities to prevent cheating and the like among all our school heads. They are not few, Madam President, nor are they all large and well equipped with IT departments. I therefore see a great risk that this work, if we do so in such a way that schools do not keep up, will rather be another ditch drive. We do not want to see this with the digital national tests. It is enough with the huge projects that have been decided here in Parliament and which have been given such a weak reception in the teaching staff for many years. Madam President, I would like My intention is to work persistently and stubbornly with the digitisation of national tests that can facilitate the workload of teachers, which can ensure that the tests are carried out in a legally secure and sound manner and can be carried out in such a way that the school's principals are well placed to cope with that implementation. It is my firm intention to do so just as soon as possible, but not so fast that the project fails.
i-d7866810a675b8e7-618	Madam President, I would like As I have said, this issue was indeed a long way off, because we already decided in 2015/16 here in Parliament on the digitisation of the national tests with external central correction, later clarified. Then, of course, the verdict that came in the summer of 2020 has complicated the whole thing, because the National Agency for Education has made a procurement with a company where several different nations are involved in the product that would be helpful to us in this. One can discuss how those decisions were made and which lawyers and school lawyers were not involved in the procurement, but we can do that another time. In June 2019, the Swedish National Agency for Education presented a report to the Ministry, which identified a number of problems with the project. It is not that GDPR and Schrem, with a lot of questions about how to manage it, is something new for us in the political world or in the school world. There have also been a number of meetings with the Ministry after Schrem's judgment. On August 27, the Ministry had a meeting with the National Board of Education. On September 25, there was a meeting and discussion of Schrem's judgment. On October 15 they had a meeting with the department and talked about the Schremsdom. On November 4, they had a meeting with the department and talked about the Schremsdom. On November 26th, a message from the Ministry of Education will then be sent to the Swedish National Agency for Education, which says that the Ministry of Education does not intend to participate in this type of forum or discussions as the issues are neither within their area of competence nor on their table at present. However, the situation may change if this has implications for the timetable and delivery of the project as it is negotiated politically. Madam President, I would like This is a bit interesting, because it is a parliamentary decision basically and not something that has been negotiated in the January agreement on digitisation. But maybe it's the department officials who don't know about it.
i-d7866810a675b8e7-623	Madam President, I would like It is true that there has been a great interest both in digitising the national tests and in how the work at the Swedish National Agency for Education is progressing. Of course it is; this is an important issue. It is an important issue for Swedish teachers and for Swedish students as well as for all of us who care that the Swedish school should work as well as possible. My firm intention is to do what I can to ensure that the national tests are digitised as soon as possible without jeopardising the project by its unthinking and unpreparatory implementation. My intention is also to ensure that digitisation of the national tests can support what is the school's important work – ensuring that children and pupils learn as much as possible and developing knowledge and abilities to the greatest extent possible. In this work, of course, digitised national tests must follow the curricula and curricula we have. This work will take some time, but I am convinced that with a well done work to digitise the national tests we will get very good back to Swedish school in the form of greater opportunities to follow the students' knowledge results and results in the Swedish school but also greater opportunities to focus on what is the core task, namely teaching. I would like to thank Kristina Axén Olin for raising this important issue and for her commitment to the issue of digitisation of national tests. We fully agree that this is something that Swedish school needs.
