i-09d5494531ce24fb-1	Madam President, I would like It has been over a year since the pandemic took hold in Sweden. Since then, nothing is the same. In health care and care for the elderly, nurses and nurses have undergone their perhaps the hardest test ever. The Swedish people have also joined forces to contribute to the fight against the spread of infection, but for many it has been heavy. Around the country, 70 ‐ pluses and others at risk have been allowed to refrain from associating with loved ones. The children have not been able to come to visit. Our feasts, the moments of life where we can rejoice with relatives and friends, have been cancelled or celebrated with those closest to us. Many still work or study remotely, not least to protect and help all those who cannot work from home, and there are many. I am also thinking in particular of the generation of young people now on the threshold of adulthood. It is students who are allowed to spend several semesters with distance learning and students who have been allowed to stay home almost half their upper secondary school time. It has been timed leisure activities, difficult to meet friends and to engage in all the other activities of youth. The pandemic has affected us all in some way, and for many it has been a very heavy time. But it has also been necessary. Everyone who is still waiting for care or rehabilitation to be postponed knows this when the health care staff must take care of covid patients. Not least do all those who have lost a close relative, sometimes without even being able to see and say goodbye. But the consequences of the pandemic go far beyond the purely humanitarian. The world economy has suffered one of the most dramatic declines in modern times. For a country like Sweden, which is based on trade with others, it was inevitable that our economy would also be involved in the case. There is, of course, the consequence of the spread of infection in Sweden and the measures needed to stop it. They have hit many entrepreneurs and employees hard, not least in sectors such as culture, sports, hotels and restaurants. It has become particularly clear when the spread of infection began to increase again at the end of last year. Then much of our industry was able to work on thanks to the global flow of goods being kept open. But for many entrepreneurs in the service sector, the situation became dark. Since last autumn, the government has strengthened or extended virtually all available crisis support. These are measures that give many affected people the breathing space that is needed while waiting for the situation to turn around. Now there are signs of a light. Madam President, I would like Although various forms of restrictions and recommendations will remain in place for yet another time, we can now see the horizon beyond the corona. We haven't gotten there yet. But it is beginning to come within reach, mainly thanks to the vaccine. Less than a year after the virus was first observed in Wuhan, China, 91-year-old Gun-Britt-Britt Johnsson in Mjölby was first in Sweden to get the long-awaited stick in his arm. It's a fantastic feat of scientists all over the world. It also testifies to what humanity is capable of when we come together for a common goal. I hope that the world's peoples and leaders can learn from this work when we face other global problems such as the climate crisis. The healthcare staff in Sweden are now working under high pressure to vaccinate as many as possible as quickly as possible as new doses of vaccines are delivered. The government is now firing nearly 2 billion to support the vaccination. It's a lot of money, but probably the best investment in our lifetime. Every shot put in the arm is crucial to saving lives and health but also to saving people's jobs and livelihoods. This applies not only here in Sweden but also in our surrounding world. As long as the virus spreads anywhere in the world, the risk of new mutations remains high. As long as new outbreaks are at risk of affecting our trading partners, Swedish jobs are also threatened. Therefore, Sweden takes its share of responsibility for global vaccination and contributes according to its ability to international collaborations such as Covax. We do it both out of solidarity and out of self-interest. One thing we know, none of us are safe from the virus until everyone does. Madam President, I would like Only through short-term lay-off have hundreds of thousands of Swedish employees been saved from the risk of losing their job. Even when the crisis broke out, we were clear that no country, no matter how strong its public finances, can nevertheless save all jobs and businesses. Although the labour market situation improved slightly at the end of last year, it remains serious, not least for vulnerable groups. The unemployment rate is higher and the employment rate is lower than before the pandemic. But there is also reason to be optimistic. According to the latest available data, Sweden has the highest proportion of the adult population in employment but also, to an even greater extent, the highest participation in the labour force. As I am sure I will have questions in line about why other EU countries have lower unemployment, I was going to answer that right now. The lower unemployment rate in other countries is in many cases due to the fact that people have simply stopped looking for work, and too often women. If you do not apply for a job, you do not count as unemployed in the statistics. If some of my fellow debaters want to advocate this solution to unemployment, they can of course do so. Personally, I think it is better to ensure that all those who in Sweden are now looking for a job also have the opportunity to get to work. This applies not least to Sweden's young people who work to a large extent in the industries that have been hit particularly hard during the pandemic. But I am also thinking of those who already had difficulty entering the labour market, such as those born abroad and the long-term unemployed. We are not going to bring unemployment down by hiding it in the statistics, but we are going to get people into work. That's exactly what the government does. We laid the foundations already this autumn with a strong green restart of the Swedish economy in the budget bill. With a clear and consistent employment policy, we will equip people to take the jobs that are emerging. The signal is clear. You need to do what you can to find the next job, but you will also get support and help. Thanks to the increase in unemployment benefit, you will not have to worry about having to go from home to home, as long as you are at the disposal of the labour market and take the available vacancies. If you do not have the required skills, you will acquire the necessary skills. You can do this by the government has reinforced the expansion of the Knowledgelift with tens of thousands of additional training places. Now we are taking another step with a job package focusing on young people and those who find it a little harder to find their way into the labour market. That's how it works in Sweden: If you get rid of the job, you should face an outstretched hand, with a firm grip to hold on when the wind blows, which leads you right on the way to the next job. Madam President, I would like Every time a person goes from unemployment to work, it is not just a success for the individual but a profit for all of us, because jobs are the foundation of all the other social problems that we want to solve. It should be said: Sweden was not a perfect country before the pandemic. A social problem that has received a lot of attention during the pandemic is the working conditions in welfare. It's only right. Reasonable salaries, secure employment and a sustainable working environment are a matter of justice for nurses, nurses and all others who care for the sick and provide security for the elderly in Sweden. It is also a matter of patient safety. But not least, better working conditions are crucial to ensure that enough young people go to welfare professions and participate in expanding welfare as we grow older. There is now a reinforcement of care for the elderly throughout the country in the form of the Old Care Lift. In order to support healthcare employees, we also increase the support to beta off delayed care and corona-related additional costs from SEK 4 billion to SEK 6 billion. Even if it is a pandemic, the government will never let go of the focus on continuing to fight the crimes and the causes of the crimes. We are now more than halfway towards the government's target of 10,000 more police employees. This work also produces results. Therefore, we need to strengthen the judicial system with new additions to the Swedish Prosecution Authority, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, the Swedish National Court of Justice, the Swedish National Agency for Forensic Medicine, the Swedish Criminal Service and the Swedish Customs Agency. In Malmö, the project Stop shooting has proved very successful. That's why we're expanding it to more locations so that more criminals can choose a different path. At the same time, we provide more resources to combat violence in close relationships and support people who are subjected to honour-related violence and oppression. Because there is no doubt about it: we are going to wage an uncompromising fight against the gangs. We're gonna put a lot of pressure on the black money. And not least, we will put an end to the criminal recruitment of our young people. Madam President, I would like This spring budget is a budget for jobs. We save Swedish jobs and viable companies. There will be more money for everyone who is working in health care, and we are equipping the unemployed so that everyone can join in working Sweden out of the crisis. There is enormous potential in the Swedish economy. Thanks to a responsible and balanced policy, Sweden was able to enter the pandemic with 350 000 more in work, 100 000 more employees in welfare and the lowest public debt since 1977. Looking forward, I see great potential. We have an innovative and diversified business sector that is at the forefront of climate change, where we know that the jobs of the future exist. We have a well-trained workforce that is more active in its job search than in any other EU country. Despite all the crisis packages, we also still have strong public finances. Together we can build Sweden stronger after the crisis. Now we are holding out for a while, and then, as soon as possible, we will work Sweden out of the crisis together and build a society that is stronger and more sustainable than it was before the pandemic.
i-09d5494531ce24fb-31	Madam President, I would like Yes, it was a message to Sweden's long-term unemployed: They should still be happy that they are in the labour force. Long-term unemployment, Madam President, is breaking record. It's about people that one, two, three, four, sometimes five or six, years have been in unemployment. Many of them come from other countries. We know that only every other immigrant who comes to Sweden can support himself. A lot of people do it, work hard, set the clock every morning, go to work, but a lot of people don't. We have major integration problems. It was three years ago that the government's own experts stated that it must pay better for those who have immigrated here to go to work compared to stacking different contributions. I think it is perfectly reasonable that you earn more from going to work than from stacking subsidies, but I also think it is reasonable that you should qualify into the various welfare systems through work. We know that one reason for high unemployment and major integration problems is the Swedish benefit systems. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for Finance, and I think that there are quite a few voters who are wondering this very question: why does the Minister for Finance think it is reasonable that many newcomers who come to Sweden can actually get more in benefits than many pensioners, who have worked a whole life, get out?
i-09d5494531ce24fb-35	Madam President, I would like There should be no doubt whatsoever that you should also work in Sweden. This is where the government has also changed its policy since it came into government. We started by abolishing the custody allowance, the purpose of which was that people should not work and which we know that newcomers in particular used. We changed the parental insurance for new arrivals so that they would get to work faster. We have introduced a language obligation. We have introduced an education obligation. There is no doubt about how it will work in Sweden when you come here. If you are young, you should educate yourself to one of the deficiency professions we have in Sweden and start working. If you have work experience, you should quickly learn Swedish and start working. If you are older, perhaps without education and experience, you can start with some form of internship in order to get into working life. This is, of course, about being clear in what expectations we have in Sweden – in Sweden we work – but also in what demands we make. For this reason, the requirements, both language and educational obligations, which the government has imposed have been important and have led to more people seeking out to the labour force, not least more women. Therefore, the question goes back to Elisabeth Svantesson. Now we removed the custody allowance when we entered government. But Elisabeth Svantesson wants to form a government with the Christian Democrats, who have custody grants as one of their most important election promises. The Swedish Democrats have also expressed a positive opinion on custody allowances. What about the newly arrived and immigrant women in Sweden if the Moderates together with the Christian Democrats reintroduce the custody allowance?
i-09d5494531ce24fb-39	Madam President, I would like I note that the Minister of Finance does not want to answer the question why new arrivals who come here should receive higher contributions than those who are retired. I think that the contributions should be reduced and that the tax on pensions should also be reduced so that a pensioner can retain more. That's my basic attitude. The policy has been changed, says the Minister for Finance. Yes, indeed! Sweden was still doing quite well in the unemployment statistics when Löfven set the target of the lowest unemployment rate in the EU. Now we're among the worst. These are record levels of long-term unemployment. Yes, you've changed the policy, and it hasn't gone very well. The custody allowance cannot be blamed for the fact that there are now almost 200 000 people in long-term unemployment. However, the Minister of Finance can feel calm: it will not come back. But we need a policy that lowers subsidies, increases incentives and gives people the opportunity to get to work. But change the politics, you certainly did. Seven more years in this way, and I wonder where it ends.
i-09d5494531ce24fb-43	Madam President, I would like The reformed policy means that although we are in the biggest economic crisis since the Second World War, more people are working in Sweden than when Elisabeth Svantesson was Minister of Labour. Of course, one can have comments on the fact that even more people would be in work, but just as moderate former Minister of Labour, one could perhaps think a little bit about their history. The same is true of pensioners. If it is something that this government has done, it is finally removing the unfair tax gap that existed between pensioners and wage earners and which was introduced by the Moderates. We are now also moving forward with a special pension supplement for those in Sweden who have worked a full, long working life but still have a low pension. That was a great and important gain for us Social Democrats.
i-09d5494531ce24fb-45	Madam President, I would like A Danish guarantee pensioner receives about twice as much as a Swede. Sweden's older people, if we say so – from 75 years onwards – have the lowest income in the whole Nordic region. Sweden has the highest proportion of poor pensioners in the Nordic countries, and this is particularly true of older women. The risk of poverty among older women is significantly higher in Sweden compared to our Nordic neighbours. At the same time, we have the highest retirement age in the EU. So it is something that does not go one hundred percent. Furthermore, if we flush out the band, i.e. extrapolate in time, and do not talk about the current pensioners – the 40s – but about the 90s, which hopefully will retire at some point in the future, the situation looks even worse. There is thus clearly a problem, and if you are going to make it a little easy for yourself and harden it, there are in principle three possible solutions to the problems mentioned. One solution is simply to raise the retirement age and force people to work longer. If they want or can, you don't care; you force them. That's one of the solutions. Another solution is to do nothing at all. You tell people to take care of it themselves: We take no responsibility. It works well too, but it's not very sympathetic. The third solution is to strengthen the old-age pension system in the long term by increasing pension contributions. This leads to higher pensions in the short term and in the long term, and it is probably the best option. My question is therefore, Madam President: is the Minister of Finance prepared to increase pension contributions?
i-09d5494531ce24fb-51	Madam President, I would like An increase in pension contributions is something that would only strengthen the pension system in the long term, and I see major problems with the pension system here and now. Far too many of those who have worked a very long working life in Sweden have a far too low pension. Many of them are women, who have worked perhaps in food cooking or as a nurse. This is why, in recent years, the government has made important efforts to strengthen the Swedish pensioners' finances. On the one hand, we have eliminated the unfair tax gap, which, among other things, Oscar Sjöstedt in this House has voted to prolong. Now it will finally be abolished. We have also increased the housing supplement and improved the guarantee pensioners. In addition, this year we have finally received a special pension supplement specifically for those who have worked but still have too low pensions, and that was an extremely important reform for us Social Democrats. In the longer term, two things need to be done. One concerns the retirement age. As we live longer and get healthier, we also need to work further up the age range, but it is important to say that this looks different for different people. If you as a doctor have started working in your 30s, you can add a few more years, but have you worked as a nurse since you were 20 is not the same opportunity. That flexibility must therefore be there. That's one thing. The second thing that needs to be done is clear to me as a social democrat: we social democrats have gone to elections to increase pension contributions in order to strengthen the entire pension system in the long term.
i-09d5494531ce24fb-55	Madam President, I would like That it only solves things in the long term isn't really true. If we increase pension contributions, we will also strengthen pensions today. They are also strengthened in the long term, of course, so then it gets even better. So that's not really true. You have failed to eradicate the tax gap between employees and pensioners, Magdalena Andersson. It's still there. You removed it with one hand, but then you introduced a tax relief only for wage earners with the other hand. So the tax gap remains; you have still not been able to sort it out after seven years. It is sympathetic that you are going to elections on something, but in some sense you also won the election. It is the Social Democrats who lead the government, and you have achieved nothing in seven years. The pension group you belong to seems completely dysfunctional. It does not solve problems, but if something creates problems. So I do not feel fully convinced by the Minister for Finance's statement here today. Will you increase pension contributions or not?
i-09d5494531ce24fb-58	Madam President, I would like If we Social Democrats had to decide for ourselves, we would increase the pension contribution. But Oscar Sjöstedt has the opportunity to ask all the other parties who sit in the Pensions Group what they think about this, and then they have to explain why they are less enthusiastic about that idea. I think it is important to strengthen the pension system in the long term. As regards the unfair pensioner's tax, the unfair tax gap will disappear with the decisions now to be taken by the Riksdag. However, I can note that Oscar Sjöstedt has twice sat in this House and pressed the yes button for budgets that have been passed and that have not led to the narrowing of the gap that would have been possible if the government's proposal had gone through. Oscar Sjöstedt has therefore delayed this, consciously, through the press of his button in the Riksdag. It is an important message to give to Sweden's pensioners.
i-09d5494531ce24fb-60	Madam President, I would like When Parliament debates the budget, we get the most magnificent rhetoric and really sharp formulations from the Minister for Finance. It is, of course, atmospheric in this House, but despite mass unemployment, nothing is said about full employment. I didn't even think I heard the Minister of Finance talking about class. It is as if the Social Democrats now do not want to talk about class society. However, I can assure the Minister of Finance that class society is there. It thrives and lives, the Minister for Finance, and it is reinforced by the policy you are pursuing. Therefore, it is time to put aside major tax cuts, which have been the driving force, and step in with a policy of equality – a policy that reduces class differences in Sweden. We have seen what major markers of education or income are in terms of health, and during the Corona, not least in terms of morbidity and mortality. We live differently for a long time depending on which class we belong to, and this has not least been shown by the Corona virus. In Sweden, inequality is increasing fastest in the Western world. If we look at the wealth in Sweden today, we see that it is more unequal than in any other country in Western Europe. We are in line with the United States, Brazil and South Africa. Capital income has also been concentrated in the richest. Of course, it is possible to break this trend. The Minister of Finance is happy to talk about this one week before the budget vote, that you need to tax capital and so on, but it is recurring – and then nothing happens. The most reasonable thing would be to tax capital and large fortunes in order to make it better for the majority. It is about health care and how to renovate Sweden properly. We must ensure that differences in society are reduced. Is it not time for the Minister of Finance to actually do this?
i-09d5494531ce24fb-64	Madam President, I would like Yes, no one would be happier than me if we could do more to reduce class divisions. Tony Haddou is quite right that the development we have seen in Sweden, and also in many other countries in the Western world, means that the percentages of the population that are the richest have really deducted in recent decades. At the same time, those with lower incomes have fallen behind, in Sweden partly because of a conscious policy during the alliance years. The most obvious thing to do in terms of the richest percentage, in order to reduce the class gap, is to increase capital taxes. We have, together with the Left Party, made a fantastic proposal, but I was threatened with a motion of censure by the right parties in this House if I even made that proposal to Parliament. What is also important for lifting people with lower incomes is to ensure that we have a well-functioning welfare for all. There is a very strong redistributive force in the fact that all children receive a good education regardless of the parents they have, that we have healthcare of equal quality regardless of income and that you get a good and safe care for the elderly regardless of whether you have been the director of or been at the reception of a company. It is therefore important to continue to develop welfare. What we have presented today is also important, that is to say, further steps towards more people getting to work. The fact that people have a job and a livelihood is incredibly important for the gaps to be narrowed. It is also about the freedom it means to have your own income and be able to decide for yourself how you want to live your life.
i-09d5494531ce24fb-68	Madam President, I would like Few things are so provocative as when a Social Democratic Finance Minister says: The Left Party is right. Does the Minister of Finance not pursue politics in order to step in and say, "So here we need to do" and to be able to have a kind of power of action? That's what I'm asking. If Sweden had had the same tax rate as at the turn of the millennium, the state would have had SEK 300 billion more to move with. That is the difference between a functioning and a crisising welfare, between a pandemic preparedness or a bad excuse, as we heard here. At the same time, the pandemic shows all the structural deficiencies in welfare. But the Minister of Finance has not given much thought to what we should do in the long term. Then the Minister of Finance wants to start paying back on the debt. All this money for welfare is temporary. When will the Minister of Finance secure the long-term financing of welfare? We have not had an answer to that.
i-09d5494531ce24fb-71	Madam President, I would like That's not a bad excuse. It was a description of government policy. Number one is the job. More people are coming to work. We also see that the number of jobs has become very many since Stefan Löfven became Prime Minister. It will continue, so that even more people get to work, not least new arrivals, long-term unemployed and young people. Number 2 is to ensure high quality in welfare. Here we have come with historic large supplements before the pandemic. At that time, there were 100,000 more people who worked in welfare compared to when Stefan Löfven became Prime Minister. Even now, during the pandemic, we come with supplements to maintain quality. Number 3 is the pure redeployment. We have improved for pensioners who have guaranteed pensions and low pensions. But now, during the crisis, we have also improved health insurance and strengthened unemployment insurance. In addition, I would like to increase capital taxes. But I can see that there is no majority in this House for that.
i-GaAEWfc2pWzdLhnAtrwEfT	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Magdalena Andersson, for your speech. I can see that the government has done some good things during this crisis. But I also think that there is a dwindling curve of form on the part of the government. A lot of entrepreneurs have been forgotten in the crisis, and emergency aid has been introduced that is not adapted to the sectors that are particularly vulnerable. Not least the design of the lay-off system has been good for those in permanent employment, but it is almost an exclusion machine for those who have not had the advantage but have a weaker position in the labour market. The major problem has been that of Magdalena Andersson and I have debated many times in this House. It also becomes clear to me that if the government has a dwindling pattern in crisis policy, it has not even come out of the starting blocks in terms of the major reforms that Sweden needs in broad policy areas. Magdalena Andersson was very pleased in her description of how things develop. But you can't talk the problems out in the real world away. The long-term unemployment which is now increasing risks becoming a long-term crisis for those people, but also for Sweden. We know how easily unemployment gets stuck. I would have expected a new grip from the government today to show that the issue is really being taken seriously. Medical care makes me particularly concerned. We know that the care queues for a first visit to specialist care doubled during the government's time before the pandemic. Now it has also been a time when we have had to cancel a lot of care. How is the government going to do this, when you did not pass care in a normal financial situation and a normal state of health care? What are the big plans? What are the reforms to enable us to ensure that everyone in need of care receives it on time?
i-09d5494531ce24fb-80	Madam President, I would like I fully share Jakob Forssmed's view that long-term unemployment is at risk of getting stuck. It is therefore important that we come up with measures to improve access to the labour market for young people, new arrivals and the long-term unemployed. We have today presented a package. But it is based on a wide range of initiatives that the government has made during this term of office but also during the last term of office. They have proved to have a good effect, as the employment rate before the crisis was the highest in Sweden for a very long time. In fact, it is still higher than when Jakob Forssmed worked in the Government Office. Having said that, we must nevertheless ensure that more of those who are now entering the labour market also come to work. It's about if you need training to get a job, you should get an education. This year alone, we have expanded the training places by an additional 40,000. But it was on top of the expansion that has taken place in the past. If you need to learn Swedish to get into work, you should learn Swedish. There we have introduced language requirements, to ensure that those who need to learn Swedish to get into work will do so. And if you have such a weak position in the labour market that you need additional support, we have also expanded the opportunities with different forms of extra services and other new start jobs. We now also have special support for disabled people who need support in the labour market. So we have a broad package. I'm sure there might be more to be done there. As far as health care is concerned, it has been clear in the dialogue with the Swedish Municipalities and Regions – they themselves have said – that money was not something that prevented healthcare from working last year, but it was a lack of staff and a lack of protective equipment. I think that's very good. But of course we need to look at how we are going to expand health care in the future. It is not least about ensuring that staff are trained. There's a shortage.
i-09d5494531ce24fb-85	Madam President, I would like It is good that the government has provided funds so that it has not been a limiting factor. But I do not see that the government has the reforms to overcome the growing inequality in Sweden. It is very different in so-called health-related mortality. Some regions, due to late diagnosis and treatment, have significantly higher mortality rates than others. These differences have increased over time, in parallel with the fact that care queues have also become longer. All this was before the pandemic. To this we have now added a health debt that comes naturally from the need for care to be postponed. The government does not take the structural approach to this. Instead, one thing that could contribute, for example, is partially dismantled, namely standardised health care processes that are a grip for greater equality and for more people to benefit from the best practices. What are the government's plans to meet this major challenge?
i-09d5494531ce24fb-88	Madam President, I would like There are two major challenges in terms of health care, in addition to how to organise it. One is a shortage of staff. We need to train more staff. We have also vigorously expanded our training courses for doctors, nurses and specialist nurses. The possibilities for training as a specialist nurse are better. But there is also a need for more carers. There the government also invests very much. So it's part of it. And this will be important now that the 40s come up in their 80s and will need a lot of medical attention. The second challenge is to ensure that the regions have enough money. That is a clear priority for this government. We prioritise resources for health care and have increased state subsidies significantly, rather than reducing taxes in the way they did when the Christian Democrats were in government. The rest is the organization of care. There's a lot to do there. But one thing is clear to me: we will not get any more care if we ensure that private companies can pick out any profits from our tax money, which would have gone to care for the sick.
i-09d5494531ce24fb-91	Madam President, I would like What a year! It's been a tough and trying year for a lot of people. People have lost loved ones. Many older people have been isolated and experienced tremendous loneliness. Young people feel that in many cases their lives have been put on pause. They have not been allowed to meet their classmates, and those who are now going to graduate wonder what is going to happen. Madam President, I would like During this year, health and care workers have worked hard and exposed themselves to great risks. Business operators in the service industry and all their employees are experiencing enormous desperation, especially now at the end of the pandemic. Many people have lost their jobs during the crisis. Of course we see somewhere the light in the tunnel, but the spread of infection is still strong around many places. How long the tunnel is, none of us know, and we'll have to be prepared for it to take a while longer before we're back at what we want so badly to be normal. Time has not stood still during the pandemic. One year has passed, and during this year Sweden's other problems have not been put on hold either. It is now almost seven years since the start of the government's Löfven. Seven years is a very long time. Madam President, I would like Seven years ago, Princess Leonore was born. It's been seven years since the big fire raged in Västmanland. I know the Germans won the World Cup seven years ago. They do that a little bit now and then when it's the World Cup. They're pretty good at it. And Sundsvall Bridge was inaugurated – for those of you who sometimes cross it. I do. But it's been a long time. Seven years is a long time. I could sum up the government period as follows: where developments should have gone up, they have gone down, and where they should have gone down, they have gone up. Unemployment has risen. Growth per person has declined. Long-term unemployment has certainly risen and the employment rate has fallen. Subsidies have increased and increased, but security has decreased and declined. The list could be long, but over these seven years, developments in very many areas have gone in the wrong direction. We have debated and decided on many spring and autumn budgets since then. Of course, there is much in these budgets that is good, but, Madam President, they do not solve the biggest problems. The time for evasion must be over. Many of the Swedes are tired of a weak government that does not want to take responsibility, even in the pandemic. The former alliance government, municipalities and regions, is often blamed on someone else. Many voters still wonder what the government has done in these seven years. I am thinking in particular of unemployment, Madam President. Evaluate me at the jobs, said Stefan Löfven. He said that in the run-up to the 2014 elections when he promised that Sweden would have the lowest unemployment rate in the EU by 2020, and we have evaluated him at the jobs. Yesterday, EU data came from last year. There you can see exactly how it went. Sweden is now 23rd on the list of unemployment rates. There are only a few countries behind us. So we are among the worst in the class. Never before has Sweden had so many long-term unemployed. As I said earlier, it is about people who were unemployed before the pandemic. For them, the most common activity at Arbetsförmedlingen has been no activity. They've been forgotten. During a strong boom, they have not received the support and help they need. Their being at the disposal of the labour market is probably too well, but it does not give them jobs unless they are also supported and helped to enter the labour market. Madam President, I would like If Sweden's employment policy had only had the same result as the EU average, we would have strengthened public finances by 42 billion each year. This corresponds to approximately 72 000 primary school teachers or 88 000 nurses. High unemployment costs money and crowds out welfare. But we should never forget that much more important than this money is that we do not forget those people who today have no reason to set the clock, cannot be in the coffee room or feel meaningful. It goes without saying, Madam President, that jobs have increased since 2014. The population has increased by 600 000. Otherwise, it would be very strange. After seven years of this policy, it is clear that the work line has been abandoned and much replaced by the benefit line. I note that I did not receive an answer from the Minister of Finance when I asked her a question about the levels of grants for new arrivals. I hope that the Swedish Parliament will reconsider, because if we do not change benefit systems, exclusion will not decrease as we wish. Madam President, I would like During the pandemic, I also see a disregard for some of the jobs. I know basically that we all want to save jobs and businesses, but when the companies that are in the most difficult situation do not get the money that they have been promised at press meetings with the January parties, we have to do more. We must not give up. It doesn't have to be like this. We don't have to have high unemployment. There's another way to do it. First of all, we can ensure that those who need them really get them, but we can also ensure that they are properly supported and have an effective labour market policy that we know leads to jobs. One can have a policy that lowers taxes on low incomes so that it becomes more profitable to work. A ceiling can be introduced so that it never pays anyone who may have immigrated from another country to be at home instead of going to work. It's possible to reverse the trend. The second major problem that this government has not been able to deal with is security. How did the promise of a safer Sweden go? Promises promised a historic effort against gang crime. That would make Sweden safer. At least now we have had a little help from the French police, and we thank them for that. In Sweden, however, a person is shot to death almost every week and there is a shooting or blasting almost every day. In Sweden of the Social Democrats, every third woman now feels so insecure in the evening that she does not even want to go out in her own neighborhood. Every other student in grade 9 avoids certain places, persons or activities because they are afraid of being subjected to crime. However, it is possible to reverse this trend. It doesn't have to be like this. The Moderates want to introduce systems for anonymous witnesses, double the penalties for gang criminals – yes, you know that we have a long list that we have told you about and made proposals about here in Parliament. It is possible to change developments. It is also possible to ensure that the police get all the resources they need to do their job. While the government defends penalty discounts for criminals but betrays victims, you can do the opposite. A grown man convicted of three rapes should not just be punished for one. Discounts do not belong in Swedish legal policy, Madam President. Finally, in a few weeks' time, the Moderates will present their spring budget. It is clear to us that this is a crossroads. We've had seven lost years with Stefan Löfven. What should apply, the benefit line or the work line? Should we have a Sweden with more leave weeks, or should we instead ensure that anyone who goes to work every day gets to keep more of their salary? Should we have a Sweden where we have so poor control of the tax money that they end up as subsidies to the Iraqi Minister of Defence, or should we have order on each tax crown? Should Sweden really be a country that has a shortage of electricity as soon as it gets cold and blows a bit, or should we make sure that there is fossil-free electricity every day of the year throughout Sweden? Are there going to be amnesties for thousands of adult men who do not have asylum grounds, or are we ever going to get things right in migration policy? The list can be made long, but the dividing lines of Swedish politics cannot be made clearer. This has been seven lost years with Stefan Löfven. Sweden needs a new government.
i-09d5494531ce24fb-114	Madam President, I would like It was a long and interesting exposé of government policy. I note that there was no clear indication as to how the Moderates' policy is to become a reality. It's interesting, because right now there's very conflicting news coming from the Moderates and their two cooperation parties. The Christian Democrats say that it is completely out of the question to negotiate the entire state budget with the Swedish Democrats. The Swedish Democrats, for their part, rightly state that Sweden's state budget is a whole. The Moderates show that they do not hesitate to use hopeful majorities to weaken public finances with unfunded expenditure increases. I can understand that this kind of behaviour is tempting for an opposition party, especially when one cannot even give information on fundamental issues, such as how to form a government. But that kind of political game has a price. I've been Minister of Finance for over six years. I know that it is easy to find majorities to increase expenditure and that it is also easy to find majorities to lower taxes. However, if the government does not take responsibility for the whole, the deficits and public debt are at risk, and it is only a matter of time before confidence in Sweden's public finances collapses. Therefore, I would like to ask Elisabeth Svantesson how she thinks she will get plus and minus to go together when she becomes Minister of Finance, given the conflicting messages given by the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats. What is her plan for not losing control of Sweden's public finances? Is she going to stand up for the budget to be treated as a whole, or is she going to do this in part in the way that the Christian Democrats propose? What's the plan to get this together?
i-09d5494531ce24fb-117	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister of Finance for his interest in the next formation of the government. I think there are many who wonder and who also long for a new government. Seven years of more of what is now – that feeling is hard for many of us. That is why we Moderates and other parties have said that we are happy to replace Stefan Löfven. I find that very pleasing. It is also interesting that the Minister for Finance is very pleased. High unemployment is not a major problem. Uncertainty is not such a big problem. I don't know if she thinks that's such a big problem either. But the opposition is a major problem for Magdalena Andersson. We are parties that want to replace Stefan Löfven. We have that in common. All our parties will do everything we can to tell you about our policies. I am absolutely convinced of that. Today we are discussing the government's budget, but we will continue to talk about our policy and why it is so important to replace Stefan Löfven. It's a year and a half before the election. Of course, the government that is being formed will take responsibility for Sweden's finances. That goes without saying. I also know that there are many parties in this Parliament who want to do this. But we are also very much in agreement that we must have a change in relation to the major social problems that Sweden has, such as insecurity, unemployment and migration. That's why we want to form a government. That is why I will always keep the flag top when it comes to keeping order in the state's finances. The Minister of Finance can be absolutely sure of that. The Minister of Finance should have a little more trouble than to lie awake at night and think about what the next government should look like and how it can be formed and get through its budget. She should be a little more worried about all those who are unemployed.
i-09d5494531ce24fb-122	Madam President, I would like That wasn't an answer to the question. Elisabeth Svantesson says that she should keep the flag high when it comes to keeping public finances in order. But that is not how Elisabeth Svantesson acts in the Riksdag. Nor is that how the Moderates have acted the three times they have had the government power in Sweden. All three times they have left state finances in great disarray. Then we Social Democrats have had to come and clean up. Who, then, pays the price? Yes, it is the long-term unemployed who do not get support, the iva nurses who do not get colleagues, the nurses who have to run even faster and the children who do not get the chance to learn what they need in school. The question is again: What is Elisabeth Svantesson's plan for public finances? Is she standing up to treat the budget as a whole, or is it to be done in part and part in the way proposed by the Christian Democrats?
i-09d5494531ce24fb-126	Madam President, I would like I thought the Minister of Finance understood what I was saying. We safeguard the framework and will, of course, decide on a budget as a whole. We will have to come back to how these negotiations will even go about what they are going to do. There's a year and a half left before the election. But I also hear an undertone here. The opposition parties, which are in the majority here in Parliament, as I would like to remind you, Madam President, have jointly decided to strengthen the care of the elderly by EUR 4 billion. That seems very difficult for the Minister of Finance. The Minister of Finance has presented unfunded budgets of 500 billion in one year. The opposition does not really have much to say about it, although we are in the majority. You can discuss democracy in that. But when we present this proposal, as we see it, is so urgent to improve care for the elderly, Magdalena Andersson does not think it is taking responsibility. The Minister of Finance can remain calm – we will take responsibility for the state's finances and return to surplus. But above all, we will replace Stefan Löfven and reverse this development.
i-09d5494531ce24fb-129	Madam President, I would like I heard the Moderates put new arrivals against pensioners in a previous change of line. I just have to say that this is not a dignified or decent way of conducting politics. Something that is recurring with the Moderates is the grant ceiling. I think it might be a good idea to have a grant cap. But for nice people it is called deductions, as Elisabeth Svantesson knows. Imagine if we had such a thing – grant ceilings for grid deductions, root deductions, interest rebates and so on! Stop stacking contributions on each other, it was said in the speech. But that's not really what the Moderates want. You seem to want to make things worse for the most deprived. It's classic right-wing politics. Those who are disadvantaged should make more effort and be motivated by getting worse. Those who live in abundance should be motivated by having even greater abundance without extra effort. The Moderates are happy to talk about the fact that new arrivals have to make more effort, that language education is the key and all these pieces. Knowing the language is incredibly important, but it doesn't always make it easier to get a job. Numerous studies and reports show that discrimination in the labour market hits people with roots outside Sweden and, above all, new arrivals. A report from the Institute for Labour and Education Policy Evaluation last year shows how big a difference you make on names. Those with other names than Swedish-sounding come to interview half as many times as those with Swedish-sounding names. Why do the Moderates make it even harder for people to enter the labour market by making such proposals? If you want to create jobs, you have to put gunpowder on this and ensure that discrimination disappears.
i-09d5494531ce24fb-134	Madam President, I would like Thank you for a very wise and good question. There were many things that were raised in the line. One of them was about pitting groups against each other. I would like to use a word which I know left-wingers often use and which I too often use: fair. I think politics should be fair and legitimate. Politics is always about prioritising. The reason why I think that the contributions in the first few years need to be lower is partly that you should gain from taking a job, partly that it is not entirely decent and not entirely reasonable that a person who comes here in his 30s can work and get higher levels of benefits, quite often much higher, than the one who is retired. It's the truth. Our job is to try to do things a little more justice. I think it is a question of justice and a moral issue. Then I think Tony Haddou has misunderstood our policy. There's nothing I'd rather do than get more people to work. That is why it is so important, for example, that the Employment Service works and that labour market policy is effective. Many of the efforts that the government and the cooperation parties have made and spend more money over are ineffective measures. In order for people to get into work, it's not extra services you should invest in, but you should do more of what works. We know the fresh start works well. We know that more internships work well. We know what works. Add to that that we also have expectations of people coming from other countries. Most people do everything they can every day to get a job, but some also need a carrot to get on and work harder. Otherwise, not every other immigrant in Sweden would not be able to support themselves. We know that many other countries are doing much better. There is absolutely a need for better opportunities, but also for a system of subsidies that is fair and reasonable. I therefore believe that what we are proposing would be very good for the Swedish labour market and would lead to more people entering the labour market.
i-09d5494531ce24fb-139	Madam President, I would like We have different views on what justice is. Putting weak groups against each other is not fair. Justice would be to give pensioners more money and not to kick down; it would be more fair here. But that's the case with the Moderates: Hungry wolves hunt best, right? When politics withdraws from its responsibility to find common solutions to the social problems we have, such as jobs, the problem is individualised. Elisabeth Svantesson then puts all the political power on the person who needs a job. That is the problem. Here politics needs to take all the responsibility it can. That is what my original question was about. Unfortunately, then, a premium ceiling will be the hardest hit on those who are in a difficult situation.
i-09d5494531ce24fb-142	Madam President, I would like Just so we're clear about this, you can earn more as a family with several children by not working than working. It is not I who say this, but the government's own experts. I think that together we have taken a very good initiative here in Parliament just a few weeks ago, which we know leads to more jobs. You can do things together when you want to change. I want more people to get a job; that is my absolute goal. I know that self-sufficiency is what can give people freedom and the ability to truly be independent of others. This applies to both women and men. There I will continue to focus, as well as ensuring that benefit systems are fair and equitable.
i-09d5494531ce24fb-145	Madam President, I would like Quite often in politics it may be that one really agrees on several parameters but still lands in different conclusions. Elisabeth Svantesson has stated that we agree that it is important to get the support that has been created during the pandemic to companies as soon as possible. We also agree that we must fight organised crime. But there is one thing Elisabeth Svantesson proposes that I do not understand and therefore want to ask about. The Moderates and Elisabeth Svantesson propose that we introduce a right for companies to receive their support within four weeks, I think it is. We have received a report on how it works with these support from Stefan Strömberg. He's fixing a few things. There are people who are in all likelihood linked to organised crime who actively seek and apply for support in order to finance their crime. He also states that once these aids are paid to this type of company, it is very difficult, almost impossible, for the authorities to recover them. Checks therefore need to be carried out before the subsidies are paid. With this knowledge, is it really reasonable to introduce that kind of right? This is the principle of writing and there is money to collect on the door of the Swedish Agency for Growth.
i-09d5494531ce24fb-149	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Karolina Skog, for a very good question! I should like to take this opportunity to tell you that the lay-off aid for short-term work is the largest aid and the most widely used aid, and it is quite costly. It is quite surprising that Karolina Skog and the other parties have not included a penalty clause in the legislation on that aid, which allows us to actually get to the villains. You have done that for the conversion aid, and that was a good thing. But why haven't you done this? We have proposed a penalty, but you say no. That's where you have to start. What we need to understand right now is that of those companies that have the toughest – and there are quite a few – the vast majority are not fiddlers. They need their support. We think it is reasonable that an authority should not have more than four weeks to pay out the aid if the application has not been examined. Four weeks should last during a pandemic. Everything else goes so fast here and everywhere. It is most reasonable to have that attitude. At the same time, as Karolina Skog knows, we have been pushing for some time now that penalties should also be tightened up for those who deceive taxpayers. Most people don't. Two things can therefore be done at the same time: ensuring control and introducing a penalty in the legislation while ensuring that it is speeded up. I'm sure it can be done. I am well aware of the fraud and fraud that exists, and I am therefore amazed that the four of you have not tabled this penalty and did not support the proposal that we tabled in the Committee on Finance.
i-09d5494531ce24fb-153	Madam President, I would like I note that Elisabeth Svantesson does not answer the question: how can we, with the system that she and the Moderates propose, get back money that has been wrongly paid out to companies? According to the evaluation that has been carried out and the knowledge we have today, it is extremely difficult to get the money back once it is paid out. Elisabeth Svantesson is quite right that the vast majority of entrepreneurs seeking support are legitimate and desperate, and we will make every effort to get their money as quickly as possible. But to suggest a measure that involves giving out money without having a plan and being able to tell how they can be taken back to the state if they have been wrongly sought– I am amazed that such a proposal comes from the Moderates. It is to offer money to organised crime in Sweden.
i-09d5494531ce24fb-155	Madam President, I would like When you cannot handle and manage the tasks you are supposed to handle, you have to try to criticise the opposition, which is doing everything we can to save jobs and businesses. After all, I answered the question: get a penalty in this legislation; it is not complicated. It was very fast when it came to conversion aid. And at the same time make sure to have a guarantee. There's my proposition. It would solve the problems for a lot of companies and save a lot of jobs.
i-09d5494531ce24fb-157	Madam President, I would like Our economy, our businesses and our jobs continue to suffer from the suites of the covid-19 pandemic, not to mention all the almost 14 000 people who have had to pay the very highest price. But as far as the economy is concerned, I think it is a reasonable statement, a little in retrospect of course, that it would probably have been smarter to invest properly from the start, with proper support for companies, not least proper tax incentives, during a well-accepted period, than to use what was the government's model: to wait for development and in principle month by month to change or extend one or the other measure. This is absolutely better than nothing, of course. The government and its cooperation parties have done a lot of sensible things; I want to say that. But it has also created uncertainty and great concern among companies. If you are not familiar with the rules of the game well in advance, it is by nature difficult to act one way or the other. What we have seen in principle over the past year is how the opposition, primarily in the Finance Committee, has taken the leadership shirt and pushed the government parties ahead of it. In this connection, I would like to express my appreciation to those parties who have shown a constructive approach and have presented well-thought-out and realistic proposals for improvement during this difficult period. Madam President, I would like The last time I was in the speaker's chair, I criticised the government, and the other parties for that, too, for approving a massive package of grants to preferably less responsible economies in South and Eastern Europe of the equivalent of SEK 150 billion. That criticism remains – we do not forget. But now we hear a social democrat who wants to go to elections to reintroduce property tax. Then we can put these two things in relation to each other. It is about 150 billion Swedish tax crowns to the EU, primarily in contributions to South and Eastern Europe. The year before the liquidation of the property tax at that time, it raised more than SEK 13 billion from private households, not from companies. It is clear that you choose to give away taxpayers' money to other countries instead of investing in welfare, security, justice and, not least, on the old-age pension system at home in Sweden, there is of course a big budget hole that you have to fill with tax on most things: plastic bags, pension savings, electronics products and appliances, aviation, clothing, shoes and now most recently people's accommodation. I do not think it is reasonable, and I do not think it is morally justifiable to impose penalties on people for wanting to own their homes. Owning one's home gives a sense of freedom, and that is something that a lot of people aspire to. That is something that should be encouraged rather than punished. We are talking about 30 000, 40 000 and perhaps as much as 50 000 SEK per year in property tax for an ordinary middle-class family in a regular villa in an ordinary Swedish city. I don't think that's reasonable. Let me be overly clear: a vote on the Swedish Democrats is a vote not to reintroduce the property tax of the Social Democrats. I mentioned tax on pension savings, Madam President, so let me develop it briefly. We have a fundamentally underfunded pension system. There is absolutely nothing wrong with the construction of it as a matter of fact; on the contrary, it is really very good that it is at arm's length away from the ordinary state budget, except for the small picant detail that it is terribly underfunded with the fairly obvious result that you get a very low pension when you get old. This is something that the Social Democrats have not been able to remedy for seven years in power. What has been done, however, is to abolish the possibility of private retirement. That door was closed. That is to say, all people of working age who do not want to become poor pensioners and have tried to take responsibility for their own pension by private retirement because the state, i.e. the government, obviously does not take that responsibility, is now no longer able to do so. They were told: "Retirement savings in an investment savings account instead, because it works just as well!" And people listened to it and did that. Then the tax was increased on the said investment savings account, i.e. the tax on people's already taxed savings. This was done once and then again, and now we are once again hearing from the Finance Minister and the Social Democrats that we need to increase the tax on ordinary people's savings. It is therefore about people who work, go to work every day, get their salary, pay taxes on their salary and save some of the already taxed salary. These very people are to receive higher taxes on what they have managed to put aside. This is the government in a nutshell: when the state is unable to assume its responsibilities and people try to do so themselves, they are punished for it. Why on earth should Sweden have the highest proportion of poor pensioners in the Nordic countries while we have the highest retirement age in the EU? You're failing pretty much everything you're taking on! You're like an inverted King Midas! So, seriously, we must stop taxing ordinary honest employees and pensioners because you choose to throw away their money to Brussels and the European Union and to dubious or even counterproductive aid projects on the other side of the world. We pay 150 billion in grants to the EU and another 50 billion SEK annually in international aid. Several billions of tax dollars are paid in grants to foreign citizens in Sweden of working age, who do not work, do not pay taxes and do not support themselves and even less contribute to the public. The taxes that the state collects from ordinary honest Swedish taxpayers should go to the needs that we have here at home. We have enormous needs at home in welfare and security, in the judiciary and, not least, in the old-age pension system. The Swedish Democrats will present concrete saving measures for things that go to the citizens of other states to give priority instead to welfare, justice and pensions in Sweden. Sweden comes first. That's it. Madam President, I would like We also recall the government's ambitious unemployment targets: the lowest unemployment rate in the EU by 2020. We are not in first place; we are in fifth place, from the bottom! So it was not the lowest unemployment; it was almost the highest. And this is closely linked to the irresponsible immigration policy pursued by the government. Among natives we have unemployment in the order of 5%, not far from the lowest unemployment target in the EU. Among foreign born, it is almost 4 times as much, that is, almost 20 percent. Your unemployment target is simply not compatible with your migration policy. Madam President, I would like We need a new government – a new government that prioritises a restrictive migration policy, the restoration of law and order in every square metre of the territory of the Swedish Empire, the restoration of welfare and the strengthening of pensions. Almost eight years have passed with this government, and I seriously wonder if you have succeeded in anything at all. Is something better? Actually, I don't think so. Like I said, an inverted King Midas.
i-09d5494531ce24fb-177	Madam President, I would like Oscar Sjöstedt stood in the speaker's chair and said that tax cuts had been a better method in the crisis. He then forgets that the economic situation is very much divided. Many companies are doing well, really well. It's amazing. We see major industrial efforts, not least in northern Europe. But there are also some companies that are going really badly. For those companies that are doing well, it does not have to be bad by definition with reduced tax– I welcome it as a liberal– but it is very bad crisis policy. The toughest industries – hotels, transport, tourism and restaurants – need strong support to overcome the crisis. Tax cuts are not enough. But the fact is that SD's policy and SD's budget do not propose any tax cuts. Instead, it is proposed to raise restaurant VAT by 14 billion in the midst of the current pandemic! This is in Oscar Sjöstedt's own budget from the autumn. I would very much like to hear from Oscar Sjöstedt what would happen to restaurateurs, waitresses and chefs out there. Can't Oscar Sjöstedt describe how 14 billion in increased costs for these professions would do better during the current pandemic?
i-09d5494531ce24fb-181	Madam President, I would like In fact, I did not say that we should only have tax incentives for companies instead of other types of aid. That's not what I said. But we'll have to hire on call stenographer and get word of it 100%. Of course we have to do both. We must have conversion aid, which is clearly aimed at those companies that have had a great deal of turnover, combined with tax incentives, but we should not have tax incentives alone as a crisis policy, because it does not go well. I think Mr Nordin is quite right about that. When we presented this last autumn, we did indeed have a proposal with quite a great deal of relief in precisely the social security contributions for a limited period. Our proposal was that it should be in the first half of the year, because we hoped that the vaccination roll would start as planned or perhaps even a little faster and might be ready by the half-year, so that restrictions could be eased. The hooks do not need to be closed but can be open longer in the evening and make a lot of money, and you can go to a restaurant and such. Therefore, we proposed a limited period during the first half of 2021 as a small relief. Then the hope was that the economy would start again. We'll see what happens. Perhaps it was naive and hopeful to believe that the adult population would be fully vaccinated by the end of the six months. We'll see about that. That's not up to me, of course. So we have not presented our budget option as a response to this. We will do so on Monday 26 April, I think, so we will have to come back to other issues then.
i-09d5494531ce24fb-186	Madam President, I would like I noted that Oscar Sjöstedt did not mention with a single word in his two-minute line the 14 billion tax increase proposed by SD for all restaurants through an increase in restaurant VAT. It is well-pleasing to want to make other tax cuts. As a Liberal, I would like to see a reduced tax burden, but that is not what the Swedish Democrats are proposing. They suggest that you make it tougher, with less margins, to be restaurant owners and restaurateurs. How we look at developments in vaccinations and other things is a completely different matter. But I ask the question one more time: How does Oscar Sjöstedt think that an increased restaurant VAT, with 14 billion, for the restaurant industry in the midst of the current pandemic will help the companies that are having a tough time now?
i-09d5494531ce24fb-189	Madam President, I would like Of course it's not completely different things. They're intimately connected. It is a fact that it is now an incredibly difficult period for the restaurateurs, primarily. It has to do with the fact that the vaccination is not complete. They have to close at 8:30. They can't be open anymore. When do you make money? Is it before or after 8:30? Yeah, it's probably behind. It'll make sense to anyone. Of course things are connected. No, in the long term, in a normal state of the economy, I do not see the point of this type of VAT differentiation, which is similar to regular sector aid. In crisis we have other types of mechanisms for individual companies and for individual industries. In a normal situation in the economy, I am prone to allergies to these devices: that it is a VAT on one industry, a completely different VAT on another and another VAT on a third industry. I'm allergic to these things at normal times.
i-09d5494531ce24fb-191	Madam President, I would like One of the biggest crisis support to industry during the pandemic has been the possibility of short-term leave. It has been important to save jobs, and all parties in this House have supported it. Many companies have really needed the support to cope with the crisis, and it is the taxpayers who have made the money available. One requirement for taking part in the lay-off aid has been that the company should have experienced temporary and severe financial difficulties. However, some of the large companies that have received billions from taxpayers in crisis aid have also increased their profits. They plan for record dividends and also record dividends this year. We think this is really bad. Taxpayers are supporting society. The sick pensioner, who we were in the past, the bus driver, the assistant nurse and everyone else who stands for this and saves the companies, are the ones who support society during a pandemic. They've put up with their money and they're saving their jobs. Then management takes bonuses and dividends. It's contemptible. That is why the Left Party took an initiative in the Committee on Finance to tighten up these rules. The Swedish Democrats were, of course, against. Do the Swedish Democrats think that things have gone quite right? Should taxpayers pay for the rich's dividends and bonuses?
i-09d5494531ce24fb-195	Madam President, I would like At first, it is not only rich people who receive dividends. Every person owns shares through the pension system, and they feel good about dividends there too. Pensions will be lower if they do not receive dividends. But I'll go back to the question. That is, by the way, a good question. It is an interesting question and an interesting discussion. When we took the decision and worked on the report in the Committee on Finance on the possibility of such aid, such as short-term lay-off, we included this as a requirement: big dividends must not be made. Or you get to make large dividends, but then you don't get to take part in the grants at the same time. You have to choose, so to speak. My memory – and I am almost 100% sure that I am right – is that all parties supported that report. All eight parties in the Parliament's Committee on Finance supported that decision in that report, that is, the Swedish Democrats too. So that's our line. Then we had a proposal in a partly different context about the smallest companies, those who can make use of the so-called simplification rules. So we are talking about the really small companies – basically single-member companies. There is a lump sum in the simplification rules under the 3:12 framework. Ordinary people probably do not understand this, but those who run their own businesses know exactly what it is about. Maybe you should exclude them. We are talking about 140 000 kroner a year or whatever it is. They may combine wages from their own company with dividends from their own company. Maybe they're the ones that should be excluded. Now we are not talking about AB Volvo or Scania, we are talking about, for example, a painter, electrician or plumber who runs his business in his own name, so to speak. The group that makes use of the simplification rule on the standard amount in the 3:12 rules should perhaps be excluded, because they have a slightly different reality from AB Volvo, for example.
i-09d5494531ce24fb-202	Madam President, I would like Wow, this beat the record in avoiding the issue. To say in this House of Parliament, Sweden's highest decision-making body, that ordinary people do not understand this is completely absurd. I understand that SD wants to avoid the issue, because it is about money distributed to corporate management and large extra dividends to shareholders. It has been implemented, and so it is right according to SD. You voted against such a proposal. SD is here trying to avoid the question. It should also be added that SD does not even want the companies to be checked ex post in terms of how they have handled the aid they have received from outside. For SD, it is therefore right that bonuses are raised and dividends are made while taxpayers give these support to save jobs. As usual, the Swedish democrats do nothing about the large capital owners enriching themselves with tax money. They try to evasively suggest that it befalls the small savers. No, it doesn't. Now we're talking about the big owners, and you're totally avoiding the question.
i-09d5494531ce24fb-205	Madam President, I would like This obviously affects both small and large savers. The 3:12 framework is complex. I don't think, seriously, that ordinary people are familiar with this. Those who make use of the 3:12 framework, i.e. small businessmen, are well aware of it, but it is complex. I'm trying to understand it myself, but I'm not a business owner. It is a complex regulatory framework. I suppose the Left Party will have to make better proposals. I am not prepared at this point to support proposals for laying additional hooks in various ways for companies that are having a difficult time – certainly not. I certainly think that is a relevant line. A distinction must be made between the electrician or plumber who operates in his own name and in his own name and at AB Volvo. You cannot have the same rules for them and equate them. I think it is absolutely right to talk about them, Madam President.
i-09d5494531ce24fb-208	Madam President, I would like Now that we are meeting on the spring side to debate the budget, we are not just going purely meteorologically towards brighter times. Many people have received a first or even a second dose of vaccine against corona. And even if we get reports of delays in vaccine deliveries, there's a light in the tunnel. We were told the other day that in Småland Kalmar is already in phase 3 of the vaccination. It gives hope, and it inspires. The Coronapandemia has created very great uncertainty for many. What Sweden needs most right now is therefore stability. We must ensure peace of mind and peace of mind in health care. Companies need predictability. And young people deserve to face a bright future. In the budget negotiations, the Center Party has been a guarantor of jobs, entrepreneurship and confidence in the future. Sweden must overcome the crisis here and now. However, in parallel with the pandemic, there are other challenges that also need to be addressed. Challenges don't take a break. That is why we cannot put important efforts into the future. The call made by Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson to entrepreneurs at a press conference to hold and endure must also be directed towards parliament and government. Now is the time to persevere in financial support. There will be a need for incentives not only until the population is vaccinated but also after that in order for affected companies to recover the debts they have incurred and be able to start delivering goods and services again when it is time to open up society. For the Center Party, it has been important to support companies during the crisis. Without the companies Sweden stays, and right now it looks black for many of our entrepreneurs. The fact that we have been able to extend and improve crisis aid has been crucial to provide some stability in the earthquake that many companies are going through so that they also manage and stay on their feet through the crisis. It is therefore, of course, also crucial that aid be paid out without further delay. Measures that reduce costs are also important, resulting in increased margins and liquidity. This includes the reduction of social security contributions for young people. Of course, we need to take further action, both at national level and at local and regional level. Many of the fantastic measures such as fast training, simpler rules for outdoor services and much more that have come into place quickly and well during the pandemic must continue beyond the goal of vaccination. The aftermath of the pandemic will affect our economy for a long time. It is therefore welcome to know that the reduction in the social security contribution for young people, as we decided in the autumn budget, will last a long time. We are now peaking with a further fall over the summer so that young people who are going to get their first job and who have been hit mercilessly by the pandemic will also be able to have faith in the future. The pandemic has focused on care in a way that has not been done for a very long time. It is a fantastic work done around the country and in the regions, which finds solutions and intensively works for our patients and to roll out the vaccinations. In this situation, as some parties want, to launch a debate on who should carry out healthcare is not what healthcare providers and staff around the country need. What is now needed is structure, peace of mind and security linked to resources. We set aside large sums of money: 2 billion to deal with the postponed care and additional costs, 1.65 billion for testing and contamination detection and substantial resources so that the government will take the cost of both vaccines and vaccines. There are many who have had their surgery postponed or the doctor's appointment cancelled. It will take a long time to graze the queues, but that work must begin as soon as possible. That is why we welcome substantial additions. At the same time, we also need to look to the future. It is not just the Corona crisis that is acute. The climate crisis is also acute and needs to be addressed. If we're going to make the green transition, we need the green industries. Many have managed relatively well during the pandemic but have great investment needs. Many farmers are facing generational shifts, and then support may be necessary to invest and manage a more modern farm where margins are small. Other investments with a clear rural focus and a focus on conversion are that we allocate money to those who have been squeezed into the transition between the PV support and the green deduction. Now we will also find a legal piece of the puzzle to pay out the money wisely. The billion we also allocate to public transport is crucial for maintaining traffic throughout the country. When ticket revenues fold, it is the routes that are the least busy and least profitable that smoke first, and it is the rural routes that are rarely exploited. The fact that we are now allocating substantial amounts – 1 billion to the regions for this purpose – is an important and strong signal to the regions not to pull in stretches and tours. There are many important efforts to be made in the spring amending budget and in the supplementary amending budget. Tackling long-term unemployment through more investment in matching services, adult education and other activities is an investment for the Swedish economy in the long term. We significantly strengthen the legal chain by investing in the Swedish Prosecution Authority, the Swedish National Courts Administration, the Swedish Customs Agency and several others. What I would like to highlight a little more is the efforts on civil society. For most people, homework is possibly frustrating because you can't meet colleagues at work. For others, homework is a nightmare when the striker is in the same home as you all day, when there is no time at work or in school to flee to. We are now dedicating resources, because men's violence against women is horrifiable and must be combated. We allocate money both to it and to children in vulnerable situations, to victims of violence and to people in particularly vulnerable situations. Society needs to do all it can to help these people. These efforts are therefore extremely welcome. I would like to conclude by emphasising the need for stability and security in budgetary work. Sweden has a tradition, after the budgetary adjustment in the 1990s, with sound and stable public finances. Thanks to this, we have now been able to support industries, curb unemployment and save businesses. I would therefore warn against a loosening of the fiscal framework, which is very dangerous. In recent years, an unfortunate shift in practice has taken place, such as when the Social Democrats broke things out in 2013. We also have the extraordinary amending budget of the Moderates and others just before the Corona crisis, something which the Council of Finance Policy strongly criticised. We face major challenges: an ageing population, investment needs in infrastructure and justice and, of course, the necessary efforts to restart the economy after the pandemic. If Parliament does not take responsibility for order in the economy, it paves the way for ever-increasing expenditure and a runaway public debt. The expensive lesson learned Sweden during the 1990s crisis. To forget these important lessons already in 2021 also threatens the long-term strengthening of welfare that I know a broad majority in the Swedish Parliament wants to see. The pandemic puts a lot and many to the test. This applies to us politicians, companies, employees, health professionals and, not least, those who have suffered or even died from covid-19. That's why I and the Center Party would rather invest now than repair later. Through security and smart investments, we can help, both now and in the future, for it is stability, confidence in the future and viable companies together with the heroes in healthcare that get Sweden back on its feet.
i-09d5494531ce24fb-229	Madam President, I would like It was an interesting little lecture, perhaps one could say, of the members of the Committee on Finance. Perhaps I can give a little lesson about the rules of democracy: if you have a minority government and a basis that is also in the minority, you may sometimes listen to the majority. However, I shall not ask any question about this. This year, as Rickard Nordin was into, has been very tough for a lot of companies. When the pandemic struck, the economy went straight into the basement, and then almost everyone was affected. Many companies have since gone very well, but the most affected industries are the service industries. The longer the time passes, the tougher they are, of course, because if it was tough already in May last year, restrictions and other things have made it even tougher now. The Moderates have pushed for different support. We have also developed support. I was very happy, for example, when the Riksdag last June supported the proposal of Moderates and other opposition parties to find support for those who run an individual firm. It was welcome, because many people in Sweden do it and are simply wage-working entrepreneurs. We have worked constructively to press and press the government and the cooperation parties ahead of us. So came autumn. Something happened then, Madam President. I think maybe it's because you didn't count on the second wave or you didn't see it coming. There was nothing in the budget about it. But it came and with the more restrictions, which has led to that it has become even tougher for many companies. Then it is important that we adapt the support we have developed so that they really meet those who really need it. It now turns out that, for example, it is very difficult to combine conversion aid and lay-off aid in restaurants and other industries. We have now put forward a proposal at Parliament's table that could facilitate this. That is why I would like to ask Rickard Nordin whether the Center Party would be willing to support the Moderates' proposal so that it will be more accurate support for those who have the most tough.
i-09d5494531ce24fb-235	Madam President, I would like The constructive dialogue we have had in the Finance Committee, Elisabeth Svantesson, partly during Emil Källström's time – he has been on parental leave during the last six months – partly during my time, which ends today, is welcome. It is good that it is several parties in the Swedish Parliament who push on for support to entrepreneurs and who protect the entrepreneurs. They are the basis for more people to be hired and for raising money for welfare. Then it is good that we also support in difficult times. We in the Center Party have pushat on for a number of different types of support. I know that, in broad agreement in the Committee on Finance, we have agreed on several of the things mentioned by Elisabeth Svantesson. The proposal now on the table will be looked at and analysed. There are problems with state aid. The European Commission is putting an end to various parts, and so on. For our part in the Center Party, the conclusion is that what we can do for companies is also what we will do for companies. Of course, a majority is required to do these things, and agreement is also required with the other parties. But you can be sure that the Center Party is a guarantor of supporting entrepreneurs who are having a difficult time and who will be in a difficult situation for a long time to come. Then it is not enough just to think about crisis support, but to think about the things that are happening for a long time to come. That is why, for example, we have reduced the cost of hiring people so that entrepreneurs get a little more margins and a little more liquidity in their companies.
i-09d5494531ce24fb-239	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. I think many people who are hard hit and very desperate expect the Center Party to do a little more than push on or hit an empty pot. You are sitting at the negotiating table, and you can influence the outcome. Alternatively, together with us in the Committee on Finance, you can form a majority and put pressure in that way. I am convinced that more needs to be done for those who are most affected in recent times in the pandemic. We can't give up on those jobs now. Once we have supported them right up to now, we must not give up. Six months or a year ago, support is promised. Then it will be months before you can apply for the aid, and it will be months before you can get it. Then there is a responsibility to ensure that the support works, and then there is definitely a responsibility to adjust and ensure that the support hits it right so that as many jobs as possible can be saved. I am, of course, pleased that the Center Party wants to look at the support. I'd be even happier if the Center Party said: Yes! That's a good suggestion.
i-09d5494531ce24fb-243	Madam President, I would like Elisabeth Svantesson and the Moderates can be sure that the Center Party will influence the negotiations. It is thanks to the Center Party that there is so powerful and long-term business support that now actually exists. Until the end of the six-month period, the aid is extended with turnover aid, conversion aid and short-term lay-offs. For two years now, we know that there will be a reduction in employers' contributions for young people, and this summer there will be further reductions in addition to them. We know that there will be training places and other things for companies, which are screaming for skills. The Center Party is a guarantor of jobs and entrepreneurship in these negotiations and in the January cooperation. Elisabeth Svantesson can be safe with that.
i-09d5494531ce24fb-246	Madam President, I would like I thank Rickard Nordin for his speech. The labour market measures taken when entering mass unemployment play a major role. It is true that support has been incredibly important. The Center has distinguished itself for different types of jobs, subsidised jobs and so on. During Rickard Nordin speech, I thought that the Center has been the flagship of the grid reform, which was evaluated by the Swedish National Audit Office last year. Almost everything went wrong in the reform. It would be self-financed, but it has a public financial cost of 5 – 6 billion – and it would solve the life puzzle. But it came to the conclusion that about 70 percent of those who buy these services do not even have children at home. It would increase entrepreneurship and employment. This became an expensive labour market measure. Each service costs 1.5 – 2.3 million, corresponding to three to four jobs in welfare – where jobs are really needed. Is such labour market measures effective? In order to bring in people who are far from the labour market, it has been shown that even non-subsidised industries, such as welfare, home care, hospitals, schools and health centres, have succeeded better than subsidised industries. Does Rickard Nordin think this is an effective way to work?
i-09d5494531ce24fb-251	Madam President, I would like I would very much like to have a discussion on the draft, even if it is not part of this budget at all. I find it hard to believe that there will be more jobs by increasing costs. We know that there are relatively high wage costs and high wage taxes in Sweden today. If we reduce costs, more people will also ask for the services. We know that it is good to have more service consumption rather than equipment consumption. This ensures that the work stays in Sweden. It also ensures that we reduce emissions compared to other consumption, which I know the Left Party tends to highlight. And that gives more people a little more time. It's presumptuous of Tony Haddou to say that just because you don't have children, you don't have a hard time getting your life puzzle together. There are many out there who have a hard time getting their work situation together with, for example, long commuting or other things. It's not about whether you have children or not. For many, the grid reform is a reform of freedom. More time has been given to other things. For example, it has been possible to take more work, and in this way more money will be paid to the treasury than it would otherwise have done. Ruth and root reform are ways for people to buy services that they otherwise could not afford. We know that it is not only high-income people who use these services, but there are quite a few, not least pensioners, who benefit from these services, where they can get things done that would not otherwise have been done. That's good. If you ask people, they are generally very satisfied with the reform, possibly with the exception of Tony Haddou and the Left Party.
i-09d5494531ce24fb-255	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. I did not get an answer to the question that it is an expensive labour market measure. It is expensive when services cost as much as three to four jobs in welfare, where jobs are really needed. We need to develop well-being properly throughout the country. We cannot go back to what it was like before Corona, but we need to put great energy and large public investments that are secured in the long term on welfare. Then it is really wasteful when we spend the money on, for example, this reform. The problem is not as Rickard Nordin says, but in the statistics we see that it is above all people who could have paid the full price and who live in the metropolitan areas who use the services. It shows all the statistics.
i-09d5494531ce24fb-257	Madam President, I would like You can keep two thoughts in your head at the same time. It is not that by increasing taxes we always get more tax revenue. Instead, it may be the case, as has happened in Sweden, that we reduce the tax rate and get more tax revenue. It is not that we can take money from a grid reform and put it on welfare because it is not, of course, the same money. The reform has done black jobs white. It is important for those who are employed in the industry. The Left Party usually protects the security of workers. Nevertheless, they want to roll back the reform and expose these people to undeclared work, reduced pensions and other things instead. That's not what I usually hear from the Left Party.
i-FCVYN76qH7VNPtGXGqbPpN	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Rickard Nordin, for your speech. The satisfaction of Rickard Nordin's speech was evident. I also noted the word stability, which came back many times. The Center Party is a guarantor of stability. It has changed a little, the Center Party's description of itself during the January cooperation. At first it was said that they were a liberal opposition. When it did not really bear the character of credibility anymore because it was part of the January cooperation, they called themselves the engine, and now that it is not really credible, it is stability that applies. I agree with Rickard Nordin that some good things were done in the start of the crisis to save jobs and businesses. However, the stability that Rickard Nordin is talking about has been, at least since autumn, more of a stable unpredictability – for companies, which have not received payments and have not even known where their applications were when the authorities handled them, and about the government's very great twitching about these subsidies. Different forms of business have been forgotten. A few months at a time, short notice has been given. It has been anything but stability that characterized this. Rickard Nordin also said in his speech that some parties now want to discuss how to organise care. He meant the Christian Democrats, because we are the ones who want to do this. He said it's not the right time, but now we need stability in the care. Of course we're not going to change the organization right now. But hasn't Rickard Nordin noticed double care queues even before the pandemic and that the unequal care in Sweden has accelerated so that it plays a far greater role today than ten years ago where you live? Is that the stability we should maintain? We need to do something about these problems. What Rickard Nordin describes is not stability. It's stagnation. There's something else.
i-09d5494531ce24fb-265	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jakob Forssmed, for reading the communication of the Center Party! I think that's fantastically nice. If he has done so carefully – or you really don't have to do so very carefully, but it is enough to have done so in the last six months – Jakob Forssmed knows that I have been the first to criticise, for example, the Swedish Agency for Growth for the late payments and bad news that has been. I have also criticised the government for the lack of governance of its authorities, for it is ultimately the government and – unfortunately, perhaps – not here in Parliament that governs the authorities and ensures that they provide information and have sufficient opportunities to do things. When things have been related to budgets, for example, the Center Party has made sure that additional resources are available for the Swedish Agency for Growth so that more can be hired. But governance, it's the government's responsibility. I would like to put a counter-question to Jakob Forssmed. Is it all better to be nationalized? Is it really going to be better if you nationalize it? Does Jakob Forssmed think that all government agencies are doing well today? He himself has mentioned a couple of authorities who are clearly not quite able to carry out their mission. We can continue: Does Jakob Forssmed think that the Arbetsförmedlingen does it well? He just criticized the Swedish Agency for Growth. The Migration Agency – we can make the list quite long. As I see it, very few people think that most government agencies are doing such a great job that they would like to put their lives in their hands. This is why it is important to maintain some regional healthcare efforts so that you can evaluate and compare and have proximity and it is not an Excelark at Rosenbad that decides where hospitals and care should be.
i-09d5494531ce24fb-272	Madam President, I would like All that's good is Rickard Nordin's credit, and all that's bad is Magdalena Andersson's credit for how things develop. That's not really how the responsibility works, I think. You're the one holding this. It is Rickard Nordin who keeps this cooperation under his arms, keeping the government under his arms. Then you will also have to take responsibility for what the result of that cooperation will be. As far as health care is concerned, we have done a thorough job. We have looked at how other countries have done to address this particular type of problem of high inequality and low availability in healthcare. It is just to look at Norway and Denmark, which have carried out this kind of reform – with great success, I would say. We cannot have a system whereby 21 different independent regions will be able to cope with all the abilities of care on their own and make their investments on their own, independently of other regions. It's not gonna work. Rickard Nordin will realize this sooner or later, but it will probably be later than before.
i-09d5494531ce24fb-276	Madam President, I would like I find it very difficult to see that centralisation will make things better. For example, ask BB in Sollefteå! We will see many BB and other health care facilities around the country that are being shut down in centralization because they are not profitable. Jakob Forssmed also asks what the result of the collaboration is. Yes, what is the result of Jakob Forssmed's potential cooperation? It would have been my counter-question if Jakob Forssmed got another line. We don't know that. Is it Oscar Sjöstedt's 14 billion in tax increases for restaurants? What really comes on the other side? It's easy to criticize. It is much harder to take responsibility. But the Center Party has taken responsibility in a difficult situation, both in terms of mandate and financial, and delivered. We have delivered support to the companies. We have delivered faith in the future. We deliver on a point-by-point basis under the January agreement, which involves liberal policy.
i-09d5494531ce24fb-279	Madam President, I would like It is always inspiring to come after the Center Party here, because by now we know exactly what has not worked: the neoliberal policy that has eroded welfare, not least through major tax cuts, privatisations, hourly jobs and precarious jobs that have also weakened our ability to face a crisis. But nothing has been learned by the neoliberals. What we need now is action – hopeful actions that point to the end of any policy of cutting back, even in the future, and the setting aside of major tax cuts so that we can secure the long-term financing of welfare and invest in children's preschools and schools and the upgrading of health care across the country. This has not been done by this government. We also lack permanent investment in this area in the long term. I asked the Minister of Finance about class society before. There's a lot of people here who don't want to talk about it, like it doesn't exist. But I can promise you it's alive and well, and it's raw and brutal. Our lives have become more and more of a lotto draw where some are born with luck and others are not. That's what our society looks like. People are evicted during a pandemic, for God's sake! The class society lives and affects us and the life we are allowed to live, our health, our growing-up conditions, our school results, how long we live, yes, even the outcome of the Corona crisis. The cleavage society is clearly visible in the pandemic. It is a concentration of infection in the working class's residential areas and between all the workers who daily support society, all hunted Timvikari in the care of the elderly. These are nine out of ten workers who have work at their workplace during the pandemic because they can only do the work on the ground. These workers stand in the front line and risk their lives. They are the ones who support society – and many times they are the ones who face cutbacks, low-cost staffing in the workplace, neglected work environment and precarious employment. It is mainly women workers who have paid a high price during the pandemic, both financially and in terms of health and safety at work. Not even their conditions, their activities or their welfare can this government secure in the long term. We can clearly see how decades of tax cuts have led to structural deficiencies in welfare. They were clearly exposed in the pandemic. The Corona Commission's report on care for the elderly addresses well-known structural problems that we have known for a long time: understaffing, fixed-term employment and lack of medical skills in care for the elderly. At the end of the 80's, one home care staff visited an average of four elderly people per day. Today, the average is twelve, half of which are in 15 minutes. It's not sustainable at all. In addition, neoliberal social experiments with constant privatisations and welfare sales must be brought to an end. It is time for us to start from needs, not profitability for shareholders. Welfare professions should be sought after and have good wages, influence and good working conditions. This is what we are going to invest in, and it is to be paid for by those who have benefited from the tax-merger policies of recent decades – not least by those who are sitting on large fortunes and capital. For example, a progressive capital tax in which we tax those who spend a lot of money could correspond to large wage increases and more colleagues to nurses, nurses, midwives and carers. Instead, however, the government reduced the tax by exactly 30 billion during the pandemic; that is quite incomprehensible. In fact, if we in Sweden had had the same tax rate as at the turn of the millennium, we would have had 300 billion more to move with. This is the difference between a functioning welfare and a crisising welfare. That is why the rich must also be involved in financing the necessary efforts to improve their welfare and to renovate society. Health care needs to be upgraded, housing needs to be built and rails need to be laid. Strong public investment is needed. Here the tax system is crucial in order to put an end to inequality and start redistributing to our common. In Sweden, inequality is increasing fastest in the Western world. As far as wealth is concerned, Sweden is today more unequal than any other country in Western Europe – Sweden is in line with the USA, Brazil and South Africa. In less than 20 years, the share of the richest hundredth of our accumulated wealth has increased from 18 to 42 percent. It is their well-being that has been prioritised and their taxes that have been reduced, while the proportion of poor children has risen sharply. Some families don't even have money for food on the table or money for rent. They can't afford a winter jacket or lined boots for their children, while others never even tasted what a lack of money means. The rich seem to live in their own bubbles, far beyond community. Madam President, I would like It is often said that everything has to be the way it used to be after the Corona, but that can't be-- that would be a terrible betrayal. Of course, there are things that can be the way they used to be. We can meet loved ones, hug and be with those who matter a lot to us. But we need to build new ones. We need to build a society that stays together and takes responsibility, not only for this generation but also for future generations. We're not gonna let them down and take their life space. We must have an economic policy that allows people to feel confident and hopeful, where climate investment is allowed to take more place and where we decide to build an equal and well-functioning society. We need to redistribute capital and wealth, because a few empires do not belong in a modern and equal construction of society. Unemployment will be pushed down. Long-term unemployment is devastatingly high. People should be given the opportunity to work and education. They should feel involved in the construction of society. Many of those who became unemployed due to the pandemic had low wages, hourly jobs and precarious jobs. They need to come back, and they need more job security. It's the least we can give them. We're going to put gunpowder on a green industry; fossils are history. Together, the state and the business community will invest in the transformation. Large investments will be made to create jobs throughout the country. Access to public services is needed. Fiber should not be a luxury in parts of the country, but should be part of the regular infrastructure. We're gonna build green. We will build large, energy-efficient housing that ordinary people can afford. Overcrowding and the acute housing shortage are among the most outdated. This is part of history. We've built it away before, and we can do it again. We will make major investments and move forward with common climate-smart solutions. Goods should go by rail and by sea. By laying new rails we make it easier to travel in Sweden while creating large amounts of jobs and changing for the climate. At a time of both mass unemployment and climate crisis, massive railway construction should be self-evident. Finally, Madam President, I must also pick up one of the most central parts of the Swedish model, namely our insurance systems. Today they are unworthy. Sick people are excluded from insurance systems. Chronically ill people are forced to live in poverty and continue to be poor. Let us build insurance systems that stick together when life is in crisis and that hold on to sickness and unemployment, and let us add to that a pension system that is worthy after a long working life. The average pension for women is currently 11 800 before tax; that is far from enough. Let's change that! Let us build a society for us humans with the realization that we all need each other. Then we can also invest in a society that stays together – a hopeful society with future dreams that can become a reality, where we help each other and take responsibility for each other.
i-09d5494531ce24fb-303	Madam President, I would like When I cycled into Parliament this morning it felt like there was a little spring in the air but that the winter still didn't really want to let go of its grip. Some of this also applies to the economic situation in which we find ourselves, and also to the situation in other areas. We have hope for something else. We are in the advent of the vaccine, if you like, at the same time as we still have the cold of the pandemic. This applies in particular to certain sectors and to some people and those who are fighting covid-19 in health care during the high spread of infection that we have at the moment. Today we are debating the spring bill that the government has left on the table of Parliament. Here some good things are done to reinforce some crisis measures and to cover some holes that the government itself has created. I am thinking in particular of those prosecutors who did not receive a crown in addition to the government budget last autumn but who are now getting a little added value. There are some good approaches to strengthening training and combination training, combining SFI and vocational training. I think that's a good thing. At the same time, the lack of long-term sustainability of government policy is striking, and this is not changing today. We see that the major reforms to solve social problems are very clear in their absence. In crisis management, too, the government's design curve has waned. It has become more twitchy, more slow and more inadequate. I wonder what it would have been like if we in Parliament had not always worked to improve, cover up and advance, to improve lay-off aid and to push for and push through conversion aid and later also turnover support for individual firms, limited partnerships and partnerships. We have pressed for extensions when the government has not wanted to provide information on these aids. Today there is also further support for civil society. I think that's good. A vibrant and warm civil society is something that we will really need after this crisis. But there too, the government has broken during the pandemic, and it needs to be done far more. There are still problems, not least for those sectors that still have major concerns. For them, these aids do not work well enough, especially the lay-off aid. It is difficult to keep your business open and at the same time get a higher hourly cost for the staff you have. This is where the government has to do more. It is also the case that the lay-off system does not work well enough for employees. For those who are permanent workers, it has worked well, but for those who have temporary contracts – for those who are fixed-term or probationary workers – it has worked the other way around. For them, it has increased the vulnerability of the labour market when the regulatory requirements have been such that companies will reduce their labour costs, e.g. by terminating temporary staff. The government has known this for a long time; it is the government itself that has introduced the rule. The Institute of Economics pointed this out already in March last year. I myself have repeatedly returned to this, but I have spoken on deaf ears. We are now seeing a strong growth in long-term unemployment in Sweden. We see that the risk of unemployment, which increases over time, has now been out of work, is changing into an increase in long-term unemployment. This risks having very serious effects on Sweden. There is a risk of high levels of unemployment that are really getting stuck, with major social and economic consequences. We also know that increased ill-health follows in the wake of unemployment. The government is doing far too little to deal with this. In a situation like this, we need a very large sense of crisis and much more powerful reforms that work than has been presented so far. I think this applies in the area by area to the major structural problems that Sweden is struggling with. This is true in the area of health care, where we had doubled care queues before the pandemic. Add to this the postponed care that has not been able to come about during the time that health professionals have struggled to keep the covidpandemine pole. We now need to actively develop reforms to do this when the pandemic fades away. As the vaccine comes, we must be able to offer care to all those who are now waiting in the care queues, who are waiting in pain, waiting for something that can change their lives and lives. Companies are also waiting for key workers to come back to work and not to stand in the care queues. We also have an increased inequality in healthcare. It is clear that different health professionals, 21 different regions, do not manage all the tasks of care equally and well. We must make major changes there. The Corona Commission has very clearly identified structural problems in the care of the elderly that need to be resolved. In the Committee on Finance, we have taken an initiative to reduce hourly employment, which has been a major problem, to increase the continuity of staff to improve quality and to ensure that we have better medical skills, which has been such a major shortage during the pandemic. We also need to better address the low-intensity crisis as a result of the huge lack of adapted housing for the elderly, which we have seen for a long time and which the Ministry of Finance itself has pointed out as a major challenge. There is a need for special accommodation and, not least, for housing that can break solitude and isolation and enjoy greater security, which a shelter could actually mean. The government must do much more here. I am also thinking of security issues. Over time, we have seen a sharp increase in crime with shootings and deadly violence. At the same time, the number of police officers per one hundred thousand inhabitants is decreasing. Crime is increasing, but we get fewer police officers in relation to the population who are going to do this. The government is doing far too little to increase the attractiveness of the police profession and to bring up the levels of the Police Authority and other law enforcement authorities. Madam President, I would like This government cooperation is not working well. It does not give a common direction to the policy. You don't want each other's reforms well. We have seen time and again how the reforms brought about by the Liberals and the Center Party are delayed by the Ministry of Finance. We are told here in Parliament that it is impossible to introduce a reduction in employers' contributions with retroactivity, but a number of months later, far into the crisis, they do so anyway. When you get a job tax credit, which could help make it more profitable to work and increase consumption space, it is introduced so that it can be seen by citizens by midsummer 2022, not here and now in the crisis. This isn't good enough. I think it has a responsibility that once reforms are agreed, they should be implemented in the best possible way, even if they do not feel the same way at these entrances. Madam President, I would like I believe that we are facing a major challenge when it comes to ill-health in a broad sense. We are getting more and more signals from both the authorities and the civil society organisations that have their sense of touch out about how the pandemic has affected in depth. It has affected children and young people living in dysfunctional families. It has affected the elderly who have been self-insulated and living in involuntary loneliness for a very long time. It has affected mental and physical health. We see how fewer and fewer young people remain in their natural contact with associations and also get less movement in their lives, which we know leads to great ill health, also in the long term. I think this is something for all of us to consider: how do we bring forward the very best reforms to counter this? How do we ensure that we support civil society in the best way for good health in the future?
i-09d5494531ce24fb-323	Madam President, I would like Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. It has now been about a year since the Corona crisis swept over Sweden. There is a great deal that could and should have been done better. It is clear that the management of the spread of infection in our retirement homes has a lot to wish for. It is clear that the lack of previous contamination detection has meant that we in Sweden have had a general spread of infection that is far too high. It is clear that the handling of the vaccine in the EU could have been done much better. At the same time, many things have worked very well. People working at the heart of welfare – doctors, nurses and others – have made enormous efforts to ensure that care works. In the world of school, teachers have made great efforts, even though teaching is not done in the classroom but usually in front of a screen, especially for those who work in high school. And I am very impressed by the amazing ability of many Swedish entrepreneurs to adapt, which they have demonstrated in a very difficult time. I have to admit that in recent years I have felt enormous frustration that political Sweden has been very much about political bickering rather than dealing with the social problems we have. It has been too much about political games and too little about solving the problems people have in their everyday lives. I have to say that during the crisis Swedish politics has nevertheless been able to drop the political game and focus on solving the problems that have emerged here and now. I would like to thank all parties in the Swedish Parliament for the contributions made by all parties, not least within the framework of the work of the Committee on Finance. We have developed some of the proposals that we from the Liberals have worked out together with the government and together made the proposals better, so Swedish politics has also delivered and, I think, cooperated in a very good way. Madam President, I would like We Liberals take responsibility during the crisis. We have done what is necessary to combat unemployment. We have supported Sweden's entrepreneurs, partly because it has its own value in itself to support people who now see their life's work beaten in pieces and partly to stand up for the jobs. And we have given priority to the core of welfare. Our task has been, and we still see it as a task, to ensure that as many people as possible have a job to go to. Then Sweden's entrepreneurs must be able to hire, and we now see how many people have a rough time during the Corona crisis. We are now extending the support in the spring bill that is on Parliament's table. My and our assessment is that we will need to maintain a relatively expansive fiscal policy, not tighten up too early, to ensure that jobs grow and that we can push back unemployment. I am very concerned that it takes time to get a lot of the support that we decide on jointly here in the Swedish Parliament. Now the authorities and government must do everything possible to ensure that the money is paid out as soon as possible. Madam President, I would like Not only do we have a health debt, but we also have a school debt. It is not the same to sit in front of a screen as to sit in a classroom and meet the teacher. That meeting between a teacher and a student is so different from sitting in front of a screen. We now see a corona generation in school, a generation that risks learning too little and slipping behind. The consequences will be felt by all but not least for those who, even before the pandemic, needed different forms of support. For them, the consequences will be very great and can be serious. If children and students cannot reach their full potential, our country will also be poorer. Nothing is more important to Sweden than a school where students learn enough, because our children are our future. That's why the Liberals have fought for and pushed for more money to the school. It is about making efforts here and now and using evenings, weekends and holidays for more teaching so that students can catch up with the knowledge they experience. It can be about using summer holidays to learn more so that you get access to the upper secondary school's national programme or in this way be able to finish upper secondary school and get your upper secondary school degree. In the budget that is now on Parliament's table, we also give students the opportunity to combine studies with summer jobs so that they can both study and work during the summer and get money in their wallets. Too many people don't qualify for high school. Approximately one student in six does not have the basic knowledge needed to move on from primary school. We see growing gaps between those who receive support from home and those who leave school in the afternoon to support their parents at home. We see the emergence of increased gaps and a new sub-class where dependency and unemployment are at risk of moving on to the next generation. It is a breeding ground for crime and a society that is torn apart. It is a future investment to do something here and now and in the coming years so that we get a society where it is more important where you are going than where you come from and where the class trip begins in the classroom. We will need to focus on order in school and more teaching time. We must do something about the anti-plug culture that has emerged in Swedish schools. Good students must be encouraged to learn more. We also need to invest more in preschool, not least that children learn thoroughly with Swedish before they start primary school. The need for reform in Swedish schools is enormous. We have started but will have to do more over the next five ten years to build a society where the school provides the same conditions for everyone. Madam President, I would like Crime is a growing problem. Whether it's house crime, theft in the summer house or gang crime, it creates a sense of insecurity, and hardworking people feel that they can't trust the justice system. In recent years, more money has been spent, and more is needed. In the budget that is on the table of the Riksdag, it is passed to money to the whole legal chain. Prosecutors, courts and prisons are now getting more money to make the judiciary work better. That's the only way we can make people feel safe. Madam President, I would like We're still in the Corona crisis. It's different now than it was a year ago. We see the light in the tunnel thanks to the vaccine. However, care is still under strain, and many entrepreneurs are having a tough time because they are subject to existing restrictions. In this budget, there are important reforms to address the problems that need to be resolved here and now. However, we will have to do more later to push back unemployment, increase security and, not least, ensure that Swedish schools work better. The most important future investment we can make for our country is to ensure that all children and young people learn enough in Swedish school.
i-09d5494531ce24fb-345	Madam President, I would like Mats Persson mentioned that hardworking people must feel that they can trust the justice system. I really share that view. Over the last seven years, however, insecurity has taken root and serious crime has spread and become rougher. Many feel insecure. An important part of getting to grips with this and repressing crime is that the police can do their job and there are enough. Then it is important to improve conditions so that even more people seek to become police officers. It is also about those who are already police officers to feel highly valued and want to remain in the profession. When the Christian Democrats and the Moderates presented the budget on Parliament's table for 2019, we made an important wage effort because we saw the need to raise police salaries, also in the long term. But now that I'm reading the spring bill, I don't see any of it. Wages are running out this year, and I see nothing about the government parties and support parties intending to extend it. What are you thinking? Is it the case that the wage bill is over and that you do not see the need to raise police salaries?
i-09d5494531ce24fb-351	Madam President, I would like I thank Elisabeth Svantesson for the question. I totally share your problem picture. But it is not just about money when it comes to crime. We have spent more money together in Parliament, but it is clear that it is not enough. There is a need for more stringent legislation, tougher penalties and greater powers for the Swedish judicial system to deal with the serious criminality. It is rather illustrating that the Swedish police have not been able to bring justice to some of the criminal gangs without French and Spanish police. It says a little about the lack of authority that the Swedish police have. When it comes to police salaries and the conditions for Swedish police, we want them to be good, and we have paid money for police salaries. This work is ongoing, but it will take time to raise police salaries. We will have to come back to the exact forms of this later. However, I and the Liberals can promise that we will ensure that police salaries are higher and that money is set aside to achieve this goal.
i-09d5494531ce24fb-356	Madam President, I would like I thank Mats Persson for this promise. It would be a shame if the investment we decided only ended this year. Sweden needs more police. For example, in an area in Norrland, six police patrolmen patrol on an area larger than Skåne, Blekinge and Halland together. Police density's too low. Wherever you live in Sweden you must be able to feel that it should not take five six hours before the police come if you are exposed to a crime. I therefore believe that wages are incredibly central. After a quick look in the spring bill, I don't see any extra investment in the police this year. Of course, it can be said that they have not asked for much, but it is a question of political ambition. I see that the Board of Handicraft is getting money, and I'm sure there's nothing wrong with that. But giving money to this committee and not a single extra crown for an increase in ambition in the police force this year is a strange priority for me. However, I do not need to ask a question about that.
i-09d5494531ce24fb-359	Madam President, I would like I see that in this House there is a broad consensus that the judiciary needs more money, and in recent years a lot of money has been spent. It's great that the Moderates are pushing for more money, and I don't have any views on it. The major problem in the area of justice is precisely the powers, and here the legislative work is too slow. Why can other countries have tougher legislation than Sweden has, and why are other countries better at prosecuting the criminal gangs than Sweden is? That's proof of something. There is much to learn from other countries, such as Denmark. Behind the rather tough Danish rhetoric are wise legislative proposals that I think Swedish politics has a lot to learn from. Police salaries will be handled, and we are now putting important money into the judicial system.
i-09d5494531ce24fb-363	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mats Persson, for your speech. As usual, it is interesting to listen to Mats Persson's analysis of the situation. I think that some of what he points out is urgent, such as the corona generation that the honourable Member is talking about, which is at a formatative stage in life but whose conditions are completely overturned. I believe that the consequence of this can be far-reaching, and we really need to think about it. Lovskola and that kind of initiative I think is very good in this context, but that is not what I was going to devote the entire line shift to. I want to take up where Elisabeth Svantesson left off when it comes to the justice system. Mats Persson himself mentioned that his ambition is to get less political bickering and more focus on tackling social problems. I share that view. It's got to be. I also think it is good that Mats Persson has given a statement that he wants to get rid of the government with which he is now working, but I realise that there will be some strange months in the remaining cooperation. I was going to ask Mats Persson to review the possibilities for the judiciary in the current cooperation that he wants to leave. I am thinking of the fact that last autumn the prosecutors received SEK 0 out of SEK 105 billion, that there is not enough funding for the police and that places in police training are empty because they have not been able to make the police profession attractive enough. How does Mats Persson view the development of the judiciary in the future? What are the most important things? How does he view the possibility of dealing with the problem in a new constellation?
i-XFPH74Gunjt8sD5C1BB1eG	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jakob Forssmed, for the question! It's a whole. This is one of perhaps top three, top five most important questions for Sweden in the next ten years. Crime has become something that dominates people's everyday lives in a way that it did not 20 years ago. The brutality that exists in the criminal gangs is terrible, and the emergence of criminal clans, which we did not have in Sweden 30 to 40 years ago in the way we have today, is an incredibly big problem that requires new answers from politics. I believe that we need a combination of powers for the judiciary, much more effective law enforcement and resources. The more powers and the longer the penalty is decided, the more money will be needed. It's a package. You have to do it as a whole. You can't just make decisions about money and then do nothing on the other side or vice versa. I see that the conditions for achieving this are very good, and now that the Liberals have announced that we want to see a bourgeois government after the next elections, I look forward to it. It is a question of understanding problems, it is a question of having the political courage to have the courage to implement the necessary measures and it is a question of understanding that this costs money. I believe that this possibility is very good together with the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and other bourgeois parties. The Center Party is happy to join if they want to. I am extremely concerned about the progress of criminal gangs, but also about everyday crime such as boat theft and house crime, which undermines confidence in the entire social fabric. People who have been paying taxes for 30 years feel that they are not getting anything back. It takes an incredible amount of effort.
i-09d5494531ce24fb-370	Madam President, I would like I agree with the analysis. The crime prevention work is incredibly important and central, but it is also very crime prevention that the detection risk when committing crimes is high and that you go there when you commit a crime so that there is a clear consequence when you break laws and violate other people's lives, health or possessions. It'll require more police officers and an expanded judicial system. Mats Persson reviewed the current cooperation indirectly in his reply here. It's a picture that I share. There has not been enough focus on the problems of the judiciary and on developing the judiciary in a good way. There has not been enough focus on giving the police the tools needed to fight crime. It would make the profession more attractive if you could do a good job. I look forward to the opportunity to cooperate more with Mats Persson on these issues in the future.
i-09d5494531ce24fb-373	Madam President, I would like I also think it is important for Swedish politics to leave the eternal bickering and political game and become more focused on solving the problems people face in their everyday lives. Crime is one of the biggest problems people see in their everyday lives. I think there is a need for a lack of prestige and a curiosity to see what other countries have done that Sweden can learn from. It is clearly the case that Sweden is not the best at law enforcement in Europe, because the same criminal gangs that go free in Sweden are caught in Denmark, even though they behave the same. This indicates that other countries are further ahead. There is an incredible amount to do for Swedish politics.
i-09d5494531ce24fb-375	Madam President, I would like The pandemic hasn't let go of its grip on the world. Huge efforts are being made to vaccinate, to keep the spread of infection low and to care for those affected. We'll hold on and hold on. At the same time, we look forward and present reforms for sustainability and hope for the future. We continue to secure funding for the entire society's management of the pandemic with everything from vaccines to additional costs in school. We are now giving clear information on the support for individuals, such as the withdrawal, which is extended and linked to the vaccination target. No one should have to worry that you cannot afford to stay at home if you are ill during the pandemic. We deal with the crisis together. We have high resilience in the Swedish economy and thus a room for manoeuvre forward. We can afford to take care of those who are most affected and to make a powerful green restart. In every crisis, it is those who had a weak position previously who are most affected, and the pandemic is no exception. Violence in close relationships is increasing. Children in families who have been affected by unemployment can have a very tough time. That is why we are now increasing support for the associations that seek out and support the most vulnerable. In Sweden, we do not leave poor families in the lurch. The organisations working with social and humanitarian interventions talk about increased demand from new groups affected by mental illness, unemployment and homelessness during the pandemic. We have many amazing organisations that seek out those that society does not reach through other efforts, and they are now getting more money. In order to support families with children who have ended up in a tough financial situation during the pandemic, the housing allowance is increased with a temporary supplement. Madam President, I would like There are many of us out in nature now. I believe that this has been an important way of dealing with the crisis, because nature brings us recovery. It has left its mark on the budget that we are discussing here today, because one thing that unfortunately happens when we are many out there is that there is more junk in nature. That is why we are stepping up efforts to combat litter. Many young people will find it harder to get a summer job this summer than a regular summer. This is why we are strengthening the efforts that municipalities are making to create summer jobs, but we are also investing in nature-related jobs. I see this as a fantastic opportunity where you can be out and contribute concretely to nature conservation in Sweden this summer. In the budget, we also strengthen the county boards' coordination efforts in the climate work and the work of collecting knowledge about climate adaptation. We are now also implementing one of the Environmental Party's election promises when we take concrete steps to introduce a national ticketing system for public transport, while at the same time strengthening crisis support for public transport. They're having a hard time. But one day we will travel again, and then it should be easy to buy a ticket on a card regardless of which city in Sweden you visit. There is an extensive transformation of the Swedish economy. The fossil and linear are phased out, and the renewable and circular are phased in. Through the strong and structural work that the government has launched, we are equipping Sweden to deal with the pandemic, which is an acute crisis, but also the crisis that exists for the climate and nature. We are tackling this through a green fresh start. Madam President, I would like We're going to the track. We will change, transform and invest in Sweden to get through this together and get out of the stronger.
i-09d5494531ce24fb-384	Madam President, I would like After almost seven years in power, we also see clear results of the Green Party's policy – just to have said so. There are things that we sign together. But there is a great deal of the policy that you have pursued that has led the wrong way. It is oil power plants that have been started and coal power that have been imported to cope with the shortage of electricity when it is cold. These are important mines that must not be opened and forests that must not be used. There is also a great deal of symbolic policy, such as plastic bag tax and clothing tax, rather than effective measures that make a real difference. The Government has also received criticism from heavy consultation bodies – Riksrevisionen and Konjunkturinstitutet. They condemn key elements of the policy precisely because it is ineffective. But, as I said, there are still things in your budgets that are effective and that we sign up to. That is why my question to Karolina Skog is why you are reducing this in this spring change budget. You are reducing international climate investment, and you are reducing money and support for electrification. I can't understand that. Why do you reduce what works and continue with what does not work?
i-09d5494531ce24fb-387	Madam President, I would like I love it when Elisabeth Svantesson refers to the Swedish National Audit Office and effective climate action. Because you know what they're suggesting? They propose a broad carbon tax for all sectors of society. And what does Elisabeth Svantesson suggest? Well, she's proposing a reduction in that tax. Come back when you stand up for the most effective climate tool, Elisabeth Svantesson! I am sure that we can come to an agreement, Madam President. A spring change budget makes adjustments to the economy. One thing you will then look at is whether there are parts of the budget that are not used in the way you had intended and whether you can therefore make transfers. That is the kind of money that has not been spent. We do not make any cuts in the budget but carry-overs to ensure that every penny is used properly. We do so in this budget too. It is done every year and by every government, and there is no drama in it.
i-09d5494531ce24fb-390	Madam President, I would like It's great that Karolina Skog loves my lines. It goes without saying that we should change and have effective measures and that we should also ensure that the driver can continue to do so at the same time as we change. It's a policy that works for the one who works. But we are going to reduce emissions with really smart and effective climate policy. International climate investments are very effective. It is therefore incomprehensible that you are already saying in April that this will not work and that this will not work. Both Karolina Skog and I know – I think – that emissions have no limits. And precisely this is very effective, using the money for these investments. That's why I was surprised. The fact that Karolina Skog now says that this money is not spent and cannot be used surprises me. I am also surprised that the money for charging infrastructure will not be spent. If you want to change Sweden you have to invest in charging infrastructure. Could it be that you don't expect there to be any electricity and that's why you don't expand the infrastructure?
i-09d5494531ce24fb-394	Madam President, I would like Support for electrification of the transport sector is now widespread in this Parliament. I'm very happy about that. For many years we environmentalists were very ridiculed and ridiculed for this. But now we agree on that. We have built charging infrastructure, and we will continue to build charging infrastructure for cars and for heavier vehicles. The fact that this has an effect also shows the sales of electric cars. There are more people who live in the sparse parts of Sweden who now dare to invest in an electric car. It's a receipt that we're on our way. But we're far from done. We will continue with investment in charging infrastructure.
i-09d5494531ce24fb-395	Madam President, I would like I thank Karolina Skog for her speech. I share certain points in her speech: that it is incredibly wonderful to be in nature and that we need less junk in nature. I like that. I also share the fact that the Green Party has had a significant impact on government policy. This applies in a wide range of areas. This concerns electricity and energy policy, forestry policy and housing policy. I think that this impact has been clear. Karolina Skog thinks it's good. I think it's less good. Since the Green Party has such a clear impact on government policy, it is also interesting to look at what the Green Party wants to go forward. In the meantime, Karolina Skog, as I understand it, has carried out a development work in the field of economic policy that is on some kind of referral within the Green Party, while the rest of us have to wait a little bit for information about what they want to do. It's exciting. But it's leaked a little bit. Karolina Skog has relieved herself a little. One of the things to come out of this program is a property tax – a re-imposed or a new variant of the property tax that has been abolished. To the joy of homeowners and townhouse owners, you finally got a predictable taxation of your housing in a way that you didn't have before when you were driven from house and home. Then my question is: how does Karolina Skog view the possibility of implementing such a property tax with her government partner Social Democrats in the future? How good are these conditions to have an impact on the Green Party's policy?
i-09d5494531ce24fb-400	Madam President, I would like It is wonderful that there is an interest in the environmental party's internal processes and that I have the opportunity to talk about what we do. We're making a huge piece of advice in my party. It is the biggest process we are doing during this parliamentary term. We've been working intensively for a year and a half. It is about reducing the economic gaps in Sweden. We are concerned that economic disparities are continuing to increase. We are therefore developing a new policy to reverse this trend. There is a wide range of work going on. It's not confirmed by our congress. It's due in the fall. Then we will present the results. One thing we are looking at is taxation. We'd be happy to open that, too. We look at where economic differences persist. This can be seen, among other things, from the recent long-term investigation, which clearly points out that this is about access to capital. It has been, and is, very profitable to own both capital and properties in Sweden today. It is part of the growing divides in our society. Then one cannot help but look at the taxation of it. So I'll confirm that we do. I can also say that when we do that we look at society and what society looks like and what we environmentalists think is needed without analysis of what other parties might think about it. This will lead us to present our green programme for greater social justice. This will happen in the autumn.
i-09d5494531ce24fb-403	Madam President, I would like One reason for my question is that I am concerned about the return of property tax. That is why I would have liked to know that the Green Party does not see any conditions for pushing it through. It would in itself be a rather strange message from a party that you do not want to push through your politics. I have noticed that an increasing number of Social Democrats – Anders Ygeman and several major Social Democratic districts – are now also pushing for the reintroduction of the property tax that I believe many feel a rather great deal of uncertainty about. I also share the view that we need more people who own their housing in Sweden and that this is an important part of combating inequality. But the solution to that cannot be to start taxing hardworking families with children entirely unpredictablely, as happened in the past. A property is not an ATM from which you can pick money to pay a property tax, which was actually what the previous system contributed to. It was Sweden's most hated treasure for a reason.
i-09d5494531ce24fb-406	Madam President, I would like I agree but suggest that this is quite a long way from the spring bill, but I can say this much: the Green Party shares the view that it would be good if more people could own their homes. That's why we've set up an investigation into starting loans for first-time buyers, so that more people will have the opportunity to buy their first home. At the same time, we see and are concerned by the fact that the property tax imposed by the Christian Democrats is regressive. It is a transfer of funds from rural to urban, and it is a strange thing to have in a country with a policy that wants to work to make it possible to live and live throughout the country. It's an anomaly worth debating. I can promise the voters and Parliament that the Green Party will have clear information about what we are going to elections on.
