i-180a481a6cfda225-10	Madam President, I would like Lotta Olsson has asked me how I intend to work within my department to ensure that crime against our companies does not hamper entrepreneurship and how I intend to work to ensure that crimes against entrepreneurs are reported so that we do not have large numbers of darkness where the crimes are more common than the statistics show. Madam President, I would like The goal of enterprise policy is to strengthen Swedish competitiveness and create the conditions for more jobs in more and growing companies. This can be achieved through, among other things, well-functioning markets with good framework conditions. The Government takes serious account of crimes against companies and has taken and takes several measures to help reduce the vulnerability to crime and create a safer environment for individual entrepreneurs. The Swedish Companies Registration Office has an important role in the crime prevention work directed at companies. The Agency is committed to increasing the protection against company creations and, together with the Swedish Economic Crimes Authority, has carried out a joint communication effort on how entrepreneurs can protect themselves against business creation. The Police Authority, in collaboration with the Swedish Companies Registration Office and a number of other authorities and companies, has developed a material that guides everyone who has received a scam in how to contest it. Madam President, I would like The government is making a historic effort to expand the Police Authority. At the turn of the year, the statistics showed that there have never before been so many police officers and civilian employees in the Police Authority. The number of police officers has increased in all police regions in 2020. In order to intensify the work against serious crime, the Government proposes in the Bill Spring Change Budget for 2021 that earlier reinforcements of the judiciary be extended with new additions to the authorities within the judiciary. In order to create a long-term and structured crime prevention work involving the whole of society, the government has developed the national crime prevention programme Together against crime. Industry and companies play a significant role in crime prevention in a number of ways and are therefore important actors in the fight against crime and insecurity. In addition, Madam President, legislative amendments came into force on 1 March 2021, that is to say a little over a month ago, aimed at strengthening the protection against criminal offences and certain other offences. Among other things, a new law prohibiting access to a store was introduced which prohibits a person from accessing and staying in a store if, due to special circumstances, there is a risk that he or she will commit a crime in the store or seriously harass someone who is there. If you as an entrepreneur suffer from a crime, it is important for several reasons to report it. Among other things, it helps to give a better picture of what crimes companies are exposed to, which is an important basis for, for example, crime prevention and police work on crime analysis and coordination. The measures taken by the government and the relevant authorities are expected to lead to a more effective fight against crime and an increased propensity to notify.
i-180a481a6cfda225-17	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking the Minister for Enterprise for the speed and timeliness of the response to the interpellation. It is extremely important for democratic work. Crimes against companies are an increased social problem. Being a victim of crime can be what causes an entrepreneur to decide to close down or not to invest more in his or her business. You can feel cheated, violated, scared and lose the entire company's finances or simply lose your mind when you are repeatedly exposed to crime. Madam President, I would like The pandemic has also hit small businesses hard. They belong to those most affected. By October last year, from the outbreak of the pandemic, 8% of small businesses had been eliminated. It is also highly dependent on pandemic restrictions. The number of entrepreneurs had then fallen by 26 000 entrepreneurs. This is twice as bad as Sweden has an unemployment rate of 9.7 per cent at the same time. In addition, over the past few decades, four out of five new jobs have emerged at the level of small businesses. All the jobs are needed. Madam President, I would like If we do not protect and ensure that small businesses are not subjected to crime, it will hit the entire Swedish economy hard. A good business environment requires that one should not be forced to live with being subjected to crime. In addition, there is a great number of darkness. According to a report prepared by Förearna, the tendency to report crimes to the Police Authority decreased from 42 per cent who abstained from reporting in 2017 to 62 per cent in 2020. This means that almost two thirds of the offences against small businesses are not actually included in the statistics. Madam President, I would like In 209 of the country's 290 municipalities, jobs in small enterprises are the main source of tax revenue. This means that two thirds of Swedish municipalities receive their tax revenue from there and are in fact dependent on a reduction in crime against small businesses. These small municipalities often have ambitious local policies to improve the business environment. But many times it does not help if companies do not feel protected from crime. Madam President, I would like I would argue that crime against companies ranging from invoice fraud to theft, threats and vandalism is a threat not only to companies and those who work there but actually to our entire welfare society. If small businesses don't work, we don't get jobs and we don't get economics. We cannot therefore pay for health and social care and become a well-functioning welfare society in the future.
i-180a481a6cfda225-24	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lotta Olsson, for an important interpellation! And thank you, Minister, for your answer! The notification propensity has fallen in the country. The experience is that it doesn't do much good, whether it ends up with fake invoices, thefts, burglaries and vandalism. You see yourself as one in the line of unsolved crimes, and it takes and takes time to get involved in reporting. This downward spiral is serious. This means that it is another side that takes over, that is, the back of society, when crime takes a foothold and takes on its own, and with great consequences. Then it'll be a vicious circle. This insecurity, as I said, creates a negative spiral for companies and for running businesses, and that is serious. Crime forces companies to spend money on security measures such as camera surveillance, fences, dogs and even guarding personnel. In addition, insurance premiums are increased when the risk of crime increases. Those who feel safe do not have to spend time dealing with crime, and that is a competitive advantage. This enables one to develop one's business rather than dealing with the wrong kinds of questions. It is important for the business environment that you do not have to do so. Lotta Olsson referred to the pandemic and small business. Part of the back of the pandemic is the mafia-like methods to which the tourism industry has been subjected, and that is quite serious. As Lotta Olsson said, Sweden's present and future well-being rests on the fact that a growing business sector can create both the jobs and tax revenues required. In order for the business community to have good opportunities to grow, we need to cultivate a good business climate, and the Government addressed a number of the legal requirements coming from 1 May, including access bans on business. We welcome this; it was not a day too soon. This also applies to the offence of arrest. When it comes to public procurement, authorities such as the Swedish Companies Registration Office, the Swedish Tax Agency and the Police Authority need the right things. Not only do they need money, which is often brought forward, but they need to work right. When the police had to service their cars, the criteria for the procurement were completely wrong. It took staff to drive long distances or so, and then they stood without cars and couldn't get out. It matters very much how the authorities get their purchases made. Cooperation between authorities also has a major impact. Many times it is small and medium-sized enterprises that are most in trouble because they do not have the muscles of the big companies, although I do of course think that the crimes against them are also terrible. When it comes to intellectual property rights and the Swedish Companies Registration Office, which the Government was in charge of, one really needs to strengthen in order for companies not to encounter more online. In the world of digitalisation, you need to work more with smart solutions to prevent and prevent. At the same time, the local perspective from municipalities and the police is needed so that the state can work together with the authorities to get a better business environment.
i-180a481a6cfda225-35	Madam President, I would like I thank both Lotta Olsson and Ann-Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson for a very important discussion. Just as Lotta Olsson says, we have a very tough year behind us, tough for society and for those people whose relatives have passed away or who have suffered for themselves or have families who have suffered during the pandemic. Add to this the enormous crisis our business community has suffered. Last year it hit the industry as well as the service sector widely. Yes, with a few exceptions, the entire business community was in crisis. We've never experienced anything like this before. We've had to deal with it, and we've been working together. The crisis has, of course, had negative consequences, but we also see that in many cases Swedish companies, Swedish industry and the Swedish economy have done better than in many other countries. As Lotta Olsson says, too many companies have had to close again. At the same time, entrepreneurship grew strongly last year, so there is also faith. The number of bankruptcies in 2020 was generally lower than in 2019. This is, of course, due to the fact that we have helped each other, not least through the tens of support programmes decided by the Government and the Riksdag. It is important that we have this discussion and take action against crime, because it is a cancer of the community body. It drains trust, the community and the people of our society. That is why we should do our utmost to combat it. We all know there are no shortcuts. There must be prevention in the collaboration Ann-Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson talks about, and here authorities, companies and municipalities work on. It is also, of course, a question of strengthening the judiciary. The report referred to refers to police officers present, and it is important that we continue to provide resources so that we have more police workers and more police officers present. We see that this is starting to work. Confidence in the police declined over a number of years, both because of major reorganisations and because there were not enough police officers. Now the public's confidence in the police is beginning to increase, which is a good thing. But that is not enough; we must continue. As honourable Members point out, we are carrying out a large number of penalties. We also continue to further strengthen the resources for the judiciary, not least in the budget we have submitted to Parliament. It's about the police getting more money this year than last year and strengthening the prosecution and the judiciary. The prison services are also given more resources so that those who receive their sentence can also serve their sentence. We are doing a number of things and will continue to do so, but we must not settle down. Just as Ann-Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson says, crime changes its character over time. During the pandemic, digitalisation has gained tremendous momentum. There is much positive about it, but unfortunately this tool is also being used for criminal purposes, both in our country and in other parts of the world. Therefore, of course, we also need to work with this type of crime so that it does not take over and become a major social problem.
i-180a481a6cfda225-44	Madam President, I would like Security in Sweden is a strong competitive factor. Sweden is one of the least corrupt countries in the world, and this means that companies want to invest here. For companies, it is very much about having a vision and seeing a future. Rarely is it about fast money, which you might think when you watch TV shows. But that is not the reality, but it is hard work and long working hours. Many times the take-off distance is long before the company becomes profitable. A basically safe, uncorrupted and safe society is therefore important. It is also important that the crimes that occur are reported – how we are going to get it done. Perhaps Minister Baylan can come up with a good way to report it quickly, even if it is not believed that it will be investigated because it has reported a similar crime in the past. We need good statistics on how it looks. As both Ann-Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson and the Minister were involved, crime is a creative industry. Creativity is positive, but unfortunately here you use your creativity for the wrong things. Crime is changing all the time, and as soon as we deal with a kind of crime, we find something new. That's why we need to be proactive. Now digital crime may be the big thing, and we have seen that when trade increases, it is exposed to a lot of crime. We have to work proactively all the time. Then it is important that the crimes are also reported so that we know what it looks like out there. Otherwise, both Minister Baylan and I will be left behind in our thinking. Raising taxes is not the answer. We need companies to grow, think it's fun and have a vision for the future. I would urge the government not to raise taxes but to make it fun to start a business so that more jobs are created, because every person who goes from not working to working is the best tax revenue for the Treasury. It's all connected. We are a very innovative country. We may not be able to look at the crime of the new era based on how German government works with it. I believe that crime in Sweden is well ahead. At the same time, there is no difference in the way we look at Europe. We know that having an open Europe promotes the Swedish economy and Swedish jobs, but also crime. There I think there is more to do with regulations and legislation, so that you can not just come from a store in Swedish countryside and take the ferry over to another EU country and then those things are never found again. We need to be more on there and not have borders but border controls, so that there are checkpoints.
i-180a481a6cfda225-51	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I'm going to pick up where Lotta Olsson left off. Our party colleague Niklas Wykman was out in the media yesterday and suggested that customs should be added SEK 400 million to stop theft gangs, that they should be given increased powers so that they can do more random checks for stolen goods and that they should be given the opportunity to investigate money laundering crimes and be able to conduct searches of houses and more. It would have been interesting to hear the Government's comments on this. These are solutions that can be used here and now. This week we have had the opportunity to listen to Komet, the K ommittén for technological innovation and ethics. Their presentation talked about enabling new solutions in society for sustainability and global competition. It is about technology, individuals, organisation, rules, society, the rule of law, economy and efficiency. What we are discussing is cross-sectoral activity. It is a question of finding solutions between municipalities, authorities and, in this case, entrepreneurs. There is no explicit reference to crime, but I think that this must be applicable to it. Lotta Olsson mentioned Germany, but I would like to mention Denmark. There is an example of seven municipalities that have been able to work with test beds, roughly, on various issues that need to be resolved. There you can look at both the Swedish Tax Agency and the construction sector, which has major problems. There is a need for closer cooperation, for example, on how to resolve issues related to GDPR, which stand in the way, and how to solve this despite the obstacles you see and achieve concrete solutions. I see this as an innovative way of addressing issues so that tomorrow we can solve the problems we are facing today. I hope that this can give us a little faster solutions, as in our neighbouring country.
i-180a481a6cfda225-55	Madam President, I would like I don't think we should fool ourselves that there are any shortcuts. I think we all realise that if we are to break a development with crime in an industry, a sector or our society, we need to jointly look at our entire way of working. When it comes to crime prevention, as requested, we have the programme Together against crime. It is about authorities together with government, municipalities, companies and others to see what they do together to both prevent, strengthen each other and strengthen security in collaboration. The fact that there is a police officer present who can prevent and prosecute crimes is, I believe, something that increases confidence and makes crimes reported, because it is important that this happens. We have a publicly funded police officer, Madam President. If we are to increase the number of police officers, we need to have tax money for that. With regard to the moderate idea of both widowing taxes and investing in everything else, we have experienced this a number of times, and the only thing that leads to is large budget deficits that are not sustainable over time. We need to strengthen the judiciary. We have done so, and we will continue to do so. Then, of course, we need to collect taxes. Both Lotta Olsson and AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson raised an issue that perhaps concerns me more than anything else. It is cross-border crime. It worries me because, with the technological developments we see, crime can be committed in Sweden today from virtually any part of the world. We're just at the beginning. We know that technological developments are moving forward by leaps and bounds. What is developing very quickly right now is what is called artificial intelligence, AI. There are different types of algorithms that can do things that we previously could only dream of. There are great opportunities in technology – huge opportunities to develop our society, our business community and our public administration. However, as Members say, we know that the same kind of technology can also be used, for example, to usurp money for criminal purposes. Just take the examples we have seen before where you hijack the entire IT infrastructure of a company or an authority and lock it and ask for a ransom. When this can be done fully automated, as will be the case, we need to work both here in the country and cross-border within the European Union and internationally to prosecute it, for this will not be possible for any individual country to do so. If you sit in Russia, in China or for that matter in Australia and commit crimes here, it will be very difficult for the Swedish police to do something here and now. Therefore, we need to develop our working methods. I am very worried about what this might bring with it, especially for a country like Sweden that wants to be open, which is in favour of free trade – there we are quite in agreement – and that also wants to embrace the technology because it will make life, business and society much better. But there are also huge risks that we already need to deal with. That is why we have given a number of missions to both the Comet and our authorities to see what we can do to make it as difficult as possible for these criminals.
i-180a481a6cfda225-62	Madam President, I would like This was not a tax debate, but it is easy to get to grips with it. However, my call to the Minister and the Government is: do not raise taxes, but reduce crime! We don't want to go back to the old motto of voting red and working black. In fact, that's what happens if the thumb screws are tightened so much that it doesn't pay to work hard. Moreover, if there is a major crime, the good ones lose and the others win. That society, where the dark forces emerge instead of the good society, neither I nor Minister Baylan want. Corruption and black jobs are part of that. Now I have no statistics, but this is something that we have to monitor and that involves a threat picture when we work with other countries that do not have what we have previously had in Sweden, namely very low corruption. It is a social sickness, and eventually you may have to come to Ibrahim Baylan and leave a bottle of wine to perform such things. No, we don't want to get there. That's where we're very much in agreement. Good behavior must pay off. We must not tax or allow crime to take over. There's also a danger. If you do not trust that society takes responsibility, it will be a protection activity that can survive. This, too, is a disease of society that we absolutely do not want. We need better control functions so that companies don't cheat and so that the good ones win. Here we can get better on many fronts.
i-180a481a6cfda225-66	Madam President, I would like I thank Lotta Olsson for a good and important issue which she highlights in the interpellation. As I said before, crime is a cancer of the community body. It is a source of trust, of community and of people. That's why we're going to fight it vigorously. Then there are no shortcuts. Then we must ensure that we have authorities who can prosecute crimes when they occur and preferably prevent them. That is why we aim to ensure that 10 000 more are employed in the Police Office by 2024, and we are well on our way. It's starting to notice. Trust in the police is increasing. We have more cops who are employed. This is not enough; we must also ensure that our methods are developed. Cooperation between authorities, which we have been into, is something very central. Collaboration with the companies is very central. In addition, however, we must also develop our technical tools, because crime will change its nature. It has already changed its character and will continue to change its character. Then we need to invest, and then we need to raise taxes. The Swedish people are, I would say, the most diligent and most vehement people in the whole of the European Union. In this crisis too, we have and continue to have the highest employment rate of all European countries. More Swedes are working, and the proportion of Swedes who work is larger than in any other country. That is how we should have it, too, because that is what is at the heart of our whole welfare model. Having a job to go to, contributing to the common and supporting yourself is the foundation. Then, of course, we must also make good use of tax resources and invest in what guarantees welfare and ensure that we can maintain transparency but also fight crime hard to ensure that it does not get hold of time.
