i-TCifhWbQNrfTjXnAmuPcLV	Madam President, I would like For more than 200 years, the Parliamentary Constitutional Committee has examined that the Government and the Ministers have complied with the constitutions and other laws and regulations governing the government's work in the performance of their duties. The members of the Constitutional Committee are all elected by the people and belong to different political parties, but the review is formal and is not about what can be considered politically desirable or reprehensible. The KU's review can be said to imply that political responsibility is required on a constitutional basis. The fact that the constitutional rather than the political perspective is the basis for the committee's review work is of central importance. It commits but at the same time offers openings to consensus across party boundaries where consensus does not always prevail. The report presents the committee's examination of the performance of its duties in response to the special reports received to the committee by Members of Parliament. The Constitutional Committee also decided in the autumn of 2020 to examine more closely the Government's handling of a number of issues related to the coronapdemine. In total, the KU has dealt with 28 cases. Two review cases have been tabled by the committee when new tasks have been added in these cases. This concerns the Ministry of Education's handling and communication regarding the Pisa survey in 2018 and the government's control of the Swedish power grid. What the KU has come up with in more detail, we will come back to during the debate, which is divided into a number of sections. On a horizontal level, I can mention that the committee is pointing out deficiencies in 16 cases and that 6 of these cases relate to deficiencies linked to the government's handling of the coronapandemine. This year's review is one of the most comprehensive in modern times, and today the committee can present to the House a solid and well-prepared report with unanimous conclusions, which is a success. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the committee secretariat for its very good work and also to extend warm thanks to all the members of the committee for their good cooperation. I believe that, through this year's and also previous years' review work, we are building on a good basis to be able to succeed in the future. Madam President, I would like After the initial debate, the committee will, as I said, debate the chapters and dossiers of the review report in more detail. The review report opens with a chapter dealing with certain questions concerning the government's relationship with Parliament. It then follows a chapter on the handling of certain government matters and a chapter on certain issues relating to the government's responsibility for administration. The fourth chapter deals with certain issues relating to the performance of the duties of the Minister of State. The report concludes with a fifth chapter dealing with various issues relating to the government's handling of the coronapndemine. In today's debate, this chapter will be debated right after this opening part. I will now, in my introduction, focus primarily on the part of the review relating to the government's management of the coronapandemine. Madam President, I would like Worldwide, the consequences of the Corona virus have been tangible and tragic. In Sweden, the virus has caused great personal suffering, and many have become seriously ill or died. By the end of May, over 14,400 people had died with covid-19. At the same time, the pandemic also has other far-reaching consequences for both the individual and society that cannot yet be seen. Many of the measures that have been taken do not currently provide a basis for evaluation. A more complete analysis and assessment of the government's management of the pandemic must therefore be allowed. The committee has reason to come back to these issues in later reports. The review focuses on those parts of the government's action on the coronapandemine that can be assessed today, in the light of what is known or should have been known when they were taken. The special task of the Constitutional Committee has been to examine the measures in a constitutional sense. Madam President, I would like The committee believes that the government has failed to deal with the pandemic, and we are pointing out shortcomings in a number of cases. These include a restraining order in the care of the elderly, testing and detection of infectious diseases, the availability of protective equipment and other medical supplies, the preparation of rapid proposals and the Pandemic Act, the Government's action on the Corona Strategy and the introduction of participation limits for public gatherings and public events. I would like to briefly describe some of these matters. The first is testing and detection. Regarding the mission to the Public Health Agency to develop a national strategy in March 2020 to extend testing, the committee believes that the government did not act quickly enough given the need to rapidly extend testing and detection. The target of 100 000 tests per week was not achieved until the beginning of September 2020. According to the committee, it is clear that the ambiguities of responsibility and the question of compensation to municipalities and regions for the increased testing activities contributed to the fact that testing did not increase at the rate set. The government could have reached an agreement earlier than what was now happening. The second matter I want to raise is the restraining order in the care of the elderly. The review shows that the government took certain measures to limit the spread of infectious diseases in elderly care prior to the decision on a national restraining order. However, the government's measures were not sufficient. The elderly were particularly vulnerable, as was well known, and the need for national guidance and governance meant that, according to the committee, the government should have acted more actively. The third thing I want to raise is the management of the so-called Pandemic Act. With regard to the Pandemic Act, it appears that the Government considered the temporary authorisation of the Anti-Contagion Act of spring 2020 to be insufficient. Despite this, the government only started work on the Pandemic Act after the summer of 2020. According to the committee, it must have been clear to the government that the temporary changes to the CDC would expire on 30 June and that there could be a need to have a more effective regulatory framework in place as soon as possible. Work on developing more useful legislation should therefore have started earlier. In autumn 2020, the government had to speed up work on the Pandemic Act due to the increased spread of infection. The committee notes that the time frame for Parliament's handling of the matter was extremely short. According to the committee, this could have been avoided if the government had begun work on drafting the law earlier. Madam President, I would like The fourth thing I want to highlight in this part is the government's action on the Corona Strategy. The review shows that the Government has not taken any specific decision on the strategy. Nor, as far as has been said, has it been the government's intention that the strategy should govern the authorities. At the same time, it has been argued by the authorities that the strategy was something to work on the implementation of and in line with. The committee stresses that there is no constitutional scope for the government to govern the authorities without a government decision. The review has also covered the preparation of the strategy. Developing and publishing a strategy is not a measure that needs to be taken in the event of a crisis. However, according to the committee, a balanced approach to the work of the government during a wide-ranging and long-term crisis may be a good order for effective crisis management, but if a strategy is needed, a matter on which the government may decide on a case-by-case basis. If, however, the government chooses to develop a strategy, it is important, according to the committee, that the strategy is well anchored with the entire government and relevant parts of the Government Office and that the relevant forms of preparation are taken accordingly in the formulation of the strategy. It has not been clear whether this has been done sufficiently. In order to allow for a review of the development and preparation of the strategy, it would have been desirable to document its work. The committee also points out the shortcomings in the government's actions regarding the change of strategy made in winter 2021 on the Government's website. The committee has also examined other matters. I would like to mention that the committee in that part notes shortcomings in matters relating, among other things, to the actions of the then Minister for the Environment and Climate, Isabella Lövin, in connection with SMHI's sale of certain activities and the government's handling of the Forest Board's regulations on key biotopes. The committee also notes shortcomings in a number of matters concerning Minister of Justice and Migration Morgan Johansson. These are shortcomings in the handling of Parliament's announcements and written questions as well as statements. My moderate colleagues will return to several of these dossiers in today's debate. Madam President, I would like With this, I shall report on behalf of the Constitutional Committee the results of the examination presented in our report under Chapter 13. Section 2 the form of government.
i-ba8d79b9485d3e52-41	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by saying something about the review mission of the Constitutional Committee. In its annual review of the Government, the Constitutional Committee has examined the Government's relationship with the Riksdag, the handling of government affairs, the Government's responsibility for administration and the performance of its duties. The government is strong, and the government rules the kingdom. Then it is important that the Riksdag is also strong in exercising not only its legislative function but also its power of control. As a reviewer, it is natural that a large part of the work of the Constitutional Committee consists of paying attention to shortcomings and shortcomings, but at least as important is to give constructive attention to how laws and rules should be applied and to draw conclusions in order not to repeat any shortcomings that have arisen. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has examined all the files received. It is natural that the focus of the work of the Constitutional Committee has come to revolve around the government's and the Riksdag's handling of the coronapdemine. I would therefore like to start there, and then my committee colleagues will comment in more detail on both the Corona management and the other review that the Constitutional Committee has had to deal with. The pandemic has been and is a huge challenge for societies and governments all over the world. It can be noted that most things in Sweden have worked and that people at all levels have made heroic efforts to deal with the consequences and mitigate the effects of the pandemic. But, of course, we have also seen shortcomings in the area we are supposed to be examining, namely the work of the government. Some shortcomings are about things that should and could have been dealt with earlier by current and former governments. With the facts in hand, we can say: Why was this not done before? But honestly– not many of us, regardless of party, or for that matter the media or the public, have called for this. Let us now learn lessons. This is not supposed to be the last civilian crisis or pandemic that we as a society have to deal with. I would like to highlight three lessons in particular. Firstly, a strengthened preparedness for peacetime crisis. Secondly, strengthening constitutional readiness so that tools are available when the unthinkable happens. And thirdly, a stronger welfare with a special focus on the weakest. A strength in crisis management has been that it has largely been possible to take place in broad political agreement and consensus. It should also be pointed out that Corona management has resulted in more than 700 government decisions and measures for hundreds of billions of dollars. It is perhaps no wonder that among these we have found a number of shortcomings. As regards the question of a strategy, we note that there is no requirement for such a strategy to exist and that, for example, the bourgeois government had no such one during the financial crisis. Nor has the government decided on such a thing. On the other hand, what the government communicated on its website came to be perceived as such and became the governing body of government works. It's not satisfying. The uncertainties surrounding responsibility and cost of testing and contamination detection probably delayed the start of them. The committee expressed its understanding of the lack of preparation for the introduction due to the need for rapid action in dealing with the restraining order in the care of the elderly. On the other hand, a review should have taken place, and other stakeholders should also have been consulted in order to have a sufficient basis for decision-making. The restraining order severely curtailed people's rights and freedoms. And then good decision-making is of course particularly important. We note that when the Pandemic Act was drawn up, the preparation was started unnecessarily late, and the work had to be forced at the end of autumn. The limit of participation at public gatherings and public events was necessary, but it was also a serious restriction on fundamental rights and freedoms and also placed a great strain on certain sectors of society such as culture and sport. Therefore, these restrictions should have been kept under review. In addition, the KU has examined questions relating to the Government's relationship with the Riksdag, the handling of certain government matters and certain questions concerning the performance of the duties of the Minister of State. To conclude, I would like to thank our office, which has done a great job in this extensive investigation work. I would also like to thank my colleagues in the committee for this year's review work.
i-ba8d79b9485d3e52-54	Madam President, I would like Like last year's review, this year's review has been special in many ways. The Corona virus has not only allowed us to work in new ways, but it has also been a large part of what we have reviewed this year, that is, the government's action in relation to the pandemic. Before I say more about this, like previous speakers, I would like to thank my colleagues in the committee and the staff of the secretariat, all of whom have worked hard to the end, so that we could make it clear despite the tough conditions this year. As I said, the task of the Constitutional Committee is to examine the performance of the duties of the Ministers of State and the handling of government affairs. It is important that this control function for the Riksdag also works during an ongoing pandemic, which it has done despite the tough conditions. We have examined 28 cases this year, and we have pointed out shortcomings in 16 cases. Particularly characteristic of this year's review has been the many cases related to the pandemic that we have had to consider. A clear pattern in this year's review is that we have had reason to comment on several of these matters. Briefly, on these matters, the overall picture has been that in several cases the government could have acted more quickly, clearly and forcefully to curb the adverse effects of the pandemic on society. Sweden as a country differs from other countries with our far-reaching self-determination for municipalities and regions. Anyone who is normally responsible for an activity does so during a crisis. In spite of this, the committee has previously stated on several occasions that, in the event of a crisis, the government has the ultimate responsibility if it finds that municipalities and regions are not able to do so. During the pandemic, it has turned out that it has not worked satisfactorily, and much has been due to communication and that it has taken time to take decisions that municipalities and regions can lean on. Madam President, I would like We have also handled other cases than the Corona-related ones during the spring's review. Two of these cases, as has been mentioned earlier, are the Anna Ekström case and the Pisa investigation and the government's control of the Swedish power grid. We'll have to come back to that next year when we're standing here. This year, I would like to focus in particular on the fact that we have neither reservations nor specific opinions in the report. It is therefore a unanimous report that we are debating. I now look forward to listening to this when my committee colleagues take on board.
i-ba8d79b9485d3e52-63	Madam President, I would like This year's review of the government has been dominated by issues related to the government's management of the coronapandemine. Eight out of ten hearings have been about the coronapendem, and I will soon return to it in this introduction. Let us begin with the very purpose of the review. Controlling how the government and the authorities do their work – the parliament's power of control – is one of the most important tasks of the Riksdag. Control is exercised in different ways. It is carried out by the independent National Audit Office, whose task is to examine what the state's and hence taxpayers' money is spent and how effectively it is used. It is exercised by the Parliamentary Ombudsman, the Ombudsman for Justice, who monitors every person's right to be treated according to the law. It is exercised by individual Members of this House who, through the question institutes, interpellations and written questions, control the government. And it is exercised by the Constitutional Committee with the special task of examining the compliance of the government and individual ministers with the rules. Madam President, I would like When the Constitutional Committee examines the duties of the government and the ministers, it examines both what has been done and what has not been done. To receive information as a government and not to act on it, when an authority is unable or unable to act properly itself, to act passively, is to act that may lead to shortcomings. This is also the case in a couple of this year's review cases. One of them concerns the Swedish Forest Board's regulations on key biotopes. It is a matter in this year's review with great practical significance for individuals. One basic principle of our legal order is the principle of legality, the principle of the legality of public authority, under which all bodies of society, including the government, are bound by applicable law. For a number of years, the Swedish Forests Board has applied government regulations in breach of the government's authorisation. The Authority has registered key biotopes, which for the individual forest owner in principle means that the forest has become unsaleable, since the certification rules to which most forest owners are affiliated mean that key biotopes should be preserved. Over the years, forest owners have been fined for felling in key biotopes. Key biotopes registration is an infringement of private and constitutional property rights and has thus taken place without the Swedish Forest Board having a legal basis. When the authority itself realised it and, at the same time, realised that it could neither apply nor repeal the wrong code of authority, it informed the government in September last year. According to the committee, it is for the government to deal with the situation that has arisen, which has not been done satisfactorily. Madam President, I would like In all retrospect, the temptation to be hindsight is at hand. It's easy to be hindsight and harder to be wise. You have to be humble about that. For the Center Party, the point of this year's corona review has been that Sweden and the world have fought, and are still fighting, a war against an invisible enemy, a deadly virus. Any government that ruled Sweden would probably have made mistakes, broken in various respects and made mistakes. When we look at the KU's review of the government's handling of the coronapandemine, we can see that everything did not go right. But it is also important to stress that not everything went wrong either. We must take advantage of the lessons and experiences that have been learned during the pandemic. Another reason for the Center Party that in this year's review it has been very important to strive to ensure that the KU adheres to what has emerged, to what we know, to what has been documented or demonstrated, and to resist the temptation to speculate and insinuate, is that we are not only in a pandemic, but also what the World Health Organisation calls infodemi. Informationdemi means a viral dissemination of misleading information that makes it harder for people to understand the severity of the disease and what is needed to combat it. In a recent report, the Swedish Civil Conspiracy Agency describes conspiracy theories about covid-19 as a threat to democracy on several levels. To a large extent, they are about rejecting or misinterpreting established medical expertise and suspecting state and private actors and their intentions. But conspiracy theories also speed up radicalization processes that polarize society. When confidence in the practice of authority, especially in times of crisis, is undermined, other conspiratory stories can be linked to and lead to violent extremism. At the same time conspiracy theories prepare the ground for, or are already part of, foreign power's information impact on Sweden. We must therefore dare and be able to see and relate to the fact that what is happening right now in front of our eyes is a school example of how information and knowledge are subjected to great pressures in a social crisis. To conclude, Madam President, I would like to extend warm thanks to the Bureau and to the colleagues in the Constitutional Committee and, in particular, to all the staff of our eminent committee office, without which we would be left alone. The staff at the KU make important work efforts and give us the excellent conditions for working in our assignments. It has been a heavy audit year, with the postponed spring review we conducted last autumn and now the customary spring review, which many think is the most extensive in 16 years. I wish everyone – including the Presidium of Presidents of course – a really nice summer of rest and recovery, so that, when we meet this autumn, we have the strength to take on the last Parliamentary meeting of this parliamentary term.
i-ba8d79b9485d3e52-72	Madam President, I would like It's always fun to come after Linda Modig in the speaker's chair, because then I don't have to lower it so much. The Constitutional Committee has the task of examining the work of the government and has done so for over 200 years. Just like last year, the pandemic has affected the review work. Last year the review was postponed to autumn. This year we have taken our own initiative to review the government's work linked to the coronapndemin. This term of office is, to say the least, historic in several ways. It is almost difficult to take in when you are a new member who came in 2018. We have also, of course, processed the KU notifications received from members of Parliament during the year. To once again be able to submit a unanimous review report during a continuing crisis feels great and important. I have to admit that at the beginning of this year's review I was doubtful whether it would be possible, but it was possible. To a large extent, it is because we have a fantastic office to help us. But it is also the case that we in the committee have all worked together constructively and tried hard. Many thanks to the secretariat and the committee. This year we have dealt with 28 cases. In 16 of these, we have identified some form of deficiency. In some other matters, we have a message for the future. Madam President, I would like In addition to examining the government's management of the pandemic, which is a separate chapter of the report, we have examined the relationship between government and parliament. Simply explained, it concerns the parliament's exercise of its power of control. We have also examined the government's handling of certain government matters and the government's responsibility for administration. Finally, in the examination we have a chapter on the performance of the duties of the Minister of State. This year, just like last year, it is very much about what ministers may or may not say according to the notifier. Nowadays, it is also supplemented with what images ministers may or may not post on social media in particular. Madam President, I would like Sometimes it seems that some MPs do not want ministers to be allowed to participate in the political debate at all. However, the view of the KU is that they should not only be allowed but should also participate in political debates. It is, of course, important that what is said cannot be understood as an attempt at governance by an authority or that the Minister has his own views on matters that are the subject of subsequent government decisions. Furthermore, it is of course important that what is said is correct, so that it is not perceived as the Minister trying to mislead those who listen. Sometimes it may also be that ministers do not actually have knowledge of what they are babbling about, and then they have reason to learn something new from the KU's reviews. Madam President, I would like With regard to the committee's examination of the government's handling of the coronapndemine, it is important to recall that our review differs from that of the Corona Commission. We are only looking at the government's management of the pandemic, while the Commission is examining several parts of the social apparatus. The KU's review looks back and checks, for example, that the processing requirement has been met, while the Commission has the task of looking forward and assessing the impact of the measures. Madam President, I would like Over the past year, many of our freedoms and rights have in various ways been curtailed and not always felt as self-evident. It is, of course, due to the pandemic. In this year's review, we in the KU have had to reflect much on this. Several of the cases we have examined linked to the pandemic concern restrictions and limitations that have been made. Our constitutions only allow restrictions to be imposed on our rights and freedoms in order to meet acceptable purposes in a democratic society. The restrictions must never go beyond what is necessary in view of the purpose which has prompted them, nor extend to the point where they pose a threat to freedom of opinion. The KU notes that the decision to introduce participation limits for public gatherings and public events and to impose a restraining order in the care of the elderly constituted significant restrictions on our fundamental rights. In addition, they were prepared in a way that was not optimal, with few consultation bodies that also had very little time to respond. At a less acute stage, the government should have been able to follow up the decisions and take in the views of more bodies. It should also have been considered whether the Ministry of Justice would not have been more involved in discussions with the authorities on the need for further restrictions on our rights and freedoms. Another conclusion of the committee is that these decisions should have been reviewed continuously and more frequently than was done.
i-ba8d79b9485d3e52-81	Madam President, I would like Today, the KU is debating its review report, the KU20, which is very comprehensive. For 15 years I have been more or less involved in KU's review as an alternate or regular. As far as I can remember, we have not come close to this in the past, even though it has been difficult and big business over the years. What is particularly important this year is, of course, the coronapndemin and the scrutiny of the government's actions during it. I would like to begin by thanking the members of the KU. We've done a good job together. This has essentially been done under good, constructive, friendly and politically neutral conditions. Above all, however, I would like to thank the Office – the Head of the Office, the Deputy Head of the Office and the various staff working in the Office. Our report would have been feathery – literally, I was about to say – without the very solid work of the Registry. As far as time is concerned, I do not even dare to appreciate how many man-hours are behind it, but it is a very significant job. Together with the office, we in the KU have once again done a very solid job and won. The report is unanimous. It's been seven years in a row now. This costs the opposition, but above all for the government side – we meet in what is objectively shown and does not go beyond that. It is not an examination that is political in any way. It is also not a medical review – one might have felt that this would be close to, but it is assigned to others to do so. That's 28 cases we've tried. In 16 of them, we point out shortcomings to a greater or lesser extent. 6 of these shortcomings relate to the coronapendemin and the government's handling of it. It should be said, as we may be focusing this day on the coronapandemy, that not everything the government did was wrong. A lot was done right. We must not forget that it was a new disease, the course of which was unknown. As a crisis always does, it came unexpectedly. Then we have found shortcomings which we will report to the House. I would also like to say that we should move forward with learning from this crisis. We need to learn about civilian crisis management. We also need to sharpen the tools we have. Such an investigation – a committee for this – has been announced. What, then, is the basis for the KU's review? What are we doing? This debate was called up to 1968 for the decharge debate. Those of us who are no longer purunga may remember this expression; it comes from the French décharge In this context, it is a matter of discharge granted for the discharge of the duties carried out and a discharge granted by Parliament to the members of the Government. It is kind of like an association, of which we all have different experiences, where there is a point where discharge is granted to the board. This meaning goes back to the 1810 Parliamentary Order, where it was stated in Section 76 as follows: ..................................................... We no longer call this the decharge debate, and we report our review – it is not up to any vote. But in hindsight. Section 13(1) of the present form of government provides that KUs are to review the performance of their duties and the administration of government matters. This is what we do. RFR14, Constitutional control functions, or the KU's little green, as it is popularly called, is a manual for us in the KU. This review states on page 11 that the KU stated in 1968 that the basic idea is that the review should be administrative and not politically oriented. In 1968 it was decided that the review should not be political. Those of us who have been around for so long may think about other things from 1968. Now you have to be honest and say that it took a long time before this was realized. In fact, over the last seven years it has been unpolitical and unqualified, but one may say that it has been. According to the Constitution bill 1973:90, page 415, the review is now focused on judicial control and administrative practice. The main focus of the review shall be to verify whether, in the performance of their duties, the Ministers of State and the Government Office have complied with the rules and practices in force in their dealings with government matters. In the event of failure to act, the question of the obligation to act was examined in accordance with rules and practices. The background rules that are primarily referred to in the review are procedural and competence rules in the form of the government and the parliamentary system, i.e. rules on legislative referrals, norm-making competence, proposal delivery and that kind of information. The Constitutional Committee, as I have mentioned, takes great care to make a political assessment. We're not trying to see if the government has done the right thing. We cannot go in beforehand or afterwards and make a political assessment or indicate a political path. We can say, however, that this was wrong from the point of view of the regulations. We can be the good accountant, pointing to a better way for the future. In this way, the Constitutional Committee can set the way for future governments to do an even better job.
i-ba8d79b9485d3e52-93	Madam President, I would like Sweden is still in the biggest crisis since the Second World War. Many people have become seriously ill or died. We cannot yet take stock of all the consequences for the individual and society. In this year's review of the government's management of the pandemic, the committee focuses on the measures that can be valued today in the light of what was known, or should have been known, when they were taken. Crisises require quick decisions. At the same time, democracy and the rule of law must also be protected during a pandemic. This is a complicated balancing process, as we can also see in the cases we have examined. The principle of responsibility is one of three key principles for Swedish crisis management. The principle means that the operator responsible for an issue or activity normally has responsibility for it even during a crisis. Such a system ensures that decisions are taken where there is the right competence and experience. However, the pandemic has hit society widely and demonstrated the need for national coordination between different actors and different levels. This too is a balancing process. The Swedish administrative model, with our independent authorities, distinguishes us from other countries. In Sweden, a minister cannot point with his whole hand. Here the government makes collective decisions, and we must go the long way with legislation and parliamentary decisions. While there is an opportunity to do so more quickly during a civil crisis, both the preparation and the consultation rounds are still needed. Basically, it is about the protection of the individual's rights and freedoms – restrictions on these must be based on law. In one balance lies people's life and health; in the other balance lies their freedom and democratic rights. Of course, the government must strive to find this delicate balance as far as possible. But it is also natural that in the future there are things to learn and do better. We have also seen this in our hearings; both ministers and representatives of the authorities testify that they have learned a lot along the way and that better regulation is needed to keep this balance in future crises. The government has already announced a review of the legislation. It will also have to take into account the important balance between quick decisions and legally assured decisions. Finally, I would like to say that this was the first time that I took part in the intensive work on scrutiny in the Constitutional Committee. It has been exciting, instructive and important. This examination may, of course, lead to the committee being able to give its opinion on the guidelines and thus contribute to the development of practices. In this way, a government, regardless of its color, will be able to govern the kingdom properly in accordance with our constitutions. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank the secretariat, the Bureau and members of the committee for their good cooperation and for a good introduction.
i-ba8d79b9485d3e52-103	Madam President, I would like We are now entering the chapter on the government's handling of the coronapndemine. It is partly reviews that we have initiated ourselves, but also reviews that have been made following notifications by Members of Parliament. We have initiated this review ourselves because this is the biggest civil crisis that Swedish society has experienced in modern times. For some, it may seem strange that the Constitutional Committee is examining this, because the government has appointed the Corona Commission to do the same in part. But our missions are different. Simply explained, it can be said that the mandate of the Corona Commission is broader than that of the Constitutional Committee. The Corona Commission is tasked with evaluating the management of the virus outbreak and the effects of the outbreak in a rather broad sense, while our mission in the Constitutional Committee is to examine only the handling and action of the government in relation to how the government should be exercised in accordance with constitutional requirements. This means that issues related to the content of the measures taken to combat the pandemic are not addressed in the review in any major sense – if anyone is wondering. Furthermore, our review is looking back, just as previous speakers have done. The points we raise concern the handling of issues that can be said to be reasonably closed. Madam President, I would like I would like to start with a few overall reflections. On 1 February 2020, the government took the first decision linked to the pandemic, namely to classify the new coronavirus and the disease it causes as a public and socially dangerous disease. This decision thus gave the authorities the mandate to use the necessary disease control measures. After that, some 700 government decisions were taken, and 40 proposals, 200 regulations and 150 government assignments were decided in 2020 to deal with the coronapndemin. There were many very interventional measures and, at the same time, measures to keep society open. The government governs the kingdom and has overall responsibility. But our governance model – our way of ruling the country – means that the government is not omnipotent. We do not have such a constitutional mandate law for civilian crises. We have delegated responsibility to municipalities, regions and authorities. The municipalities are responsible for care for the elderly, and the regions are responsible for health care. But in a crisis, it is important to know who is doing what; otherwise the crisis risks getting worse. Therefore, the Swedish emergency preparedness is based on what we call the principle of responsibility, that is to say, anyone who is responsible for an area should have it also during a crisis. There is a political debate on whether this principle should be changed. The alternative is perhaps just such a constitutional power of attorney law, but as soon as crises pass, we are not very prepared to give the government greater powers. I am sure, however, that we will be discussing this for some time to come. I will now comment on some of the cases in this chapter. Madam President, I would like We start with the availability of protective equipment and other medical supplies. There were shortcomings in the availability of protective equipment in health care in particular, and I think we all remember how the whole of society stood up to produce and distribute protective equipment. It was an act of solidarity without its like. Already before the pandemic, specifically in 2018, the government set up an investigation to look at health care preparedness regarding, among other things, protective materiel e l. Having a stockholding that lasts for three weeks and that depends on the global market is not something that is sustainable to cope with a pandemic; I think everyone will sign on that by now. Furthermore, on 6 February, the Swedish Civil Protection Authority pointed out in its national situation picture that regions and stakeholders need to ensure the availability of protective equipment and personal protective equipment and that gaps in access may arise. On February 8 - 9, the National Board of Health and Welfare did not yet see any indications of residues in the supply of protective equipment. But when the pandemic then increased rapidly throughout the world and the demand for protective equipment skyrocketed – then the market also crashed. Deliveries got stuck in long traffic queues at closed borders. In the last second, one operator paid more than anyone else, and the deliveries turned to those who paid the most. On 13 March, the regions of Stockholm, Skåne and Västra Götaland submitted a letter to the government asking for national coordination to ensure the delivery of protective equipment. As a result, only a few days later, on 16 March, the government commissioned the National Board of Health and Welfare to ensure the availability of protective equipment at national level. The committee stresses the importance of developing mandates to public authorities in dialogue with stakeholders, of communicating them clearly and of obtaining the necessary views. We also note that there were no elaborate reporting pathways to be able to quickly collect information, including what the situation looked like in the municipalities – something that should have been there. Finally, it is important, even in a crisis, to document reconciliations so that they do not just take place orally. There is an understanding that work in a pandemic needs to be prioritised, but some documentation is important both as part of the follow-up and to enable an audit. Madam President, I would like We now come to the question of the restraining order in the care of the elderly. This is one of the most intervening measures that the government has decided on. It was a significant restriction mainly on the basic rights of residents and a restriction on their right to receive visits to their own home. However, given the exposure of older people to the Corona virus, it was assessed that the restraining order was necessary. Certain measures to limit the spread of infectious diseases in the care of the elderly were also taken prior to the decision on a national restraining order. Among other things, the Government urged municipalities to establish regional and local restraining orders. Nevertheless, the early measures did not prove sufficient, and in view of what was known about the vulnerability of the elderly and the need for national guidance and governance, the government should, in our opinion, have acted even more actively – something the government itself has also said. Madam President, I would like On this matter, the committee points out that we understand that the national restraining order needed to be put in place quickly, not least in view of the fact that, in dialogue with the Swedish Municipalities and Regions, it was stated that municipalities and regions had no mandate to take the decision themselves. We understand the limited preparation that took place given the conditions in early spring 2020. However, we point out that when the decision was made to extend the duration of the restraining order, the conditions were no longer the same. It would then have been possible to have a broader collection of, among other things, views from different bodies in order to highlight the different perspectives of such an interventional decision. The decision could also have been reviewed somewhat more frequently, including by means of a shorter period of validity. The Government's decision in November 2020 to authorise the Public Health Authority to provide regulations on restraining orders created such a regime, which could also take into account different regional needs. This was a good initiative, but it should have come about a little earlier, more specifically in the context of the end of the national restraining order on 1 October 2020. Madam President, I would like Let us now turn to the issue of distance learning. Our Minister for Education Anna Ekström said it wisely: schools are the last thing we should close and the first thing we should open. The closure of schools is a far-reaching measure affecting children and young people, but also all those who work and have children of school age. The impact on society of these types of measures both here and now and in the future can and could be assumed to be significant. In 2020, the government made a number of decisions regarding distance education within the school system in order to deal with the pandemic. These are, in particular, measures aimed at supporting or enabling school authorities to carry out their teaching in a way that is safe for infection. But it is also about the possibility of closing down schools if necessary. We in the committee consider the preparation of these dossiers for the selection of the authorities and the relevant organisations to be acceptable. We note, however, that the deadlines have been strikingly short, and it can therefore be questioned whether the authorities have been given real opportunities to understand the proposals in order to be able to submit comments and thus contribute to a sufficient degree of clarity of the cases. In view of the potential impact of distance learning on pupils' learning, the Committee would stress the importance of monitoring the effects of distance learning. It is therefore a good thing that the government has commissioned the Swedish School Inspectorate to review remote and distance education. Madam President, I would like The last matter I shall mention – and I am aware that I have oversold my speaking time and apologise for that – is the Corona Commission and the action of the Minister for Social Affairs in relation to it. The notifier wanted us to look at whether it was right or wrong for the Minister of Social Affairs to attend the Corona Commission press conference on the interim report on care for the elderly. We in the committee say that it was neither right nor wrong, but we note that the mandate of the Corona Commission differs from the committees and special investigations that the government regularly appoints. In formal terms, the Corona Commission is also an investigation, but since it has a mission to examine the government's handling of a particular issue or situation, it is important that they have a great distance of respect between each other. Madam President, I would like For a year and a half we have lived a very strange life. The world has changed dramatically, and people have made great sacrifices. It's been kind of surreal. Never did I think that political leaders in different states would point the finger at each other's methods instead of seeking cooperation and understanding between countries. Never did I think we would be presenting a state budget with proposals for over 100 billion. Never did I think a fence on the border between Haparanda and Torneo would separate Sweden and Finland during my lifetime. Never did I think that we would not eat our Tuesday dinner at Grandma's house and that every Thursday instead she would hand over pots of cloudberry jam to us over the balcony railing. Never thought I'd let her play with her great-grandchildren. Never thought I'd run out of toilet paper in the store. Never did I think committee meetings would be held via Skype. Nor did I think that we would see such solidarity in society as we have seen now with all the people who stand up and have stood up for their fellows. It's wonderful to see the initiatives that have been taken around the world and in Sweden to help each other, whether it's about singing outside retirement homes, calling the elderly to break loneliness for a while or shopping for the neighbor. Madam President, I would like The different life is one of many painful reminders of things we take for granted. Several things that we have also taken for granted for many years are Sweden's food supply, emergency preparedness and storage of medicines, not to mention a slim health care organisation. The pandemic has just pointed out the needs of welfare and, above all, the structural shortcomings of elderly care with low staffing, precarious employment and poor working conditions. We had already started building civilian preparedness before the pandemic started, but it takes time. And the marathon race isn't over yet. We must endure restrictions. People are still getting sick. Healthcare workers are still working hard, and businesses are still struggling. I am sure that we will come back to the Corona management in future reports in committee. There are many lessons to be learned, Madam President. Strange would be something else.
i-ba8d79b9485d3e52-137	Madam President, I would like Over 14 000 people have lost their lives in the suites of covid ‐ 19. We have examined parts of the management that have taken place as a result of this. We have examined the part concerning the work of the government but not the work of the whole government, either in time or in space. Several reviews concerning the Corona will come from us in the Constitutional Committee. In addition to this review, for example, the review by the Audit Commission, known as the Corona Commission, is added. Why should I remind you of this? Because 14,000 people have lost their lives. Despite the serious shortcomings we have found, they are neither the first nor the last piece of the puzzle in the review. Examination is important for many, many reasons: to learn lessons, to be better, to demand responsibility and to generate some kind of, if possible, symmetry of explanation, redress and account that may benefit those who have suffered. There is so much that I think the government could have done differently and better. There are parts that have been good and parts that have been bad. What we have looked at will be important in this context. It concerns constitutional errors that run counter to the regulatory framework that governs how the government should act. To quote a large, famous evening newspaper, Aftonbladet, our criticism is considered corrosive. Lena Mellin summarises the conclusion of our review well: The government has acted lamely, tamely and slowly. Sweden could certainly have been more prepared for such a crisis. For this, all parties bear a great responsibility. However, it has been our ambition in the Constitutional Committee not to be hindsightful but to do this review. The shortcomings we have landed in are what we knew at the time and what we could have done. It's too lame, too tame and too slow, given what the government knew at the time. Testing and detection is one of the depths that I want to do to demonstrate this. The WHO blew out early that we should test, and test widely, to be able to detect infection. In Sweden, the Swedish Public Health Agency first considered that the spread was too small to serve any purpose. Shortly after, it was considered that the spread was too large to be medically motivated. This was added to the responsibility for different priority groups. The financial consequences of the testing that took place became unclear, as did who would do and who would pay. It can sometimes sound like different actors stood up for their economy in some way. Of course everyone wanted the testing to get started. How our tax funds can be used is regulated by law, so it is ultimately about whether there is a legal basis for using tax money for different parts of the testing. Here the government could have acted both more clearly and more quickly. The goal was set for 100 000 people to be tested per week, and it was up to September 2020 before it was achieved. Only in early June did things start to work out. That's when they landed in the final agreement, and then the testing increased. The availability of protective equipment is another matter that also shows that the government has been too lame, too tame and too slow. Throughout the spring, the issue of the lack of protective equipment was big. It is hard to imagine how it could have escaped anyone in Sweden. My colleague, Ida Karkiainen, has described here in a commendable way how it was expressed, that Sweden joined forces to resolve that part of the crisis. Nevertheless, it took until September before the Swedish Agency for Social Protection and Preparedness was tasked with identifying the consequences that could arise from this type of deficiency in other social activities than healthcare and care. The Authority would also identify the extent of the deficiencies and the need for any additional efforts to remedy them. It was largely about activities that are state-owned: the prison services, the police, the Migration Agency. We can also note that these activities were partly lacking in equipment. A corresponding assignment was given to the National Board of Health and Welfare earlier in the spring, in March. There it was relatively fast to identify shortcomings in health care equipment. The longer the time, six weeks to be exact, it took to do so for the municipalities. The committee considers this to be too long. The National Board of Health and Welfare was also tasked with acting as a supplementary purchasing agent – it was formulated in this way. It was also expressed that the National Board of Health and Welfare would ensure national access to protective equipment. In increased global competition, it became extremely difficult to obtain equipment. Deliveries were stopped, sent to other countries or disappeared. Components and parts of deliveries were missing. In addition, the prices of this type of equipment naturally increased sharply. In this situation, it became very difficult, especially for smaller regions and municipalities, to compete and work. Unfortunately, this mission was perceived in different ways by different actors. The lack of clarity as to how regions and municipalities interpreted the remedy that we can see relatively quickly. The National Board of Health and Welfare had a dialogue with regions and municipalities, and if there were ambiguities at first, they were quickly resolved. The task of the National Board of Health and Welfare was complementary; the responsibility remained, as before, fully with regions and municipalities. Against suppliers, however, it took longer before the ambiguities became clear, according to information we have received from Sweden's Municipalities and Regions. Although the government, through the National Board of Health and Welfare, constantly tried to inform suppliers of the distribution of responsibilities and that they should primarily address regions and municipalities, we can conclude that this was extremely unfortunate. This kind of ambiguity risks delaying work, and this happened at a time when the time was so central to protecting us from this infection. The government's Corona strategy states that the right measures should be put in place at the right time. The government shall make the necessary decisions when they are required. However, a united constitutional committee can conclude that this has not been the case.
i-ba8d79b9485d3e52-153	Madam President, I would like The Constitutional Committee's review of the government's management of the coronapandemine differs, as several have said, from the Corona Commission, which is examining very broadly. We have looked more closely at the government's handling and the constitutional aspects of the government's actions. On the basis of that limitation, one can essentially say that the whole thing has boiled down to two main issues or shoulders. The first axis concerns the responsibility itself in the event of a social crisis such as the pandemic. At one end of the axis we have Sweden's rather unique management model with autonomous municipalities and regions and independent authorities. On the other end, we have 1 chapter. 6 § the form of government, i.e. that the government governs the kingdom and is accountable to the Riksdag. When you hear the debate here, you can sometimes think that Sweden no longer has a central power, but we do. It is true that the Swedish model of emergency preparedness is based on the principle of responsibility: those who manage an activity under normal conditions also manage it in crisis and ultimately also in war. At the same time, it is part of the government's task to rule the kingdom to deal with the consequences of a crisis affecting the country and its population. When the individual actors are not able to do so, the government is obliged to go in, steer up and take a holistic approach. It is around this axis that we in the Constitutional Committee have had to assess when it has been necessary for the government to take this responsibility. The second axis is more about human rights and freedoms on the one hand and society's need for rapid protection from such a deadly pandemic that is spreading rapidly. In an authoritarian regime it is perhaps quite simple; there the government can quickly make decisions and restrict people's rights and freedoms. We saw, among other things, in China how fast they shut the country down. But in Sweden we do not have that system, fortunately. There are also huge disadvantages to such a system. In order to make such restrictions, it is necessary to produce proposals to be prepared, sent out for consultation and then finally clubbed in the Riksdag. Of course, it takes much longer. That is why it is important to be prepared for this, to have a constitutional readiness and to prepare for what will hopefully not come. However, if a worst case scenario actually occurs, it shall be clear. Here we have had to consider how well the government had prepared itself for the temporary pandemic laws and so on. Then let me get into the individual cases. I was thinking first of all about testing and infectious detection. Here it was discovered quite early in the pandemic that municipalities and regions were not able to do so. It is true that the pandemic had been classified as a generally dangerous disease, and we had a disease protection law that came into force. But since this was such a big infection, a global pandemic – the law on infectious diseases is not really adapted for this, but more for venereal diseases and other limited outbreaks – it was advisable for the government to go in and take greater overall responsibility earlier than what was happening. Unlike our Nordic neighbours, who started with broad public testing already in late March and early April, it took until midsummer before we were there. Much of it was about trivialities, one might think, as who would pay here and there. Here, from the Constitutional Committee, we have said that it is a shortcoming that this did not come into place and resolve itself earlier. When we had SKR here at the hearing, they meant that they could not act only on a statement in the media from the Prime Minister that money was not a problem. We have to have a government decision that we get this money in order to start starting all of this, they said. As regards access to protective equipment, the KU considers that the mandate to the authorities should have been more clearly defined. The government should also have acted in the past to ensure the availability of protective equipment in key activities. With regard to participation limits for public gatherings and public events, the KU considers that significant restrictions on constitutionally protected rights and freedoms would have been prepared in greater detail. The KU also believes that the Ministry of Justice should have had contact with the Public Health Agency on the issues. There is a lot about this with constitutional readiness and that the legislative proposals have really been prepared, as well as continuous monitoring and gathering information and reconsidering. When the restraining order on retirement homes was extended, the government should have taken in the views of more authorities and actors. The government should also have made an earlier decision on the possibility of a local restraining order. As regards the preparation of the Pandemic Act and rapid proposals, work on developing a Pandemic Act should have started earlier than summer 2020. The delay meant that both the Swedish Law Council and the Swedish Parliament were given a short time to deal with the bill. Having said that, I would now like to thank the Office and my colleagues for a unanimous review report and wish everyone a good summer.
i-ba8d79b9485d3e52-168	Madam President, I would like It has now been a year and three months since the World Health Organisation declared that the covid-19 outbreak was a pandemic with a global spread of infection. The Coronapandemia has hit Sweden and the world hard with sickness, death and much suffering. More than 14 574 people have died with the disease in Sweden. Health professionals have made heroic and unselfish efforts at the front of an invisible and previously unknown enemy for a very long time. At the same time, the coronapandemy has paved the way for new scientific discoveries and achievements. To during this time be able to create vaccines, develop them, test them and get them approved so that half of the Swedish people have now received their first dose and a quarter are vaccinated with two doses – it is nothing less than absolutely fantastic. Madam President, I would like Of the eleven Corona cases examined by the KU, deficiencies in the government's management of the coronapandemin have been identified in six of these. Five of these cases were decided by the KU in September last year and decided to examine them more closely. It is important to see and take note of the KU's review of the government's management of the coronapndemin with the right expectations. As several colleagues have pointed out, there is reason to make it clear that the KU's review does not claim to be a review of the effectiveness and effectiveness of the measures decided and taken. That is a question for the Corona Commission. The KU's mission focuses primarily on whether the government's actions and the preparation of government affairs have met the constitutional requirements for the exercise of government power. The KU's review is based on the constitutional conditions that apply in Sweden and therefore cannot account for how different countries have chosen to fight the spread of infection. Madam President, I would like The Center Party last May demanded that the government acquire tools to combat the pandemic. The fact that Sweden is perceived by the outside world to have chosen a different path depends largely on the government's inaction. As early as last spring, when the spread of the disease first took hold in Swedish society, it became clear that current legislation could not provide the necessary tools to stop the spread of the disease. Sweden has not been able to limit shopping centres or public transport as other countries have been able to do until the Pandemic Act has been implemented. It is still incomprehensible that the government tried to deal with the worst disaster Sweden suffered in many years with alcohol law, order law and good advice until January this year when the Pandemic Act, thanks to Parliament's benevolent attitude towards an urgent procedure, could be decided. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs believes that work on the Pandemic Act should have started at the beginning of the summer of last year. It also took until September 2020 for the government to commission MSB to perform a needs analysis of protective equipment in other socially important activities. According to the committee, it was already clear in early 2020 that it might be necessary to take measures to ensure the availability of protective equipment and medical supplies. Madam President, I would like In the case of increased testing and contamination detection, the Constitutional Committee has noted that the uncertainties in the issue of responsibility and in terms of compensation for increased testing activities contributed to the testing not increasing at the expected rate. If the government had concluded the agreement with the Swedish Municipalities and Regions in the past, it would probably have meant that the testing had been expanded at a faster pace than was done. In the Center Party's follow-up motion on the Pandemic Act, we agreed with the referral points put forward by the JO and the Swedish Public Health Agency regarding the need for regulations not to apply beyond what is absolutely necessary. These bodies recommended limited validity and mandatory review after a certain period of time. This measure, together with other procedural safeguards, proposed the Center Party in the follow-up motion to increase Parliament's ability to anticipate and assess the application of the law. Unfortunately, these claims did not win the majority in this House. How difficult it is to impose significant restrictions on fundamental rights and freedoms, the pandemic has clearly demonstrated. For example, the government stated in the memorandum the prohibition of holding public gatherings and public events with more than eight participants that the starting point was that such a restriction would not apply for more than four weeks. After these provisions were incorporated into the Pandemic Act, we can now see that they have actually been in force for 28 weeks, more than five months, that is, not nearly four weeks. Once we get involved in compromising fundamental rights and freedoms, it is difficult to assess the duration of even temporary restrictions. Without freezing as a predetermined period of validity or a mandatory review, such restrictions may be applied for a long period of time. Among the constitutional rights and freedoms that have been severely adversely affected by the participation ceilings are freedom of religion, i.e. the freedom to practise their religion for everyone, alone or together. For many members of many religions, physical presence in a regular common service, along with participation in the management and reception of the sacraments, is a part of religious life that cannot be replaced by digitally mediated alternatives. Freedom of religion is an absolute right which is also supported by other constitutional rights such as freedom of assembly, freedom of expression and association. Not to analyse in depth the limitations on the exercise of religious freedom is an approach that the Center Party considers unacceptable when this kind of constitutional rights are restricted. Last year's decisions on the limit of participation of general meetings and public events meant significant restrictions on constitutionally protected rights and freedoms. The Constitutional Committee believes that a review should have taken place in a more continuous, formalised and broad way than was done. Another group that has seen its fundamental rights severely curtailed are those of our elderly people who live in special accommodations. In the committee's view, the government could have taken more measures in view of the extension of the restraining order to all elderly people, for example by seeking the views of more bodies to further highlight the consequences of an extended restraining order on the residents and their relatives. It would also have been an advantage, according to the committee, if the government's authorisation to the Public Health Authority for regionally adapted decisions had been decided at the same time as the national restraining order expired on 1 October 2020. Madam President, I would like For the Center Party, as well as the Constitutional Committee, it has been very important to have a review of the constitutional conditions for legal action in times of peace. The issue was raised even after the tsunami disaster, and both the pandemic outbreak and the KU's review again raise the need to review the issue. We are now looking forward to the government returning with the appointment of a parliamentary committee to carry out such a review.
i-ba8d79b9485d3e52-184	Madam President, I would like Much has already been said about this chapter: the government's handling of the coronapandemine. It is difficult to sum up over 400 pages of our review report. Although not everything is about the coronapndemine, a large part of it does. It also tends to be quite a lot of repetitions. As some others have exceeded their speaking time, I will try to stick to the time that I have reported. Madam President, I would like With regard to the committee's examination of the government's handling of the coronapndemin, I would like to remind you once again that our scrutiny differs from that of the Corona Commission. Our rights and freedoms are obvious. But over the past year, many of them have no longer felt as obvious. This is, of course, due to the pandemic that has been and which we are talking about in the past but which is still going on. In committee, during this year and this year's review, we have had to reflect much on the pandemic and restrictions on our rights and freedoms. Several of the cases we have examined are linked to the pandemic and the restrictions and limitations that have been imposed. Our constitutions are clear; we must only restrict our rights and freedoms in order to meet the objectives that are acceptable in a democratic society. A restriction must never go beyond what is necessary in view of the purpose which has led to it, nor extend to the point where it constitutes a threat to the free formation of opinions. With regard to the decisions to introduce participation limits for public gatherings and public events and the introduction of a restraining order in the care of the elderly, we in committee note that this meant significant restrictions on fundamental rights. In addition, they were prepared in a way that was not optimal. There were very few referrals, which also sometimes had only a few hours to answer. At a less acute stage, the government should have followed up the decisions and taken the views of more bodies. Consideration should have been given to involving the Ministry of Justice in discussions with the authorities on the need for further restrictions on our rights and freedoms. It seems that the Swedish Public Health Agency's words have weighed very heavily. That's no wonder, because it's an expert authority. However, during one of our hearings, the Director-General of the Public Health Agency was asked directly what considerations the Public Health Authority has made regarding the infringement of individuals' rights and freedoms, for example with regard to the limitation of eight persons. The committee was given the answer that this consideration lies with the government and that the public health authority's balance mainly concerns the health side. So perhaps the government should have considered whether the Ministry of Justice would not have been more involved precisely in terms of proportionality. It would have been kept under review and more frequent if the decisions taken were sound and still proportionate to the social situation. With regard to both these decisions, it was also a long time before the government commissioned the authorities to analyse possible changes and adjustments to the bans. Madam President, I would like Although temporary restrictions may sometimes be necessary, especially in the event of such a major crisis for society, long - term restraining orders should be avoided in view of the mental health of residents. With a regulation that had been in force for a short time, the need for a continued ban could have been reconsidered, and other, perhaps less intervention measures could have been considered. Greater flexibility in the regional perspective could also have been considered. Madam President, I would like I would also like to say something briefly about the Pandemic Act. This concerns the time when the government began to produce its proposal for the Pandemic Act. According to the Government, work started after summer 2020. According to the committee, the government should have understood the need to have a regulatory framework in place as soon as possible for the temporary rules to expire on 30 June 2020. Work could therefore have started earlier. In the autumn of 2020, the spread of infection increased again, and work on the Pandemic Act was speeded up to allow the law to take effect earlier than planned. The advance in combination with the fact that the work started only after the summer affected the conditions for the consultation and also the review by the Swedish Law Council. Like the Legislative Council, we in the committee note that the deadline for referrals was very short given the significance and complexity of the legislative proposal. The same applies to the time given to the Swedish Law Council and the time for the parliamentary treatment. It was extremely short. It could have been avoided if the government had started work at an earlier stage, perhaps even when it had been identified that the Authorisation Act could not be used, according to the government. Madam President, I would like There is a great deal more one could cave into when it comes to the government's handling of the coronapandemine. Curious listeners or viewers may well be referred to reading our report. As I said, it is over 400 pages and will perhaps be good holiday or summer reading. As colleagues have said before, there are many things that could have been done differently. There are certainly also things that could have been done better. But it's very easy to be hindsight and to review. Finally, I would like to mention a few more observations that we have made. It is important to document even during a crisis. Clear communication is also particularly important in order to avoid delays and unclear messages that exacerbate and complicate the management of a crisis.
i-ba8d79b9485d3e52-197	Madam President, I would like In our debate, we have come to the part about the government's handling of the coronapndemine. I understand that there are many people listening to the debate, in addition to those in this House. I was asked whether the KU has really been united in all these seven years that we have had as our goal. There are isolated examples of reservations that have been submitted, but essentially, as I said, the KU has been completely unanimous. This year there is no reservation at all. It should be noted. What, then, is there to say about the government's handling of the coronapandemine based on the KU's mission to review? As has been pointed out in the past, there are six points, of a number of others, which the KU points out are shortcomings. It can be summed up, as has been done in the past, with the slowness and the ability to act in particular. It can be developed, as previous speakers have also done, with the constitutional shortcomings that exist also in relation to the special constitution that we are working on and the need to learn for the future from this civilian crisis. That's right. The KU has reviewed the government's measures regarding testing and contamination detection. We have noted that in the spring of 2020 the Government implemented several measures, including regarding compensation to municipalities and regions and assignments to authorities. The choices made by the government in terms of compensation for testing led to uncertainty on the part of municipalities and regions whether the compensation would cover the costs of all priority groups. It was also unclear whether the regions' responsibility for disease control included two of the four priority groups. According to the KU report, it is clear that the lack of clarity in the issue of liability and in terms of compensation for increased testing activities contributed to the fact that testing did not increase at the expected rate. It was only in the agreement with the Swedish Municipalities and Regions at the beginning of June that it became clear that the compensation would be provided for all priority groups. The KU notes that the government could have concluded an agreement earlier. This would probably have meant that the testing had been expanded at a faster rate than was the case. The KU further notes that the amendment of the regulation on state aid to regions and municipalities and the mandate to the Public Health Authority to rapidly develop a national strategy to extend testing were not prepared quickly enough. The regulation was also not for consultation but was discussed orally with municipalities and regions. In a crisis, it is understandable that the government must limit the collection of views and information in order to act quickly, but at the same time the government could have been better informed if it had sent the proposal for referral to a limited number of bodies. We also underline the importance of the preparation requirements of the government form even during a crisis. Furthermore, KU lifts the availability of protective equipment and other medical supplies as a shortage. We have reviewed the government's measures to ensure the availability of such healthcare equipment and equipment in health care. In mid-March 2020, the Government commissioned the National Board of Health and Welfare to ensure the availability of protective equipment at national level. In the review, SKR stated that it was unclear who would buy products to municipalities and regions, and several of the providers of medical supplies perceived that they would only sell to the National Board of Health and Welfare. On the other hand, the National Board of Health and Welfare has stated that its mission was to supplement the municipalities and the regions, as the authority also informed the suppliers. To this end, the KU stresses the importance of developing mandates to public authorities in dialogue with stakeholders, providing clear communication and obtaining the necessary input. The review has also revealed that it was more difficult to assess the need for protective equipment and equipment in the municipalities than in the regions. Therefore, the KU assumes that the government will consider whether the provisions on reporting routes for municipalities need to be amended in order to ensure a rapid and comprehensive national picture of the situation at municipal level. When it comes to protective equipment in other socially important activities, the government only commissioned MSB in September 2020 to carry out a needs analysis, which was two months after MSB had requested to do so. According to the KU, the Government would have implemented measures earlier than what was done to ensure the availability of protective equipment and other materials in key social activities alongside health care. In the autumn of 2020, several key public authorities also reported a lack of protective equipment. We also stress that the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare's oral reports to the Government Office should have been documented. This is something that the KU has returned to over the years and where the government has broken even in this case. It is necessary as part of the follow-up and now to enable the KU to carry out an audit. When it comes to participation limits at public gatherings and events, we note that these imposed significant restrictions on constitutionally protected rights and freedoms. Other colleagues have highlighted this and it deserves to be lifted and taken into account, Madam President. Such measures risk having a number of negative effects on rights and freedoms, but also on individual companies, churches and associations. These measures to combat the spread of covid-19 must be weighed against other values, and consideration must be given on a continuous basis. The Regulation and the amending Regulation of March 2020 prohibiting the holding of general meetings and public events were prepared by drawing the views of a few relevant authorities, who had very limited time. The changes to the regulation in the autumn of 2020 went to a larger number of consultation bodies, which were given a few days. According to the KU, an interim regulation restricting fundamental rights and freedoms should be kept under constant review. It is even more important when the preparation has taken place in a short time. As the previous speaker from the Centre Party pointed out, this is particularly important when it comes to some of the most sensitive rights and freedoms, such as freedom of religion. In a civil crisis where people die in large numbers, depriving people of the opportunity to meet in worship and the sacrament is an extremely far-reaching operation. In my opinion, the government should have been more observant in dealing with this issue. It is included in the KU's statement that the considerations must be made continuously. It was not until October 2020 that the Public Health Authority was given the task of analysing possible changes to the regulation prohibiting public gatherings and public events based on the epidemiological situation. According to the KU, the mission should have been decided earlier. In addition, the views of more bodies than the Public Health Agency should also have been collected. In conclusion, it could be said that the review should have taken place more continuously and that it should have been formalised and broader than it was. Then we come to the restraining order in the care of the elderly, and this too is a sensitive chapter. People lay alone and died. With the directives that were in place, the relatives were not allowed in to hold hands and be present during the last stretch of life. It's not satisfying. With regard to the introduction of a restraining order in the care of the elderly, we note at the outset that the decision to impose a restraining order on the country's retirement homes significantly curtailed the basic rights of residents and a restriction on their right to receive a visit to their own home. The review shows that the government was early on informed about the development of the spread of infectious diseases in the care of the elderly, including through ongoing government contacts. Certain measures to limit the spread of infection were also implemented before the national restraining order. However, the early measures did not prove sufficient. In view of what was known about the vulnerability of older people and the need for national guidance and governance, the government should have acted more actively. During the preparation of the restraining order, only a few bodies were allowed to comment, and they were given very limited time. However, the limited preparation and the very short period of time may be regarded as acceptable in view of the urgency of the matter and to the fact that the Government also had ongoing contacts with the authorities before that date. Finally, I would like to mention something about the Temporary Pandemic Act. The KU mentions that work on it should have started at the beginning of the summer. I would also like to mention something about the Corona strategy. We have reviewed the government's actions in relation to the Corona Strategy. According to the government, the strategy was not intended to govern authorities. However, from an administrative point of view, the strategy was perceived to be something to work with and also to deal with, and the KU therefore points out and stresses that there is no constitutional scope for the government to govern the authorities without formal government decisions. Therefore, there is reason to stress the importance of not communicating information about the government's work in a way that is governing the authorities. You don't have to develop and publish a strategy in a crisis. According to the KU, if the government chooses to develop a strategy, it is nevertheless important that the strategy is well anchored with the entire government and affected parts of the Government Office and that a relevant preparation is made when the strategy is drawn up. It has not been possible to assess whether this has been done sufficiently during the review. In order for such a review to be possible, it would have been desirable for the work to have been documented. Madam President, I would like I apologise for exceeding my speaking time by several minutes.
i-ba8d79b9485d3e52-217	Madam President, I would like The other day, I was looking for a photo on my cell phone and scrolling back in time. It's kind of fun to do it at regular intervals. I ended up at the end of February, more specifically on 28 February 2020, on a boat on a river in India with many of you sitting in this Chamber today. I remember we had a lot to talk about, like we always have. It is rarely difficult to find a topic of conversation in this congregation. But I do not remember a single longer discussion about a pandemic or whether or how Sweden might have been rigged to cope with a virus – a virus that would soon paralyze the whole country, the European Union and indeed the whole world. There on the riverboat and during all the visits we were on to India, it was not the Corona virus that made us use the handsprit diligently but the dreaded Indian magbacil that some of us felt. Then we came home that first week in March 2020. Every day that spring and summer we all became much more aware of the Corona virus. Eventually we learned about covid-19, how to wash and sprinkle, keep a distance, spread risks, symptoms and who was or wasn't in a risk group and so on. Suddenly it felt as if life changed something huge, both completely unpredictable and very fast. We have learned that planning is good, but that flexibility, quick-seatedness and ice in the stomach are still our best friends if we are to cope with everyday life as it looks. The Covid-19 pandemic is in many ways unique. We must take this into account when assessing the actions of the government. All crises are unique. It's in their nature. But here we have had a very long course, which means that management must apply not only at present but also in various possible futures. Add to that that pandemic control is not an exact science, as demonstrated not least by the fact that otherwise rather similar countries have acted very differently. Madam President, I would like A large part of KU's work has been to review the government's actions in this pandemic. As has been pointed out here by the previous speaker, we have also found clear shortcomings in the action of the government. There are shortcomings which, by their nature, are recurrent in the committee's annual reviews and which, for my part, make me convinced that the government needs to take on board these criticisms, or pointed out shortcomings, and change its routines, clarify what is at stake, where the responsibility lies and who is going to do something. This must be clearly documented. But I am equally convinced that we need a changed model in order to deal with future serious crises in peacetime. Our constitution says it is the government that governs the kingdom. It is not the Public Health Agency, the National Board of Health, MSB or any other authority that does. The principle of liability cannot mean that everyone, or indeed nobody, has responsibility. It is the government that will widely gather knowledge and facts for itself. It is the government that must strike a balance for the good of society as a whole. It is the government that should point out the way forward. Much can be delegated to authorities, regions and others, which depend entirely on the crisis we are facing. But final responsibility cannot be delegated. One issue that the KU will come back to in several of the cases concerning the government's handling of the coronapandemine is the preparation requirements of the government form, which also apply in times of crisis. Here the government has to balance the need to get decisions quickly with that they should at the same time be sufficiently prepared. Here there is a clear potential for improvement, one can kindly put it that, which should sue for reflection and action in the Government Office to improve constitutional readiness. This is something that the KU highlights in its criticism and that the Law Council has also pointed out in other contexts. In the review on extended testing and contamination detection, the KU emphasises, among other things, the lack of an adequate consultation procedure. Regarding the review of the availability of protective equipment and other medical supplies, the KU points to the lack of documentation of the contact between the National Board of Health and Welfare and the Government Office. During the review of the participation limit of public gatherings and public events, we found a clear flaw in the fact that the decision was handled both too quickly and too slowly, an achievement in itself. At the time of the introduction, too few consultation bodies had been consulted, and they had been given too little time to reply. At the same time, the government waited too long with the preparation when it would extend the regulation, thus creating unnecessarily long fixed-term regulations. The KU believes that reviews should have taken place more continuously, more formalised and broader than was the case at present. The same kind of deficiencies were found in the government's preparation of rapid proposals and the Pandemic Act, as has been explained here earlier. We are examining the government's actions here, as does the Corona Commission in part. However, the KU examines with focus on the constitutional aspects, while the Commission's mission is to evaluate the concrete measures taken to limit dissemination. In our review of restraining orders in the care of the elderly, we had to deal with the question of the point of intersection between disease protection and personal freedom. Was it reasonable for us, in our concern for the oldest and most vulnerable, to deprive them of their freedom and perhaps the most fundamental right, to meet their family and friends? It was done to prevent the infection from entering the homes. At the same time, the Corona Commission's first report, which was just about the elderly during the pandemic, showed so clearly that the infection came onto other roads, roads that led to thousands of deaths with the diagnosis covid-19. Worse still, much of what the Commission pointed out were structural deficiencies that have been well known for a long time and by many. It is a failure not only by this government but also by previous governments, by politicians at several levels, by management and indeed by staff in the field of activities. I can only hope that we have all learned from this and that the Corona Commission's proposal for action will receive what it so dearly deserves. In view of what was known about the vulnerability of older people and the need for national guidance and governance, the government should have acted more actively. During the preparation which preceded the restraining order, only a few bodies were consulted. These were given a very limited time, which can certainly be considered reasonable in a crisis. However, in the decision to extend the duration of the restraining order, when the government had had time to act more carefully, we cannot see that this limited preparation is acceptable. It also led to insufficient evidence of the consequences that an extension would have for residents and their relatives. With a shorter period of validity of the Regulation, the need for a continued ban could have been reconsidered and other less-interruptible disease protection measures considered. Madam President, I would like The Corona Commission clearly says that we failed to protect the elderly. The KU says that the government's actions unnecessarily prolonged the time when the elderly were deprived of the right to their family and friends. I say that in the choice between protection and freedom, individual freedom must at all times weigh extra heavily.
i-ba8d79b9485d3e52-234	Madam President, I would like It is the elderly who have borne the heaviest burden during the ongoing pandemic. They have been forced to make the most sacrifices and isolation, as they have run the greatest risk of becoming seriously ill or dying as a result of covid-19. Perhaps the elderly most vulnerable have been living in special accommodations. I must say personally that it hurts me when I think of all those who have left us without being able to say goodbye to their loved ones. The national restraining order in the care of the elderly introduced between 1 April and 30 September last year and the local restraining orders that have been in place since then have been a serious restriction on the constitutional right of residents to private and family life. Although this was done in order to protect the lives and health of residents, it is important that we remind ourselves that the need for disease protection must be constantly weighed against the fundamental rights and quality of life of individuals. The committee notes that consideration must be given to the proportionality of the measures chosen and that these measures should be kept under constant review. As in the spring of 2020, the restraining order was a necessary measure to protect the most vulnerable group during the pandemic. The committee believes that restrictions should not be extended and should be more intervention than necessary. This is an important lesson for the future: such intervention measures must be limited in time and must be constantly reconsidered. Madam President, I would like Unlike in the case of war, there is no regulation in the form of government that increases the scope for the government in the event of civil crises, for example in the event of a pandemic. As I mentioned in my introductory speech, it is of great importance that we learn from the experience of the coronapndemin also in order to get a more appropriate regulatory framework in place for future crises. The basic law investigation of 2000 already highlighted the need to extend the government's scope for action in civil crises. This could mean that the government could make decisions that would normally be made by the Riksdag by law. However, the proposal met with strong criticism from the consultation bodies and was never implemented. The current pandemic has, to say the least, raised this issue. The Constitutional Committee stated several times last year that there is reason to consider a review of the conditions for legal action in the event of peacetime crises. We simply need an effective civil crisis management system, but we also need to protect the rights and freedoms of the individual. This is a complicated balancing process. The committee therefore welcomes the fact that the government announced in December that a parliamentary committee would be appointed with the task of reviewing the regulation. The quick proposals are an example of the scope for flexibility that still exists in our constitutions. In the event of a crisis, proposals are being prepared urgently, which was done 23 times in 2020. The committee sees no reason to object to the government in this part of the review. At the same time, it is of course worrying for democracy when consultation times are shortened and Members of Parliament are given little time to carry out their work as legislators. Therefore, the possibility of rapid proposals, which require reduced exercise time and committee treatment in a few days, should be used very sparingly. Throughout the whole crisis, as far as we have examined, it is clear that the government has continuously taken advantage of past experience and adapted its efforts accordingly. This applies not least to the Temporary Pandemic Act. It was needed to bring about a more accurate regulation, as the possibilities for adequate measures to combat the spread of infection in the ban regulation and in the temporary authorisation of the disease control act appeared to be insufficient after spring 2020. The committee notes, however, that the government should have been able to start work on the Pandemic Act earlier, at the beginning of the summer. Those who remember the atmosphere during early summer 2020 remember that there was strong pressure to bring relief to the restrictions and start opening up society. This was particularly true in relation to cultural and sporting events during a period when the spread of infection decreased rapidly. Our review has also shown that both the government and the Public Health Agency were very aware that all the measures introduced needed to gain acceptance in society at large in order to have the desired effect. In October, the spread of infection started to increase again in Sweden. Work on the Temporary Act started in August, and the spring experience was taken into account. Work was speeded up in the autumn due to the increased spread of infection, and the entry into force was speeded up. The committee stresses the importance of the Government also obtaining, in urgent cases, the information and opinions needed in the preparation of government matters. This increases the conditions for the measures taken to be as accurate as possible. Madam President, I would like It is difficult, during an ongoing global crisis, to fully evaluate all the choices that need to be made. I am convinced that we will have reason to return to the government's management of the coronapndemin many more times over the years to come.
i-ba8d79b9485d3e52-248	Madam President, I would like A broad popular acceptance with an emphasis on awareness-raising and knowledge dissemination has been of great importance in tackling the pandemic and the challenges that have arisen and continue to exist. Although Sweden may not have followed the intense lockdown wave that has swept the world, there have been a series of restrictions and restrictions that have affected each of us every day. In this speech, I intend to dwell on some of the areas included in Chapter 5 on the government's management of the coronapandemy. Madam President, I would like To begin with, I will say a few words about our Swedish healthcare system, which has been subjected to strong trials and a number of challenges. Every day and every night, major and decisive efforts have been made for individuals in health facilities in the different parts of the country. One of the issues highlighted in our review report and highlighted in the initial phase of the virus outbreak was how to manage the resources of intensive care. Many may recall the snapshots of overcrowded Italian medical institutions that were cabled worldwide. It is worth recalling that this was an area of great concern. There were also calls from Italy and also from other countries that were affected at an early stage to be prepared for intensive care places. What we have today and which did not exist then is a more comprehensive perspective and a substantiated basis for a course of events that no one had up until then faced. The committee notes in its opinion that the measures taken by the government to coordinate and coordinate intensive care places at national level were, in essence, justified and that the substantial capacity increase carried out by the regions in spring 2020 met the needs that arose. It is also clear that at the end of March 2020 the Swedish Armed Forces, on behalf of the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare, had a field hospital set up in Stockholm, in Älvsjö, and one in Gothenburg, at the Eastern Hospital. In Stockholm, intensive care places did not need to be put into service. Some of the places that were made available were used in Gothenburg. The field hospitals, which were also located in more places, could later be decommissioned in instalments from June to August 2020. In this context, the Government decided in March 2020 on a mission to the National Board of Health and Welfare to establish a coordination function for intensive care places. This task involved creating a national situation picture. The hearings held by the committee with the Swedish Municipalities and Regions, the National Board of Health and Welfare and the Minister for Social Affairs revealed this: When the load was at its highest, it was about twice as many or something more than the normal situation. And in the hearings, representatives from the Swedish Municipalities and Regions pointed out that they would have liked to have seen a more widespread consultation. However, it is part of the picture that the course of events was very intense and unpredictable. And the dialogue that took place with the National Board of Health and Welfare was to provide support to the regions in their responsibility. In December, the National Board of Health and Welfare presented a partial report of its mission to the Government. It was then assessed that there was a continued need for national coordination on issues related to intensive care resources and that efforts to strengthen the coordinating function need to be continued. Madam President, I would like Testing and detection of infection have a specific section in the review, and the first sentence of the committee's position states that the Swedish model of emergency preparedness is based on the principle of responsibility. It has also been touched on here in the hall earlier today. The question was asked at its head when the testing and contamination tracking intensified. It is, of course, the regions that, according to the Health Care Act and the Disease Control Act, are responsible for health care and disease protection. The Public Health Authority is responsible, inter alia, for coordination at national level and shall take the necessary initiatives to maintain effective disease protection. In the spring of 2020, the government took steps to extend testing and detection. The measures included, inter alia, decisions on compensation to municipalities and regions for additional costs related to the coronapandemin. Linked to the question of compensation, it appears that there was confusion about the responsibility of the regions for disease-protection – whether it included all citizens or only certain groups in health care, such as staff and risk groups – and that this would have been a reason why it did not start on a larger scale until after the summer. These uncertainties in the issue of responsibility, based on the form of funding, led to an agreement between the State and the Swedish Municipalities and Regions being subsequently developed where compensation from the State would be paid for testing all priority groups. Madam President, I would like The committee has also examined the area which includes decisions on the limit of participation of public gatherings and public events, which clearly restricts people's freedom of movement and freedom of movement. The Government decided on five occasions in 2020 on participation limits for general meetings and public events. All areas of society, more or less, have been affected. For some arrangements, digital gatherings have become an option, and more than one of us has surely taken note of the stickers, we do not cancel, we reschedule. However, there is reason to emphasise certain areas of this. Religious practice has been touched upon and is, of course, fundamental. With eight persons as a border, churches and communities have performed their services, and only at funerals have exceptions been allowed with a maximum of twenty present participants. For my part, I had a digital meeting with the Church of Sweden and some other religions to check the situation during the pandemic. None of the participants questioned the need for joint responsibility and for the restrictions to be followed, of course. But there were also views on how one could have organized one's fairs and perhaps could have taken in more than eight. In the hearing with Minister of the Interior Mikael Damberg and Prime Minister Stefan Löfven, these issues were addressed, and both highlighted the central point: There were complex balances, but the central point was precisely to protect life and health. On this basis, the restrictions imposed should be assessed. Madam President, I would like The committee has also examined the government's work on the preparation of rapid proposals. Unlike in the case of war or danger of war, which has also been mentioned here earlier today, there is no specific regulation in the form of civil crisis government. The provisions contained in the Government and the Parliamentary Order shall also apply in crisis situations. It was taken in 2020 by the government several measures to combat the pandemic. Among other things, 23 proposals with a budget and legislative proposals were drawn up, all of which demanded urgent management based on the situation. The number is considerably higher than in previous crises that our country has experienced. Of these rapid proposals, 12 contained supplementary amending budgets and 11 contained legislative proposals. The review shows that most of the proposals with legislative proposals submitted by the Government to the Riksdag have contained proposals that have also been reviewed by the Swedish Law Council. In most cases, the Law Council has left them without recall. The Government has also substantially followed the Council's views and proposals. The internal preparation of the Government Office and the dialogue with Parliament's administration, primarily the Finance Committee on budgetary matters, have been carried out in accordance with the procedures established. Madam President, I would like Someone quoted earlier the daily press and what they had thought about the situation that we have dealt with in the review. Of course, each has its own picture and description of the situation we have experienced. For my part, the day after our hearing, April 27, I got caught up in today's industry. There the heading was that Sweden preserved its freedom during the pandemic, and the text pointed out that if one tries to look at the main features and not individual errors, the assessment must be that Sweden has succeeded well. ..................................................... So far today's industry. It is also a picture to be included in the overall assessment that we can make after further examination and follow-up of the situation.
i-ba8d79b9485d3e52-272	Madam President, I would like Of course, we in the Constitutional Committee, like everyone else, think that the suffering and tragedy caused by the coronapandemy is what overshadows all other consequences. But the examination of the coronapndemin from a constitutional perspective that we decided last summer has also exposed other serious consequences. These consequences can be said to be of two kinds in what I now choose to talk about. One is that constitutional rights and freedoms have been overturned in a short time and without much debate. The second can be said to be that, now that we have, forced by the seriousness of the pandemic, decided to override essential rights and freedoms, it has come to fail in efficiency and speed. I would like to refer, as follows, to the restraining order in the care of the elderly and to the provisions on limited participation in various activities. Even the most devoted constitutionalists realize that such restrictions as the Constitution wants to prevent were necessary. Of course, a particularly extenuating circumstance would have been if, for example, the restraining order in the care of the elderly had saved many lives. The tragedy is that this was not the case. Family members were not allowed to visit their elderly relatives, but they still became ill and in many cases died alone or in any case without being able to hold children and grandchildren in their hands. There was, as has been pointed out here before, a very early knowledge that old age, often associated with chronic diseases, puts the spread of infection in society at risk of affecting people in retirement homes particularly hard. So did the government. As has also been said here before, some early measures and recommendations led quite early to reductions in visits to retirement homes. However, the Corona Commission criticised the delay from the beginning of March to 1 April in the entry into force of a formal restraining order. The committee understands that the restraining order is intervention and that there was a need for careful consideration, but when it turned out that the early measures taken were not sufficient, the government should have acted more actively. In spite of the fact that the government took the time before the restraining order was imposed, it was an extremely short and limited consultation round. The committee feels that more evidence could have been obtained and notes that the Swedish Municipalities and Regions at the committee's hearing considered that the design and implementation would have been better if SKR had been consulted earlier. However, the committee feels that the seriousness of the situation and the importance of speed mean that preparation and consultation can be considered acceptable. But that excuse does not exist with regard to the government's decision to extend the duration of the restraining order. By then, more bodies could have been consulted, and the consequences of a restraining order could have been better illustrated. The committee believes that a better basis could have been created for assessing whether the restriction of freedom and rights and the risk of negative consequences for the well-being of residents of the restraining order were still proportionate. Furthermore, in the Committee's view, such measures should have been taken as early as possible to ensure that an evaluation of the effects of the restraining order on the lives of residents is not delayed. Although temporary restrictions may sometimes be necessary, the concern for the mental health of residents is that long-term restraining orders should be avoided. With a shorter period of validity of the Regulation, the need for a continued ban could have been reconsidered, and other less-inhibiting measures could have been considered in order not to allow the restrictions to last longer and be more intervention than necessary. At an earlier stage, a system of greater regional flexibility could have been considered, where the need for restraining orders could have been continuously weighed against the contamination situation in different parts of the country. Such a regime was created by the Government's decision in November 2020 to authorise the Public Health Authority to issue regulations on restraining orders that could otherwise take into account different regional needs. According to the committee, this was a good initiative, but the readiness to get appropriate regulation in place appears to be inadequate. It would have been an advantage if the authorisation had instead been decided in the context of the expiry of the national restraining order on 1 October 2020. All in all, therefore, there have been both shortcomings relating to safeguarding constitutional rights and freedoms and the lack of effectiveness of the measures that remove these freedoms. Paradoxically, it may seem, but sometimes that's the reality. Madam President, I would like With regard to the measures reviewed by the KU to limit participation in general meetings and public events, there are also significant restrictions on constitutionally protected rights and freedoms. Here, I believe, it is also a question of the measures potentially threatening democracy – at least with the content that we are used to. Imagine the idea that next summer, with a few months left until the elections, we would have the same restrictions as last summer. Then there will be no square meetings, no summer speeches in front of the audience, no flyer distributions and of course no doorknocking. And demonstrations, of course, are not to be considered. Of course, as we have seen, it is possible to get quite far with digital meetings, but admit that it is getting poorer! And we lift our eyes and look at the world around us, there are already examples of elections that have been cancelled or postponed, and there are also examples where one can legitimately suspect that leaders have used pandemic restrictions as a means of preventing free elections or shifts of power. This makes it extremely important that restrictions are made with judgment and caution, that they are constantly reviewed and that they are both understandable and well communicated. I will not go through here the many occasions when restrictions were imposed or changed, but the committee points out that all such measures, even in a hurry, should be preceded by a good basis for the government by taking in information and opinions. Then the measures will be more accurate and effective. As with the restraining order in care for the elderly, the time for the consultation was extremely limited. The committee stresses that when fundamental rights and freedoms are restricted, it is important that such a regulation is continuously followed up and reviewed. This is all the more urgent when the initial preparation has been swift. Now the government gave such a commission to the Public Health Agency only last October. According to the committee, this should have happened sooner. In the autumn, we can recall, introduced or announced some reliefs, while the second wave of contamination took off. You can probably say, as Minister Damberg did at the committee's hearing of him, that the timing of the government was not entirely optimal. Madam President, I would like Of course, how this devastating pandemic has been and continues to be combated should be properly examined. We need to learn both from what has gone well and from what has gone less well. The KU's review has put constitutional consequences and risks under cover. It is important that this has happened!
i-ba8d79b9485d3e52-292	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking the committee for its good cooperation, which has resulted in a unanimous report. It is something that both I and my party sees a great value in. I would also like to extend my sincere thanks to our excellent and very knowledgeable office staff. They are invaluable support in our work. The Constitutional Committee has examined a number of areas relating to the government's handling of the coronapndemin. In several cases, the preparation of matters within the Government Office has been characterised by urgency. It may be considered natural that in some cases the processing time has been reduced compared with more normal conditions. It is important, however, that matters are prepared in good order even during the social crises that we have experienced recently. The committee's examination of distance education in the school system has shown that the deadlines for submitting opinions have been strikingly short, usually less than 24 hours and on a few occasions a few hours. The committee considers that there has been a clear need to act under tight deadlines, but notes that the scope for the relevant authorities and organisations to comment on proposals and to adapt their activities to constitutional changes has been at a disadvantage. Madam President, I would like Commissions such as the Corona Commission are very rare and are not really regulated by law. The last time a similar Commission was appointed was when the government's handling of the tsunami was to be examined. With regard to the Commission which is to examine the government's handling of a particular issue, it may be said to be particularly important to safeguard the Commission's independence vis-à-vis the government. The committee would therefore like to stress the importance of contacts, including press meetings, with Commissions such as the Corona Commission being managed on the basis of a well-established range of perspectives, fully corresponding to the autonomy which the Commission should and should enjoy. The committee assumes that the government's continued contacts with the Corona Commission will be characterised by such a distance of respect. As regards the government's action on the Corona strategy, there is no formal requirement for the government to decide on a strategy in times of crisis, although according to the committee it may be a good order for effective crisis management. The government's Corona strategy has not been prepared and decided within the government, and it has not been the government's intention that it should govern the authorities. The Government's intention with the strategy was that it would form a common basis for decision within the government. Nevertheless, it has been argued from the authority that it should work on the basis of the government's Corona strategy. So it seems that the government has been unclear to some authorities on the matter. There is therefore reason, in the Committee's view, to emphasise the importance of the fact that information on the work of the government is not communicated in a way that would govern the work of the authorities. In addition, the committee stresses that, where the government then chooses to adopt a strategy, it is important that it be prepared and anchored with the government in accordance with the current regime. The committee has not been able to clarify whether there has been sufficient progress in this matter. Madam President, I would like On 28 May 2020, the Prime Minister of Swedish Radio was interviewed about testing for covid-19. The Prime Minister then said that the regions had said that they should test all categories, i.e. categories 1 – 4. On the same day, SKR published a press release that announced that it took responsibility for testing Prio Group 1 – 3 and that SKR had not been asked about Group 4. The committee has noted that there was no agreement between the government and SPR that the regions should test all categories at the time of the statement. The Prime Minister's statement was thus incorrect at the time. Possibly, contacts between the government and SKR could have been clearer. In an interview with the German media on 18 June 2020, the Minister for Foreign Affairs said that anyone in Sweden who wanted to test for covid-19 could do so. I remember that statement very well, because I wanted to test myself at the time but was not allowed to do so. I realized that it would lead to a KU notification quite soon, as it did. In an interview in TV4 on 22 June, the Minister for Foreign Affairs clarified that the statement had been aimed at the Stockholm region. Therefore, at the time, the statement was not correct. The committee stresses the importance of the accuracy of statements made by ministers. In the case of statements in foreign media, such statements may also have significance in a foreign policy context.
i-ba8d79b9485d3e52-304	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking my colleagues in the committee and our fantastic committee secretariat for the hard and often difficult work that has been done in the spring in the framework of our scrutiny. Together, we have shown that the KU is not a relic of the past, but that we carry and manage an important constitutional task of examining and paying attention to the shortcomings that we find. Together we have done the work well and can now submit a very solid report to the House. When examining the government's handling of a crisis, it is important, as has been said, that we assess the government's actions fairly and not be hindsight. A process of crisis is often difficult to understand and chaotic, so a government must have some understanding that they did not know how everything would be right from the start. However, the technological development of society has meant that we are now in a better position to create a picture of what one should reasonably have known and at any given time knew through a simple search on the Internet. Examples may be news articles where party representatives called for increased speed in public testing, discussion about closing schools, need for legislation, the risk of a second wave of contamination and so on. It is quite possible to restore the state of knowledge at the different stages of the pandemic, and in the light of what the committee then finds, we can note on several points that the government's management of the pandemic has failed. I would like to start with the question of so-called rapid proposals. In this respect, the committee notes that the government has made a significant departure from the usual procedures for the preparation of proposals, which has certainly been necessary in several cases. The KU nevertheless raises the question of whether it would not have been possible to give more time to the preparation of these cases by starting work earlier. Environmental monitoring and foresight are two concepts that deserve to be mentioned in this context. During the spring of 2020, the government came to Parliament with a proposed legislation to give the government the tools to deal with the pandemic. We in the KU were given the opportunity to comment on the legislation, which we did. We expressed, among other things, the need for a subordination mechanism that enabled the government to act quickly but also that the government subsequently had to submit its decision to an examination in the Riksdag. Similar mechanisms already exist in, for example, the Act on Electronic Communications, LEK. Soon after the Riksdag's decision on the bill and the amendment on the subordination mechanism, the Minister of Social Affairs announced that she and the Government felt that the legislation could not be used successfully. There were probably many of us who thought that in practice the government was distancing the usefulness of this legislation. There were probably also many of us who thought that this would lead to a new bill in the near future – not least in view of the fact that the current legislation would expire on 30 June of the same year, that is, quite close to it. No such legislative proposals came in the near future. Instead, the government waited until after the summer to start work on developing a new law that gave the government the tools it needed to fully control the pandemic. This was done by the government despite the fact that in the spring of 2020 there was already a second wave of contamination in the autumn. I will return to the need for outside observation and foresight. Madam President, I would like In practice, during the pandemic, a new way of going to school has emerged. Early on, especially in other countries, school closures and attempts were made to teach at a distance. In Sweden, we chose a different path, which the committee does not value. However, we note that when the Swedish Government finally chose to introduce distance education in certain school forms, it went very quickly. It was fast in all parts, both the preparation and the time between the decision until all schools were expected to have introduced this extremely big change in working methods. Here, too, I will come back to world surveillance and foresight. Many young people have taken the student these days, after a high school period where a large proportion of the teaching has taken place at a distance. The KU therefore stresses the importance of monitoring the effects of distance learning. This must not lead to a lost generation, as a result of the pandemic. The right to know and the tools to build your future must not be limited because you have had the misfortune to go to school during a pandemic. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to say a few words about the so-called Corona strategy of the government. The government is not obliged to have a determined strategy to deal with a crisis. Most crises are too short and intense for it to be a wise management to spend resources on developing a strategy. However, as we know, this crisis has been more prolonged and in many ways different. I allow myself to guess that this was one of the reasons why the government felt the need to describe what the government's strategy was. Once the government has come to the conclusion that it wants to develop a strategy, however, there are formal requirements. It's not voluntary. If a strategy is to govern authorities, a decision is required. The committee notes that this was not the aim of the strategy, but, after our examination, we can see that it was nevertheless perceived as governing the authorities. Then it must be decided. No proper preparation of the case has been made either. There are things that the government can prepare but does not have to decide, but even this lower requirement has been missed by the government. In a crisis, when clear communication is important, it is unfortunate that the government has broken in this regard too.
i-ba8d79b9485d3e52-322	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. In this block, the Constitutional Committee has dealt with certain questions about the government's relationship with the Riksdag and examined, among other things, consultations, handling of written questions and interpellations, etc. I'm going to make three strikes. In the Constitutional Committee, we have examined, among other things, the Prime Minister's handling of consultations with the EU Board. This is about the agreement on the recovery plan and long-term budget at the July Council last year, i.e. on the basis that there seems to have been some ambiguity at the final stage of the consultation. After examining documents and hearings on the matter in question, the committee notes that it was not fully clear what the current consultation covered when the Prime Minister presented this to the Board, which may have led to misunderstandings among the members of the EU Board. It is important to maintain the structure and clarity that is expected to be in place between the government and the EU Board, regardless of the size of the issue. That is why the committee clearly states in its position that the government should review the procedures of consultations – this in order to clarify what the members of the EU Board in a consultation actually have to deal with. Madam President, I would like KU has also reviewed the Government's information to the Swedish Advisory Council for Foreign Affairs in connection with the auction of 5G licences conducted by the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency (PTS) in autumn 2020. The review has revealed information on the scope of the activities of the Advisory Council on Foreign Affairs in 2020. The Constitutional Committee stresses the importance of maintaining the activities of the Advisory Council on Foreign Affairs. Madam President, I would like An important function of the parliamentary power of control is the question institute, i.e. the possibility of asking written questions or interpellations to the government. The parliamentary order describes how the practical handling of interpellations and questions should be carried out and what time limits should apply. For written questions, for example, a written question submitted no later than 10 p.m. is to be answered by a minister no later than 12 p.m. the following Wednesday. If Parliament's work so requires, the President may decide, after consulting the group leaders, that the answer should instead be given within 14 days. If a reply is not submitted within the time limit specified in the additional provision, the Government shall notify the Swedish Parliament Administration when the question will be answered or will not be answered. It should be noted that there is no formal obligation for a Council of State to answer questions or interpellations, but it is one of the exceptions that this does not happen. Madam President, I would like Four notifications in this year's review concern written questions and interpellations. In two of the cases, the committee has examined the handling of interpellations by the Minister for the Environment and Climate Action at the time. We note that the Government, even if she were to resign on 5 February, would have had the opportunity to respond to the interpellations raised by the notifications. Interpretations were held at such a time that the period of response was prior to the resignation of the Government. I would like to add that the committee emphasises that ministers who have announced their resignation still have to fulfil their obligations as ministers until their resignation. In the other two cases, the committee has looked at the reasons why the Minister for Justice and Migration's reply to two written questions took about three months. We note that the obvious starting point must be that both written questions and interpellations are answered within the time set out in the parliamentary order and that what may be relevant to the question of a minister's ability to provide an answer to a written question or an interpellation at the right time is the preparation of the answer itself, not waiting for a government decision, for example. Madam President, I would like Of course, waiting three months for an answer to your written question is not acceptable, and the Government Office also writes to us in committee that it is unfortunate. However, there is an interesting question as to whether it is more worthwhile for Members of Parliament to get the somewhat boring answer that the question is currently being prepared in the Government Office or to get a somewhat delayed but fuller answer – an interesting thought to have with you. Furthermore, it is interesting to note the development of written questions. During the committee's hearing, the Minister of Justice indicated that the number of written questions in recent years has exploded, and we can say, after reviewing the dossier, that this is a correct description. Madam President, I would like The number of written questions was 788 during the Parliamentary Session 2014/ 15. During the Parliamentary Session 2019/ 20, the total number was 2,144. The proportion of delayed answers has decreased during the same period, from 19 per cent of the Parliamentary Session 2014/ 15 to 15 per cent of the Parliamentary Session 2019/ 20. It can also be noted that the Ministry of Justice is one of the departments that receives the most written questions. Some 3 000 questions have been submitted from the Riksdag during this Parliamentary Session. This corresponds to almost ten questions a day, all of which, as a general rule, must be answered within a week. A full answer to the question will require an estimated ten hours of work. It cannot be ignored that if development continues in this way more resources will have to be allocated to the Government Office. Madam President, I would like Finally – this chapter has the title Some questions about the government's relationship with the Riksdag, but I read something else. It is about a relationship, a trust and a built-up respect we have all agreed on and that this should be protected by both the Government and the Riksdag.
i-ba8d79b9485d3e52-335	Madam President, I would like This chapter in the spring's review, which, as I said, is about the government and its approach to the Riksdag, is an important chapter. The government governs the country at the mercy of the Riksdag and under the scrutiny of the Riksdag. This is an important principle of our parliamentary system, and in this the KU's scrutiny is a crucial element. Another important part of the supervisory power is the parliamentary members' written questions to the ministers to review their duties. It is true that the ministers do not have to answer questions, but at the same time we note that this is an important part of the power of control. It may sound ambiguous, but such is the Constitutional Committee and its inscrutable ways. In this examination there is a matter that I think I was not the only Member of Parliament to see coming. It concerns the reply of Minister of Justice and Migration Morgan Johansson to written questions. The committee notes that it took too long to answer the questions, but we also note that ministers must not have any excuses for delaying answers. There is a memo at the Government Office describing this and that valid reasons are, for example, accumulating work, illness and stay abroad. These are also reasons that take up the limited resources that the Government Office actually has. In particular, I would like to draw Members' attention to the concept of accumulation of labour. This was also indicated by the Government initially as a reason why the answers to the questions examined were delayed. On the other hand, the answer given by Morgan Johansson during the committee's hearing gave a different picture. It showed to the committee that Johansson delayed the answers because he wanted to give more comprehensive answers, which he felt he could do if the answers were delayed so that the government had time to make certain decisions before they were given. The Minister therefore delayed the answers to the questions because he wanted to give other answers than he could give within the deadline. The committee notes that this is a shortcoming and that the reasons given by Morgan Johansson must not be used as a basis for delaying answers to questions. The committee has also examined Morgan Johansson's and the government's handling of announcements and notes that there are shortcomings in this area too. This concerns, for example, the government's handling of the Riksdag's announcement of increased penalties for burglary. This is certainly a complicated matter, and the committee is clear that the preparation of the government may take longer. The government states that preparatory measures have been taken over time, but other information is also available when the committee holds a hearing with the Minister for Justice and Migration. He informed the committee that, in practice, during the first two and a half years, the government did not take any concrete preparatory measures, which the KU notes is not urgent enough. The committee also points out that this information should have come to Parliament at an earlier stage so that a better assessment could have been made of the government's handling of the matter. Madam President, I would like The committee also examines a matter concerning the auction of frequencies by the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency for use within the 5G network. The question was at the outset if the Advisory Council on Foreign Affairs should have been informed of certain circumstances surrounding the 5G auction, but as it sometimes becomes, the committee's examination took a different path than it was originally intended. The KU does not comment on this original issue, but notes that during the review, information on the extent of the activities of the Advisory Council on Foreign Affairs during the pandemic has been provided. We then find reason to stress the importance of maintaining the activities of the Advisory Council on Foreign Affairs and note that other channels of information cannot replace the Advisory Council on Foreign Affairs, which is governed by our constitution and is irreplaceable.
i-K9z1RK73swExPR4n8QDwL1	Madam President, I would like On 27 November 2019 Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson asked Minister of Justice and Migration Morgan Johansson a written question about why an investigation into animal activism had not been set up. Eight times the answer was postponed before the question was finally answered on 6 March 2020, i.e. more than three months after it had been asked. On 10 September 2020 Christina Höj Larsen asked Minister of Justice and Migration Morgan Johansson a written question about Sweden's intentions to receive evacuating refugees from the burned-down refugee camp of Moria on the Greek island of Lesbos. After the reply had been postponed no less than 11 times, the question was finally answered on 9 December 2020, in principle three months after it had been asked. As a reason for delaying the replies to the written questions in question, the written replies submitted to the committee in the examination have been referred to the preparation in the Government Office, while during the hearing the Government stated that the delay was due to a willingness to give the questioner a full reply. According to the committee, it is an obvious starting point that both written questions and interpellations are answered within the time set out in the parliamentary order. Only the preparation of the answer to the question in question is relevant in this context. The committee's examination shows, however, that the delay in the cases in question was rather due to the preparation of the government matters to which the questions referred and that the Government wanted to be able to give a response with a certain content. In the committee's view, a response time of around three months is not acceptable. The handling of the issues in question by the Minister for Justice and Migration has thus not lived up to what is required for the question institutes to function as an instrument of parliamentary control. Madam President, I would like Alexandra Anstrell submitted an interpellation on 4 January 2021 to Jennie Nilsson on the protection of forests. According to the parliamentary order, it was to be answered no later than 22 January. On 7 January, the question was submitted to the then Minister for the Environment and Climate Change, Isabella Lövin. Johan Hultberg also left two interpellations addressed to Isabella Lövin; these he submitted on 14 January. They were then handed over to Isabella Lövin on January 15 and were to be answered by January 29. On 18 January, however, the Ministry of the Environment announced that the amendments would not be answered. As a reason, Isabella Lövin's planned departure was announced shortly and already booked engagement. But on January 29, interpellation debates were held in the Chamber, and Isabella Lövin responded to four other interpellations. The Constitutional Committee notes that the questions were raised in such a time that the deadline for reply was before the resignation of the Government. They should have been answered accordingly. Madam President, I would like On 18 March 2015, the Riksdag decided to announce that the government would return to the Riksdag with a proposal to introduce a new crime – burglary – with a minimum prison sentence for one year. In May 2017, the announcement was repeated, although with the addition that the government would return with a proposal to the Riksdag by 1 April 2018. The announcement has been repeated since 2019 and 2020. It would take until 24 November 2020 for the government to submit a bill that met the announcement. The committee understands that this has been a complex issue requiring relatively extensive investigative measures. At the same time, it is noted that concrete measures to meet the specific announcements were not started until the end of 2017, i.e. just over two and a half years after the Parliament's original announcement. According to the committee, the government cannot therefore be said to have dealt with the announcement with urgency. For the investigated matter, there also seems to be a discrepancy between what Morgan Johansson shared with the committee during the hearing and what the government has reported to the Riksdag. During the committee's hearing, Morgan Johansson stated, among other things, that in 2015, 2016 and parts of 2017 the government did not take any concrete action in response to the announcements as other cases were prioritised, which was partly a consequence of a lack of resources. This has not been revealed before in either the government's presentation of the announcements to the Riksdag or in answers to written questions. These data are also not consistent with the replies received to the written questions of the Constitutional Committee. These responses refer to various investigations that have been going on. The committee believes that the information provided by Morgan Johansson during the hearing should have been disclosed in the reports to Parliament. It would have enabled the Riksdag to take this into account when the government's handling of announcements has been subject to assessment.
i-ba8d79b9485d3e52-351	Madam President, I would like The possibilities for members of the Riksdag to control the government have been highlighted in some cases in this year's review. It has been about Minister of Justice and Migration Morgan Johansson, who has not answered written questions within the time prescribed by the Parliamentary Order, and about the former Minister of the Environment and Climate, Isabella Lövin, who has not fulfilled her duties as a minister until she resigned by not answering interpellations before she resigned. The fact that the questions and interpellations of Members of Parliament can also in practice act as the instruments of parliamentary control that they are intended to be through the compliance of ministers with established rules should be a matter of course and nothing that the KU would have to point out to us. Yet this has not been the case. Worse still, when it comes to Minister Morgan Johansson, it is a repeated and recurring flaw. Madam President, I would like Juris Dr. Rolf H. Lindblom states in an article in the Swedish Legal Journal 1991 that the dominant influence over Swedish foreign policy has historically been exercised by the monarch, parliament or government. Lindholm describes in the article how Parliament's influence through parliamentarism and some changes in the form of government increased. In 1921, the Advisory Council on Foreign Affairs was appointed as a consultative body between the Government and the Riksdag on foreign policy issues. According to Chapter 10. Section 11, the Government shall keep the Advisory Council on Foreign Affairs continuously informed of the foreign policy conditions that may be relevant to the Reich and shall consult the Board as necessary. Foreign affairs refers to matters relating to Sweden's relations with foreign states or with international organisations. The foreign policy aspects of defence policy and trade policy are also covered by the expression foreign policy conditions. At the same time, the preliminaries to our present form of government, in which responsibility for foreign policy primarily rests with the government, state that the importance of foreign policy for national security justifies the Riksdag's assurance of wide-ranging transparency and a strong influence over it. One might think that a wise foreign minister in a minority government with fragile parliamentary support would be keen and committed to building strong and cross-block support in matters relating to Sweden's relationship with foreign states and national security. KU has reviewed this interaction from time to time, so also in this year's review. Unfortunately, when the coronapist has put most of the things we felt normal at the end of the day, the consultation between the government and the parliament on foreign policy has not failed to be challenged either. The KU declared in autumn 2015 – the KU also now – that it is urgent that strategic discussions on important foreign policy issues and events as well as security policy issues take place at a constitutionally and politically high level. The KU states the importance of maintaining the activities of the Advisory Council on Foreign Affairs. Madam President, I would like It is more the rule than the exception that any of the constitutional committee's scrutiny matters concern the working arrangements of the EU Board in any respect. The Government shall consult the Board, in accordance with the form of the Government, on the conduct of the negotiations in the Council before the decisions of the Council and before the meetings and decisions of the European Council. Although 26 years have passed since the creation of the EU Board, as with all human activities, there is still potential to improve and develop the forms of work. This year it is about the importance of the government side in an intensively ongoing negotiation – a situation which is not in itself unusual for the EU Board – clarifying to the members of the Board what documents are actually relevant and on the table. The KU notes that the scope of the consultation was not clarified, which may have led to misunderstandings. The government should therefore review the procedures to clarify what the EU Board has to deal with during a consultation process.
i-ba8d79b9485d3e52-357	Madam President, I would like A large part of the review has clearly revolved around the pandemic, and that is no wonder. However, we have also had the usual review when we examine the government and individual ministers in committee on the basis of the reports made by Members of Parliament. The section we are now debating is about the government's relationship with the Riksdag. Here we see a number of clear shortcomings, and I will comment on three issues which I think stand out. I start where Linda Modig left off, with the notification of the consultation of the EU Board last July. It was made by the then party chairman of the Left Party. I fully understand that negotiations on the EU's long-term budget and recovery plan were bumpy. There were a lot of people involved, there were night changers and not everyone attended all the meetings all the time. In addition, the Government would continuously consult and report back to the EU Board. The KU has previously stated that it is important that it is clear what a consultation is about in order for it to be meaningful and good. In this case, it is clear that there was talk in the EU Council and that it became unnecessarily messy and irritated when neither the Prime Minister nor the other members of the government's staff were clear that the previously sent document was no longer up to date. It's always easier to talk to each other if you talk about the same thing. At such consultation meetings, the government has a major information advantage, and the KU believes that it is the government's responsibility to clarify what the EU Board has to deal with. Another interesting matter concerns the government's handling of announcements about increased penalties for burglary. It took about six years for the announcements to be considered final. As part of our examination of this matter, we had an oral hearing by Minister of Justice and Migration Morgan Johansson. At that time he stated that during the first two and a half years no preparatory measures were taken at all in response to the announcement and that this was mainly due to a lack of resources on the part of the government. Among other things, in the Government's continuous report to the Riksdag on what has been done in connection with this announcement, the Riksdag has been informed that the preparation of the matter was ongoing in the Government Office and that further information was to be collected. This has also been stated in the replies to the written questions by the KU on the reasons why the announcements have taken so long. The fact that we cannot trust the information given to Parliament and that the Constitutional Committee does not receive correct answers is serious, and it seems, unfortunately, that the view of the government's relationship with Parliament is very different. Since the KU has a specific and pronounced role, to check that the government complies with the rules and guidelines that exist, the KU must be able to rely on the government's response. Unfortunately, it is not only in this matter that the Ministry of Justice responds in one way to the written answers and the Minister in another way in the oral hearing. We have a case that deals with two different notifications from Members who have not received answers to their written questions within the time limit. As you know, there is no absolute obligation to answer all written questions, but the written questions and the amendments are important elements in the parliamentary control of the government. Failure to reply at all is only intended for exceptional circumstances and if there are exceptional reasons, for example if 349 Members are asking the same question in principle or if the Minister is seriously ill. The parliamentary order states that the deadline for replying to written questions is seven days. In the current cases, responses were received after 78 and 98 days, respectively. That is totally unacceptable. Apart from the fact that the Riksdag is unable to perform its control function, it affects the possibility of political debate when the government's position or planned actions are not known. In this case, then, we will also receive new answers at the oral hearing. The Minister states that they wanted to wait with the answers to be able to give a certain kind of answer because they intended to take action. That is not what was stated in the written answers to the KU. When the Minister was asked why the KU did not receive the correct answers to his written questions, the Minister stated that this is precisely what these kinds of hearings are for, that is to say, to have an exchange of views where we can discuss the forms and where we can fill in with the answers I can get from the committee's members. I see this as a natural thing. When we have first replied in writing, we then reply orally. It is quite remarkable that a person who has been a minister since 2014 considers that the written questions of the KU do not need to be answered truthfully as one can replenish and conduct a general dialogue on principles at an oral hearing. I really believed that the Minister was aware that the KU does not call all the notified ministers to a hearing but that we only do so in cases where we do not think we have received sufficient clarification answers to the written questions. Given that the Minister of Justice and Migration spent so much time during the hearing pointing out how burdensome it is with all questions from Members of Parliament and that it takes so much time to answer them, it would be good for everyone if the Ministry of Justice continued to answer both clearly and truthfully the questions from the KU. The Minister will hopefully not have to spend time coming to oral hearings in the KU.
i-ba8d79b9485d3e52-376	Madam President, I would like We are now in the section of the debate dealing with certain issues concerning the government's relationship with the Riksdag. I could make it easy for myself and only agree with the previous speaker, but as all eight parties are going to repeat everything, the President of the European Parliament has to be patient. As we have heard, the committee has examined Minister of Justice and Migration Morgan Johansson and his handling of written questions. To put it briefly and concisely, the committee stresses that the obvious starting point must be that both written questions and interpellations are answered within the time set out in the parliamentary order. The preparation that may be relevant to the question of the ability of a minister to provide a reply to a written question or an intervention in due time is the preparation of the answer itself. However, the delay in the cases in question was more attributable to the preparation of the government matters for which the questions were addressed and that the Government wanted to give a response with a certain content. A delay of around three months is not acceptable. The way in which the Minister for Justice and Migration deals with the answers to the written questions highlighted in the audit has thus not lived up to what is required for the question institutes to act as instruments of parliamentary control. We have also examined the environmental and climate minister Isabella Lövin's handling of interpellations. The interpretations were set in such a time that the response period occurred prior to the resignation of the Government. The KU emphasizes that ministers who have announced their resignation still have to fulfil their obligations as ministers right up to their resignation. We have also had a rather difficult examination. It concerns the Government's information to the Advisory Council on Foreign Affairs in connection with the auction of 5G licenses, which was conducted by the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency in autumn 2020. In the light of the findings of the review, the committee recalls its earlier statements that it is urgent that strategic discussions on important foreign policy issues and events as well as security policy issues take place at a constitutionally and politically high level. The committee also recalls its previous statement that information to party leaders cannot in principle replace consultation with the Foreign Affairs Committee and adds that the same applies to information to the Board. Finally, due to information on the scope of the Advisory Council on Foreign Affairs in 2020, the committee stresses the importance of maintaining the activities of the Advisory Council on Foreign Affairs. The KU has examined the Prime Minister's consultations with the EU Board with a view to the agreement on the recovery plan and long-term budget in the context of the July 2020 European Council. The KU notes that it was not made clear during the consultation that the draft conclusion previously shared with the EU Board was no longer up to date and that the consultation concerned instead the oral agreement of principle reached during the current meeting. The lack of clarity may have led to misunderstandings about the scope of the consultation. According to the committee, it is up to the government, during a consultation, to clarify what the EU Board has to deal with. The R utins should therefore be reviewed in order to avoid misunderstandings in the future. We have also examined Minister of Justice and Migration Morgan Johansson's handling of Parliament's announcements on increased penalties for burglary. We note that it took about six years before the announcements could be seen as finished. Concrete measures to meet the specific announcements were only started after just over two and a half years. It cannot therefore be said to have dealt with the announcement with urgency. The reason for the delay was that the government gave priority to other issues, which was partly a consequence of a lack of resources. This justification has not been disclosed in the Government's continuous presentation of announcements to the Riksdag. According to the committee, it should have done so, which would also have enabled Parliament to take this into account when the government's handling of announcements has been subject to assessment. Madam President, I would like This was the short report of this case.
i-ba8d79b9485d3e52-386	Madam President, I would like One of the most important tools a member has in his work is to ask a minister about interpellations and questions related to the performance of his duties. It is part of the parliament's so-called control power and should not be abused either by members of parliament or by ministers. As a Member, for example, you do not have to ask questions that have just been answered, perhaps even a number of times. As a minister, you have to answer within the time and in the form stated by the parliamentary order, even if you think the question is nagging or irrelevant. If you see obstacles to this reply, you inform. It is true that there is no formal obligation for ministers to respond, as we have heard. But it is one of the exceptions that this does not happen. It would be very unfortunate if this so-called voluntary model were to end. Our work between Parliament and the Government, despite our differences in substance, is based on respect and understanding for each other's roles. This is a fundamental part of our democracy and must be protected. As regards the review carried out by the KU by Minister of Justice and Migration Morgan Johansson and his handling of written questions, I can partly sympathise with the Government's explanation as to why his reply has been delayed. The Government wanted to await a clearer line from the European Commission regarding legal conditions for bringing refugees to Sweden without an EU decision. However, that it would require eleven so-called delay messages to the Swedish Parliament Administration – it was stated that the question would be answered on 30 September, 7 October, 14 October, 21 October and so on until 9 December 2020 – is not reasonable. Parliament's elected representatives and our citizens should be able to make higher demands than that on a minister. Another review, which also concerns the relationship between the Riksdag and the Government, concerns the government's contact with the Advisory Council on Foreign Affairs. Convening the Advisory Council on Foreign Affairs is not a free choice of work. It is a constitutionally regulated body set up to give Parliament clear transparency and a strong influence in foreign and security policy. There is no possibility for the government to deliver in forms other than those prescribed in the form of government. In this case, the review specifically concerned the Government's information to the Advisory Council on Foreign Affairs in connection with the auction of 5G licences, which was conducted by the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency in autumn 2020, as well as the scope of the Advisory Council on Foreign Affairs in 2020. This gives reason to clearly highlight the importance of maintaining the Foreign Affairs Board's format. Madam President, I would like Another board with a unique format, which also depends on respect for the working method and trust between the parliament and government, is the EU Board. In this review of Prime Minister Stefan Lövven's handling of the Government's obligation to consult the EU Board in view of the agreement on the recovery plan and long-term budget in the context of the European Council of 17 and 21 July 2020, the KU notes that it has not been clear to everyone what exactly the consultation covered, which may have led to misunderstandings. I would definitely like to say that this led at least to mistrust between the parties. As we know that these consultations between the government and the EU Council can take place at very short notice, by telephone, in the middle of the night, with different actors involved and not always with the same people present, it is particularly important that there are clear procedures, if not even over-clear, so that nothing falls between chairs or can be misunderstood. In other words, it is better to be clear to a level where you can almost be seen as nagging and formalistic in these contacts – all to ensure that Sweden is a clear voice for democracy both in the EU and here at home.
i-MKxnG7sSrVQaJ2YZ26At3k	Madam President, I would like Chapter 3, Some questions about the government's responsibility for administration, may I begin. These are three matters, Madam President: the Forest Board's regulations on key biotopes, SMHI's sale of certain activities and finally the Ambassador's role in the Gui Minhai case. Before going into these matters briefly, I would just like to reflect a little on something that has been raised several times here from the floor, namely the role of the Constitutional Committee in the scrutiny. It has been pointed out by a number of Members that it should be strictly constitutional and not political. I think it is important to at least reflect a little on it. For me, it's constitutionally very political. Just think about what the world looks like, how it's made. It is of enormous importance which constitution governs a country. That's one part of this. It may sound like distortion on my part, but I think it's important. Then it is also not simply to distinguish with surgical precision the strictly constitutional from the more party political. I think that we have been able to see this when we have listened to the speakers here today. I am not saying this at all to enlighten you, honourable Members. But for those who listen to the debate, it may be good to have an explanation of what we mean by this. I feel that, ladies and gentlemen, when you look in the mirror tonight, you should feel that the positions you have taken do not depend on whether you represent government-supporting parties or opposition parties. That's how I interpret what you're saying. Whether you blush when you look in the mirror or not is well up to each of you. I'm not going to review it in any way. I am now going into the various dossiers, Madam President, starting with the Forest Board's regulations on key biotopes. Linda Modig was into this. She stated – to refer to what is politics and what is not – that there were certain consequences of this case in terms of property rights issues and the ability of individual citizens to exercise their rights. I can agree with Linda Modig on that and agree with this reasoning. I would like to reinforce it and say that, if you are on that track, there are also, of course, economic consequences. Sweden is a country that depends on well-functioning forestry. But this is not what the Constitutional Committee's review is about; it is about these regulations being issued in violation of the government's authority. This means that there have been formally valid government regulations that the Swedish Forest Board does not consider itself able to apply or have the authority to repeal. In that case, the KU has concluded that the government has not satisfactorily handled the situation that has arisen. That is the result of our scrutiny. Madam President, I would like Then there is the question of SMHI's sale of certain activities. It has also been concluded here that there are views on how the government has dealt with this issue. It was noted during the audit that the Swedish National Audit Office has been able to establish that the requirements for commercialism have not been met during SMHI's sale of this business. It is, of course, an extremely important principle that this type of sales is carried out commercially. It is important to remember that it is the authority that has been responsible for this issue but that the government has not been fully aware of how this should be done. That's the bottom line. The authority has the responsibility, but the government has not fully followed up on how this has been handled. Then I come to the third question in this chapter about the ambassador's role in the issue of Gui Minhai. This is an extremely complex matter, both from a constitutional point of view and from a diplomatic point of view. The case has also been examined legally. This is therefore an issue that has led to a lot of thought work and much discussion in the Constitutional Committee as to how this should be interpreted. After these briefings, the Constitutional Committee has concluded that the Ambassador has gone beyond his instructions. The committee also notes that the ambassador has made a different assessment of this. The Constitutional Committee then considers that there is a lack of communication somewhere between the department and the ambassador. Otherwise, this ambiguity could not have arisen. That, according to the Constitutional Committee, is not satisfactory.
i-AGRWJfoBSRjVrAhhNgPeKA	Madam President, I would like This chapter of the Constitutional Committee's review concerns the government's governance of the managing authorities. I will highlight three issues: the Forest Board and the Key Biotopes, SMHI and the case of Gui Minhai. The question about the Swedish Forest Board has been about the existing key biotopes. Counting and inventorying key biotopes – when it happens and how it happens – is an issue that has been debated for quite some time. It is especially when this is done in connection with another supervisory matter that it is also criticised. Some time ago, the Swedish Forest Board has concluded that the regulations that have been applied to the survey of key biotopes are not based on the government's mandate to the Swedish Forest Board. What does that mean? Well, that means that the legality that should exist, which our Constitution obliges us to ensure is done in terms of government governance over the authorities, has not existed. It has been tried to resolve this by writing on the Authority's website that, despite the fact that they have these provisions and that they are formally valid, they will not apply these provisions because they cannot be repealed either. The government needs to do that. I think this is a rather classic example which shows how the inaction of a government can lead us from the Constitutional Committee to think it is a shortcoming. It is up to the government to act – to repeal these regulations and to make sure that the authority can act formally. I also think that this is an obligation in the light of the major economic consequences of previous speakers, but also in a purely private and perhaps emotional way, such as these key biotopes and restrictions on property rights and the possibilities of using and using their land and forests for many people. As regards SMHI, our review concerns the actions of Isabella Lövin, then Minister for the Environment and Climate, in connection with SMHI's sale of certain activities, which has been called SMHI Maritime. It is the Swedish National Audit Office that has examined whether this sale has taken place in a commercial way or not. They have found that this has not been the case with reference to four points in particular. First, SMHI did not carry out an external valuation of this business. Secondly, the sale has not been offered to the public, and there has been no competition in the sale of the business. Thirdly, the business has been sold to a former manager of the same business. The manager was as late as a month before the sale as manager of the same business. And fourthly, this manager has been allowed to contact the customers of the company before he has acquired the company. He's been in touch with them to make sure they want to stay as customers. Overall, this means that these sales have not taken place on a commercial basis. Our question then is: what could and should the Minister, and in this case the government, have done, and how should one have acted in its governance so as not to allow this situation to arise? Our conclusion is that there have been meetings and dialogue on this matter. The government has been informed of various options, and it has been discussed. However, questions have not been asked about and followed up on how such a sale can be carried out and ensured that it is carried out in a commercial manner. Although it has delegated to the authority to carry out the sale of state property, it is nevertheless the government that is responsible for governing its authorities. As far as Gui Minhai is concerned, there is a great deal that has already been said in this case, not least because it has been a court case, so there is an extensive piece of material that we have, of course, taken note of. I will try to sum up our conclusions on two points. The first is that the government and the Ministry early decided that the ambassador's mission would be terminated in advance but that it then took a very long time before this happened, so long that the event – the business meeting in Stockholm between Gui Minhais's daughter and the businessmen – could take place. That was one conclusion. The second is that the communication between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the ambassador has not been clear enough. This should be seen in the light of the fact that all of us involved in this matter have an understanding and understanding that the language of the Ministry for Foreign Affairs per se is not clear, as we have discussed in committee. This is a case where this has obviously been a major deficiency and where there has been a need for greater clarity. The circumstances that took place prior to the business meeting led to the fact that there had been reason to be even clearer and more attentive, detailed and expedient in contacts with the then ambassador.
i-ba8d79b9485d3e52-412	Madam President, I would like What distinguishes all three cases is inaction on the part of the government. As far as key biotopes are concerned, there is little need to be added to what the previous speaker has said. That is an important issue. People's life's work and perhaps property could be classified with writing as key biotopes and thus become quite worthless. When this came to light, the government should have arranged for this to be agreed more quickly. As regards SMHI's sale of Maritime Transport to a former head of the agency, this is a very interesting case. Purchases in the public sector are fully regulated by the Public Procurement Act. This has been done to promote free competition and to combat corruption. However, regarding the sale and disposal of publicly owned property, we do not have the same detailed legislation in Sweden. The Government may decide to transfer movable property other than shares, shares and leaseholds if the property is no longer necessary for the operation of the State. Sales shall be carried out in a commercial manner. Much more than that, our laws do not provide for this. The Government has delegated the responsibility for the sale of such property to the respective authority under the Government through the Decree on the transfer of the movable property of the State. The authorities are responsible for ensuring that the sale is done correctly. It was therefore primarily SMHI's responsibility to ensure that the sale of assets in connection with the decommissioning of part of the maritime transport business took place correctly. The Swedish National Audit Office has concluded that this was not the case. The sale did not meet the commercial requirements. The committee notes that SMHI informed the Ministry of the Environment that the Authority was considering phasing out the activities in question and raised various options with the Ministry. At a meeting with the Ministry, it was found that a sale of movable property had to be made in a commercial manner. SMHI then informed the Ministry that the Authority was negotiating with an external party on the sale of the assets. This is what you can react a little over. Although we have independent authorities in Sweden, one might think that the government should require a little more information if one hears that only an external party is interested and ask if it has been out on offer. Against this background, the committee considers that the Ministry of the Environment, in the dialogue that preceded it, has failed to provide information on how SMHI intended to carry out the sale in a commercial manner. As was now the case, the Ministry was informed about the arrangement only afterwards, when the opposition came up with written questions and interpellation. The third matter concerns the ambassador. It had been decided that this ambassador would eventually finish his position because of a link. Then there has been a long period of time depending on different things that you may not have been able to influence so much, but when you repeatedly notice that the ambassador does not release it all, it is important to ensure the information and communication even more so that what happened does not happen. The committee believes that the government should have been clearer and followed this up better.
i-ba8d79b9485d3e52-421	Madam President, I would like At the risk of some repetition, I choose to follow my script. With regard to Chapter 3, a great deal of work has been done. The Swedish Forest Agency's regulations regarding key biotopes, SMHI's sales of certain activities and the role of the Mbassador in Gui Minhai - the case is what we are dealing with. When it comes to the Forest Board, it was at first sight the Forest investigation that saw the complication and the element 22 that was there. When we went into the depths of the matter, both I and the committee could de facto note that the Forest Board in September 2020 provided information to the Government Office that the Authority considered itself to have issued government regulations in breach of the government's authorisation and that action by the Government was required. As regards the Forest Board's regulations on key biotopes, the committee therefore expresses the view that it is up to the government to deal with the situation that has arisen. There is now a referral and preparation within the Government Office, but we still write that it has not been handled satisfactorily. As regards SMHI's sale of certain activities, it is a transfer of State property where the Government has delegated responsibility for the sale to the respective authority under the Government. The authorities are responsible for ensuring that the sale is done correctly. It was therefore primarily SMHI's responsibility to ensure that the sale of assets in connection with the decommissioning of the maritime transport business was carried out correctly, i.e. in a commercial manner. In this case, it was when the Swedish National Audit Office found that the sale of assets did not meet the commercial requirements that the situation clarified. The committee notes that SMHI informed the Ministry of the Environment and that there was a process going on, but we can still note that the Ministry of the Environment has failed to inform itself about how SMHI intended to carry out the sale in a commercial manner. As was now the case, the department was informed about the arrangement only afterwards. As far as the ambassador's role in the Gui Minhai case is concerned, it is an extremely wide-ranging and complex matter. It is an impressive work done to clarify the circumstances. The Ministry for Foreign Affairs has a far-reaching and detailed governance of its foreign authorities, including in consular matters, when deemed necessary. In the light of the findings of the investigation, and bearing in mind that the ambassador is making a different assessment, the committee has concluded that communication between the Ministry for Foreign Affairs and the Ambassador in relation to family relations in the Gui Minhai case was insufficiently clear. The committee takes note of the length of time between the Ministry for Foreign Affairs' assessment that the mission of the then ambassador would be terminated prematurely and that her mission actually ended. The committee has stressed in the review the importance of a clear and situation-oriented dialogue in order to ensure that instructions are properly understood. The circumstances in this case mean that there had been reason to be more detailed and, in some respects, more attentive and hasty in contacts with the then ambassador. Madam President, I would like One should be very humble before any decision a government must make, especially this year. That tempo, timing and clarity are of the utmost importance is my lesson from this spring's work. After the examination, my conclusion is that it is in these areas – tempo, timing and clarity – that the essence of the committee's position in this chapter lies. I would like to conclude by expressing my warm thanks to the Bureau, to colleagues and to an excellent office. I wish you a happy summer.
i-ba8d79b9485d3e52-433	Madam President, I would like I completely forgot to thank everyone involved the times I've been up before. Thank you to the members of the committee, to our splendid office and to the Bureau in this House, with the Presidents and other staff. This is probably the last debate we are in during this Parliamentary session, so I say thank you and nice summer to everyone. We have now moved on to the government's responsibility for administration. I will only deal with two of the three cases here. I have nothing to add to the matter of Sk ogsstyrelsen's regulations on key biotopes. It is clear, however, that it is remarkable when you end up in limbo – you can neither follow them nor resign them, and the government does nothing. It is a good thing that the KU points out that you have to act on the signals you get from the authorities when things go crazy. I would like to comment on SMHI's sale of part of the Maritime business area. This has been very clear, but I'm still going to say what I was going to say from the beginning. I think this is an incredibly remarkable matter. It is not only the KU that has taken an interest in this sale, but the Swedish National Audit Office has, as I said earlier, reviewed the sale from its perspective and stated that it has not met the requirement of commercialism. I will repeat the points of criticism that have been mentioned from here before. There has therefore been no external valuation of the assets to be sold. Nor have they been put out for general sale. It hasn't been said, hey, look at this! This is what we're gonna sell now. What do you want to pay? They have allowed a former manager in the area to buy the business and, before the deal has been completed, let him check with previous customers if they intend to remain. This is indeed remarkable and totally contrary to the regulatory framework in place for the sale of government property. We can discuss how it could be, what other rules could apply, whether you should sell at all or whether it should be in any other way, but of course this is insane. What pops up in my head is the word corruption. This, however, has been reviewed by the Swedish National Audit Office. We in the KU have examined the Minister's actions and knowledge of the matter. It was primarily SMHI's responsibility that the sale should be done correctly, since SMHI has been delegated to it, but the Ministry of the Environment was informed that the sale would take place. At a meeting with SMHI it was also found that it had to be done commercially. SMHI informed that it was negotiating with an external stakeholder. The Ministry of the Environment has not asked further how the sale should be done in business and how it should be done. The Minister for the Environment only acquired information about the arrangement when it was completed and when members of Parliament began to ask for information about the sale. This, of course, is a flaw. It is good that we agree on this, and we will learn for the future. It is quite common in KU's reviews that we note that communication is lacking. The KU has examined former Minister for Foreign Affairs Margot Wallström in connection with the meeting that took place at a hotel in Stockholm between the then Chinese ambassador Anna Lindstedt, a number of Chinese businessmen and Angela Gui, who is the daughter of Gui Minhai, a Swedish citizen who is imprisoned in China. It must be considered quite clear that the ambassador has acted self-violently and without informing the Ministry for Foreign Affairs that she planned and conducted the meeting at Sheraton. The Ministry for Foreign Affairs believes that they have had an in-depth control, but despite that, it cannot be said that the communication has been clear enough. One might wonder whether the diplomatic language used by the Ministry for Foreign Affairs in external contacts also makes it very fuzzy and diplomatic internally. The Ministry for Foreign Affairs believes that the instructions to the then ambassador have been very clear, but she has not understood it that way. On the basis of the answers that the KU has received to where and how this has been put to the former ambassador, I have to say that it is not very clear to me, which is not used to foreign languages, that all contacts with Angela Gui would be conducted via the Ministry for Foreign Affairs. At the hearing we received a quote from the former Foreign Minister from e-mail, and that was certainly not clear to me. Perhaps the noble Foreign Affairs language, which was the term used by the former minister, works well in the normal case. But in this case the Ministry of Foreign Affairs had already stated that the ambassador did not work in his role towards Angela Gui, and then they should perhaps have been even more clear in their communication. Nor has the Ministry of Foreign Affairs acted quickly enough on the problems that existed. It took a long time from the judgment that the ambassador's mission should be terminated prematurely to the action taken, and this meant that the meeting at Sheraton could take place. There may be many reasons for this delay, and at the hearing of former Minister for Foreign Affairs Margot Wallström she stated that there was nothing particularly remarkable about it in this case. But the fact remains: The timing from the Ministry for Foreign Affairs stating that the ambassador could not remain on her mission until she actually stopped making possible the meeting that probably most people consider to be clearly inappropriate and that was far beyond the mission of the ambassador and what the Ministry of Foreign Affairs thought should be done in the case. The Ministry for Foreign Affairs has signalled, but then it has not acted quickly enough when the ambassador has obviously not understood the signals. According to the former Foreign Minister, ten to twelve talks were held with the ambassador on how to manage contacts with Angela Gui, but despite this, it ended up with a secret meeting, without the knowledge of the Ministry for Foreign Affairs, which caused Angela Gui to worry about her own security. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs wanted to ensure that the transfer of the ambassador would be good for her and that it would not adversely affect Sweden's relationship with China, but the slow handling resulted in a completely abrupt closure that also became really bad. The committee notes that there had been reason to be more detailed and, in some respects, more attentive and hasty in contacts with the then ambassador.
i-ba8d79b9485d3e52-451	Madam President, I would like With regard to certain questions concerning the government's responsibility for administration, the committee has found shortcomings on three issues. In the review case Skogsstyrelsen's regulations regarding key biotopes, the committee points out that the Swedish Forest Board has made the assessment that it has issued government regulations in breach of the government's authorisation and that measures from the government were required because it could not itself repeal the regulations. The Forest Board has then dealt with the situation by informing on its website that it does not intend to apply the current regulations, even though they formally apply. This means that there are formally valid regulatory provisions which the Authority does not consider to be able to apply or have the power to repeal. According to the committee, it is up to the government to deal with the situation that has arisen. This has not been done satisfactorily, Madam President. We have a case about SMHI's sale of certain activities, which was prompted by a KU notification from a member of the Christian Democrats. KU has examined the matter and the then Environment and Climate Minister's handling of SMHI's sales of certain activities, and this is what we have found. In the first place, it was SMHI's responsibility to ensure that the sale of assets in connection with the winding-up of part of the business area in question was carried out correctly, including in terms of business. The Swedish National Audit Office found during the annual audit that the sales in question did not meet the requirements for commercialism. SMHI informed the Ministry of the Environment that the authority was considering phasing out the current operations and addressed various options with the Ministry. The Ministry concluded that a sale of movable property had to be made in a commercial manner. SMHI later informed that the Authority negotiated with an external party on the sale of the assets. Against this background, the committee considers that the Ministry has failed in the dialogue before it on the question of informing itself about how SMHI intended to carry out the sale in a commercial manner. The Ministry was only informed about the arrangement afterwards. Then there is the case in the case of Gui Minhai. The committee has examined the actions of the then Foreign Minister, Margot Wallström, and our review shows that the management of the embassy has been thorough and involved both the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Cabinet Secretary. By arranging in the review the current meeting in Stockholm between Gui Minhais's daughter and Chinese businessmen, the then Swedish ambassador in China has been considered to act in a way that went beyond the instructions given to her. In the light of the findings, the KU notes that this appears to be the case, but at the same time notes that the then ambassador makes a different assessment. According to the committee, therefore, communication between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ambassador in relation to family relations on the Gui Minhai case could not be seen as being clear enough. Furthermore, the committee takes note of the long time elapsed from the Ministry's assessment that the mission of the then ambassador would be terminated prematurely until the actual completion of her mission. Information in the review suggests that there have been well-founded reasons to deal with the ambassador's situation in a certain way but that the timing meant that the course of events leading up to the meeting in Stockholm could be completed. Overall, the committee stresses the importance of a clear and, if necessary, situational dialogue to ensure that instructions from the Ministry for Foreign Affairs are properly understood. In view of the circumstances, there had been reason to be more detailed and, in some respects, more attentive and hasty in contacts with the then ambassador. Madam President, I would like As far as I can judge, this is my last speech this spring. Then it is appropriate to take this opportunity to wish the President, the Presidium of Presidents, the committee with its chairman and vice-chairman and all the Members and the cabinet a good and happy summer. Thank you for your cooperation!
i-ba8d79b9485d3e52-465	Madam President, I would like It is a united committee that supports the review report. Much, if not all, is therefore said a number of times. Nevertheless, let me highlight two areas of scrutiny that I find particularly interesting in this round. The first is a report to the KU asking the committee to examine how the then Minister for the Environment and Climate Change Isabella Lövin handled SMHI's sale of SMHI Maritime. During the summer of 2020 we were able to read in Dagens Nyheter's exciting political report that SMHI had sold the part of the agency's business that sells forecasts to international shipping, the so-called SMHI Maritime. The buyer was a former head of the business, and there was no independent valuation of the property despite the fact that SMHI Maritime had for many years accounted for a large part of SMHI's business revenue. The business was bought for 5 1⁄2 million SEK, which certainly sounds cheap if you add the information that the business generated revenues of 43 – 49 million SEK annually. I'd like to say it's a catch! It is primarily SMHI's responsibility to ensure that the sale of assets takes place in a commercial and correct manner. SMHI informed the Ministry of the Environment that the authority considered phasing out SMHI Maritime Transport and addressed various options with the Ministry. But SMHI informed the department only later, after the sale, when the department collected information for a completely different reason – they wanted to formulate an answer to written questions and an interpellation about how the deal had been done. These are, of course, questions that the Ministry should reasonably have asked already when they were informed that SMHI intended to sell the unit, thereby drawing attention to the fact that the sale could hardly be called commercial. This also meant the Swedish National Audit Office at its annual audit. Madam President, I would like There is another newspaper story that we have been able to follow, and I think we were many who astoundedly followed the reporting in the media on this. Sweden's then ambassador in China, Anna Lindstedt, Angela Gui – daughter of the Swedish citizen detained by China, author and publisher Gui Minhai – and Chinese businessmen had a meeting at a hotel in Stockholm to discuss Gui Minhais's situation. In a report to the KU, we were given the task of examining the actions of the then Foreign Minister, Margot Wallström, in this case. And what we have reviewed, and what we have seen in both public and non-public documentation, and what we have wondered and asked and wondered again! For it was undeniably easy to get lost in all of this, but as always it is important to stick to its mission and recall that the KU is neither a court nor a editorial. What we would examine was whether the Ministry for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Foreign Affairs could be considered to have governed the Swedish Embassy and the ambassador in China clearly and correctly. We concluded that the governance had been frequent and involved both the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Cabinet Secretary and that the then Swedish ambassador in China acted outside the instructions given to her by arranging the meeting in Stockholm. At the same time, however, we could note that the then ambassador makes a completely different assessment of the situation, which by definition means that the communication between the Ministry for Foreign Affairs and the ambassador has not been clear enough. It also took too long for the Ministry for Foreign Affairs to assess that the mission of the then ambassador would be terminated prematurely until the actual completion of her mission, regardless of the information which has been provided and which suggests that there have been valid reasons to deal with the ambassador's situation in this way in the light of the Gui Minhai case. If the Ministry for Foreign Affairs had acted more quickly, the meeting in Stockholm could have been avoided. Diplomacy is, as we know, a difficult art, but it is thankfully not impossible. With this, Madam President, I too would like to join in as the marker and thank my colleagues for an intensive and well done job – I must say that even though I myself have been a part of it. I would like to thank the office, without whose help I might not have even been able to get to the meetings on time. Thank you, too, Madam President.
i-N41BPjPwn1EXc247Rw79tR	Madam President, I would like Chapter 3 deals with the government's responsibility for administration. The Constitutional Committee has examined, among other things, Skogsstyrelsen's regulations regarding key biotopes and SMHI's sales of certain activities. First of all, I would like to say a few words about SMHI's sale of certain activities. The notification refers to information in the media indicating that sales have had several peculiar features. It is important to remind us that the committee has to review the government, not the authorities. KU notes that the Government has delegated responsibility for the sale of the State's movable property to SMHI. It was therefore primarily the responsibility of the Authority to ensure that the sale of assets in connection with the decommissioning of part of the maritime transport business was carried out correctly. An important principle is that such sales should take place commercially. The review shows that SMHI informed the Ministry of the Environment that the authority was considering phasing out the current operations and raised various options with the Ministry. At a meeting with the Ministry, it was found that a sale of movable property had to be made commercially. In the light of this, the committee considers that the Ministry of the Environment has failed in the dialogue that preceded it in terms of informing itself about how SMHI intended to carry out the sale in a commercial manner. The second issue concerns the Swedish Forest Agency's regulations on biotopes. The notifier refers to the Forest Investigation and believes that the concept of key biotopes has become very important in matters such as supervision under the Forest Protection Act and the Environmental Code. Since knowledge of areas worthy of protection is a prerequisite for strategic protection work, the Swedish Forest Agency has already allocated funds in 1990's budget proposal. The aim was to begin the inventory of valuable biotopes that house rare plant or animal species in our vast forests. After that, more inventories were carried out throughout the country. The results from these are a knowledge base within Swedish environmental and nature conservation work and give an idea of where in the forestland landscape it was deemed to be biologically particularly valuable environments. This information on key biotopes is used by authorities in decisions on formal protection and by landowners in their positions on voluntary provisions. The forest investigation from 2020 has not been able to find any explicit support in the legal order of the Swedish Forest Board to inventory the country's forests after key biotopes. There is no doubt, however, that through various statements and targeted grants, the Swedish Forest Agency had the government's mission to carry out inventories. The forest investigation suggested that the key biotopes register be cleared and that another method of inventory be developed. The investigator also considered that the provision on the notification of consultations should be immediately repealed. The Board of Forestry then assessed that they acted outside the authorisation, i.e. that they issued government regulations in breach of the government's authorisation. The review reveals that any request from the Swedish Forest Agency for the repeal of the regulations has not been received by the Government. The forest investigation has been consulted and is currently being prepared within the Government Office. The Constitutional Committee notes that there are formally valid government regulations that the Swedish Forest Board can neither apply nor repeal. This is not satisfactory, according to the committee.
i-ba8d79b9485d3e52-483	Madam President, I would like It is time for the last chapter of today's review debate, which deals with the statements made by ministers in different contexts or, in any case, certain questions relating to the performance of their duties, as the title says. The Constitutional Committee has, over the years, examined the statements made by ministers in various contexts. As has also been established in the past on the basis of these reviews, ministers, like all other citizens, have the right to express their views. However, for ministers in particular, special consideration may need to be given, whether these are statements on their own social media or in more official and formal contexts. In a digital and constantly connected time, where fast communication and immediate reactions have become an important part of public conversation, both what is being conducted in this House and what is happening in different media, words such as factuality and balance may sometimes be worth emphasising. It may indeed be worth considering for both the ministers and each of us others who act in the public debate in different ways. And perhaps not every word can always be weighed on a gold scale. However, for the assessments of the Constitutional Committee, the statements that we receive notifications of may be weighed against available factual and factual data that can be certified after further questions and data collection. With regard to the issues we have been looking at here, one is about the statement by the Minister of Justice and Migration on statistics on student performance, a second on the number of prisoners, a third on the statement by the Minister of Social Security on temporary game rules, a fourth on the statement by the Minister of Education on the position of a party on a matter in Parliament and a fifth on the statement by the Minister of Economic Affairs and then the Minister of Finance and the current Minister of Climate Change on Arlanda. With regard to the reviews carried out on the basis of these questions and notifications, the work carried out by the Constitutional Committee has led to both clarification and further understanding of the issues raised. Madam President, I would like One issue that I can highlight in particular is the statement by Mr Bolund, the then Minister for Financial Markets, on Arlanda, following an earlier examination which refers, among other things, to the preparatory work in the form of government on whether it is assumed that the government will act as a unit. However, there are no formal rules on unity. On this issue, however, it is a question of whether the government was behind the decision by the state-owned company Swedavia not to proceed with the expansion of Arlanda. The statement by the Minister of Finance at the time perhaps gave the impression that the plans would be cancelled in whole or in part. However, the statement may be seen in relation to the task that Swedavia did not see any need for new terminal or runway capacity in the coming year, but that it was considered important to maintain flexibility and readiness to continue developing the airport in the longer term. It can be said that the review carried out by the Constitutional Committee also made clear the direction on this issue. In doing so, I have also come to a rounding-off and would therefore like to thank the Bureau, the President, the Members of the Chamber and the staff for their very fine and solid work and wish them a nice summer.
i-ba8d79b9485d3e52-492	Madam President, I would like Before I forget, of course, I would like to agree with all the thanks that previous Members have expressed here from the speaker's seat and wish for a pleasant summer. Chapter 4 deals with what is referred to on KU-prosa as certain matters concerning the performance of the duties of the Minister of State. It is all about statements made by the Government and that Members have asked the committee to examine whether they have been correct and fair. The committee tends to point out that ministers, as well as politicians in general, should of course be able to make statements and that it may also be understandable if they are pointed out in the heat of the battle. At the same time, ministers may need to take special account. One obvious starting point for the committee is that statements should be correct. I am not referring here to all the statements that have been notified and that have been reviewed, but I am choosing to make three points. One of the cases examined concerns a critical Twitter statement by Minister of Justice and Migration Morgan Johansson with the meaning that the free schools would have opposed a regime whereby the principle of public access applies to their activities. The committee notes that no information has been presented in the examination which could serve as a basis for assigning this view to the free schools. And the fact that the statement has been made on the Minister's personal Twitter account, as the committee has pointed out in another matter, is of no importance in this context. In another case, which also concerns Morgan Johansson, it is about whether the number of suspected criminals in custody is higher than ever before. Here the committee is content to point out that what is included in such statistics and the reference year on which the conclusions are drawn may be tricky. The committee believes that for the political discussion there is obviously an advantage if it is clear to all those involved what information is the basis for a statement. On the other hand, the committee sees a shortcoming in the statement by the Minister for Social Security in April 2020 on increased gambling in online casinos as a result of the coronapndemin resulting in many people losing their jobs or working from home. According to the Minister, this was a reason for introducing temporary rules of play. The notifier points out that the Government has based its statement on information that does not allow for a certain conclusion as to whether gambling had increased or not. The committee comes to the same conclusion after its examination, saying as usual that the statements of the Government should be correct and that the Government is responsible for its opinions and therefore also for the accuracy of the information provided. Madam President, I would like The statements I have mentioned here, as well as the other ones that have been examined, may seem to each one to be less burdensome. At the same time, I think it is of great importance that the Constitutional Committee should continue to examine, and almost pedantically, whether our main political representatives are careful in their statements. They should be able to make statements and these may be pointed out, but they should be correct. Should the committee be less zealous, in my opinion, we would end up on a sloping plane, a plane where politicians could rightly be questioned in a more fundamental way than what has to do with voters letting their party political preferences determine what one's opinion of different politicians is. Finally, it should be said that it is even more important in this context that there is such care in the manner in which the ministers perform their duties that decisions taken on various political issues become both well-founded and wise. If KU's activities can promote this, much has been gained.
i-ba8d79b9485d3e52-505	Madam President, I would like We are now dealing with certain questions about the duties of the Minister of State. As has already been said, the KU has the task of examining these, it is assumed, rather hastily drafted claims and tweets from the government. One obvious starting point is that the statements of the ministers should be correct, a starting point that the KU has repeated over the years and also repeats in this review. We start with Minister of Justice and Migration Morgan Johansson. The Government claimed on Twitter that Swedish free schools want to hide from the public how good or bad they are and whether they should push for a possible grade inflation, and that this would then make it more difficult for parents and children to choose a school. The problem, Madam President, is that the committee has not found any information to serve as a basis for ascribe this view to the free schools in the way that Morgan Johansson did in his speech on Twitter. During the review period, the Government has also taken the opportunity to swing in the important debate on how society has forced the criminals. He has subsequently defended the statement with reference to statistics that he had available at the Ministry. As always when reference is made to statistics, it is important to be accurate and to report on the statistics to which it is referred and over what time it has been taken. This is particularly true when drawing conclusions from different reference years. The KU notes that for the political discussion it is obviously an advantage if it is clear to all those involved what data are the basis for the assessments made of developments in different areas. Similar conclusions have been drawn by the KU by Minister Ardalan Shekarabis at a press conference where he said that problem games on the internet increased in the wake of the pandemic. Here, too, there are conflicting developments, so the KU states that the Government has based its statement on information that does not allow for a certain conclusion as to whether gambling has increased or not. Madam President, I would like A step from creative use of statistics to something more amazing is when Minister of Education Anna Ekström posted on Facebook and Twitter on November 10th 2020: But when the government's proposal prohibiting inappropriate and criminal people from running schools came to Parliament, every Swedish Democrat voted against. I wonder if the party's voters know about it. That is a remarkable statement. I'll be right back to why. The speech was accompanied by a picture from the Riksdag's website showing how the parties voted in a key vote where the Education Committee's proposal had been put against a reservation. The picture does not show which issue the vote concerned. In an additional post on Facebook, Anna Ekström published a link to the Riksdag minutes. When the KU examined this claim, it emerged that the Minister of Education chose only to highlight how the members had voted in the preliminary vote, that is, when the Riksdag took a position on the government's bill in the present bill. The Minister for Education gave the reasons put forward in the Swedish Democrats' reservation, where it was clear that the party supported tougher demands to start a school. In KU-language this is worded as that Anna Ekström thus did not give a fully accurate picture of the attitude that existed in the question. As we approach the end of the debate, I would also like to take this opportunity to thank my colleagues in the committee and the secretarial staff for their hard work through this extensive examination in the spring and therefore also to wish you all a happy summer.
i-TgnyrCtTukB9osGCTkkhAX	Madam President, I would like The parliamentary situation poses a number of challenges for the division of responsibilities between the parliament and the government – on the one hand, regarding the parliament's task of legislating, deciding on taxes to the state and determining how the state's funds should be used in accordance with Chapter 1. 4 § the form of government, on the other hand, regarding the government's task of ruling the kingdom and constantly accountable to the Riksdag in accordance with Chapter 1. 6 § the form of government, and finally our joint responsibility to protect and take care of our country, Sweden, with all that it entails. This places demands on the association and relationship between the parliament and the government to ensure respect for the rules of the government and effective governance. That is precisely what this dossier is largely about. In the Government's letter 75, the Government describes the measures it has taken in response to the announcements adopted by the Riksdag. And in our report, the KU21, we are dealing with how Parliament views precisely the government's handling of our announcements. In short, this document is about whether or not Parliament is satisfied with what the government has done to comply with our decisions in this House. Madam President, I would like This year, too, we in the Constitutional Committee want to reiterate what we have said before, namely that we note that the Government's report on the handling of Parliament's letters for several years gives a more detailed account of measures taken by the Government and can be considered to give a correct picture of Parliament's letters to the Government. Of course, we are in favour of this development. As regards the handling of Parliament's letters in the area of the Constitutional Committee, six announcements have been finalised. As far as these are concerned, we in the KU make no other assessment than the government. Madam President, I would like The opinions of the other committees highlight a number of views on the government's handling of Parliament's letters. Among other things, it stresses the importance of the Government being hasty in its handling of Parliament's announcements and avoiding unnecessary time. In last year's report, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs also stressed the importance of the Government dealing with Parliament's letters as a matter of urgency. The reasonableness of the time required should be assessed taking into account the content of the notice and the preparatory measures to be taken. The committee would also like to recall the importance of the government being comprehensive in its reports on the measures taken, on-going and planned. Madam President, I would like Let me say a few words about what the Committee on Justice highlights in its opinion to the KU. It questions the fact that the Government considers that the announcements have been finalised despite the fact that the measures taken cannot be regarded as satisfying what Parliament is asking for. The KU has previously stated that it cannot be said to be constitutionally wrong for the government to assess in the letter that certain notices have been finalised even if they were not met. However, it can be assumed to be unusual to do so because the starting point is that the government meets an announcement. The Committee on Justice also raises the question of when an announcement can be considered to be finalised. It points out that announcements requesting an investigation from the Government cannot be considered to be finalised until the investigation is completed, including as an investigation may be closed. Once again, therefore, it may be useful to recall what we in the KU have said about this in the past: The measures required to ensure that an announcement is considered to be completed naturally vary. If the Riksdag has only requested an investigation, it may be sufficient for an investigation to be set up, but if the Riksdag has requested a proposal, it will normally be necessary for proposals to be submitted by the Government in order for the announcement to be considered final. The KU recalls the importance of the government being clear on how its handling of an announcement relates to what is requested in the announcement. For the government to be clear, the announcement from the Riksdag must be clear. I would like to recommend both the government and colleagues in other committees to read our position as a whole both in this report and in recent years' reports on the Government's letter 75, thus seeing our full reasoning and the constitutional map we have tried to produce to clarify what can be said to apply in the rough terrain that this is. Madam President, I would like Let me also take this opportunity to say that we in the Constitutional Committee note that in some cases the other committees have made a different assessment from the government of whether or not an announcement has been finalised. The Constitutional Committee does not make its own assessment of the cases in question, but refers to the points made by the respective committees in their opinions. To conclude, Madam President, I would like to support the Constitutional Committee's report 21 on the handling of Parliament's letters.
i-ba8d79b9485d3e52-526	Madam President, I would like This is a very important report and dossier. If you are going to try to explain this in as simple a way as possible, you can say that it is a matter of the government reporting to the Riksdag how it has acted on various decisions that we have taken here, such as a decision on an announcement. The committees then respond, and it is possible to read about this report, to what they think about this. Sometimes we agree that matters are closed, and sometimes we are not. In cases where the Riksdag does not agree with the Government's assessment, the matter will be called back to the Government, and then it will be up to the Government to further report and take new measures or say to the Riksdag: We do not intend to do as the Riksdag has decided on this matter because of these and these reasons. That possibility always exists for the government. Ultimately, then, the question for us in Parliament is, of course, what confidence we have in such a government. This is how the balance and power between parliament and government work on these issues. Without such an accounting and follow-up, these issues and this process are extremely difficult to follow and the responsibility is difficult to demand. That is why this report is important. We can look at, for example, the statement and accounting of the Committee on Justice here, which my colleague was also discussing. I wanted to highlight another aspect of this, because there are examples of an issue which the Committee on Legal Affairs does not consider to be finished. This concerns the implementation of the amendments to the EU arms directive. In 2017, the EU issued amending directives, and the Riksdag decided on a notice to the Government that these should be implemented as little as possible. So we should not go beyond what is necessary to implement this directive. Sweden is otherwise known for using so-called gold-plating – we will be the best in the class and do much more than is required. It often involves competition, entrepreneurship and various activities. The Parliament does not want this to happen in this area. The Government has the justification that it submitted a proposal to amend the Arms Directive 2020, thus finalising the announcement. That is only what the Committee on Legal Affairs now states is that this bill was rejected by Parliament. So this cannot be finished. Now, then, the government needs to come back with further measures or explain whether it intends to live up to the announcement or not. This is a rather good example that also clarifies the order of these issues. In the Constitutional Committee, we also make various statistical statements. This is described in various tables in this report. I would like to draw particular attention to Tables 3 and 4. In Table 3, we have a summary of the number of letters reported and the number of uncompleted letters. It can be seen that during the six years that we have had Stefan Löfven as Prime Minister, over 40 percent of the announcements were not finalized: 44 percent, 43 percent, 46 percent, 44 percent, a record of 49 percent last year and this year almost the same figure, 48 percent. We have never had such a high percentage of unfinished announcements before. The previous top notation was made in 2001 and it was at 40 per cent. The government refers to two things in response to this. One is the pandemic. You can quite easily see that these are figures that have existed for a long time and thus say that this is not an adequate explanation. The second is that the Riksdag has issued a great many announcements. The latter is true, of course. The Parliament has made a great many decisions on announcements and has found reasons for the need. It can also be noted from Table 4 that, even in the 1990s, decisions were taken on many announcements, in fact more than in the present. And then the numbers were not the same as today. We can also see that today there are quite a few announcements that have been in place for over 10 years. That's a very long time. There are also some who have not been finished in over 20 years. In view of the Government's obligation to report on the measures taken and also to do so as a matter of urgency, it becomes particularly serious in cases where the Riksdag can conclude that the long time is due to the government's failure to act at all. There is a difference if a case is very complicated, if you take action after action and it takes time for you to investigate many different things. Then the Riksdag can be more lenient to the fact that it takes time. However, in a number of cases we can see that this is not the case now, but there are times when the government is simply passive. That is also stated in our position. This is something you need to know and think about especially in the future. With this in mind, I would like to call for the proposal of the Constitutional Committee to be endorsed in the report.
i-ba8d79b9485d3e52-542	Madam President, I would like Short-term lay-offs mean that employees reduce working hours while the employer receives financial support from the state. Employees are allowed to retain a large part of their salary while reducing the company's personnel costs. In order to use short-term leave, employers and employees must agree on this. Companies have been able to lay off from mid-March 2020 and the system has been strengthened and extended. It shall apply until 30 June 2021. The Government has proposed to extend the support further during the months of July, August and September 2021. With the possibility of short-term work, the staff will not have to be laid off, and the company can quickly get started again when the situation changes. Instead of extensive redundancies by an employer in the event of serious financial problems caused by international events, such as a pandemic or extreme weather, more people may be allowed to remain in employment. Madam President, I would like For us Social Democrats, the fact that the state should also go in with support in short-term work is a matter of course and something that we have long fought for. Stefan Löfven has been running this for several years, not least during the recession in 2008 when he was IF Metall's chairman. Then he signed a crisis agreement to save Swedish jobs without state aid. The agreement saved up to 15 000 Swedish jobs. But 65,000 disappeared. Sweden lost considerably more jobs than Germany, where there was already permanent support for short-term work. We have now made sure that there is a Swedish counterpart who can save jobs in crisis situations. The fact that this has become a reality provides greater security for all Sweden's workers. The support has been there for both workers and businesses during the pandemic. Madam President, I would like The matter under consideration means that the Government proposes that confidentiality should not apply to decisions on support in matters under the Act on Aid in the case of short-term work or regulations issued in connection with that law. The background is that many companies, due to the proliferation of covid-19, have found themselves in temporary and serious financial difficulties that are one of the prerequisites for an employer to be approved by the Swedish Agency for Growth to support short-term work. The aid, financed by public funds, can cover very large amounts per undertaking. According to the Swedish Agency for Growth, until 4 February this year aid had been provisionally granted for a total of SEK 32 billion. There is therefore a clear need for the public and the media to be given the opportunity to see how the law on short-term support is applied and in the handling of short-term support cases. This was already highlighted in the context of the introduction of the Act on Aid for Short-term Work. The legitimate need for transparency cannot be met in these cases on the basis of current case law, as has also been highlighted in the general debate. The government's conclusion is that there is a need for an exception to the confidentiality under Chapter 28. Section 12, OSL, which applies to an individual's business and operating conditions in cases under the regulation on support for short-term work. The need for transparency is clearly considered by the government to be the most important in terms of the decisions taken on aid. In the Government's view, the introduction of an exception to the confidentiality of such decisions in cases of aid in the case of short-term work will make it possible to examine, for example, which companies have been granted aid and by what amounts. The derogation is proposed to cover only those decisions on the substance of a case, i.e. decisions approving aid for short-term work, decisions on provisional and final aid and decisions on the recovery of aid in the case of short-term work. For those who are particularly interested, I would recommend reading the Government proposal and the KU report. Madam President, I would like The Government proposes that the amendment enter into force on 1 August 2021. A transitional provision is proposed. It means that older rules continue to apply to decisions on aid relating to applications received before 22 October 2020. However, the transitional provision is proposed to expire on 21 October 2021. The Constitutional Committee has supported the considerations set out in the bill and proposes that the Riksdag adopt the Government's proposal. Madam President, I would like To conclude, I would like to support the proposal of the Constitutional Committee in its report 32.
i-ba8d79b9485d3e52-550	Madam President, I would like Ten years ago, the EU decided to introduce sustainability criteria for all biofuels. The aim was to promote the use of sustainable biofuels. This debate is about the extension of that directive, which will now also include criteria for solid biofuels and biogas used for the production of electricity, heat and cooling. The interesting thing about the proposal is that there will now be sustainability criteria for all types of bioenergy. No other type of energy will have equivalent environmental requirements, and this will apply equally throughout the EU. It will be exciting to see how it will be received. The Moderates welcome the EU's proposal, and we agree with the Government that the forest biomass produced in Sweden should be considered sustainable in the spirit of the Renewables Directive. However, we have some comments concerning the government proposal. It concerns, on the one hand, the handling of the directive and, on the other hand, peat land linked to ownership. Madam President, I would like As far as the procedure is concerned, we find it remarkable that the government has taken more than two years to present a proposal on the criteria and that we, as legislators, are getting the matter on our table extremely late. This means that the actors do not really have time to get to grips with the situation. They will have a short time to adapt to the new requirements of the legislation. It also has a detrimental effect on the democratic process, in my view. It is clearly unsatisfactory to decide on issues that are forced through Parliament in this way. The decision itself will therefore be taken tomorrow, 15 days before the law comes into force. The Moderates also find it remarkable that, despite the fact that it has taken two years to deal with the matter, there is still a lack of decisive guidance. This creates uncertainty for the operators involved. There is also no explicit long-term vision in the sustainability criteria of the Renewables Directive. We therefore propose and assume Moderates that the government will act within the EU so that the criteria do not change in a way that then makes it impossible for the conversion of the fuel market. The fuel market is in need of long-term rules of play, which is particularly important at a time when demand is increasing. We Moderates also have a direct remark against the Government's proposal, and it is about the lack of a clear definition of the concept of uncapped peatland. It may appear to be a petitess, Madam President, but it should be all the more urgent when you hear that it can actually be about 13 1⁄2% of all Sweden's land. Despite this, the government itself does not keep track of the concepts, but describes the effects that are directed more towards the ditched peatland than it just did. Ignorance seems complete. In view of the possible consequences for owners of these land, it is surprising that the January parties have not even cared. This situation would probably not have occurred if the peat industry had been one of the referral bodies from the outset, but this was not the case. It's unfortunate. What difference does it make? Well, the lack of definition means that no one knows which peatlands you actually refer to when you talk about these criteria. According to the Moderates' interpretation, the proposal could therefore mean that 13 1⁄2 per cent of all land can now not be counted as sustainable and therefore cannot be considered for energy purposes either. What we should not forget is that peat is actually a domestic energy source that could be helpful in Swedish preparedness or in other times of trouble. In addition, peat already has an important function in thermal power plants. Better efficiency is achieved, which in turn means that the flue gases are cleaned better. If there is not peat to be used for this, sulphur must be imported as an additive, as it is called. It is therefore an additional ingredient used to achieve the same effect that is currently being obtained with domestic peat. How sustainable is it? The peat industry believes that the new proposal over-implements the Directive. In reality, there will be a major infringement of property rights and the possibility for landowners to use and obtain income from their own land – land which, once again, represents 13 1⁄2 per cent of all land in Sweden. From a landowner's perspective, this means, in practice, that the state will usurp nature reserves without giving a krona in compensation to the landowner. In addition, the bill assumes that all undecided peat land has the same characteristics when it comes to biodiversity. That is not true either, because this varies depending on the chips we look at. All in all, therefore, the proposal suggests that the government unfortunately has little knowledge of the special situations that exist for Swedish peat – and that even though we are one of the world's most dense peat countries. That's remarkable. Madam President, I would like I request approval of the Moderate reservation 1.
i-84kWjR4zSkPHi4MntSuWBs	Madam President, I would like We have this debate on the European Parliament's and the Council's directive on the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources and the government's proposal on the resulting legislative changes. Among other things, the Government proposes sustainability criteria for biofuels used for the production of electricity or fuel. In order for a biofuel to be considered sustainable and receive a so-called sustainability statement, it must not come from soil with a high biodiversity or with large carbon stocks. The proposal also sets limits on the level of greenhouse gas emissions. The recast of the Renewables Directive has developed new soil criteria to minimise the risk of using forest biomass from unsustainable production in the production of biofuels and biofuels. If the forest biomass has been harvested in a country with national or regional legislation applicable to the felling area and there are monitoring and control systems in place to ensure certain conditions specified in the article, it is sufficient to demonstrate that the forest biomass comes from such a country in order for the forest biomass to be considered sustainable. Such a country is classified as an A-country. According to the government, Sweden is such a country. According to the proposal, Sweden should be considered an A-country, and support is provided in the Environmental Code and the Forest Protection Act. The Government believes that today's forestry policy with two equal goals for the environment and production is being respected. The Left Party has a different view of the matter. We welcome the sustainability criteria for the sustainable use of biomass, but the prerequisite for the sustainable use of biofuels and biofuels based on forest biomass must be a regulation of forestry as a whole – a regulation that protects forests as ecosystems with their biodiversity and habitats. First in such a context, the sustainability criteria have real bearing. The Left Party does not share the government's view that our current national forestry is conducted sustainably and that forestry policy reflects the equality of production and environmental considerations. Sweden does not meet either national or international commitments to preserve forest biodiversity. Our national environmental objective Living forests have negative environmental developments, partly due to the decline in habitats for endangered and vulnerable species. The number of red-listed species where forests represent a vital environment is over 2,000 and has increased by 13% since 2015. The felling of protected forests is still taking place, and according to Swedish reports to the EU, Sweden has favourable conservation status for only 1 out of 15 reported forest types. Nevertheless, the government has not taken any measures and does not see any problems at all in classifying Swedish forestry as sustainable. If a country is a so-called ‘A' country, then it is sufficient to demonstrate that the raw material is produced within the region to obtain this sustainability statement, unlike a ‘B' country where for each area there must be sufficient information to show that it is sustainable. The Left Party believes that today we cannot say with open eyes that Swedish forestry never fells forests from areas of great biodiversity or with large carbon stocks, because we know that the felling of our old natural forests continues. In a number of reviewing news reports, TV4-n shets have recently demonstrated that, if you look at the entire production chain, several fuels are not fossil-free as indicated. Among other things, fossil hydrogen may have been added to the process. The information has then been used in advertising for various companies that want to market themselves as sustainable. It is clear that there is a need for clearer labelling; it is difficult for us as individual consumers to assess and assess the truthfulness of a claim that a fuel is renewable or fossil-free. More precise legislation is needed to ensure that fuels that are labelled as renewables are indeed so. It is therefore also not sustainable for the government to make it possible to obtain a sustainability statement based on the premise that Swedish forestry is always and in all parts sustainable. We know it's not like that. Therefore, the Left Party believes that the government urgently needs to come back with proposals for strengthened regulation in forestry, in order to raise environmental concerns and make Swedish forestry sustainable. In doing so, I support our only reservation in this report, namely reservation 3.
i-ba8d79b9485d3e52-572	Madam President, I would like In view of the Left Party representative's frontal attack on the Swedish forest, it would have been a little interesting to have a debate on it now. But we're gonna have to leave that ball alone. My speech concerns the sustainability criteria. Like my moderate colleague Betty Malmberg, we Christian Democrats also note that the government has handled the implementation of the directive very long. Two years have passed since the directive was adopted, and the slow implementation means that stakeholders are now faced with a very short transition period to adapt their activities to the new regulatory framework. Based on the revised Renewables Directive, the Government states that soil criteria aim to protect soils with biodiversity and prevent land use for agrobiomass. The Government proposes that fuel may not be produced from biomass which on 1 January 2008 was peat land, unless it is shown that cultivation and harvesting or felling of the raw material does not lead to draining of previously uncapped peat land. The aim is to prevent the draining of nooked soils resulting in emissions of bound carbon. This will create a new protection classification of land taken out of use from landowners' opportunities for yield. The government's proposal must be seen as a remarkable intrusion into the democratic process as well as an unacceptable intrusion into property rights. According to Sweden's geological survey, SGU, Sweden is one of the world's most peat-tight countries, and peatland accounts for 15 per cent of the Swedish land area. 90 per cent of peat land is considered to be uncontaminated and the Government's proposal exempts it from the possibility of providing a basis for energy peat. But it will also be a dead hand forever for the use of these chips, and it must indeed be seen as an infringement of land ownership without compensation. According to SGU, Sweden is a major producer of growing peat in Europe. Cultivation storms are used for traditional cultivation soils and as plant substrates for large-scale greenhouse cultivation. Today, the extraction of energy peat is about the same as the extraction of growing peat in cubic metres. Energy peat is mainly used as a fuel in district heating plants and always together with different types of wood fuel. The government makes two assumptions that are not clarified. Firstly, it is argued that all uncapped peat land has biodiversity that is worthy of protection. Although biodiversity may vary greatly, it is now applied to all uncapped peatland throughout Sweden. In the second place, untreated peatland is poorly defined and can occur in a number of forms such as variants of ditches, curbs and property ditches. Difficulties therefore arise in delimiting the non-contaminated peat land. The introduction of a new sustainability criterion where biofuels and biofuels are not considered sustainable if they are produced from land which on 1 January 2008 was peat land where draining of previously unspoiled land may be carried out reduces the freedom of action of landowners and undermines ownership. It should also be considered as an over-implementing of the Directive. In order to provide clarity and ensure that landowners can know whether they are subject to the criteria of the bill, there should be a clear definition of what is considered as uncapped peat land. As we heard earlier, Madam President, the report is directly wrong. It mixes the cards regarding bogs and ditched and uncapped peatland and does not stick to the right nomenclature, and thus the importance of correct and clear definitions becomes even greater. The environmental code's definition of water activities and soil dewatering must be respected. Transmitted ditching means changing land use from wetland use to land use in forestry, agricultural or peat harvesting activities. After the ditching, it is no longer a matter of dewatering according to the Environmental Code's definition but of water disposal. Water diversion is not covered by the provisions that the majority of people write about in the report. It is not a question of dewatering, because it has already been legally done with the ditching of the wetland. This is what the state even contributed to in the late 1990s. Since it is already ditched peatlands that are at issue, the reasoning must be based on that type of land. Finally, Madam President, if a dead hand is laid over Swedish peat production, where will the horticulture, vegetable growers etc. bring home peat that has less climate impact than Swedish peat? For all of us, the growing tower with gardens is absolutely inalienable. We buy farmland for our gardens based on peat. It does our entire horticultural industry, which has a turnover of many billions. Without peat this stops, and there will be no gain for our planet to try to replace this with coconut fibre or other unsustainable alternations to be brought here instead. I shall conclude by calling for the approval of reservation number 2.
i-ba8d79b9485d3e52-586	Madam President, I would like One of the biggest issues today is the climate threat. We have talked about it many times here in Parliament and about the importance of changing and of sustainable development. The effects of climate change are already here. But we also have many of the solutions in mind, and technological development is progressing very quickly. Many Swedish companies are at the forefront of the transition with fossil-free steel, sustainable batteries and electric cars. Sustainable biofuels and biofuels are very important for the transformation and for Sweden. To replace fossil components with renewables is crucial for us to achieve Sweden's set climate targets. The current EU Renewable Directive requires biofuels and bioliquids to meet sustainability and greenhouse gas emission reduction criteria to be used for certain purposes, including support, preferential treatment within the EU ETS, electricity certification systems and the reduction obligation, to name a few. The Directive has been amended several times and was fully revised in 2018. The now revised Renewables Directive is due to be implemented by 30 June 2021. I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal for a decision to be approved. There are two sustainability criteria in the Directive that need to be met in order for the biofuels to be considered sustainable. The first is the soil criterion, which therefore concerns the land on which the raw material is grown. The soil must not have high biodiversity or high carbon stocks. The second criterion is that the biofuel should provide at least 50% greenhouse gas reduction in relation to emissions if fossil fuels had instead been used. There are also special rules for the use of residues or waste in production. The main rule then is that the soil criteria do not apply to waste and residues. The major change following the recast of the Renewables Directive is the introduction of sustainability criteria for the use of solid and gaseous biofuels for the production of electricity, heat, cooling or fuels. Both soil criteria and greenhouse gas emission reduction requirements are introduced for these biofuels. In addition, higher greenhouse gas emission reduction requirements for biofuels and bioliquids Specific sustainability criteria are proposed for biofuels and biofuels produced from forest biomass. These requirements require legislation to be in place in the country where the biomass is produced, which ensures, inter alia, forest regeneration and protection of areas designated for nature conservation purposes and takes into account the preservation of soil conservation and biodiversity. The Directive also requires that the country from which the forest biomass comes be a party to the Paris Agreement. It shall also have legislation in accordance with Article 5 of the Paris Agreement or have a management system for the region of origin that ensures that forest carbon stocks and carbon sinks are maintained or improved in the long term. In addition, monitoring or management plans are required in the case of waste or residues coming from agricultural land to deal with the impact on soil and soil carbon stocks. Madam President, I would like This is a technical and rather complicated directive, but it is important. For the transformation – and for Sweden – sustainable biofuels and biofuels are very important. To replace fossil components with renewables is crucial for us to achieve Sweden's set climate targets. And then we need clear criteria for what is sustainable.
i-ba8d79b9485d3e52-596	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mrs Burwick, for your speech. This is undoubtedly a technical and complicated report, Mrs Burwick. I fully agree with that. I hope that Mrs Burwick also understood that we agree on the substance of the Government's proposal. But there's a democracy aspect that bothers me and the Moderates. It is precisely about the short working time that we get in Parliament. So we are a legislative assembly, and we are going to deal with this in almost no time at all. Mrs Burwick knows how little time we have had in committee for this purpose too. Moreover, it concerns a democratic aspect, because it is unclear and perhaps not sufficiently prepared. This applies to the unclear definition of uncapped peatland, which therefore concerns 13.5 per cent of Sweden's total land area. It cannot be considered democratic that such a proposal can be passed without clearly defining which landowners are affected by it. Then it's an interference with property rights. I would like to hear Mrs Burwick's view on these two democratic aspects. Then I would just like to make it clear, Madam President, that it is reservation 1 that I have asked for approval, so that it does not go wrong.
i-ba8d79b9485d3e52-600	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Betty Malmberg, for the question! Betty Malmberg and I usually discuss complicated and technical issues, and I am happy to continue with that. I would like to start at this end: there are, as I have said, two sustainability criteria that are extremely important in the whole. One is, of course, how much we should reduce greenhouse gas emissions by. The second concerns the land criterion. I believe that Betty Malmberg and I fully agree on the importance of having sustainability criteria and of having sustainable biofuels. It is also about the importance that we have harmonised legislation in Europe and that we can agree on what those rules should look like in order to be able to feel secure about the sustainability of these issues. After all, we belong to both parties who think that biofuels and biofuels are very important in the transition, and then we also need this. My view is that this is exactly what the government responds to in this proposal, based on the soil criteria contained in the directive. On the question of time, I would, in fact, like to agree with Betty Malmberg's criticism. I think it's late, too. It is clear that it is worrying for the Riksdag that there will be such a short time. Now there are a number of good reasons why it is late. But I agree. It shouldn't be this short for such an important issue.
i-ba8d79b9485d3e52-605	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Marlene Burwick, for your answer! Marlene Burwick and I tend not only to discuss technically complicated documents, but also to have some sort of consensus on a lot of issues. I am pleased that Mrs Burwick can actually admit that the short duration of proceedings we have had for this important matter is not satisfactory. And it's not just about Parliament, it's also about the actors out there, who will somehow have time to change. There are not even ready-made guidance documents in these areas. It doesn't feel right. And, as I said, it's about 15 days before the law comes into force. On the other hand, I note, Madam President, that Mrs Burwick chooses to ignore the democratic issue of property rights. It is de facto the case that this document is not complete. It's unclear. It will be a democratic aspect. You can't even tell me what chips you actually mean. We agree that peat revenue should be carried out on already ditched land. We agree on sustainability criteria. We therefore agree on the technical aspects. But we do not agree that you cannot present here and now what chips it is that you will actually lay a dead hand over. I think this is an important aspect of democracy that the landowners have every right to know. I think Marlene Burwick should take this home back to the government and say: we must correct and define this.
i-ba8d79b9485d3e52-608	Madam President, I would like Thank you, once again, Betty Malmberg, for the question! When it comes to the discussion on the implementation of the revised Renewables Directive, there has been a good debate or discussion between the government and many parties. It may be important to say that. After the decision in the Riksdag, the time is very short before the law comes into force – that is quite correct. But there has been a dialogue that has been good. Many parties are therefore well informed about what this means. One of the Moderates' reservations is about the concept of uncapped peatland. There, the committee refers to the fact that it has long been established what it means. That is one of the reasons why we are leaving that motion without action. Finally, Madam President, I would like to agree with what Betty Malmberg has just said about the time and the importance of respecting the parliamentary process. This applies both to our work and to the actors out there.
i-ba8d79b9485d3e52-611	Madam President, I would like I apologize for rushing in here at the end. I thought the previous debate would take longer. It's a good thing you have a bike so you can quickly get here. First of all, I support the committee's proposal. It's really about how to use forest and land and how to plan our energy production and consumption. Those questions are always tricky. When new instruments are introduced, it tends to have an impact on the market which means that certain types of fuel increase in value or increase sales. It always has consequences in a different way. Let me give you an example. When we introduced the reduction obligation in Sweden, palm oil increased quite a lot. We from the Green Party thought that this was nonsense. We cannot have a situation where Swedish cars should go from fossil to refuel palm oil, which has terrible consequences for both biodiversity and climate impact. That is something that we have addressed to quite a large extent. The EU is working rather intensively on sustainability criteria, among other things, to keep such unsustainable fuels from the market. In the situation we are now in, we see that the need for energy, especially in the case of liquid fuels and fuels derived from bio-raw materials, is increasing significantly. Then you must be there all the time with legislation and ensure that you keep away what is untenable. The fact that the EU is making such demands on the Member States is a very good thing. That is why we need these requirements. It is very positive that we are now putting sharper climate demands on the fuels that we are going to refuel and use as fuel in different contexts. There is a need for demands on how we use the land. We also need sustainability requirements, so that the fuels we use are as sustainable as possible. When I was not here in the hall, I listened to this debate in headphones. I think the discussion about peat is a bit strange. I did not think I would say this, Madam President, but sometimes it is appropriate: thank Gud for Europe! The EU is sometimes much further ahead than Sweden has historically argued on certain energy and sustainability issues. It is great that we can get sharper rules that make us reduce the use of peat in Swedish energy production. Part of it is about biodiversity. Of course, it can be discussed that different soils have different levels of biodiversity. That is a very important aspect. But what has not been mentioned at all in this debate is that peat is a fossil fuel. It seems many have passed without noticing. It cannot be said that peat is a renewable fuel. Swedish legislation has historically partly handled peat as a renewable fuel, but it is because we are simply lagging behind. The environmental party's entrance has always been that peat should be considered a fossil fuel that does not contribute to the climate work in Sweden. We absolutely believe that these requirements should be set on peatlands, and we want to go further than that. We have introduced instruments to increase the re-watering of peatland. This in itself is, of course, a major contribution to biodiversity, but not least a very good way of continuing to retain carbon dioxide in the soil. I do not have much more to say, but I am in favour of the committee's proposal.
i-ba8d79b9485d3e52-620	Madam President, I would like I thank Mr Lorentz for his speech. We agree on most of the things in this. It is not a question of criteria in any way, but of a question of definition. The Socialist representative believes that it is very clearly defined and established what counts as uncapped peat land. The thing is, it's not like that. According to the peat industry itself, there is no proper definition of this. It is in this situation that it is important that something happens. Sweden's total land area consists of 13 1⁄2 per cent of uncapped peatland. We do not touch the ditch; that is another issue. When the soil is affected by this, a dead hand is placed over the surface of the land. It also constitutes an infringement of property rights, which is a fundamental right. In such a situation, a report is rushed through here in Parliament, and those concerned do not get the chance to speak. The peat industry didn't even get this sent to it. It is a democratic aspect, Mr Lorentz, and that is what the issue is about.
i-ba8d79b9485d3e52-622	Madam President, I would like I thank Mrs Malmberg for the questions. As for the fact that it has been pushed through, I do not have the idea that I can fully respond to it. But I trust Betty Malmberg and Marlene Burwick, who have understood that it has been pushed through. If so, it is truly regrettable. Betty Malmberg says that we are partly on the same line. I think that we are quite large. But I also believe that there are some differences in view of peat, among other things. As I mentioned in my main speech, it is very important for me to see peatlands as a source of the biodiversity that exists today – if it is of different quality in different ways. There are great values of biodiversity in much of the peatland that exists in Sweden today. But in addition, peat is an energy source that causes quite serious climate damage. Perhaps we should not put a dead hand over that land surface, but I and the Green Party think it is good if we can at least reduce the energy that comes from that land in that way for the reason that it is harmful to the climate. Ownership is of course very important and central, but the climate threat is more important.
i-ba8d79b9485d3e52-625	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answers. I am pleased that Mr Lorentz still agrees that ownership is an important issue. It is, in fact, a fundamental human right which is enshrined in documents at national, European and global level. What we are looking for is why there is no definition of the term. It's not weird. The committee was given a new definition of the concept of agrobiomass because the department had missed it. Then we had to accept that one came in and changed this fine! But they do not even want to define this, although it is about 13 1⁄2 per cent of Sweden's total land area. I would like to take this opportunity to respond to what Mr Lorentz says about this being a poor energy source. Some people are discussing whether it is a semi-fossil energy source because there is still a turnover rate. That's what I wanted to say. I would also like to highlight an example from my main speech which Mr Tovatt may not have heard. Energy peat is used in thermal power plants to obtain cleaner flue gases and reduce emissions when burning with wood fuel, Lorentz Tovatt. So this is not totally reprehensible. What you can do now, when you can't extract any more, is to import sulphur. How sustainable can Lorentz Tovatt consider it to be? And why do we say no to having these land for preparedness with a domestic raw material in the event of a crisis? I think that would be important to hear.
i-ba8d79b9485d3e52-628	Madam President, I would like I thank Betty Malmberg for the change of line. That's a lot of questions. Let's see if I can go through them. Now I do not know the exact train order for this whole matter in the future, but as I understood it, there will be definitions by the responsible authorities writing regulations. Of course, the reasonableness of it can be questioned. But I think one of the reasons for this is that one should be able to have a differentiation and be able to treat different chips in different ways. In fact, I believe that expert authorities are better placed to do this than politicians. I believe that this order is probably preferable in this case. I'm going to the climate argument and what we're going to have in the combined heat and power plants. Yes, the circulation time is shorter for peat than for oil and coal, which are entirely fossil fuels. But it's still very long. The problem is that the climate crisis is acute. We must drastically reduce emissions here and now. Unfortunately, then, we cannot afford, as it were, energy sources that have a circulation time of 100 years and up and so on. Instead, we must focus on electrifying and, secondly, using biofuels that have a faster circulation time. Then there was the issue of the thermal power plants. Now I am not sufficiently technically familiar to know exactly what input can be used instead of peat, but let us quickly conclude that peat accounts for a small part of what is used in our combined heat and power plants in Sweden. A lot of people have made it without them. Of course, there are inputs and other substances that can be used, and I do not think that it is at all a problem for cogeneration plants to convert and equip their plants so that they can actually manage a completely fossil-free energy production.
i-ba8d79b9485d3e52-632	Madam President, I would like This is a narrow subject, so there are not many questions to ask. Most of the questions have already been asked. Clearly, Mr Lorentz has now listened to the debate, although he was not in the Chamber until the end. But as my colleague Betty Malmberg raised, peat has a function in district heating plants to avoid coatings in the bio boiler and to increase efficiency. If you do not use peat, fossil oil is currently used. Then the question is what's best. I mentioned in my speech that the whole horticultural industry has a turnover of billions. Without the peat industry stops, and there will be no profit for our planet if we are going to try to replace peat with imported coconut fibre or any anna unsustainable option that is shipped here. What should we use instead, Lorentz Tovatt, when the government lays a dead hand over large parts of the peatland?
i-ba8d79b9485d3e52-636	Madam President, I would like I thank Mrs Ottosson for the questions. I start with what I finished last line with, namely that there are many combined heat and power plants in Sweden that can do without peat. It feels like there are obvious possibilities to reset the CHP plants and update the plants so that they can manage without peat. I do not see it as a problem in the rest of the business today, but only a small part of Swedish cogeneration and district heat production comes from peat. As far as the gardening industry is concerned, I agree a little with the description of the problem. Often when we Greens push through policies that involve concrete change and difference in climate work, we hear questions about what should be used as compensation. These problems can often be addressed. There are a number of historical examples that we have implemented ambitious climate policy, and then there has been a fear of what will be used instead. In the end, after a certain follow-up, it has gone the way. I believe that this will also happen when it comes to the soil used by gardeners. There are other nutrients that can be included in different ways. When we produce biogas, for example, we can produce biofertilizers. It is possible to use residual streams from one and the other as nutrients and the like in the soil used for gardening.
i-ba8d79b9485d3e52-640	Madam President, I would like I thank Mr Lorentz for his reply. Yes, to some extent it is possible, but it is not possible to fully replace the peat and its properties. It's as simple as that. Lorentz Tovatt mentioned that many people experience a fear of news. If there are any who really experience a fear, it is actually Sweden's forest owners. Just as we heard earlier, it is not so much a matter of ownership here. Over the years, we have noted that the Green Party has a very relaxed relationship with ownership, despite its being included in the UN Charter, the European Convention on Human Rights and our constitution. You do not take much notice of this, and now we see that you want to lay a dead hand over 15 per cent, was Betty Malmberg mentioned, of Sweden's surface without compensation. Is there never a limit for the Green Party in which it believes, and realises, that there really must be compensation here?
i-ba8d79b9485d3e52-645	Madam President, I would like I thank Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson for the change of line. I guess that's 13%. Just because these criteria are set out in the document does not mean that not all land can be used for different purposes. It will then be processed by authorities and the like. Now it gets a little philosophical when we talk about ownership. Of course, there are more inviolable human rights than property rights, such as the right not to be killed. Me and my party think the most important thing is that people should feel good and keep their lives. In the midst of a climate crisis, we cannot say that ownership would in any way trump people's right to stay where they live, not run away, not die of extreme heat, not starve because they cannot grow the land and so on. These rights must, of course, trump property rights. There is no doubt about that. There cannot be property rights which give the right to pump carbon dioxide into the atmosphere and which do not take into account the effects it has on people in Bangladesh, Angola or Bolivia. That's what this is about. These rights are, of course, much more valuable than property rights.
i-ba8d79b9485d3e52-650	Madam President, I would like Children should not grow up with or harm parents who have substance abuse problems in Sweden. No one should die of drug or drug poisoning. Children and young people should not be tempted to start using nicotine or tobacco or to get caught up in an abuse. Sweden must be better at preventing the devastating ill health caused by alcohol, drugs, doping, tobacco and nicotine and gambling. These are the starting points of the ANDTS strategy that we are debating in this House today. Madam President, I would like The proposal includes a revised overall objective for the ANDTS policy and seven long-term objectives with priority areas of intervention that define the direction of the ANDTS policy as a whole. The new strategy also covers gambling, drug-class prescribed and non-prescribed medicines and the extension of the tobacco concept to include nicotine products. This is an important and welcome proposal. The strategy has an increased focus on drug prevention with crime prevention and law enforcement activities that also contribute to the strategy's objectives. The current division of responsibilities between authorities and coordination in this area remains. In order to monitor developments in this area, it is proposed that an ANDTS policy forum be set up and that responsibility for managing effective methods and working methods be clarified. Madam President, I would like Every person who dies of drugs or drug poisoning is a person too much. Although there are difficulties in comparing different countries' statistics on drug-related mortality, among other things because the way to register and report is quite different from country to country, we can see that Sweden's drug-related mortality rate is far too high. Therefore, in recent years, the government has taken several measures to reduce the number of drug deaths. The Public Health Authority has been tasked with establishing a warning system to combat drug-related deaths. The National Board of Health and Welfare has been tasked with carrying out a survey of emergency room routines. Funds have been added to the Public Health Agency to enable faster classification of new psychoactive substances. The Swedish Medical Products Agency and the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare have, on behalf of the Government, investigated the conditions for increased availability of naloxone drugs in order to prevent overdoses.
i-ba8d79b9485d3e52-656	On behalf of the government, the National Board of Health and Welfare has developed a knowledge support for drug-assisted treatment in opioid dependence, LARO, which I know is highly appreciated and used. Last June, the government appointed a special investigator to review how efforts for people with co-morbidity with addiction and addiction and other psychiatric diagnosis can take place more coordinatedly. Madam President, I would like The Government will also shortly set up an investigation aimed at evaluating the entire Swedish drugs policy in response to an announcement addressed to the Government by a unanimous social committee. The study will, among other things, suggest how a continued restrictive drug policy can be combined with good opportunities for people with addiction to access good and close care and support. Within the framework of the Narcotics Penalty Act, the investigation will also review the functioning of the sanctions. Madam President, I would like Sweden has had an ANDT strategy since 2011. It has an important supporting function at all levels of society and aims above all to protect children and young people from harmful effects caused by the various products. The strategy is used as a working document in the important preventive work at the various levels – in municipalities, county councils and county boards, in the relevant authorities and in civil society. The strategy has guided all the actors involved in it and has provided an important tool for a concerted effort at national, regional and local level. It has been well established by all stakeholders. It is, of course, a success factor that the strategy covers the whole population and that it is a starting point for the so important regional and local strategies and coordinators. From a public health perspective, the Government's ANDTS strategy is extremely important, as it sends clear signals to both authorities and civil society and sets out a clear direction for the long-term work and how it should be carried out. Madam President, I would like If Parliament today chooses to reject the strategy, this means that important and necessary efforts in the field of public health are made more difficult and, in some cases, impossible to implement. Of course, it affects children and young people who grow up with abusive parents or are at risk of becoming addicted themselves. Moreover, there is a risk of creating uncertainty in the direction of work among stakeholders at different levels as well as in civil society during the strategy period. I find it regrettable that a majority in the Committee on Social Affairs chooses to vote down this important strategy in order to indicate that there is no agreement or agreement on certain substantive issues. Nor, Madam President, has any agreement been reached on any of its amendments. The strategy is therefore being voted down completely destructively and on a completely different basis. I must also say that I am extremely concerned about what these parties think when they write in their majority text that the government must now urgently come back with a new strategy, but at the same time that there is really no need for a strategy and that the important preventive work must continue without strategy. This makes me confused, Madam President. Do these parties mean that there is no need for an ANDTS strategy in Sweden? If so, how well is that proposal anchored in the hands of the stakeholders? Madam President, I would like I agree with the government but also with all the actors who have been in contact with us in the Social Committee via e-mails and letters stating that a concerted, supportive and guiding ANDTS strategy is needed in order for the important preventive work to be continued and developed. I had, of course, hoped that we would have been able to vote for such a strategy here. Now it does not look like that, and it is regrettable. With this, I would like to endorse our reservation 1.
i-ba8d79b9485d3e52-670	Madam President, I would like Since 2011, Sweden has had a comprehensive strategy for alcohol, drugs, doping and tobacco policy. The strategy has been an important governance year and an important tool in the work in this key area of public health policy. Not least, the strategy has been important for bringing together the many actors – municipalities, regions, authorities and civil society organisations – all of whom are needed for this work to be carried out successfully. Successful work needs to be long-term, and I am convinced that a national strategy is also needed in the future. At the same time, it is quite clear to me and the Moderates that the previous strategy, which expired at the end of the year, had serious problems and shortcomings that need to be addressed. A future strategy needs to be developed and improved, Madam President, because it is not enough to have a strategy. It also needs to be a good strategy. Unfortunately, the government was unable to develop a new strategy in time. It is regrettable, but what is really serious is that the draft strategy that the government finally put forward is not up to date. The ANDTS strategy which the government finally put on Parliament's table and which we are now debating is simply not good enough. Six of the eight parties in Parliament fail the government's strategy. In its proposal, the government has indeed broadened the strategy to include gambling, and it has heeded the demand of an entirely unanimous parliament to develop a zero vision of drug-related mortality. This is, of course, good and positive, but otherwise it is not very new in the strategy. In particular, the strategy has serious shortcomings as well as major gaps. That is why, Madam President, the Moderates say no to the government's strategy. But we are not just saying no, but we are also proposing what needs to be changed and added. When we reject the Government's strategy in Parliament from the right to the left, we do so with clear calls to the Government for what we want to see instead. First of all, the Riksdag requires the Government to come back as soon as possible with a revised and improved strategy that not only sets out objectives and visions, but also outlines a way forward, a strategy with concrete efforts and a clear division of responsibilities. Do it again! Do the right thing! Secondly, the Riksdag requires a renewed ANDTS strategy to be based on a changed overall goal, which takes into account various adverse effects. Instead of chasing snusers as the government, the objective for tobacco and nicotine products should be to reduce the damage in the same way as the objective is expressed in the case of alcohol and gambling. For us Moderates, this means that the work ahead needs to focus on reducing the deadly tobacco increase and developing and strengthening preventive work so that fewer start with tobacco and nicotine products. Thirdly, Madam President, the Parliament demands that the Government entrust the National Board of Health and Welfare with the task of clarifying the harmful effects of various products. This announcement is, of course, closely related to the previous one. A serious policy needs to be based on facts. Fourthly, the Riksdag requires the Government to remedy the very serious knowledge gaps that Sweden has regarding the Swedish drug situation and the Swedish addiction care system. In order to be able to take the right measures and to evaluate the efforts made, better access to relevant and reliable statistics is needed. But today, as a country, we do not know how many heavy drug addicts we have, how many people have an injection drug or how many are in so-called LARO treatment, thus receiving drug-assisted treatment for their opioid dependence. This is far too bad. If we are to reduce Sweden's sky-high drug-related mortality, we need to get things right. It is therefore important to carry out the surveys that we Moderates have proposed and which a clear majority of the committee has now supported. Fifthly, the Riksdag requires the Government to investigate how a national competence centre for ANDTS prevention can be created. In fact, Madam President, perhaps I should have mentioned this announcement first, because successful ANDTS work naturally builds on and begins with successful and strong prevention. We Moderates, as well as a majority in the committee, believe that preventive work needs to be based on evidence and that, therefore, a national centre is needed to develop, manage and quality-assurance successful practices in the ANDTS area. Another important task for this centre should be to educate and disseminate information on best practices so that they are used and useful throughout the country. Madam President, I would like These five announcements mean a clear order to the government – an order that hopefully can make it decently easy for the government to now do its homework. I would also like to remind you of the announcements made by Parliament in the past and which should reasonably also be included in the work on developing a new, better strategy. I am thinking, in particular, of the announcement made by Parliament just a few weeks ago about a strengthened guarantee of care for people with addiction, as well as what Parliament did last year to increase access to naloxone, the medicine that reverses overdoses and thus saves lives. We Moderates have also proposed in this report that Sweden should develop and implement a national overdose strategy. Such a strategy could have helped to realise the zero vision of drug-related deaths. That is why, Madam President, I would like to endorse paragraph 36, which deals with the development of a national overdose strategy, but also with systematic work on suicide prevention. Of course, I support the other moderate reservations in the report, but for the benefit of time, I am only calling for the above-mentioned one to be approved. Madam President, I would like In conclusion, and in conclusion, the committee notes that successful ANDTS work requires an effective strategy and political leadership. I note that both parts are now missing. Sweden needs a new ANDTS strategy but also a new government.
i-ba8d79b9485d3e52-686	Madam President, I would like For us Swedish democrats, the reduction of harm and problems related to alcohol, drugs, baptism and tobacco is a priority area. Among other things, we have for a long time been pushing the question that health care has to take over responsibility for drug treatment and that it must be based to a greater extent on science and proven experience. Of course, it should be borne in mind that the majority of people with substance abuse problems, including drugs, have underlying mental or physical illnesses. Therefore, drug treatment needs to be made much more accessible so that more people can be free of their addiction. As we know, Sweden has the second highest drug-related mortality rate across Europe. This is a betrayal of both the addicts who need care and their relatives. It is clear to most people that government policy has not been sufficient in this area. Madam President, I would like The government is now presenting a new ANDT strategy, which we are going to take a position on here today. The strategy has received an addition in the form of an S and now also includes games, which we consider to be good. The objective of protecting children from harmful effects has also been reintroduced, which is also good. But, Madam President, that is not enough. This is a strategy that does not measure up. It is important to have a strategy based on clear, concrete objectives that can be followed up and that contributes to better public health and saves lives, which we do not believe this strategy does. Nor is it clear from the proposal that the measures are to be implemented, and it creates uncertainty as to how the overall objectives of the strategy can be achieved in practice, which is very unfortunate. Madam President, I would like Although all products in the policy area are harmful to health, it is nevertheless important to clarify the differences in the harmful effects of these products that have been scientifically demonstrated. We are critical of the fact that the government is still not making a clear and sharp distinction in terms of the harmful effects of tobacco smoking versus the use of snus and other non-smoking nicotine products. Tobacco smoking is definitely one of the most serious public health problems in the world. It is also described by the World Health Organisation as a global epidemic, which is of course extremely serious. That is why, Madam President, it is very gratifying that the committee has now tabled a proposal for a notice on a new horizontal objective that takes account of the varying harm caused by various tobacco and nicotine products. Hopefully this can lead to a more serious policy in this area, based on evidence, taking into account the harmful effects of various ANDTS products and based on scientific risk assessments. Madam President, I would like Drug use has increased and developments have not been in line with the goal of reducing injuries and deaths. On the contrary, more people have been injured and killed by their own drug use, although a positive trend has been seen in recent years. According to the European Drugs Agency, Sweden now has Europe's second highest drug-related mortality rate. Indeed, as we have heard before, it is always risky to compare drug-related deaths in different countries. But it is clear that Sweden has a very high mortality rate when it comes to drugs, and that means that much more needs to be done to reduce addiction and ultimately save lives. At the same time, the government's renewed strategy does not provide sufficient answers as to how the deaths will be reduced. This is not acceptable. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats' message is therefore that we want to see a strategy that is much higher than the one presented by the government in its proposal – a serious strategy that is comprehensive and clear in terms of both concrete actions and objectives. Our view is that the Government's proposal is not up to date. That is why we want the government to come back to us in the near future with a revised proposal in this area so that we can strengthen the work to combat human suffering as soon as possible and at the same time deal with the social problems linked to the area in an effective way. Having said that, Madam President, we are in favour of reservation 32 and we are in favour of rejecting the proposal.
i-ba8d79b9485d3e52-696	Madam President, I would like In the book We Buried Our Children, 33 mothers tell of their struggle for their children and against their addiction to drugs and drugs, a battle that the drugs and grief came out victorious. This was the case with 19-year-old Timmy, who, despite the family's appeal for help from the community, died from his drug abuse on 1 September 2014, or with Björn, 20 years, who after years of addiction and mental illness was found dead in his room in autumn 2015. These, Madam President, are tragedies that really touch on in depth. However, it is also good evidence of a drug treatment and a drug policy that does not work at all. That is precisely what this debate should be about. In Sweden, the mortality rate for people suffering from drug addiction is among the highest in Europe. If that were the case with any other group of patients – if we had the worst results in terms of treating cancer or cardiovascular diseases or getting premature babies to survive – it would be a scream in Sweden and among Swedish politicians. But precisely because mortality affects a group of people who are regarded as standing at the bottom of the social ladder and are more vulnerable than any other group, it is very quiet in the debate. It is clear that this is linked to the perception of drug dependence. You mean it's not a disease. Ministers can stand in Agenda and say, I think, and I think, and a minister dismisses the call by the responsible authority, the Public Health Authority, to really investigate the background to this because it does not match her political opinion. At that point, it is clear that you have this effect. Dependent disease is a disease. Diseases should be treated according to science and proven experience. It should be research that forms the basis for what we do and what positions we make. It is also political opinion and belief that, unlike all other diseases, social services have the main responsibility for treating this particular group. It is not surprising, then, that our mortality is among the highest in Europe and that we have a government which passively sees this happening. This is one of the reasons why we in the Center Party have come to the conclusion that the obvious is to call for a rejection of the ANDTS strategy. It is a strategy that, in the field of drugs, lines up objectives and visions without sharp action. As we have heard here from the speakers, these are various missions to authorities and government agencies, but they do not contain anything that fundamentally affects the situation. That is why we remain on a mortality rate that is one of the highest in Europe in this area. For us in the Center Party, however, it is not just a question of dissatisfaction with the lack of sharp proposals in the field of drugs policy. In the field of alcohol policy, too, the sharp proposals are illuminated by their absence. There it is easy to rejoice that alcohol consumption is falling, not least among young people but also in the population as a whole. However, we still have a problem with some 500 000 people who have a problem with alcohol use, a problem with an addiction, where there is no adequate help to get. We are also dissatisfied with the wording on tobacco. Let me be the first to say that snuff is definitely not a health product, but it is fortified with a number of serious consequences. Of course, we should do everything we can to avoid young people starting to snort. However, comparing it with cigarette smoking, which is one of the biggest public health threats we have and causes disease and death to an extent that few other things, leads the idea completely wrong. It is therefore no wonder that six of the eight parties in the Riksdag are behind the Center Party's demand to reject the ANDTS strategy. It is not enough to have a strategy with objectives and visions without sharp action. Then it is not the parties of the Riksdag who are responsible for the government getting its ANDTS strategy through. This government must realise that, not least in terms of drugs policy, it is time to listen to the parties in parliament and to all the announcements that have been decided in this House and try to create a majority behind an ANDTS strategy that would really change the situation in Sweden. I support all the reservations expressed by the Center Party, but I choose to accept only reservation 45.
i-ba8d79b9485d3e52-708	Madam President, I would like Throughout my career, I have worked with issues relating to alcohol and drugs – as a field assistant in Solna, as a therapist, as a project manager and as a communication strategist. I have worked with social work, communication and major information efforts, with young people who came from a tangled home and with HIV-infected addiction in Stockholm at the beginning of the HIV epidemic. But I would never start from my own little bubble... never! I've spent my entire life listening to scientists and those who work in the profession. I would like more politicians to do so and the government to do so in a different way. The government's major problem is the lack of sensitivity and the lack of humility. This deficiency is evident in the ANDTS strategy that is now being sent back to the Ministry of Social Affairs with various inputs from the opposition. The strategy does not measure up in a number of areas. Madam President, I would like There are very knowledgeable addiction researchers and extremely knowledgeable clinics and investigators in Sweden. Last week, in the Social Affairs Committee, we received a letter from them, or rather a mini-investigation. How many of them have been involved in this process? Have they been asked and been to hearings? There will be problems when the government does not listen to others than those they have listened to before. It's like in a small duck pond, where everyone thinks the same thing. Madam President, I would like I wonder how it is possible to know that previous strategies have been successful. It is not clear whether care has become more accessible, why 894 people died of drug-related mortality in 2019, whether children of dependents receive their own help or if fewer young people have developed an addiction. I have to say that the Swedish drugs strategy is, in some parts, based on incomplete and out-of-date information. We need to dig more into these issues. We need to have more knowledge to be able to do more relevant things. Madam President, I would like Dependence requires different types of intervention in terms of scope and social situation. Many suffer ill because social services and addiction care use methods that do not rely on facts and research. There is a need for an analysis of treatment measures and conditions for access to care and treatment in the area. The Left Party wants to monitor the development of the number of people receiving treatment in treatment centres and the number of detoxification sites in the regions divided into women and men and the ability of young people to receive care and treatment. Particular attention should be paid to the situation and vulnerability of women from the point of view of alcohol and drug prevention. Major cuts in both municipalities and regions for decades have meant that many people in need of help have been denied care and support. It's obvious. AA and AN are treatments that do not cost anything, and they are unfortunately the treatments that are used to a very large extent. They can be great as a complement, but maybe not for everyone. In view of this, it is so important to enable a clear measurement of socio-demographic conditions in order to have access to real care and thus equal health. I therefore call for the approval of reservation number 30, Madam President. Alcohol, as you know, is no ordinary commodity, which means that profit interests and competition should be kept away from the trade in alcohol. We must maintain the very restrictive alcohol policy that we have managed to maintain, which is based on a public health perspective and is solidarity rather than egotistical. When I see some alcohol-populist moves here and was in Sweden and also in the Chamber, I am easily concerned. As far as tobacco is concerned, of course, it is important to prevent young people from using nicotine products. We are often courted, as you know, by various lobbyists from different quarters. It's Philip Morris, and it's the snus manufacturers who are now also represented by a doctor. That's what can happen when we don't have the snip on. I think that lobbyists from the tobacco industry and the alcohol industry should be kept at a proper distance from politics. The study on the revision of certain tobacco issues submitted its report Harder rules for new nicotine products on 5 March 2021. There are a number of proposals that we are going to look at in the investigation and which we are going to debate. However, to have the National Board of Health and Welfare investigate the differences in health risks between smoking and snus is of clear concern to the Left. Children of dependents get hurt. In addition, one in four children who grow up in a family with addiction problems completes comprehensive school without upper secondary school qualifications. It's twice as many as in other families. The single greatest preventive importance is a functioning equal preschool and school with the goal that everyone goes out with grades from comprehensive school. It's so important, says all scientists, but that's not really the case. Failure at school is a clear indication of an increased risk of dependence. Children's right to their own support when they grow up in dependent homes is an issue that the Left Party has been pushing for years. Today, children have to rely on projects that come and go. In view of this, it is important that specific actions targeted at children and young people at risk are made a long-term objective in the renewed ANDTS strategy. However, specific programmes need to be developed to prevent children's and young people's use of alcohol, drugs, doping substances, tobacco and nicotine products or gambling. I miss it in this strategy. Madam President, I would like In the period 2006 – 2019, the mortality rate in drug and drug poisoning increased by 79 per cent – the figure comes from the Swedish Public Health Agency. Drug-related mortality has increased very strongly in Sweden since the 1990s. According to the latest statistics available for 2019, 894 deaths due to drug and drug poisoning occurred among residents aged 15 and over. Half of the cases were due to opioid overdoses. In order not to end up in a numerical circus, I would like to say that when the Public Health Authority reports to the European Union, another measure is used. According to this, 540 people died in 2019 as a result of overdose. As a result, we are among the countries in the EU that report the highest proportion of drug-related deaths per million inhabitants aged 15-64, 77 compared to the EU average of 15. This only goes on year after year. It can't go on like this. It is shameful that so little has been done for so long to prevent this and to investigate why. Isn't that obvious? Just as the previous speaker, Anders W Jonsson, said, addiction is a disease and should be treated as a disease. For affected mothers, fathers, sisters, brothers, friends and children, and the dead person himself, it is a lost life. It is so clear that stigmatisation and vulnerability have increased. Drug policy no longer holds together. The government and previous governments have consistently ignored the high excess mortality rate. There is a great need to assess the impact of drugs policy, including criminalisation. The whole of the legislation, everything, needs to be evaluated, and that is what I expect from the government. There is a lack of knowledge about treatment, supply and demand. The big issue is to change drugs policy from life-threatening, as it is now, to an opportunity for people to move forward in their lives by receiving treatment and help. That's not what it looks like now. All people should have a decent life, right? This strategy, to which we have said no, does not provide the necessary answers. And I really wonder where the investigation into drugs policy that we decided about a year and four months ago is. They say it's coming now. It would have been wonderful if we had received it before this day, wouldn't it? Investigation first, since strategy had been a very reasonable train order, I think. Behind the demand for investigation in this report, which includes everything, are the Swedish Democrats, the Left, the Center and the Liberals but not, if I interpret it correctly, the Moderates and the Christian Democrats. As I said: I think that the fathers, mothers, sisters, brothers, friends, partners and children of the dead should have an evaluation that looks at the whole drugs policy and gives hope that it can be changed. We do as the Swedish Public Health Agency, Swedish Municipalities and Regions and as many of the most prominent researchers who have just sent this material to the entire Social Committee and are looking at this. No one wants to legalize drugs, no one. But we want a drugs policy that doesn't kill this many people. We have to do something. Don't ignore the question another day!
i-ba8d79b9485d3e52-732	Madam President, I would like We are debating today the government's proposal for a new ANDTS strategy, that is, the policy of alcohol, drugs, doping, tobacco and gambling. These are issues that involve me very much, as I studied what happens in the brain during the development of addiction in my role as a researcher at Karolinska Institutet. Based on this knowledge, my research group developed new drugs for the treatment of alcohol dependence. These questions are extremely important to all the people who are themselves affected and to those who live with someone who drinks too much alcohol or who has some other substance abuse problem. In Sweden, about 1 million people over the age of 15 drink so much alcohol that they harm or risk harming their health. I added those who risk harming their health to the figure stated earlier by Anders W Jonsson. Many of these people live with a great stigma and a strong sense of guilt and shame. Madam President, I would like I am thinking in particular of the children who live in a family where there are alcohol problems, children who live with constant insecurity and a concern that the wine or beer will transform a loved mother or father into an unpleasant, frightening and perhaps aggressive person. These children are not only at risk of getting worse at school, but also have an increased risk of developing their own addiction later in life. Not least to stand up for the more than 300 000 children who, according to the National Association for Alcohol and Drug Education, say that growing up in a family where a parent has an alcohol problem has a very negative impact, it is so important to have a clear ANDTS strategy. It should be a strategy with clear political leadership and concrete efforts to reduce accessibility and to promote strong preventive work as well as accessible care and treatment with good treatment. Only then, Madam President, can we effectively combat human suffering and the social burden of problems linked to all the letters of the strategy. But here the government has failed in its responsibilities. Their strategy is unclear. It lacks both concrete action and political leadership. The government, for example, writes that they are considering implementing various measures. In other words, it is not clear whether these measures will be implemented or not. These vague wordings create uncertainty as to how the strategy's objectives can be achieved in practice. This is really not good enough! Madam President, I would like We Christian Democrats are keen to get a good ANDTS strategy in place immediately. We therefore proposed in our follow-up motion that the government's strategy should be rejected and that the government should immediately return to Parliament with an improved version. In order to give the government leadership in this work, we also made 30 different proposals for concrete actions that would improve the strategy and strengthen political leadership. Madam President, I would like I am extremely disappointed at how rigidly the government deals with ANDTS issues. Not only did it fail to develop a new strategy in time for the former to expire at the turn of the year; once the government put a proposal on Parliament's table, it was a poor strategy. But at the same time, Madam President, I am pleased and proud to be active in a social committee which, in this matter too, is shouldering responsibility when the government is failing. I would therefore like to take this opportunity to thank my colleagues from other parties for the fine climate of conversation and the good cooperation that always characterises our work in Parliament – thank you very much! I am pleased that there is now a majority of committees behind several of the proposals put forward by the Christian Democrats. It is a question of clarifying the degree differences in the harmful effects of ANDT products that have been scientifically demonstrated and of identifying drug use with a view to improving care for addiction. But what I am particularly proud of is that there is now a majority in favour of Sweden needing a national competence centre for ANDTS prevention. Prevention is science, and the competence centre will develop and evaluate effective methods but also support and train the staff working with ANDTS prevention in the country. There is already an excellent foundation for this competence centre through the organisation STAD, Stockholm prevents alcohol and drug problems, which is the world leader in prevention science. STAD is part of the Centre for Psychiatry Research, which in turn is part of Region Stockholm and Karolinska Institutet. And since STAD's skills are already in demand around the country by authorities, municipalities and regions, the transition to a formal national competence centre should be less extensive. Madam President, I would like Although I and the Christian Democrats today are satisfied with the committee's proposal for a decision and wholeheartedly support it, I would of course have liked us to have heard all 30 different proposals for improvement. I would therefore like to support the Christian Democrats' reservation 41 under paragraph 27, which is about clarifying the national political leadership required for the successful implementation of the ANDTS strategy. Madam President, I would like I would also like to mention that I noted that the Minister for Social Affairs has stated in the media that she does not want to tell us whether or not the government intends to come back with a new, revised strategy. She justifies this by saying that it is very unclear to me how we could work on the strategy. Parliament is not clear about what changes you want. I will admit that the statement by the Minister for Social Affairs surprises me, and I would urge her to read again the concrete announcements that the government will now receive. But I would also like to emphasise that the government now owns the process forward. The government can be inspired by the shadow strategy developed by experts in the field and handed over to the Ministry of Social Affairs just over a year ago. Nearly 30 civil society organisations supported this shadow strategy. Last week, twelve experts – researchers, clinicians and practitioners in the ANDTS field – directly belonged to the members of the Social Affairs Committee because they wanted to contribute their experience and expertise during the process of improving the strategy. Unfortunately, they expressed that they had not received a response from the Ministry of Social Affairs. My appeal to the government is therefore, Madam President: do it again, do it right! Sweden needs a good ANDTS strategy on the ground as soon as possible, and we can get that if the government listens to Parliament's but also to the experts' concrete proposals for improvement. In conclusion, Madam President, it would be a betrayal of all the children who suffer ill and live in a family where there are substance abuse problems if Parliament were to approve, accept and let through a bad strategy just to have a strategy. I would therefore like to express my warm thanks to all those parties who, by supporting the Christian Democrats' rejection proposals, are now standing up for the right of these children to grow up in a safe family.
i-ba8d79b9485d3e52-748	Frau President! To become addicted, be it to alcohol, drugs, doping drugs, nicotine products, games, or drugs, is to become free. The drug or the drug takes power over free will, so to speak, and it is very difficult to get rid of it. But not for everyone. We still don't know who's particularly at risk. It can be a preparation like morphine: Some people get sick, others get high and others don't really feel that much. But we don't know in advance who gets high and gets stuck. We do not know that either when it comes to nicotine, alcohol and so on. That is why we must work to prevent addiction and to see this as a disease. We in the Liberals are not so positive about all these letters – ANDTS, and so it might be an L in addition if we get what we want – but call it addiction diseases. So it is a disease to become dependent on one or more of these substances. This is also reflected in our view of headship. We believe that it is health care that should have the primary responsibility to prevent, cure and rehabilitate. Social services come in with the necessary efforts in terms of housing, job opportunities and so on. That is why I am in favour of reservation 32 in paragraph 21. Then to the strategy, which one we have written is very weak. We have been waiting for a year, and there have been expectations that something will come up. We have discussed, among other things, with those who have now written to the Committee on Social Affairs and also had their expectations of a sharp proposal. During this year's wait, people in the country have worked on the basis of the old strategy, but sometimes also on the basis of their own experiences and ideas. Quite close to the fact that the bill came, the county boards had a large conference for 700 participants who were all deeply involved in working on these issues, preventing addiction and preventing death and ill health. We clearly state in the report that their efforts must not stop. They have to work on exactly as they intended. But they do not have a strong strategy from the government to support them, because when the bill came, it contained no ska requirements. There were considerations about doing one with the seventh. It is not something on which one can base one's activities in the country, in the work in reality with addiction diseases. You have to work on the basis that you stand on. We therefore want to reject this and say that the government must urgently come back with a sharp proposal. The government will then be able to make use of all the points we have made, both in this report and in previous parliamentary decisions and debates that we have had. This prevention thing becomes important when we don't know who gets stuck in an addiction. Then it is also important to use transmitters to which you listen. There I would like to reiterate the experience of medical students and other students working as transmitters in health care. They are a little older than those in high school and high school, but they are listened to through the close experience they have of being young. This is something that I mean needs to be stimulated. Then there are a number of detailed questions. I've been working on tobacco forever. Since I found that women who used tobacco products, nicotine, were at increased risk of blood clots during oral contraceptive treatment, I have wanted the word. Sure, there is a difference when it comes to lung cancer and risk if you smoke or use snus. But the snus is not harmless. It causes vascular changes. Sniffing a pregnant woman gets the expected baby these vascular changes that we do not know how they will affect the child in the form of ill health when it becomes adult. There are a number of things here that I would go into, but I am not repeating the five announcements contained in the report, because others have read them out. But I would like to end by saying that I have been debating these issues since 1988 when I entered the Parliament, and to my sorrow we have not made any giant strides forward. Well, we've got syringe exchange programs and some other improvements, but it's not a giant step. Now there must be a sharp strategy that changes the lives of children, young people, parents and so on. I read the books about Sara. There are three books where all the shortcomings in social services but also in health care are shown. This can't go on.
i-ba8d79b9485d3e52-759	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by saying that the Green Party supports all the reservations, but for the benefit of time I only ask for reservation 1. It may be good to recall in such a debate that the tobacco industry is perhaps one of the world's most cynical and corrupt industries. Over the years, scientists, politicians and judges have been bought and bribed worldwide. A premature death has been caused for millions of people. Any regulation of cigarettes and other tobacco products has been a struggle. Every pursuit of truth has almost always been undermined. Now the tobacco industry's focus is on stopping the world's developing countries from regulating tobacco in the same way as has been done in Sweden, for example. This is despite the fact that many of these countries lack medical care to care for those who are injured and that the diseases caused by tobacco crowd out other important care such as maternal care and child vaccination. In addition, it helps to undermine democracies through corruption. Why, then, are these companies acting in this way both today and historically? The answer is as simple as cynical: it is about money. Tobacco contains nicotine, which is the perfect product. At a low cost, you can make your customers chemically dependent. The fact that your customers develop cancer and cardiovascular diseases is not a problem for this industry, but it is left with a warm hand to the taxpayers in the different countries to take care of. Over time, this industry has developed its products in order to be able to lay out fog curtains, or rather smoke curtains, in order to continue selling its products. It is about everything from filters to so-called light cigarettes and from snus to servingssnus and now also the so-called white snuff. Basically it is the same business idea: Introduce the product as early as possible and get your customers to sign a contract of chemical dependence and the money will tick in month after month. Madam President, I would like The ANDTS strategy places particular emphasis on protecting children and young people from harmful effects caused by alcohol, drugs, doping, tobacco and nicotine products and now also gambling. Injuries among children and young people can never be accepted, and efforts to protect children and young people from their own or others' harmful use are one of the important foundations of the Government's ANDTS strategy. The strategy is not about moralising, it focuses on how society at group level should work to prevent, reduce and reward better public health, i.e. health at group level. The national ANDTS strategies have, over time, played an important and supportive role in the work of alcohol, drugs and tobacco around the country. The strategies have been guiding and an important tool in local and national work, but also for civil society. I think Systembolaget illustrates this beautifully. We all know that alcohol has a number of negative side effects ranging from cancer to violence in close relationships. Systembolaget provides alcohol but in a responsible way. These are not offers to buy three and get one included, and they are not open until 23, but they are balanced. The vast majority think that the possible sacrifice we as individuals make that is forced to buy our alcohol in this way is a price that is worth paying, because we all know somewhere deep down what the price of unregulated alcohol sales is in the form of greater social exclusion, children who are getting ill and increased health care costs. We as a society thus benefit from the fact that alcohol consumption at group level is kept at reasonable levels. Madam President, I would like The common picture of Sweden is that we have always been a regulated and team-run country, but when it comes to gambling nothing can be less true. We have long had a total anarchy in the gaming market. Online casinos have grown like mushrooms out of the earth to the mild degree that it has almost been a pain to see a football match because of all the interruptions for advertising for various online casinos. With the rest of the Nordic countries fairly quickly tamed this industry, we allowed these companies to destroy family after family. Gambling addiction is today a public health problem. Around 340 000 people in Sweden have some degree of gambling addiction. 68 000 children grow up with gambling addiction in their family. We are also dealing here with a disease that is highly stigmatised and associated with great shame. We now have something similar to regulation. With the gaming license, the worst of them have disappeared, but much remains to be done. Regions face new costs for treating a new group of people with addiction disease. Municipalities have new costs for social exclusion, debt restructuring and more when trying to patch up families who have fallen into debt. Therefore, it is now good that games come in as a clear part of the ANDTS strategy, because games can create the same kind of harmful addiction as chemical substances. It is my conviction that society needs to highlight even more clearly. An industry that without hesitation sends offers of personal bonuses to serious gambling addiction should and should be made clear that society is not still thinking about watching when families and individuals are pulled down into the abyss. Madam President, I would like In 2018, 903 people died in Sweden as a result of drug and drug poisoning. If you consider that all these people have parents, siblings, friends and acquaintances, you realize that a lot of people are affected every day in Sweden. The death of lives that we could have saved needs to be broken. Madam President, I would like In our neighbouring countries there are far fewer deaths. Adding all those who die 10 to 15 years too early because of common treatable diseases that are not detected because of being branded and stigmatized as addicts makes it difficult to take in the whole range. It was apparently Gandhi who coined the expression. Every society should be judged by how it treats its most vulnerable. People with addiction and people with co-morbidity, i.e. mental problems and addiction, are among our most vulnerable. It is no secret that I and the Green Party want to see an evaluation of the current drugs policy. We have clear congress decisions on this issue. Long before the issue of language exchange programmes was raised in this House, the Green Party also pushed that question and that naloxon would be available throughout the country. Today, low-threshold activities are self-evident in order to increase survival. However, we need a solid basis for developing policies and reducing mortality. In addition to an evaluation of current legislation, we should perhaps look at historical policy and apologise. Last Friday I sat at the LARO clinic in Högsbo, Gothenburg, and talked to a patient in the LARO programme. He was such a fellow human being who, for various reasons, of us who did not walk in his shoes, is usually called junkies or junkies but who now live a dignified and rich life with the help of drug treatment. He explained how the care or rather the state decided that the care should be designed when he sought help in the early 2000s. Then the state had decided that a person with an addiction disease would have two documented overdoses for treatment. Yeah, you heard me right. He sought treatment after his first overdose but got the answer: Come back after your second overdose. The state therefore wanted a person with an addiction more or less to have both feet in the grave not one but twice before qualifying for treatment. This says a lot about how Swedish drug policy and addiction care have developed. Those criteria are better gone now, but that says a lot about how it has been. Madam President, I would like Parliament has acted in evaluating the current policy. In this respect, in my view, there is no need for further initiatives. According to the information I have, the government is also currently preparing the issue and will shortly come back with a detailed description of the mission and directive of the investigation. However, regardless of the decision on an evaluation, an investigator needs to be appointed. An investigation needs to be written. It should be sent out for a referral. Finally, the legislation may need to be amended and decided upon. It is a process that risks taking several years. We don't have years to reduce mortality. We need to act now. The government proposal contains a clear zero vision of drug-related mortality. It emphasises increased access to addiction care, so that lives can be saved and more people can benefit from care and evidence-based methods, such as drug-assisted treatment. Having said that, I am once again in favour of reservation 1.
i-ba8d79b9485d3e52-782	Madam President, I would like Although Mr Attefjord exceeded his speaking time by more than 50 per cent, he did not really deliver any concrete information on what the Green Party wants to do in this area. I think that Mrs Attefjord's speech in the debate well sums up the problem of the whole proposal. It is empty of proposals for concrete measures to achieve what is said with the beautiful words, to achieve the beautiful visions and objectives that Mrs Attefjord concluded with: a society where nobody dies of drug-related mortality and so on. However, there is a lack of concrete action. That is why this House must, time and again, push for something to happen, so that we can achieve a strategy that will be a real and powerful tool in the work forward in the field of drugs policy, but also in the area of prevention in general, which is so important. We see that there are major shortcomings and they need to be addressed. How to achieve the visions and objectives must be answered by Mr Attefjord and the government. But no such answers came. That is why the honourable Member is now given two more minutes to answer that question. I know that Mrs Attefjord has a great deal of commitment to the issues and has been a driving force, not least in the region from which both the honourable Member and I come, Västra Götaland. I am therefore surprised that, when he comes to Parliament, the honourable Member gives up the ambition to push for more accessible health care. The person whom Attefjord met the other day and who was trapped in opioid abuse no longer meets the criteria which the honourable Member well explained. On the other hand, he is faced with long periods of care. The response of the Moderates is that when you are addicted, you should receive care and not be met by a queue. Why did the Green Party just two weeks ago say no to the announcement of a reinforced health guarantee?
i-ba8d79b9485d3e52-787	Madam President, I would like Perhaps, unlike Mr Hultberg, I have been negotiating access to and availability of addiction care in Västra Götaland. I know what questions my party has been pushing, and I know what questions your party has been pushing, Johan Hultberg. In Swedish healthcare care should be provided as necessary. People with addiction have a great need for care. As I said, I know what I myself have been pushing in those negotiations, and I know what the result was after the discussions with Members of your party, among others. There is some difference between what is said in this House. I had some kind of line count over the number. But it's not about us Moderates. It is Johan Hultberg himself, not a moderater in the rest of the country, who is pushing these questions. It's Johan Hultberg.
i-ba8d79b9485d3e52-789	Madam President, I would like As an individual Member, Mrs Attefjord may have a little too much influence on me. I represent my party and am proud that the Moderates are involved in pushing forward a more ambitious, more concrete policy in this area. Then it is right and proper that my party has made a journey on these issues, just as Swedish drugs policy in general has made a trip. We have moved away from much of stigmatising towards a more modern health care that meets those patients with respect and with adequate, good care efforts. Madam President, I would like I note, however, that we have a bit to go. There's a lot more to it. The Moderates have put forward concrete and sharp proposals in Parliament and this House. This is where I act. I am not in a position to influence what each region does. But here we are pushing Moderates to make healthcare more accessible, for a strong patient perspective in addiction care, to do more to prevent and light the large areas that are now obscured. That we do not know how many people have a heavy injection drug, how many at national level are in LARO treatment or how neither needs nor care looks good. Then why does the Green Party say no? Why do you not want us to map this out? Why don't you want a reinforced care guarantee in place? Why do you not want us to have a fact-based tobacco policy that makes a difference to different products? The hand to the heart – even Mrs Attefjord agrees that there is a huge difference between smoking tobacco and, for example, snus? A serious policy must nevertheless be based on the fact that it is much better that people choose to snuff over smoking. But with the government's proposal for a goal, it would have been better for two people to stop snusping than for one person to stop smoking. In my world, it's always the most important thing to focus on reducing smoking.
i-ba8d79b9485d3e52-794	Madam President, I would like Now we suddenly landed on the nicotine issue. I'm thinking that most smokers who want to quit – and there are a lot of people – don't want to replace one addiction with another, they want to be free. It is a bit like Mr Barbro Westerholm said in his speech: it is about being deprived of freedom by becoming a slave to a substance that creates an addiction, namely nicotine. The important thing is that we work both preventively and with efforts around those who want to quit smoking, I think. Of course, it's super important. The damage to tobacco smoking is of course greater, but this does not mean that nicotine or nicotine products are harmless. We need to have just as much preventive measures, and above all it is important that children and young people are not seduced into or at risk of lifelong dependence.
i-ba8d79b9485d3e52-796	Madam President, I would like I must say that I was as surprised as Mr Hultberg when I listened to Mrs Attefjord's main speech. The honourable Member describes very well the problems that exist. We Christian Democrats are well aware of this, and that is why we are so clear that we need a good strategy – a strategy that actually helps us to reduce human suffering, damage and the negative effects that exist in society linked to all the letters contained in the strategy. Madam President, I would like I am curious about what the honourable Member thinks is so very good in this strategy. For example, the honourable Member mentioned gambling and that it is important that we prevent and work actively with it. I fully agree with him on that. But why does the government state in the strategy that it is considering a updating of the regulations that now regulate ANDT so that the S is included in them? Shouldn't the government say that the regulations should be updated so that all the letters of the strategy are included, Madam President? Madam President, I would like I also wonder why the honourable Member is voting against a competence centre for ANDTS prevention. It is extremely important that those who work with these issues in society get knowledge and learn which methods actually work, when they are to be used and how they are to be used. It is difficult to know, and that is why national leadership and a centre of excellence are needed to provide this support. Why do you vote no, Nicklas Attefjord?
i-XhEGtc6w1LeohXY1RGohmg	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the questions, Mr Steensland! I can begin with how we can look at strategy versus concrete proposals; that discussion has been a bit of a red thread in the criticism. My view is that a strategy should not govern in detail. It will give a little bit of the wide brush strokes, and then comes the concreteisation when you work with and break down the issues locally and regionally: How do these goals become relevant? How are we going to meet them based on the context we have here and now? It can be very different depending on whether it is a municipality in the interior of Norrland or whether it is a metropolitan municipality like the City of Stockholm. I think that is the answer to the question of the practicalisation of the strategy. When it comes to the explicit issue of the competence centre belonging to STAD, it is certainly a great institution and knowledge node – safe state of the art – but I do not know whether we in Parliament should point out a certain centre. Maybe there are more centres of knowledge, what do I know? That question has not been touched on either, that is, whether we should regulate in detail exactly which centres of knowledge should be part of a national strategy. I don't mind them getting a mission, but it might as well be some other center-- I don't know.
i-ba8d79b9485d3e52-801	Madam President, I would like What Nicklas Attefjord's party voted against is a national competence centre for ANDTS prevention. The committee writes that it could be based on the organisation of STAD, but the honourable Member says no to us having a national competence centre. That goes against what the honourable Member is saying here now, and that makes me very confused about the leadership. Then the question is: How can all organisations and coordinators in the country be led by a strategy that contains so many considerations? The government has not decided which direction to take on all these issues, so how is this to be a leadership for those who work actively out there? Should they then make their own decisions? Yes, the government is considering this, so perhaps we should also consider it. But are we going to do it actively or not? ..................................................... We need a clear strategy that sets the course, Madam President. How are we going to achieve these goals? That is the big problem here: there is no clarity. There are no ways that will lead us forward. That is why the committee says no. The former director of the Central Association for Alcohol and Drug Information says that he thinks it is good that the Social Affairs Committee voted 'no', because it is worse to have a bad strategy than no one at all. Madam President, I would like What does the honourable Member intend to do in this situation? Will the honourable Member work actively to ensure that we have a good strategy that can support all the people who suffer from the problems linked to the letters of the strategy?
i-ba8d79b9485d3e52-805	Madam President, I would like The question comes up for decision tomorrow, and everything depends a little on which decision the Riksdag chooses to make. There is much to be said that this strategy will not go through, and that is the case. Then you have to take and roll up your sleeves and start working on the basis of the conditions that exist parliamentary in the decision that the Riksdag makes and see how it should be handled back to the government. I guess that's how I think you get to work. At the moment, my assessment is that the strategy presented by the government appears not to be getting a majority in this House, and if it falls, it will be a new situation. Then you have to start working from that point of view. That's what you do, I think.
i-ba8d79b9485d3e52-806	Madam President, I would like If I heard correctly, Mr Nicklas thought that an investigation would be very difficult – it would take time, it would be appointed an investigator and so on. Did I hear you right? It could have been something else he said. During the day, we have been raising the death toll in this House, and I can take one for example. There is a scientific article published in the Scandinavian Journal of Public Health, and according to it, the total mortality rate for young adults in Sweden has been at the same level between 2000 and 2017, i.e. a fairly high level – while in the rest of Europe it has fallen by 42 percent. Does that not suggest to the honourable Member that we should perhaps do something, like investigate? I wonder. I will also read out the following: a study of Swedish drugs policy should examine the effects of the criminalisation of own use, and if there are other models that are more in line with a humane drugs policy. In this context, it is important to point out that the choice is not between criminalisation and total legalisation, where drugs are released in an open market. Most realistic proposals instead involve decriminalisation, where drug use is still illegal but does not entail criminal liability, but leads to other measures such as advice and support for healthcare applicants or administrative sanctions. It is important that we learn from the experience of other countries in order to design a model that can work in Sweden. ..................................................... Once I felt the Green Party as a party at the forefront, at least in Stockholm City when we fought for exchange. I don't know where you got into these issues. But I would very much like to be informed about it, Madam President.
i-ba8d79b9485d3e52-810	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Karin Rågsjö, for that question! It makes it possible for me to clarify. I should also like to apologise to the President for greatly overestimating my ability to hold my speaking time in my speech. What I wanted to emphasise was that for me it is important that we take action here and now to bring down drug-related mortality. There is a clear objective, that is, a zero vision, and there are clear objectives of increased accessibility to, among other things, LARO care in the ANDTS strategy that is on the table. On the issue of an investigation into the current drugs policy, my point was that it will take time before it is finished. I would very much like to have such an evaluation and an investigation. But I also want to start work on reducing mortality tomorrow, or for that matter yesterday. That is my clear answer to Mr Rågsjö.
i-ba8d79b9485d3e52-813	Madam President, I would like Mortality has been very high for a very long time. It's not that it suddenly turned out to be high yesterday. There have been great opportunities for the government, and also for other governments, to do something more radical. We in the committee have asked for an investigation. You should be able to do several things at once, right? If at the same time you have an investigation that rolls, you can't blow everything else off, you might be able to work. The important thing is to see: What has caused the high death toll? What can we do to bring them down? I find it alarming. It is also alarming by a government and by previous governments to ignore all the dead, their family members and so on. You send out a signal. They usually talk about signal politics. The signal this government sends out, and you're in the government, is a little bit: So what? Now you've squeezed in a sentence about zero vision when it comes to death. We'd love to see something a little more. We have asked the committee for an investigation and an evaluation. The letter we received last week from the most prominent researchers in Sweden in the field, which is by far the most prominent and the best people who work with these issues, addresses this type of question. I would like the Green Party to push this issue in various ways, because it is important. It has once been the Green Party's question. Now it doesn't seem to be. We need to get those deaths down. You have to ensure that you have good treatment in Sweden. We haven't. So much can be done. You can do good things from a good strategy that should have been on the table, and at the same time you can have an investigation. I don't really understand the problem. Both would be a wonderful combo, I think.
i-ba8d79b9485d3e52-821	Madam President, I would like I'll be very clear. I say both. We need to get this investigation started. The information I have received is that the government is currently looking at the investigation directives to launch that investigation. That's great, check it out. That's great. Better late than never, we can obviously both think. Nevertheless, we need to start the second work. It is to get Sweden's regions to work with the zero vision for drug-related mortality and bring it down. They're still sitting on the keys here. It is a question of increasing access to, among other things, the LARO treatment. However, it is within that group that the high mortality rate is. You don't really have to wait for this. It is also a fight that I see the Green Party taking when we are in the majority in every budget negotiation. This is the basic part of Swedish health care. Care should be given as needed. If you have co-morbidity, addiction and your addiction also applies to opioids, it is an extremely high mortality rate. Then you should have care in parity to that need.
i-ba8d79b9485d3e52-825	Madam President, I would like It was very interesting to listen to Nicklas Attefjord's description of reality in Sweden and the world. There I could probably sign up for most of it. But then one is surprised when one hears the consistency with the ANDTS strategy, which clearly does not contain any concrete proposals at all, despite the fact that the Social Affairs Committee has pushed ahead and the Riksdag has made decisions. It would be interesting to hear what the Green Party's view is on two of the most central issues. One is about: Who should have the main responsibility for treating people with addiction diseases? Sweden is different. Virtually no other country has put it on social services. Everyone else sees it as part of the healthcare system where the health care system should have the main responsibility for treatment and investigation, although of course you should have support from the social services. I wonder: What is the view of the Green Party? Is it the case that Sweden should allow health care to be given the primary responsibility with the support of social services? Or should it be like today that you view it as something social services can do? The second crucial question is how to look at the evaluation of Swedish drug legislation. Since 1987, we have had legislation that criminalises addiction. If you are addicted to drugs, it is criminal in Sweden. We don't know how that law has broken. It may be that it explains why we have relatively few who are addicted to drugs. But that may also explain why we have an extremely high excess mortality rate. Does the Green Party believe that the 1987 law should be evaluated so that we can find an answer to the question whether it explains the death of nearly 1 000 people or whether it explains why, thankfully, we have quite a few drug addictions?
i-EbDxqGfzKpY3N5SxmRM79N	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr W Jonsson, for the questions. I'll start with the first question about the headship. The Green Party's view on this is that it is health care that should be the main focus of addiction care. Well, that's a conclusion you can draw, isn't it? There is now an investigation to sort out everything that needs to be sorted out to move such a headship. Then there are parts of addiction care where social services will continue to play an important role. To get out of an addiction, you need help with debt adjustment, housing and a number of other things that social services should still be the reasonable tool or interface to ensure that you get help. On the question of evaluation, I spoke in my speech and also in a few lines about our view on the part of the Green Party. Personally, I am very keen to have such an evaluation. We have clear congressional decisions to make an evaluation of the current legislation. That is the party's line in this. We're government bases, and you're a partnership party to the government. I assume that we can have such a discussion and have a good and clear investigation in order to evaluate the current legislation.
i-ba8d79b9485d3e52-836	Madam President, I would like The investigation that's being conducted should look at the co-morbidity. It does not have a specific mission to actually make the changes needed for the regions to take over the responsibility for treatment. Then it is a shared responsibility for many diseases, not least in psychiatry. It's about dementia and so on. But the main responsibility should still lie with the regions. It's a medical condition. I'll be a little more clear about evaluation. A united parliament has said that it should evaluate drugs policy. The Swedish Public Health Agency also believes that we should look at the criminalisation legislation from 1987/ 88 – SPR and a number of prominent experts and researchers in the field. The strange thing is that both the responsible ministers, the Minister for Justice and the Minister for Social Affairs, say: No, we should not evaluate that at all. I would like to stress that there is a need for evaluation. So you don't even want an answer to the question: Is this why we have an excess mortality in Sweden? Nearly 1 000 young people may die because of shortcomings in drug policy. Nevertheless, I interpret Mrs Attefjord's reply as meaning that the Green Party also wants the 1987/ 88 law on the criminalisation of drug use to be evaluated. If that is the case, it is all the more remarkable that a government decision and a government minister are being released, which actually says: No, that door is closed. We do not want to find out at all. But I hope that I interpret Nicklas Attefjord correctly, that he actually stands up for this and that the government ensures that the investigation is set up and then looks at the answer: What is the explanation for the excess mortality?
i-ba8d79b9485d3e52-841	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr W. Jonsson, for the clarified questions. The information I have is, as I said, that the government is now looking at how to deal with the committee initiative from which this issue originates, about evaluating the current drugs policy. I haven't seen any ready-made writings or suggestions for writing. I haven't heard any names of any people who will lead the investigation and so on. I'm not in the government. However, I am part of a party that is the basis for the government. There are questions about what the various ministers have said and have not said in various contexts linked to this. I think it is more reasonable to ask them a simple question or an interpellation about how they intend to take a clear decision from the Parliament on this matter.
i-ba8d79b9485d3e52-843	Madam President, I would like The assistant nurse is the basis of care for the elderly. The nurse is also an important part of health care and LSS. Through personal care and a holistic approach, care can be characterized by dignity and respect. The assistant nurse's work is important, and the skills must be secured. That is why the Government's proposal is welcome. The Government proposes in the bill we are considering today that a protected professional title be introduced and that only those who have proof from the responsible authority if this is allowed to use it in the professional activities of health care and in activities under the Social Services Act and the Act on Support and Service to Certain Persons with Disabilities. The Christian Democrats support this. It is good and important that nurses are now given a protected professional title. This makes it clearer what competence someone with assistant title has and what tasks a assistant nurse may perform. Madam President, I would like The forthcoming decision, tomorrow, is important for all the activities concerned, and it is particularly important for elderly care. For a long time it has been enough to like older people to work in the care of the elderly. That's not enough. Relevant training and skills must be provided. By now becoming a protected professional title, the profession is strengthened. This will also strengthen care for the elderly. It also requires that we receive equivalent education around the country so that upper secondary school education as well as municipal adult education for care provides relevant knowledge wherever it is conducted. It will take some to ensure this, and therefore the proposal for a longer transitional period is reasonable. The same applies to all the activities governed by agreements between, for example, a municipality and a contractor. A transitional period is needed in order to make the necessary changes. There needs to be changes so that we clarify the assistant nurse's assignment and value the profession better than today. The bill can contribute to this, but more is needed. Madam President, I would like The working conditions of elderly workers need to be improved. For example, unwanted part-times and shared tours need to be removed. That is why I am very pleased that Parliament has decided on special money in an extraordinary amending budget to improve the working conditions of the elderly staff – this as a result of an initiative by the Christian Democrats, the Left Party and the Moderates who won the House's approval. Resources are available for municipalities this year, and the proposal states that there will be sustainable money in the coming years. Now remains to be seen how the government manages this in the autumn budget proposal. There must be an increase in the level and perseverance of money for elderly care, both to improve working conditions and to strengthen medical skills. Madam President, I would like According to the bill, the National Board of Health and Welfare is entitled to charge a fee for examining the application for proof of the right to use the professional title nurse. The Government intends to return with regard to the fee. The Christian Democrats are concerned that the fee to be charged in connection with the application should be set too high to prevent the nurse from applying. The Christian Democrats therefore believe that the government should ensure that the fee charged is low enough to enable each assistant nurse to apply and pay the fee. Some consultation bodies have the same concerns. The Employment Service stresses that it is important that the fee is not so high that it creates a threshold for applying for the trial. Malmö Municipality expresses doubts about a fee as it may provide a lower incentive for permanent employees to apply. Unfortunately, there was not a majority in the committee for this announcement, so I would like to ask for the approval of reservation number 7. Madam President, I would like The assistant nurse's competence is clarified by the forthcoming decision. We need to take more steps to keep those who are currently working as nurses and to make more people want to become nurses. However, this is an important part that will benefit the activities for which both municipalities and regions are responsible. It's a good decision.
i-ba8d79b9485d3e52-856	Madam President, I would like We are now debating the report by the Committee on Social Affairs, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the strengthening of skills in health and social care – regulating the profession of nurse. We Moderates support the proposal for a protected professional title for nurses, which in practice means that only those who have proof of the right to use the professional title nurse may make use of the title in the professional activities of the health care sector and in activities under the Social Services Act and the Act on Support and Service to Certain Persons with Disabilities. Proof of the right to use the professional title of a nurse shall be issued on application to a person who has an education with a focus on health care from upper secondary school or municipal adult education or who has acquired an equivalent qualification. A person lacking the proof shall also not be allowed to use a title that may be confused with the professional title of a nurse. Madam President, I would like This is a welcome proposal which I know many of my old colleagues have longed for. Especially with experience in the pandemic, care for the elderly and the assistant nurse's role have been the focus. The responsibility and professional role of the nurses will be made clearer with this bill, which is a good thing. Madam President, I would like My first summer job was at the age of 18. During the summer, I started working as a nurse at the old age home. I didn't have any medical training, I attended financial education in high school. I told you I wasn't supposed to be in medical care. I really enjoyed the retirement home but felt that I needed more knowledge to feel safe in carrying out my tasks. A few years ago, I read on to the assistant nurse, something I never regretted. The idea was to read on to a nurse shortly, but it took many years, Madam President, before I took the step and trained as a nurse. As assistant nurse in the municipality in the 90's – so long ago – I had to perform many medical work via delegation. At the same time, I felt I had time to sit and talk for a while, and I thought I had the best of worlds. I was extremely proud to work as a nurse and still think it is one of the finest but also one of the most difficult things there is. Working as a nurse is complex. You should be someone else's hands, support without taking over and always starting from the individual's needs. There is also a need for understanding, empathy, language skills and expertise in diagnosis, treatment and an enormous amount of medical competence. Recruitment needs are high both now and in the future. In order to meet the staff needs not only of nurses but also of all health care employees, digital solutions are needed, for example, which can be relieved so that time is released for human contact. Madam President, I would like With a protected professional title for nurses, I am convinced that the status will be increased and that the attractiveness of the profession will increase. It is no longer up to the employer to decide who is trained as a nurse. This proposal requires proof of the right to use the professional title. The certificate is issued by the National Board of Health and Welfare. The foundation will be the educational content of the upper secondary school's health and social care programme. This will simply increase patient safety. Madam President, I would like We Moderates support the bill. I support reservation 2, which means that the government should ensure that nursing students can receive temporary employment as a nurse. During the summer months, many nursing students are employed as nurses, which is of course good for summer planning, but it is also important to have the experience gained by the students by working as assistant nurses in municipal care or in a hospital. Madam President, I would like Having said that, a protected professional title is an important step in making the nursing profession more attractive and patient-proof. However, there is more to be done. The Moderates want to see that the health care staff are allowed to work with what they are trained to do. In order for a nurse or nurse to have a full professional life, it is important that the working environment, working hours and workload can be affected. The Moderates also believe that it must be possible to develop the way care works so that all employees, regardless of their profession, feel that they can participate in influencing their and their colleagues' work situation in a positive direction. To have the opportunity to develop within their profession is, I believe, an important step forward in getting staff to stay and be good ambassadors. Having said that, a protected professional title for nurses is a welcome step in the right direction to make the nursing profession more attractive and skills-enhancing. However, there is more to be done and more to be desired, Madam President.
i-ba8d79b9485d3e52-868	Madam President, I would like Today, then, we are going to take a position on the government's proposal that assistant nurse should become a so-called protected professional title. This will mean that those who want to call themselves a nurse will have to apply for a special certificate of employment from the National Board of Health and Welfare, and to obtain this protected professional title you must have completed a health and social care education according to a national standard. As we all know, there have been all kinds of training in the past, from just a few weeks to a three-year high school programme in health care. This legislative proposal also clarifies the importance of nurses in the quality of care for the elderly and health care. Anyone should not be able to call themselves a nurse or be able to be replaced by a person without the corresponding competence. Madam President, I would like It should be remembered that assistant nurse is one of Sweden's most common professions and forms the basis for the quality of Swedish care. Not least during the pandemic, the importance of the nurses' work has been made visible when they were in the front line to save the lives and health of the elderly. They have had an extremely difficult job during the pandemic where they were largely left alone to deal with the crisis situation, as the Corona Commission has also stated. Madam President, I would like All other Nordic countries have regulated the profession of assistant nurse. Here, Sweden stands out as the only country where assistant nurse is completely unregulated, both in terms of title and work content. We Swedish democrats would have preferred to have seen the assistant profession become a licence profession, just as it is in Denmark. It has also become the most popular vocational training of all educations. However, we can see that a protected professional title can be an appropriate regulation of the profession. It is a first step in raising the status of the profession but also in strengthening the quality of care for the elderly and healthcare. That's why we support most of the bill. However, we see some shortcomings that we believe should be addressed. We believe that the application would have worked better if the Government's proposal had contained some of the measures that we have proposed in our accompanying motion. Unlike the government, the Swedish Democrats believe that regulation of the profession with a protected professional title should include a review of both competence and suitability of the professional. It should be remembered that nurses work closely with patients and patients, and therefore suitability is of particular importance. The Government also considers that proof of the right to use the professional title assistant should not be rescinded. It is believed that the consequences for a nurse who misbehaves her job should instead result in labour law measures such as dismissal or relocation. Here we do not share the government's assessment. We believe that labour law rules are not sufficient in cases where a assistant nurse fails to perform her duties. After dismissal or dismissal, the assistant nurse can thus start working with another employer, which may involve continued risk of mismanagement that may affect patient safety. We also believe that extracts from the load register similar to what is done for the licence professions should be required. It should also be possible to withdraw the proof if it has been wrongly obtained, for example by means of forged certificates or certificates. Madam President, I would like I request the approval of reservation 5.
i-ba8d79b9485d3e52-877	Madam President, I would like This decision that the Riksdag will take tomorrow is a fairly important decision, both for elderly care in Sweden and for health care. For the nurses carry a large part of this activity on their shoulders. It is the most common occupational group in Sweden with nearly 200 000 nurses, and everything we can do to strengthen this profession we will do. That assistant nurse becomes a protected professional title is a very important step. Of course, as many other speakers have said here in the speaker's chair, this is not enough; there is much more that could be done. Among other things, it is sad that the government does not make proposals to also make sure that the requirement for nursing education is tightened up. The basis for obtaining this protected professional title will be that you have completed a nursing education within the framework of upper secondary school or university of applied sciences. Here, of course, the Swedish National Agency for Education should have been given the task of issuing a regulation that clearly states what the content of the education should be. But the government did not want to suggest that. There is also the question of the levy. In a situation where we want as many of Sweden's nearly 200 000 professional nurses to actually collect proof of the protected professional title, the fee should be set at 0 SEK. That's the professional group worth it. It would be a good way on the part of the state to really encourage as many people as possible to validate their knowledge and ensure that they obtain the necessary training to obtain the protected professional title. Then it is important to go further and look at the nurses' opportunity to get a specialist education. There is a great need, not least in the care of the elderly, for nurses with specialist skills. Here, further steps should be taken to make it easier for nurses, just as we do for nurses, to acquire specialist skills. In addition, a better working environment must be created. There's a lot we can watch here. In fact, one thing that is quite unreasonable is that many nurses have a first-line manager who is not responsible for 15 or 20 people, but for sometimes as many as 40, 45, 50 or 55 people. Ensuring that there are reasonable management areas in the care of the elderly is also important. Finally, Madam President, we have the positive development in the form of the new main agreement which allows a nurse to further train – at least take the first year – as a nurse with the support of CSN. There is much more that can be done to support this extremely important occupational group in elderly care and health care, but this is an important step. I agree with all the reservations expressed by the Center Party, but I only support those which I think are the most important, namely reservation 3. Regulation should regulate the training of nurses so that it is equivalent throughout the country.
i-ba8d79b9485d3e52-885	Madam President, I would like I would like to send a message to all nurses in the care of the elderly who have carried Sweden through the pandemic and for your wonderful work. This is particularly true in elderly care, where it has been particularly tough. There was no protective equipment in the first place. There were no national stocks, and the regions responded in much the same way as in Lorry – and I didn't think of that- when it appeared that there were no regional stocks either. It's been tough. The decision we're going to make tomorrow is a good one. It is also wonderful to hear all parties, from right to left, talk about the nurse's working conditions, that they should not have shared tours, that they should be permanent employees and so on. It's a step forward. There will be a shortage of trained nurses in the future. In order for the supply of skills to be secure in the long term, the profession needs to become more attractive. This is one way to make it more attractive. Madam President, I would like The Left Party wants medical and elderly care personnel to be trained and competent for their mission. Regulation is needed to ensure that care is more equal and that regional and municipal variations are reduced. We must also catch up with regard to care for the elderly in our Nordic neighbours. In February 2017, researchers at the Department of Social Work at Stockholm University published a new report on working conditions for the elderly. Assistant nurses were interviewed in Denmark, Finland, Norway and Sweden. The report shows extremely significant changes in Swedish care for the elderly. The number of helpers met by a home worker during a working day had increased significantly. The room for manoeuvre of staff had been reduced. One felt that one's work was much more psychologically and physically heavy and more time-pressed. It has to get better. I very much hope that after the pandemic we can continue to develop the working environment for nurses in both elderly care and health care. It's important. The Left Party agrees with Kommunal, which states in its referral that the profession of assistant nurse should be regulated by protected title and reserve of duties. Furthermore, we agree with Kommunal that a way to increase patient safety and influence the quality of healthcare and care in a positive way would be to require the lowest level of nursing training for those performing tasks under the Health Care Act. It would also allow quality assurance of care and care. The number of nurses in municipal activities has decreased while the number of carers has increased. I don't think that's optimistic. We have to reverse that trend. The risk is that the needs will be followed up by unskilled staff and that it will have a negative impact on the quality of care and the supply of skills. We don't want to be there. Regulation of the assistant nurse's duties would probably create incentives for employers to hire more nurses and for the individual to continue their education. Regulating the profession of assistant nurse through protected title and job reservations must be seen as a long-term way of improving quality. Building a well-functioning healthcare and care system must be based on a desire to invest in and acquire adequate skills. There is a need for clear legal conditions in which nurses are given independence and responsibility to carry out certain health tasks. The study Strengthened competence in healthcare and care proposes to give a state authority the task of validating competence and give a special authorisation to the National Board of Education to determine the content of the national professional package for nurse. The bill states that there is no reason to entrust a state authority with the task of validating competence for a defined period. Several consultation bodies have supported this, and the Left Party, like Kommunal, believes that there should be a national standard for validation of the profession of nurse. A government authority shall be mandated to validate the competence. Madam President, I would like A long-term national legal system for validation is needed in order to avoid different assessments around Sweden on various educations. It should be easy and legally secure for individuals to apply for proof of the right to use the professional title assistant. A State authority should be given the task of validating the profession of assistant nurse. I therefore request the approval of reservation 4.
i-ba8d79b9485d3e52-897	Madam President, I would like We Social Democrats are in favour of the proposal in the report. Finally, this important reform is here! The assistant nurse must become and be a protected professional title. Being a nurse is not just being a nurse, but being a nurse is being an educated and safe professional. Nurses are important to our well-being, i.e. those who work in health care, psychiatry, care and care for the elderly. It is about a large and important occupational group in the service of welfare. It has taken time, but the greater the joy today. I have met many nurses over the years, and this is something many have wanted and longed for. It will increase the status of the profession, and it will increase the quality and safety of care. It will become clearer what skills are available at the workplace, and I think it will attract more people to supplement their training or to train as a nurse. This creates greater security for both relatives and users, patients, pensioners and others who come into contact with nurses to know what knowledge they have. It will also be a better working environment when you as a staff know what you can expect from your colleagues in terms of skills and what tasks they can perform. In these times of a pandemic, we have learned that the continuity and competence of staff are of great importance. Madam President, I would like The National Board of Health and Welfare needs time to change its organisation. The employer needs his time and the individual needs to prepare for the change of legislation. The new law will take effect from 1 July 2023. Those who have completed their secondary education can apply to the National Board of Health and Welfare for a certificate of employment. The basis for the protected professional title will be the new educational content of the upper secondary school health care programme or previous upper secondary education or municipal adult education in health and long-term care. There will be transitional rules and a transitional period between 2023 and 2033. It is good for those who are currently on permanent contracts, but also for those who are on temporary contracts, when they have the opportunity to complete their training. Thus, with long experience, they can get their knowledge validated in order to become nurses. But we know that with the transitional rules validation will be reduced, because then it will be that in order to be able to get the professional title assistant you must have the right skills. The deadline for applying for the professional certificate on the basis of the transitional rules is 30 June 2033. I know that many people today are thinking of retiring in four or five years' time, but if they are in permanent employment, they can continue to work and retire after that year. They may continue to hold their professional title as assistant nurse if they are employed at the time of the change of law. Madam President, I would like Many who are employed as a nurse have an education, but not all. Municipal is the trade union that organizes nurses. Of their members, approximately 85 per cent of the nurses have vocational training and thus the opportunity to have their title as assistant nurse protected and proof of it from the National Board of Health and Welfare after the amendment of the Act on July 2023. I understand that some people in this House are wondering how high the fee for the professional certificate will be. The government is working on it and will return. For a nurse today it costs 700 SEK to get their ID. I hope that there will be a lower fee for nurses or, preferably, that it will not cost anything at all. There is a reservation in the report about the challenge for nursing students not to be able to be employed as nurses. That's what happens when the assistant nurse becomes a protected professional title. If you're not a nurse, you can't be hired as such. But we Social Democrats believe that the employer will find good names so that even those who are nursing students can get employment as a substitute during holiday periods. This has been done in the past with other professions. Today, it is very important to hire those who are trained. We know and have heard from previous speakers that too many people do not have relevant education that works in health care. To call yourself a nurse, you have to be a nurse. Otherwise, it will not be allowed to call yourself a nurse or something similar when the law has entered into force in July 2023. To conclude, Madam President, I would like to thank all the nurses out there, both for all the work in the pandemic and for the fight to make assistant nurses a protected professional title. As a municipal and social democrat, I am particularly pleased that the nurses have succeeded in their efforts to obtain a protected professional title. It is proof of trade union-political cooperation, and I am extremely pleased and proud of that. It is nurses who, through their membership of the Communist Party and as members of the Social Democrats, have influenced so much that they have actually been able to do through a motion to their trade union that became a congressional decision and then a motion to our party that approved it. And now the government has tabled this bill, which we will vote in favour of tomorrow at 1 p.m. I will end with this, Madam President: a nurse is not just anyone. A nurse is an educated pro. This will be good for all of us, because it increases the quality and safety of all of us. I wish you all, both here and you who listen, a pleasant summer.
i-ba8d79b9485d3e52-917	Madam President, I would like Finally! All of us in this House are pleased that we are now getting regulation of an important profession in health care, care and social services, namely the nursing profession. We have 183 000 nurses in Sweden with varying training and 150 000 who serve as assistant nurse. There, experience and education vary a lot, but most people love their job and do it to the best of their ability. This isn't an easy job. It's a complicated job. It is done alone with great responsibility under time pressure, and it requires knowledge and competence. It also requires contact with other professions with their experiences in order to provide the home care, care and care that the care recipients need and are entitled to in a welfare country such as Sweden. It is not only the caretakers that are involved, but also to a very large extent relatives, who in Sweden carry a very heavy burden with tasks that they should not really have to perform. I saw the other day a video aimed at summer Vikings in health care, mainly schoolchildren. Those who appeared in the video had experience of being uneducated substitutes and gave all the advice they could. It connects a lot to what Ulrika Jörgensen raised from her experience. The advice was: Ask, ask, ask the supervisor anything you can think of! Soon you'll be standing there alone with a very big, heavy responsibility. The counselors witnessed the joy they had in the work but how lonely it could be in crisis situations and how it felt to go home and feel that they could not, because they lacked knowledge and experience, do the best for the caretaker and the relatives. The responsibilities imposed on these substitutes are therefore very heavy, and we cannot go on doing so. We must provide more people with the necessary training. There's a lot to be done. Here comes the National Board of Health and Welfare, the Swedish National Agency for Education, the Inspection for Health and Welfare and others with their experiences and requirements. Judgement is required. How is the caretaker? What might be needed? Care and care skills are required here. Medical competence is also required to some extent. It requires knowledge about aging and how different it may be. We are different as individuals and add years to life in different ways. There is a need for knowledge about diagnosis and drug treatment. Can the symptoms that Kalle or Anna show are a drug complication? And it is not least a question of response. The chemistry can be so different. It may also be that you fit to work with one care provider and his relatives but not with another. And it requires an understanding of the situation of the caretaker and relatives – to be able to put yourself in their place. What is it like to be in Anna's or Gustav's situation? And then it's teamwork and learning about the new medical technology that comes into people's living rooms and bedchambers and is to be handled. And it's about documenting. So this is a complicated job, and it is the basis of care and care, not only of year-long people, but also of people who need assistance and care. I am therefore a little worried about this with care for the elderly – that we exclude others who need the same kind of care as year-long. But we very much welcome today's decision. It is, it may seem, a long transition period, and it requires that you can train as an assistant or otherwise within the framework of your position in order to obtain the professional title of nurse. If we do this together with other efforts that are on the way to improve the quality of care for the elderly and care in general, we should dare to add years to life. I believe that this will be possible. Not least covid-19 has pointed out the shortcomings we have, and I see it as a blowtorch so that in the future we can feel confident that we have a care worthy of the name of year-rich and other care recipients.
i-ba8d79b9485d3e52-929	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved and, as many speakers have said before me, this is an important decision. Nurses are the spine or bone structure or what you now want to use for body parts to explain the importance of this profession within Swedish healthcare and care. I myself have worked in the field of habilitation or care – it may have changed my name since I worked. What you are struck by is how complex a service like this is and how few words this is often described in job ads, job descriptions and so on. It's about seeing and identifying the needs, reading into a situation and feeling a mood in the room, managing different social situations and so on. These are all things that an experienced nurse does in milliseconds. If one were to play with the idea of replacing nurses with artificial intelligence or robots, it is knowledge that it would take years of programming and lots of computer power to get anywhere near. All these are qualities that most nurses have and things that they master with an admirable quality. Like many others, I would also like to express my special thanks to the many nurses who have performed some miracles this year and, I would say, have been part of piloting Sweden through the pandemic with that honour. Thank you very much for everything there! In addition to this and in addition to the introduction of a protected title, which is an important step in ensuring the quality of public welfare, I would also like to take the opportunity to highlight that the next important step is to work with the working environment and what I define as the sustainable working life. Here I think that one can also highlight some of the initiatives that the government has made in the past on, for example, the recovery bonus, which means that you can work locally to design and develop your work environment with different working time models. The government takes steps by step to strengthen the base in Swedish welfare. We have increased state subsidies for elderly care, for example. This means that nurses not only get one title but also more colleagues. This is very important, and it is a big and important initiative, which is long-term. I mentioned earlier the recovery bonus, that is to say, that we stimulate the work that can be done locally to strengthen the working environment and take steps towards a more sustainable working life. The latest step is now to decide on a protected professional title. These are important steps in developing Swedish public welfare. Finally, as I said, I would like to thank you very much and support the committee's proposal.
i-ba8d79b9485d3e52-936	Madam President, I would like Over the years, a person in my immediate vicinity has been forced to care for a number of times. I'd say it helped save her life. But with her she has many stories, negative experiences and testimony about unrest, irregularities and dealings. We have talked many times about the times she has been forced to take care of her. She has many times put me against the wall and held me to account, for something has to happen. When people are forced to be treated, they must be treated properly. It must be good care. Irregularities must not happen, and good treatment must be a fact. Over the years, in my many conversations and meetings with organisations and representatives from, for example, Tilia, and in conversations with, many young girls and boys, I have heard stories and testimonies of mistreatment, abuse, separation and belting that have not been done in a legally secure way, in a child-right way or simply in the right way. Not least through my role as a member of the Government of the State Department's Transparency Board, I know that many of the stories and testimonies that we receive reflect a reality that exists. It's a fact. The problems are real. Madam President, I would like To be treated under coercion is an extremely personal procedure. Often it is absolutely necessary and sometimes life-saving or life-decisive, but it is actually an operation that can be perceived as extremely offensive. It is therefore also carefully described in legislation how this can be done, and there are high demands on the application of the law on legal certainty for those who are treated under coercion. That is how it should be, of course. And if it is not clear enough in the legislation, we must change it. I am very pleased with the great commitment shown by the members of the Committee on Social Affairs on these issues. We need to take action and bring about change and improvement in this area. Madam President, I would like Recently, it has become increasingly clear that improvements in forced care are needed. This is an extremely important issue for myself, for the government and for the Social Democrats. The Committee on Social Affairs has also called the committee responsible on several occasions to get reports and to highlight concerns about issues and problems in the activities that have arisen, not least in the media. The committee has also addressed a number of announcements to the government on various improvements in the field of forced care. After all, today's debate is about the Social Affairs Committee wanting to address another announcement to the government about a review of compulsory care. As I said, it is gratifying that there is such a great deal of commitment to these issues in the committee's members. It's important, and it's necessary. The reason, Madam President, that we are not behind the announcement this time is not that we are suddenly not seeing the importance of overcoming the problems that exist, but simply that there is already an extensive work going on within the Government Office to review various parts of the compulsory care system. For example, only a few months ago, an announcement was made by the Riksdag that the Government will return to the Riksdag on 1 August this year with a letter containing an assessment of the efforts needed to ensure that the care of Sis' special youth homes is safe both for the young people placed and for the staff and that a placement will provide the young person with the necessary care and treatment. Madam President, I would like Security in Sis is extremely important. Many are the alarms that we have seen recently that affect both those who are cared for at Sis and those who work there. It is a matter of direct abuse, threats and violence, of escapes and of how both those who are cared for and the employees experience an absolutely unsustainable everyday life and situation. Closed youth care needs to be strengthened and improved. It is a priority both for me and for the government. It is also the case that the Government Office is now preparing proposals for a new and better LVU legislation, and the investigation mission on how to strengthen the principle of the best interests of the child when deciding on the cessation of compulsory care was presented on 10 March this year. With regard to the issues of strengthening the supervision and follow-up of child and youth psychiatry and how responsibility for care for co-morbidity in the form of mental illness combined with addiction disease can be gathered in a principal, the Riksdag has already announced to the Government, and the Government intends to submit a mission to Ivo during the year to strengthen the follow-up and supervision of psychiatry with a particular focus on child and youth psychiatry, forced care and forensic psychiatry. In addition, the Government decided in May this year on an investigation mission to a special investigator to review certain issues under the LPT, the Law on Psychotic Obsessive Care, and LRV, the Law on Legal Psychiatric Care, with the aim of further strengthening the perspective of children's rights, the rule of law and the safety of care for those who are enforced under LPT and LRV. In this respect, major and important work is already under way in many parts of the area of compulsory care in the Government Office. That is why, Madam President, although I am very pleased with the great commitment that the members of the Committee on Social Affairs have shown here today, it is difficult to agree to this announcement. I think the best thing is if the government can do what the Riksdag has already announced and have the opportunity to return to the questions before the Riksdag makes further announcements. Madam President, I would like Changes are needed in this area, but they need to be done properly and given the opportunity to achieve the best results. With this, I would like to endorse our reservation.
i-ba8d79b9485d3e52-950	Madam President, I would like We have all had our freedoms limited during this remarkable year. Around Europe we have seen people more or less locked into house arrest. Although it has not been so restrictive in Sweden, not least many elderly people suffered from involuntary isolation through, for example, the restraining order in elderly care. In short, we have all had a taste of what it is like when our fundamental human rights and freedoms are restricted or taken away from us. This report is largely concerned with legislation on how we allow different authorities or activities to restrict the fundamental rights of individuals or children – literally on what legal basis we lock in, in some cases Belts, that is to say strapping, children so that they cannot move either arms or legs or decide on separation, that is to say, the bureaucratic rewriting to isolate children. We have repeatedly been able to take note in the media of statements of abuse and abuse of children taken care of by various authorities, ranging from the closed child and youth psychiatry to municipal treatment centres and Sis-hem, i.e. the institutions of the State Department Board – all very serious. Madam President, I would like To deprive a child of its rights is never something that can or should be done with ease. The various professions and authorities that we grant this right need to submit to strict documentation requirements and transparency. In addition, we need to have a knowledge of children's rights and the Convention on the Rights of the Child. As legislators, we should make the highest demands on those who will take care of perhaps some of the most fragile we have in our society. It is therefore with confidence that I now look forward to the proposals that the government is making and preparing, where the emphasis is on strengthening children's rights and improving quality. Of course, much more could have been done by both this and previous governments in terms of strengthening children's rights, raising quality and increasing transparency. But I would like to say right now that I am genuinely concerned and full of hope for the commitment, not least, to children's rights that exists in the government, in the committee, in this debate and in the debate that we had last week. It is a commitment that I am convinced will result in stronger laws, stronger supervision, greater transparency and, finally, fewer children in care will suffer. From page 12 to page 20, there is a review of all ongoing processes and work initiated by the Riksdag and the Government on the various issues. I therefore share the view of the majority of the committee and the government that improvements are needed in compulsory care, which is now under preparation. To illustrate the work that is going on, here is a small sample. According to an announcement from the Riksdag, the Government will return to the Riksdag on 1 August 2021 with an assessment of the efforts needed to ensure that healthcare in Sis' special youth homes is safe for both staff and young people placed, and the placements will provide the young person with the necessary care and treatment. Since last Friday, there have been referrals to the Government's inquiry into the principle of the best interests of the child, an issue that was raised in last week's debate on the Chamber. This issue is now also dealt with in special order by the Riksdag, which has set up its own investigation. Furthermore, the government has an ongoing investigation into child and youth psychiatry, bup, led by Peter Almgren. In addition, the Government has also announced that in 2021 it will submit a mission to Ivo to strengthen the follow-up and supervision of psychiatry with a particular focus on children and youth psychiatry. Important pieces of the puzzle are also the investigation into coordinated interventions in co-morbidity and the investigation presented by the government to further strengthen the perspective of child law, the rule of law and the safety of care or more precisely the care concerned by the law on psychiatric care, also known as LPT, and the law on forensic psychiatric care, LRV. Finally, I would also like to mention the government's mission in November 2020 to Ivo to strengthen the supervision of social services' handling of matters relating to support and protection for children and young people. Overall, the Green Party believes that no further announcement is needed on this issue. I therefore support our reservation on this matter.
i-ba8d79b9485d3e52-962	Madam President, I would like When it's weird at home, when you feel very bad, when it's messed up for a long time and a lot of support and help in different ways isn't enough, forced care in some form can be considered. When you get into community care, it should get better. The Committee on Social Affairs initially notes the following in the report that we are discussing now: According to the committee, compulsory care should not primarily be about protecting the individual or the general public, but about providing the individual with good, safe, effective and effective care. ..................................................... So it is the one placed on the basis of law that is at stake. We're going to make it better with compulsory care. You're supposed to be better off with the help of community care. But that's not always the case. That is why the majority of the committee has agreed to an announcement on a major review of the whole of compulsory care. We have had good investigations that touched on parts of this, and the government is leaving new assignments to the authorities. But there is a need for a comprehensive review. We should have better forced care, and the Committee on Social Affairs would like to contribute to that. Madam President, I would like Obsessive care is intervention, and it is essential that all relevant measures have been taken before compulsory care becomes necessary. But when forced care in some form becomes necessary, it needs to be good. The pre-location investigation must be legally secure, reliable and evidence-based. The staff shall have sufficient competence. There must also be a wide range of competences that respond to the needs of the person placed in forced care. Staff must also receive continuous, high-quality training. The time when you are placed should contain care and treatment in an appropriate way, and if you are in need of schooling, it is of the utmost importance that it works. The time in forced care needs to be followed up properly. Aftercare is equally urgent. Cooperation between all the relevant activities is particularly important for this to be a good thing. Supervision must work. One should be able to trust that abuses of various kinds reported are addressed and investigated. One should be able to trust Ivo, who is the supervisory authority responsible. Madam President, I would like This may seem like a long wish list. It is not a wish list; it is a necessary requirement description. The Social Affairs Committee has been working for a long time on issues relating to children and young people as well as adults. It is a matter of co-morbidity, where, following the announcement of the Riksdag, we have now received a government inquiry that works for coherent care for people with addiction and other severe mental illness. It is about children who are subjected to violence and threats and other things that require the social services to take binding measures to protect the child. The Committee on Social Affairs has contributed to the strengthening of legislation, and more is under way. In April, there was once again a united committee calling on the government to significantly improve the operation of Sis, the National Board of Institutional Affairs. The Government will return to the Riksdag with proposals for measures at the beginning of August. However, there is also a need for a broad review of compulsory care. The proposal supported by the majority of the committee means this very thing. The government should review the entire care chain in a broad review of forced care. Madam President, I would like The rights of children and young people must be strengthened. Children and young people placed under law are covered by the same Convention on the Rights of the Child. There is no exception if you are at HVB or at one of Sis youth homes. Children's best interests must be put first, always. We can't afford to lose a child. Every child counts. The proposal for an investigation and legislation that the Committee on Social Affairs wants to see is an important piece of the puzzle. I noted that when we discussed issues relating to social services in Thursday's chamber debate, Member of Parliament, Nicklas Attefjord, said that in the investigation that the government itself has carried out, and which is called Little Heart, we must listen to what the referral bodies, especially children's rights organisations, say. Since then, I've been able to read what they think. Bris, Save the Children, Unicef and others are clear. The government's investigation proposal is not enough. It's not good enough. It must put the best interests of the child more clearly, so that it becomes a person of its own in the legislation as well. I look forward to the decisions of the government to ensure that it is the committee's way of going to strengthen the best interests of the child in all situations. Finally, Madam President, the Christian Democrats support the committee's proposal. I therefore propose that the same be approved.
i-ba8d79b9485d3e52-979	Madam President, I would like I should like to begin by apologising to the President and Parliament. I need to talk considerably more than six minutes, and I was far too late trying to extend my speaking time. That of which the heart is very full is very difficult to make in just six minutes, and I should have understood that from the beginning. Madam President, I would like There are incredibly many important issues that need to be worked on, but few things that feel so incredibly important as improving opportunities and conditions for our children. I come from a party that is working very clearly to make sure that it does not matter where you come from but that it is where you are going that should mean something. So much in Sweden is so amazing, and the opportunities are so many. But not for everyone. For children who grow up in dysfunctional families, children who are placed when the home does not work and children who grow up in places with institutional character are not always doing as well. For them, we have a responsibility and a duty to ensure that society is strong when it needs to. Madam President, I would like Just like this, I began my speech in Thursday's debate on social services and children's issues, and so I will begin today. The focus is exactly the same: children who are in distress, children who need the protection of society, children and young people who are being forced to take care of because their families and their home conditions have such great problems that the child or young person is at risk of lasting harm and harm. In this situation, the young person needs support, love, security, care, and faith in the future. The home or nurturing institution you come to should offer just this and not be a place where you are subjected to abuse and feel less and less well, where a care is a word without meaning and where you quickly understand that you are a person without value For these children it is a struggle to come back and find their human dignity and self-confidence. Many of them never do, and for too many of them it ends really badly. In today's Expressen, for example, you can read about Elin, whose family home father raped her. The man's parole officer was his friend, who himself was charged with assisting in the rape of children and confessed that he also had sex with Elin. It's so disgusting that I don't have words. Those who were to be safe were turned into perpetrators and criminals. Madam President, I would like There is so much in Sweden that is crazy, and far too much of it is about children. Surveys by SVT show, for example, HVB homes and Sis homes that are supposed to offer care but that instead lack care worthy of the name and where abuse takes place, between young people but also by staff – again: those who are supposed to be safe but who seriously abuse their position and trust. Is it strange that these already fragile young people lose all trust and confidence in society as an institution and in adult people? Madam President, I would like I am very pleased that today we are six parties that support this report and the committee's proposal, to which I strongly urge approval. All parties except the government parties are behind it. It is not the first time and probably not the last. In this case, a broad review is important. My friend and colleague Juno Blom usually say that there is a need for an accident commission for youth services, and I agree. We need a complete debate on these issues. A broad review, Madam President, of compulsory care and the law on the care of young people should, in my view and that of the Moderates, cover all aspects of the care chain, from the investigation and the proposal for a decision that includes compulsory care to evaluation and follow-up systems. Investigations that form the basis of forced care must meet the requirements of legal certainty, objectivity and reliability. Guidelines and procedures for handling should be included in this review, as well as regular training of staff who come into contact at different levels with the child or adult being forced. Science, objectivity, reliability and legal certainty should characterise Swedish compulsory care and should be the starting point of a review. Quality, both quality indicators and evaluations thereof, should be included in this broad review, which should also be based on evidence-based methodologies. In addition, a review of specific competences should be included, when healthcare is to be discontinued and how preventive measures are included and should be developed. The review should also cover the requirements that children, young people and adults can impose on health care and how the target group's right to health care can be met. This is particularly true of targeted interventions in the field of mental health, as according to the National Board of Health and Welfare, among other things, there is almost five times the mortality rate for children and young people who have been placed compared to other children and young people. In addition, there is a sharp increase in prescription of psychopharmaceuticals, as well as over-representation of both self-harm and suicide attempts. Between a quarter and a third of all children placed in family homes have at least one psychiatric diagnosis. Madam President, I would like In addition, issues such as burden-sharing and interprofessional cooperation, agreements and cooperation agreements, review of the rights of different actors and the possibility of shouldering responsibility for coercive care, and evaluation of existing systems for monitoring and developing possible new ones. Finally, a broad review should emphasise how children and young people are to be more involved in decisions and care. Madam President, I would like I was talking in my last debate about the Social Affairs Committee's journey that we started last year. We Moderates presented a proposal for a committee initiative in March based on the terrible incident with the girl we got to know as a little heart, little Esmeralda in Norrköping. This has resulted, among other things, in two legislative proposals that came into force on 1 March this year. However, it has also resulted in several broken-out reports and has been followed by proposals for committee initiatives from other parties. Today's report is precisely a so-called broken-out report from the Social Services and Children's Affairs report. Its foundation is a collective support for the motion demands of five parties that a comprehensive review of Swedish forced care must take place. These are motion requests from us Moderates, from the Liberals, from the Swedish Democrats, from the Left Party and from the Green Party. These claims have also been supported by the KD and the Center. Then one might think that we are seven parties behind this, but that is not the case. No, the Green Party has chosen to opt out of its own proposals. Yes, you have heard correctly: there are proposals in this report that come from the Green Party, but they do not stand up for them, but instead reserve themselves against the whole report. I think it makes sense for the Green Party representative to explain what has been planned when you do not stand up for your own proposals, which are also very much in line with the proposals we have put forward by the other parties. I think the more we are, the stronger we stand. But I note that the Green Party unfortunately does not seem to be fighting against the Social Democrats. Madam President, I would like We are many parties in the Swedish parliament that are working to make children's rights and opportunities possible and confirmed, but we have a large and government-supporting party that shows with all the clarity that this is not the most important issue for the party, nor the second most important – well, not very important at all actually. It's been six lost years for the children with the Red Green Government. The investigation on forced care that came in 2015 and was initiated by the alliance government was put in the drawer as well as several other investigations. The proposals and proposals have shone with their absence. A few days ago, I was asked whether I could explain the government's and the minister's lack of interest in issues relating to vulnerable children. I did not have an answer, but I hope the representative of the Government will have it in today's debate. There have been both investigations and proposals. Why did nothing happen until we Moderates laid down a committee initiative with three sharp legislative proposals in March 2020? And why is the Social Affairs Committee being forced to do its own investigation of the lex Lilla heart because the government's own does not measure up? Why did they present a poor investigation that lacks important analyses and lacks the child perspective that six out of eight parties in the Swedish Parliament want to see? I have asked questions in debate after debate without receiving an answer. Perhaps another representative of the Social Democrats can give me answers. Madam President, I would like Neither I, nor the Moderates nor our colleagues in the Committee on Social Affairs will give us until there is a profound change in the way children are treated, of the care, care and treatment they receive and of the education and influence they have. It is a struggle that will continue until we reach it all the way. ( THIRD VICE TALMANN: I note that the honourable Member's registered speaking time was severely underestimated. The honourable Member used twice as much time as was reported. I note that it was informed about this initially, but it is a tip for the future to think about this because it was now approaching 100% more than the time that was announced. )
i-ba8d79b9485d3e52-1003	Madam President, I would like I did the same in a previous speech, so I know how it feels. Member Camilla Waltersson asked a few questions about how the Green Party is reasoning on this issue. In the debate on Thursday, I said that, for our part, it was important to take note of what the consultation bodies wrote about the Little Heart investigation. Now we have been able to take part of those referrals. They came in on Friday, and I haven't had any contact with the government over the weekend about how it intends to take this issue forward. But we, or at least I, share the view that children's rights organisations are obviously very clear in their answers that clarity is needed in relation to, for example, the child's right as its own props and to get it into the legislation. I assume the government will look at this and read the referrals. That's one of the reasons why you send out questions for a referral.
i-ba8d79b9485d3e52-1007	Madam President, I would like That is very encouraging news that Mrs Attefjord is leaving today in the Chamber. I had some hope already on Thursday because the honourable Member promised him that he would take a strong impression on children's rights organisations. Some responses from children's rights organisations really fell into place on Friday, and I know that some or some referral bodies have also been deferred until the middle of this week by submitting their referrals. Of course, it will be very interesting to take part of them too. But it is very clear, as Mrs Attefjord says, that these children's rights organisations see that there are no important analyses in the investigation presented by the government and that they lack the best interests of the child as their own props. The six parties which stand side by side and which can hopefully now be seven, and who knows, perhaps even eight, have always said that in order to bring about the necessary change of perspective, from biological parents' right to their children to being the child's best starting point, something more is needed. The best interests of the child are already in Swedish law. But for a big change to take place, a prop is needed. We have been pointing this out and working on it for quite a long time, and that is why we were very surprised that the government chose to present an investigation that was already, from the very beginning, unknown to us. Nevertheless, I have to ask Mr Attefjord: why are you reservations today about the proposal in today's report?
i-ba8d79b9485d3e52-1013	Madam President, I would like Member Waltersson Grönvall has also been a Member of Parliament when her party has been a member of the government. There are different ways to go, and the overall assessment that has been made is that we raise motions and make proposals in the Riksdag and that there is also a case management that is handled through the Government Office. This proposal concerns a number of different elements, most of which, I would say, are covered by the investigations and initiatives that Parliament has exemplaryly given to the government and by various initiatives taken by the government to initiate investigations, such as Peter Almgren's on child and youth psychiatry and other parts. They are basically comprehensive. Then you wait and wait for the work that is started through the Government Office, which also sits on much larger and more extensive investigation resources. When it comes to how the directive to the Little Heart investigation was written and what prompted it, it is better to ask a minister. At least we from the Green Party have been very clear about the fact that we now have this investigation and that the investigator is allowed to produce a proposal for a referral – then we will re-evaluate the question when we have the referrals, and we have them now.
i-ba8d79b9485d3e52-1016	Madam President, I would like Mr Attefjord is talking about waiting, and let us say that we have done something. We've been waiting for a lot of years. The first investigation, which could have made a difference and which could have actually saved the life of Esmeralda, My friends! It has been in a drawer with a number of other investigations. I note that when the government got up and running, in so far as it can now be called speed, when we put in a sharp committee initiative on 12 March 2020. That's not good enough. I can agree with the honourable Member that it would have been nice if we had seen the Government in any debate on vulnerable children. I would like to tell Märta Stenevi that she was in this Chamber when we talked about violence and vulnerable women and children in situations of violence. At that time, the responsible minister was here. I think most people can agree with me that we have been sitting in this Chamber and standing in the speaker's chair countless times debating the same subject, not least because the Social Affairs Committee is so strongly pushing these issues that we have several broken-out reports, but the Council of State, Madam President, has shone with its absence. I note the same thing in my speech: why do we have such an uninterested government, and why do we have such an uninterested minister on children's issues? I can't explain it. Unfortunately, Nicklas Attefjord can't do that either. This does not apply to his party, nor does he have any line left in the line with me. However, I think it is important that we try to find a broad consensus on these issues. The kids can't wait.
i-ba8d79b9485d3e52-1021	Madam President, I would like I agree on the subject on which Mr Grönvall has just spoken. On 12 July 2012, the then government called a special investigator to carry out a review of LVU. A final report came in June 2015. We are now in 2021. What happened? Well, nothing really. Well, the government is now preparing this investigation, so five six years later. It's sad. There is demonstrably a need for pressure from the committee to make some action on this matter. In the spring, the committee has highlighted various parts of our large report on social services and children's issues. Today we are debating one of them: compulsory care. Of course, I agree with what the committee says about a broad review of compulsory care. We have previously requested a review of Sis, but compulsory care is so much broader than Sis. The government parties choose this time not to support the announcement. It refers to the government doing a lot of things. It may seem to be doing that right now. However, I am quite convinced that this is largely due to the fact that the committee is acting and lies on these important issues. I am pleased that the committee has been able to agree on many important issues this spring. We need a stronger child perspective and greater legal certainty for children in society's care, especially for those in need of forced care. In order to achieve quality improvements and strengthen the child's rights, a number of measures are needed. Focus on the child and the young person should simply be strengthened. We can no longer let the parents' right to their children weigh more heavily, let social services focus on the child's going home as soon as there is room for it, sometimes at the child's expense. There are examples of children who have been placed but who have been cancelled because of the different situation of their parents. The child was moved home to be placed again in a short time. We need more long-termness, stability and security and to avoid moving carousels and children getting into a worse and worse condition. Of course, legal assessments go hand in hand with this and that there should be the right competence for decision-making. Madam President, I would like A childhood never replays, and I will as long as I have the opportunity to influence make my voice heard for the children and young people who are in social services today but also for those who have been or will be. The work and function of social services are extremely important and important for young people's chances of change, but can also be a new opportunity in many lives. A great responsibility rests on the social secretaries but also on responsible politicians in the country for the right decisions being made. Madam President, I would like Around 30 000 children and young people receive care every year outside the home, such as family homes or HVB homes. More than 1,000 of them come to Sis homes. It is not good enough, Madam President, to have reports of maladministration on our state premises over and over again. From the Inspection for Health and Care, the Ombudsman for Justice and Trade Unions, and not least through the media, there is evidence of serious shortcomings and problems in the important activities of Sis. Trade unions testify to threats and violence against staff, lack of care and treatment, or failure to measure up. We need high-quality forced care. However, we also see that, in the absence of other alternatives, municipalities are placing children and young people in Sis institutions despite the fact that the State Department Board does not carry out this form of care and does not have such an assignment. We cannot continue to put children and young people who are placed in the care of the state and, for that matter, municipalities in danger. We cannot have children and young people in our care who are subjected to violence, sexual abuse or other unacceptable things. We need to raise the minimum level. In addition, a month ago, forced treatment did not begin. This is something that has been going on for far too many years. At the same time, I would like to say, in parallel with my criticism, that there are many people out in the country who are doing an amazing job to make young people feel good and young people feel good. It is extremely important to emphasise this work too. The person who does the good work often comes second and strokes his foot when someone else does something bad. In this report, we Swedish democrats have highlighted the importance of monitoring health and, in particular, of those who have suffered ill during their placement. But it should also be offered care and follow-up even after the placement. You shouldn't just be left alone. According to several reports, it is clear that placed children and young people have significantly less dental health, take more psychopharmaceuticals and have more difficulty in coping with their school studies. According to the National Board of Health and Welfare, over 70 percent of children in special youth homes have some form of psychiatric diagnosis. A number of studies also show that compared with their peers, children are more likely to experience health problems in adulthood. It can be both physical and mental health problems. There is also an over-representation of self-harm and suicide attempts. There's something we can't overlook. These reports and studies need to be taken very seriously. Madam President, I would like As I said, we have addressed a number of announcements to the government in the spring. These have included skills requirements for social services staff, mentor support and introductory training, searchable complaints and guidelines for authorities' response to violent children and young people. But we have also stated the need for licensing of family homes and on-call homes, relocation of children, drug testing, etc. They are all in the best interests of the child. Madam President, I would like We need a real move. There is far too much to slip and fall today. We need good care and treatment for children and young people who are placed outside the home for various reasons. We need to strengthen skills, the rule of law and professionalism in social services and all parts related to the care and placement of children. It needs to be done with care, at the right time and with good follow-up. Social services are the ultimate safety net of society and an important part of the Swedish welfare society. We must ensure that it works, that there is the right skills and sufficient resources so that the work can be done in the best possible way. We all get that.
i-ba8d79b9485d3e52-1036	Madam President, I would like I note that lines should be requested while the speech is in progress and apologise for the fact that last time I printed too late. I therefore did not have the opportunity to speak on behalf of the Moderates in the debate. Madam President, I would like I note and am pleased, as I said in my speech, with the great commitment that exists on these issues within our committee. As has been said earlier, we have debated, raised and agreed on many issues in this area on x occasions. I am also pleased that the representative of the Swedish Democrats is raising the issues high in our committee. However, in view of the speech by Mr Lindberg of the Swedish Democrats, I would like to ask some questions. A while ago, I stood in this House and debated children's rights when it came to making the Convention on the Rights of the Child into Swedish law. The Swedish Democrats then voted against. It is also the case that the Swedish Democrats have on x occasions put forward proposals to worsen the financial situation of children – often the same children as we are talking about here today. The Swedish Democrats want to abolish the multi-child allowance; it is said that immigrants have many children and that they should not be allowed to take part in this. You believe that only Swedish families with children should be entitled to child benefit, housing allowance, parental allowance and other things, Linda Lindberg. This is therefore about the same children as those the Swedish Democrats are standing in the speaker's seat here today and talking about warmly. They are the same children for whom the economic situation is being reduced. Why is it, Mrs Linda Lindberg, that in one committee you are talking warmly about children and in the other committee you want to impair children's rights?
i-ba8d79b9485d3e52-1041	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your questions, Mrs Bladelius. It is interesting that you pay attention to our policy. I think this is very important, and I really think that the government should take the opportunity to listen to the committee on these issues. It is very wise to be presented, and I am very much looking forward to future government proposals. I very much hope that they also contain the elements that we have clearly pointed out and where we have a clear majority in committee. These are extremely important issues. Mrs Bladelius is asking questions that actually belong to another committee. What the Swedish Democrats have said is that one should look at how the settlement-based benefits in particular are handled, so that it is right. It is in some sense also a question of having a legal certainty perspective; perhaps it is quite unreasonable that we have representatives in the Middle East who are taking part in Swedish taxpayers' money. I do not think it is an unreasonable or controversial approach at all, but I think it is important that we ensure that we have a high level of confidence in our welfare system and that we protect it. The fact that we are looking at the multi-child supplement is due to the fact that it strikes quite unevenly. Nor is it particularly controversial. We see that there are many in alienation areas who take part in the multi-child supplement, which is a supplement that is not required at all. Perhaps there should be some kind of requirement picture for it so that people come into the labour market and learn the Swedish language. I do not think it is very strange either, and at least I think it is reasonable to review it. I do not know how Bladelius feels about Sweden supporting many people who are not even in Sweden.
i-36MR2ouRUnsqAbfsMsPhDA	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Linda Lindberg! What Linda Lindberg is talking about in her reply to me, Madam President, is irregularities which of course should not occur. It is not a question of making sure that the children that Linda Lindberg talks about warmly in the speaker's chair are given access to the resources that our society jointly says that our children who live and live here will be given access to. That's Linda Lindberg against. Linda Lindberg is against children who are not Swedish citizens being allowed to have a good time. However, children who are Swedish citizens should be given access to the money we jointly allocate for children to be able to have a good life. Linda Lindberg says that the Convention on the Rights of the Child should not be Swedish law, but in the pulpit she speaks warmly for children's rights. At the same time, she says that children who are not Swedish citizens should not be entitled to child benefit and other things. The background is that Linda Lindberg believes that all these parents send all the money to another country and don't let anything go to their children. As I said, I appreciate that in committee we have a broad consensus on children's rights. I am pleased that we agree on many issues, but I do not think that in this debate Linda Lindberg should be allowed to talk warmly about children's rights while in many other areas her party is putting forward proposals that are significantly worse for children who live and grow up here with us in Sweden.
i-ba8d79b9485d3e52-1049	Madam President, I would like It is remarkable that Mrs Bladelius is standing here in the speaker's chair claiming a lot of things that are completely taken out of the air. There is no truth or substance in them at all. What I find interesting is the question why the government has not done anything with the investigation that has been in the drawer since 2015. This is where the honourable Member stands and beats his chest like the one who works for children's rights... when you've had a fantastic investigation lying in the drawer since 2015. I don't think that's taking responsibility. I do not think that makes you think you are super good because you are a social democrat – unfortunately, Mr Bladelius. I think it is bad rhetoric to throw things at another politician because they think it has a bad policy. Here we have the fact that you have had a basis that you have not taken part of, because you have done a lot of other things instead. I think it's very important that we have a good social services team and a good protection for children who get hurt. But I also think it is very important that we protect the Swedish social security system – that we ensure that the legitimacy of the system is high and that citizens' confidence in it is intact. I think it is important that we plug in all the wrong payments and all the opportunities to lure tax money into our hands. I think that's very important, too. That's what I want to say. Then we might not have thought that the Convention on the Rights of the Child would have to become Swedish law, because many parts of it were already Swedish law. Now it is Swedish law, and what does the government do to implement the Convention on the Rights of the Child so that it really works in Swedish law? This applies, for example, to the Social Services Act.
i-ba8d79b9485d3e52-1053	Madam President, I would like It is gratifying that six out of eight parties in the Riksdag have gathered around what will hopefully be an announcement to the government tomorrow in which we call on it to undertake a comprehensive review, a joint investigation, of the law on forced labour. Forced legislation is not only LVU, Madam President, but also LVM and, in addition, LPT, if we ignore the legal psychology. That is what this committee proposal is about and what will be an announcement. In the autumn of 2018, two highly acclaimed sections of the mission review programme were broadcast. They were about Sanne, and the question asked was: Who can save Sanne? Sanne was a young girl, of age, who suffered from anorexia and mental illness and who also had a substance abuse problem. Over the course of 12 days, she was sent between 14 different caregivers. Her mother Eva said, "I feel so fucked up, I don't have words for it." You can't do anything but agree. What Sanne had suffered was not only that there were different principals, i.e. health care and social services, but also that there were different coercive laws – in her case LVM and LPT. If she had been under 18, it might also have been LVU. That is what six out of eight parties in the Committee on Social Affairs are proposing an announcement, Madam President: that there should be an overall evaluation and investigation of the law we have in Sweden. This affects people, and it affects the most fragile people. It will therefore be difficult to understand why the Social Democrats and the Green Party cannot support this proposal for an announcement, Madam President. I listened carefully to both speeches here, and what these parties are doing is listing long lists of various initiatives and investigative missions – and even missions to authorities – in this whole large political area. It is great that these initiatives are taken, because there are a number of problems with this group of people who need the support of society. But not one of them is about the core issue, namely that we must once and for all sit down and undertake a comprehensive review of these three coercive laws. It's going to be a very big investigation mission. These three laws are often about one and the same person, or at least two laws are about one person. Apart from all the important official tasks, apart from all the other investigations and apart from what is happening in the Social Affairs Committee, we must once and for all do the great investigative work. It is not working properly as it is today. The Sanne example in the story Who can save Sanne? It is so clear that we have poorly functioning legislation precisely for compulsory care. Madam President, I would like I am therefore very pleased today to be able to support the Committee on Social Affairs' proposal in the report. It will be a clear signal to the Ministry of Social Affairs that it is now time to start this important work.
i-ba8d79b9485d3e52-1059	Madam President, I would like I can't believe you've been subjected to violence, abuse, and neglect at home. You have tried to get attention and help based on your conditions to alert, but without reactions. It makes it hard for you to get through school. You don't want to go home. You're staying out. You feel that the school cannot meet your needs, and you are also beginning to skip more and more. Your dreams go away, and you live alone, unfree, powerless and vulnerable. Your dreams have been erased, and you find yourself in a constant nightmare. You are caught up by older criminals who manage to give you a context – something the adult world has failed to do. You start committing crimes and self-medication with drugs to deafen the reality and the vulnerability you find yourself in. Or, Madam President, you may be born with an autism spectrum state. You will not get the help you are entitled to and need. Instead of LSS assistance, you are placed in a locked institution. You feel powerless, lonely and misunderstood. You react instinctively and get angry. Or as a boy told me, I'm really scared and sad, but anger just comes out. Finally, Madam President, at the end of the road, you are taken care of by the state. But instead of having to process what you've been exposed to, instead of giving you new life chances and gaining access to what you're entitled to and your dreams, you're once again exposed and once again betrayed by the adult world. We have received innumerable reports of abuse, abuse and violations in the state's frozen institutions. How can it be that when the Swedish state takes over responsibility for already vulnerable children and young people, they are exposed to threats, abuse and sexual abuse? How low quality can it be in government activities? Who takes responsibility for the children who have been forced to live under such conditions, despite complaints, complaints and countless reports? This is done with the management's good memory on the State Department Board. Children's vulnerability to the locked accommodations has been so severe that it would have been a reason for immediate care if it had been done in a home environment. But now the abuse in the state's name is taking place on the homes where children and young people are to be given new life chances and deal with previous difficult and many times traumatic events. It happens over and over again. Liberals have called for an accident commission with external reviewers and accountability. The terrible abuse we have experienced is a total failure and could not have happened anywhere else in society. But these children, the most vulnerable, are allowed to live under such conditions. Above all, younger girls are vulnerable and children with functional variations. It is children who are entitled to LSS intervention but who are instead being enforced. Madam President, I would like We in the Liberals did not get the committee with us to call for a Commission of Accidents. We have come some way in that a majority of the committee has supported an announcement by which the government will return to Parliament by 1 August 2021 with a letter that assesses the efforts needed to ensure that care within Sis is safe both for the young people placed and for the staff and that a placement will provide the young person with the necessary care and treatment. To be subject to treatment under compulsion is intervention for the individual. In the committee's view, forced care should not primarily be about protecting the individual or the general public. But the big problem is that the state has not even succeeded in the most fundamental: protecting vulnerable children and young people. Instead of being protected, too many are exposed. It is far from the requirement to offer a good, safe, effective and effective care to each individual child. That is why we Liberals want to go further and want an independent investigation to be set up to review all the state's frozen accommodations. It is both to identify everything that has gone wrong and to see what is done on the accommodations that have been significantly better. Madam President, I would like In addition, separation should be abolished. Separation is always violence. Only a few countries allow it, Sweden is one of them. Criticism comes from the UN Committee on Torture and the Committee on Children's Rights. Children's rights organisations demand that it cease, and so do we Liberals. In the past, there was an ambition to reduce separations in order to completely eliminate them in the long term. It was only a few years ago. Now the government backs on it. It doesn't even want to see a zero vision. Of course, the separations will continue to increase. If you have separation as a tool in your toolbox you will use it. Those who work in state-locked housing should be equipped to meet children and young people properly with new tools. The measure will not be necessary if the activities are given clear leadership and action programmes complemented by relevant training. Madam President, I would like In addition, we have recently taken note of SVT's reporting from home for care and housing. It is another form of accommodation for children who are often placed according to LVU. Even there, it appears that vulnerable children and young people have been met by HVB staff who have been, for example, drug-affected or rough-handed, sexually harassed children or used unlawful coercive measures. The list of failures can be long. Those affected are always vulnerable children. Madam President, I would like Last but not least, we have the sad investigation that the government developed to strengthen the best interests of the child when forced treatment ends. The Green Party member said earlier here today that he is concerned about the government's work for vulnerable children. I would rather say that I am upset that the government has not done anything. This applies to both the position and the speed of work. Once again, the government, with Minister Hallengren at the head, which rarely appears here, shows itself in the position that it does not dare to challenge parental rights. The Convention on the Rights of the Child is now a law. On the point where we could strengthen children's conditions, it is precisely about children's right to speak and be involved. They do not want to go forward and make important changes. Children's rights become empty symbols when the adult world does not take responsibility for them. I think of all the young guys I've met who have been in prison or Sis institutions. I ask them the question: What can I do for you at the moment? They say: You should have been there when I was five. You can see that these issues are so clearly linked. In any case, each placed child may feel that they have a majority of the members with them to challenge parental rights and that the government will produce a new basis that will ensure that the child's best interests in assessing whether treatment under LVU will cease. Children's lives do not replay, and for that we all bear enormous responsibility.
i-ba8d79b9485d3e52-0	Madam President, I would like As chairman of the Parliament's Constitutional Committee, it is my task to inform the House that the Committee unanimously proposes that the Parliamentary Parliament elects Erik Nymansson as the new Chief Parliamentary Ombudsman. I see that the Justice Council, together with its family and representatives of the Ombudsmen's Office, including the current Chief JO, is in the gallery. I would like to extend a warm welcome to all of you to Parliament today. The Ombudsman was already established in the form of a government of 1809 and thus has more than 200 years of history. It is one of our most important institutions in order to promote legal certainty and increase the level of legal quality in the exercise of public authority. In our country, the JO, as the Ombudsman for Justice is shortened, has the task of the Riksdag to ensure that the state remains good, that the authorities and their representatives comply with the laws and that the individual can come to his or her rights. It is the Constitutional Committee that proposes the Ombudsman, and it is the Parliament that elects them. From the beginning, a Parliamentary Ombudsman was elected. Today, we need four of them, one Chief Parliamentary Ombudsman, and they are elected for a period of four years. The current chief JO Elisabeth Rynning has requested to be dismissed from her assignment. Elisabeth Rynning took office as Head of the JO on 5 September 2016. Her responsibilities include general administrative courts, health care and school systems. The KU would like to thank Elisabeth Rynning for the work she has done as Chief Parliamentary Ombudsman. Many thanks, Elisabeth! A unanimous KU decided at the meeting on 10 June 2021 to propose that the Riksdag elects the Justice Council Erik Nymansson as the new Chief Justice Ombudsman. Erik Nymansson was born in 1960 and has worked as a Justice Council at the Supreme Administrative Court since 2010. Prior to that, he worked a total of approximately 14 years in the Ministry of Finance, including as Head of expedition and justice. Erik Nymansson has also been a special investigator in several state investigations and a member of the Board of Judges. Erik Nymansson will take up his post as Chief Parliamentary Ombudsman on October 2021. Madam President, I would like The KU therefore unanimously proposes that the Riksdag elect Erik Nymansson as the new Chief Parliamentary Ombudsman. The following letter had been received from the Constitutional Committee: The Chief Parliamentary Ombudsman Elisabeth Rynning has announced that she wishes to be dismissed from the date on which a new Chief Parliamentary Ombudsman may take office, but no later than 1 October 2021. The Constitutional Committee has prepared the question of the election of a new Chief Parliamentary Ombudsman.
