i-8s49EEKztG5cZQ6eWUieZ6	Mr President, I would like to Government review of limestone stacks in exceptional cases, MJU7, is based on proposal 2021/ 22:15. I support the committee's proposal in the report. Mr President, I would like to Is quarrying a basic human need? We can see that man has broken stone as long as man has been human – think of the pyramids and the Chinese wall, which can be seen from the moon. In Sweden we have built bridges, such as the Öland Bridge and the Öresund Bridge and more. This is particularly true in Sweden, and perhaps also in Gotland. As long as humans have been on Gotland, there have been traces of the stone being broken there. Granite, slate and ore of various kinds are used by us humans. Mountain work is close to me; for over 15 years before I ended up in this house, I have worked with various forms of rock processing. In order to mine stone and ore or carry out water activities, we need a number of permits linked to the environmental code, which is quite reasonable if we are to be able to hand over a good, sustainable country to our children and grandchildren. The issue of clean water is perhaps particularly important. However, we stand here today because we know that Cementa's application for permission to break limestone was not admissible in the Land and Environment Court of Appeal because the court found that the application was inadequate and substandard and that not all the documents were included. This, of course, has serious consequences and affects many more than just Cementa. That's why I'm proud to be here today. I am proud of all the women and men who every day go to work and build this country strong. I am proud of all the nurses, doctors, industrial workers, construction workers and miners – all those who build this country are worth mentioning today. At the moment, a green industrial transition is taking place in this country, which is very important to meet the climate threat we are all facing. This means building new jobs, creating new infrastructure and ensuring a sustainable energy supply. I know that I have stood in this pulpit and preached that we must build more wood, which is important. But for the vast majority of houses, including wooden houses, a foundation is required in cement. Even at the wooden cultural house built in Skellefteå and now opened, Sara Cultural House, you have to put a plate on top to increase stability. I hope you all have the opportunity to visit Sara's cultural centre. Our modern society thus needs safe supplies of high-quality cement – something that Cementa has delivered and will be able to deliver. Mr President, I would like to The Land and Environmental Court of Appeal rejected Cementa's application to continue and expand its revenue activities in Slite on northern Gotland. The Court held that the environmental impact assessment and the application for a permit for 20 years were not complete. The company was unable to demonstrate what would happen to surrounding operations during the mining period. Mr President, I would like to This is notable, perhaps even spectacular, to me and many others. We can say that you can apply for a permit. LKAB has applied for and obtained permission to move an entire city, which affects many thousands of people. It concerns groundwater and a whole country. It is possible to seek and obtain such a permit, which is considered acceptable and meets the applicable environmental conditions. Something that is also very much noted is what is now being built in Skellefteå by Northvolt. It has applied for and obtained a permit for a fairly extensive water business, as it requires cooling and process water taken from the Skellefte River to ensure Europe's largest battery factory. This condition has been applied for and obtained in less than a year. This is precisely why it will be a remarkable thing that the application for Gotland does not fulfil what others are able to do. It is positive that all parties in Parliament support the Government's proposal. However, there are criticisms from the opposition about the government being slow and so on. Perhaps it is in the role of the opposition to be a little critical. We shall also bear in mind that the decision of the Land and Environment Court not to take the matter up came after the Left Party threw a dog bone to the Swedish Democrats and we ended up in a government crisis. In spite of this, we have together, on the basis of an exceptional situation, averted a government crisis. The Government has prepared the question and put the bill for the review of limestone stacks on Parliament's table in exceptional cases. The proposals in the bill aim to meet a serious situation that has an impact on society as a whole. The government's action eliminates the risks of a long-term downtime in autumn for Cementa's limestone quarry in Slite, which would lead to a major shortage of cement in the near future, with major social consequences. The Law Council has not been able to fully endorse the proposal. The government has adapted the bill to meet the Swedish Law Council's criticism. Of course, this is not something that we and the government take lightly. But the government has acted on the basis of the situation and put a bill on our table to face a serious situation. We assess that the preparation requirement and generality requirements are met. The parliamentary decision this afternoon means that the legislative amendments will enter into force on 15 October and will expire at the end of the year. This decision also means that we enable the Government to examine the application received by the Government to continue the existing permit, which expires on 31 October, and to continue to break limestone for a number of years. Cementa produces 75 percent of the cement used in Sweden. Now that they have the possibility of a shorter condition for limestone mining, we ensure a sustainable climate transition throughout the country. We're reducing the gap to a long state, which Cementa needs to apply for. We need to secure access to cement to ensure access to building materials in Sweden. It is an important part of the important climate change change. It is also important to look ahead and see that it is planned for a climate-neutral factory in Slite by 2030. It is an investment based on long-term sustainability and should also be climate neutral. The necessary investments must be made. According to Cementa, this application has been initiated. Consultation of the Authority will be held in early 2020 and the application will be submitted to the Land and Environment Court later in 2022. We Social Democrats are here because we build the country. We believe in the people who go to work every day and make their important efforts to make this country work. The decision we are taking today is absolutely necessary and ensures that the country can continue to function.
i-ecce55ab0a700c41-24	Mr President, I would like to Sweden is facing the threat of an acute shortage of cement. Much is at stake if Cementa does not get permission to continue mining lime in Slite on Gotland. The result would be a major cut-off in production of new housing and infrastructure projects, not to mention increasing unemployment and slowing down the economy. To avert the acute crisis, the Moderates choose to support the bill that is now at the table of the Riksdag. However, it has to be said that the government's proposal is an inadequate measure of panic, forced by the fact that the government has not done right from the start or failed to act when it should have done so. At best, the legislative proposal will avert the most acute crisis. We will have a serious and solid environmental review in Sweden, but this must be a wake-up call for the government. Work needs to be started immediately to shorten, simplify and make the licensing process more predictable. This is something that the Moderates and several other parties here in Parliament have put forward many proposals about but that the government has chosen to reject each time. With regard to the acute crisis, Sweden is thus facing a situation where access to cement may be severely restricted. According to a report from SGU, commissioned by the government, a stop to limestone mining in Slite would lead to very large socio-economic, environmental and social consequences, contrary to the set sustainability goals and Agenda 2030. According to the report, there is no other Swedish revenue that can replace it in the short term in Slite. Cement suppliers in the vicinity of Sweden also have little or no opportunity to increase their production to meet the loss. Swedish production would have to be replaced by imports from Turkey or China, for example, with negative environmental and social consequences. Sweden's global environmental footprint would thus increase if we made ourselves dependent on imports. In addition, extensive work would be required to change, test and approve the resulting new composition of concrete. It is a time-consuming process. In addition, capacity is needed in ports and silos as well as access to ships. It is highly uncertain whether this is available on time. This would mean that we would be faced with a massive cut-off in production. According to trade associations and trade unions, up to 280 000 jobs in the construction and related sectors would be affected. This gloomy future scenario that strikes at jobs and growth and worsens our global environmental and climate footprint is to be set against the plans for cement production in Slite presented by Cementa in June 2021, which is about redesigning the factory for the world's first carbon neutral cement production. It is absolutely amazing if we could succeed in that! In one stroke, we could reduce Sweden's emissions by over 3%. That is something to work for, Mr President! But the investment is now in danger of falling short, and Swedish cement risks being replaced by worse alternatives from other countries. Mr President, I would like to This is a clear shortcoming of the government's environmental and climate policy, which ultimately jeopardises the transition. If anything, the government has made it more difficult to produce cement in Sweden. The government should have seen this coming. The Government decided in 2018 on new Natura 2000 sites, including on Gotland. Even then, there were clear warnings from several quarters that the decision was in danger of contributing to the closure of cement production in Slite after the expiry of the existing environmental permit. During the period since then, the government has not taken any measures to reduce the risk of acute cement deficiency. Or, as SGU writes in its impact assessment, what is now happening with Swedish cement production is an example of how you can induce criticality for a raw material entirely on your own. Let me say this in less bureaucratic Swedish: this is a crisis that Sweden and the government have caused on their own. Now, instead, panic measures are needed. The proposal that the committee has been considering puts forward legislative proposals aimed at eliminating the acute threat. The proposal has been criticised by the Legislative Council in terms of both design and preparation, and there is an imminent risk of an appeal against the decision. After all, we choose to give our support to the bill, but responsibility for the shortcomings pointed out by the Law Council rests heavily on the government's slow-going handling. The government's lack of pro-activity in environmental permit processes also means that Slite is facing a new and long permit process in order to possibly continue or restart its operations. Time is very short, and therefore there is no way of adjusting a bill that leaves some to be desired. Furthermore, the Moderates consider that the Government and particularly responsible Minister have acted irresponsibly when it seems to have called on the SGU not to make its impact statement clearly available to the public. The issue we are discussing today is greater than just Cementa and cement production. It is possible to apply for and obtain permits in Sweden," says the Social Democrats. Yeah, well, you better hope so. However, the truth is that when I meet companies and industries around the country and ask them what prevents them from investing or from changing their business to better environmental and climate considerations, they answer: Permits. It takes too long to get permission, and it's too uncertain. And it feels almost impossible to live up to the requirements or even understand the requirements and how to reach them. We have been pushing for a long time to shorten, simplify and make the licensing process more predictable. For seven years, the government has not done much to ensure that the licensing processes are improved. It is not just cement production that is affected by this. At a time when the world needs more metals and minerals, the government makes it difficult for Swedish mining and thus makes us dependent on imports from other countries. We have seen examples where applications have been on the government table for three years without any action being taken. It is disrespectful to the companies involved, and it is a threat to the transition. The Moderates have proposed measures such as setting deadlines for the length of permit processes, including how long matters may be on the government's table. We have proposed that we should have more of a change permit as a general rule, i.e. that companies that want to expand their business can apply for a permit only for the new part and do not have to risk getting rid of their entire permit. We have proposed that we remove cases where Swedish regulations overlap with European regulations and where it is simply difficult for companies to know what requirements they should be tested against – and more. The government often refers in the debate to ongoing investigations. They'll be late when the government has had seven years. However, it is also the case that some of the Government's investigation directives aim to ensure that environmental permits are more limited in time than they are today and are then reviewed, creating even more uncertainty for companies that are going to invest and change. This means that the serious situation that has now arisen in Slite with regard to cement production with government policy in the future may affect more activities and goods. Mr President, I would like to We support today's proposal, but it is a measure of panic. The government's actions ultimately threaten jobs and growth in Sweden. It creates uncertainty about investment, and it threatens the transition. The responsibility for the situation that has arisen lies largely with the government, which has not acted. But now we need to learn from our mistakes. Today's state-of-the-art processes must change, and this must become a wake-up call for the government.
i-ecce55ab0a700c41-44	Mr President, I would like to I welcome the fact that the Moderates support the proposal and the report. It is important that we in the Swedish Parliament agree on this issue. It is important that we send out clear signals. When you listen to Jessica Rosencrantz in the speaker's chair you can easily think that the Moderates propose some form of socialization of cement production in Sweden, that we somehow create a LKAB for cement production. Maybe it's something the Moderates should talk to the Left Party about. I'm not quite sure that's the way to go. Mr President, I would like to We have the test that we have and that we have had for a number of years. Since the introduction of the Land and Environment Courts by the Alliance Government, we have the test situation that we have today. When should the government have acted, according to the Moderates and Jessica Rosencrantz? Should we go into ongoing legal proceedings? We're not gonna do that. When Jessica Rosencrantz stands here and says that the government has acted slowly, I wonder: When should the government have acted?
i-ecce55ab0a700c41-47	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Isak From, for the question! No, I can promise you that the Moderates will not go forward with any socialization-- neither here nor in other respects. When should the government have acted? It's obvious. I was partly concerned about that in my speech. One example is when the Natura 2000 site was identified and there were warnings that this would affect cement production in Slite. What did the government do besides ignoring the warnings and moving on? Not much, I understand. It is clear that it should have been investigated there and then. What does this mean? What do we do, if increased demands mean that cement production must be discontinued, in order to produce the cement that Sweden needs? Many people have now pointed out that we need to look at how we can secure cement production in the country when we are so dependent on a geographical part of Sweden. Why didn't the government investigate consequences when you saw the threat coming? That is one aspect. The second aspect is much greater. I also hear of isolated examples where it seems to have gone very fast for companies to obtain permits. However, most industries point to exceptional circumstances. We hear that it may take up to six years, in some cases even longer, for large industries to obtain their permits. There had to be a review of this a long time ago. You also need to look, as I said, at time limits, for example. How long can cases be taken in court, with authorities and with the government? We cannot have it, as in the case of Kallak, that matters are on the government's table for three years and that the government does not lift a finger. In the small – if you can call it that – it is about looking at what Natura 2000 would actually mean for cement production. And on the whole, it's about reviewing the condition processes in general, because they are currently a threat to jobs and growth and to the transition.
i-ecce55ab0a700c41-53	Mr President, I would like to It is important, I think, to ensure that the review that actually takes place is legally secure and that the authorities have the right resources and the right conditions. Just as I mentioned in my speech, it is quite remarkable that you can apply for permission, and get it, to move an entire city. You can also get permission to create Europe's largest battery factory and more. In this case, an ongoing legal process was found to be incomplete. When would the government have acted? The government has acted in that we have appointed the Environmental Review investigation, which we believe is very important. It has received new assignments and an extended delivery date. It will also be important for the long-term future. What is also important is that we in this house send clear signals that the review authorities should have the right conditions and resources. Can the Moderates and Jessica Rosencrantz promise that it is not in the budget that they intend to decommission the review authorities of the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and the county administrative boards their funding? Make the Moderates up on a right-wing conservative budget, we know what's going on. Then the review authorities will be removed. Then there will be no confidence that this legal system will work. It is important that we agree on these issues.
i-ecce55ab0a700c41-58	Mr President, I would like to Well, now we don't have to reuse old saying points and insult each other. When we look at the precise subject matter, I can only note that the government proposals referred to by Isak From are, in part, going in the wrong direction, as I said in my speech. Rather, it wants to grant more companies time-limited permits. More permits should be reviewed at regular intervals, and this creates greater uncertainty. I think it's good that the government is looking at the permit processes – late at the time. That should have been done seven years ago. It is good that it is being done now, but it is problematic in those parts where you want to increase uncertainty for more companies. As far as agencies are concerned, I can only agree and say that authorities should have the resources to carry out solid trials. Then we can discuss how to do this better. There are also opportunities to work a little more together to make this more understandable. What are the demands of government agencies on companies, and how can they be met? Of course, the environmental testing should be rigorous and proper, but we need to shorten the time, simplify and make it more predictable. It will be necessary if we are to find jobs and growth. If industrialisation in northern Sweden is to flourish, as we all want, it will be necessary to make it easier and easier to expand electricity networks and easier and easier for companies to invest. There, the state processes are a threat today.
i-ecce55ab0a700c41-62	Mr President, I would like to Today we are discussing a special law that will enable the government to examine limestone stacks in exceptional cases. The Swedish Democrats welcome the situation that has arisen and will vote in favour of the proposal. But at the same time, Mr President, let me be clear that this proposal should not have been necessary. What we see here is a clear example of what happens when Sweden is governed by an irresponsible and dysfunctional government that is not capable of taking responsibility for Sweden. A government must cope with difficult balances. Environmental and natural interests have ended up, and will continue to be, in conflict with our ambitions to maintain prosperity and growth in our country. In this case, it is basically a question of whether we should be able to build new roads, new wind turbines and new houses while weighing this against the environment, nature and water supply. These are not simple balances, but something that Sweden must be able to cope with. A government must recognise this problem and be prepared to make important choices which, taken together, but not at every opportunity, can meet all the interests. Rather, what we have today is a government that lacks this insight. Instead, they are in constant crisis and work to survive year by year. The government's perspective is primarily about ensuring how to maintain power after the next budget and how to negotiate in a way that does not involve negotiation so that two parties in the government with cooperation problems can maintain power with the help of two or three other parties that have even worse cooperation problems. What the government is thus unable to do is plan for how Sweden can have stable cement supply over time. Mr President, I would like to It has been said by some parties on the left and others that it is a terrible foreign company that has a monopoly on cement in Sweden. Why, then, is Cementa so dominant in the market? We can go back to 2014, when the company Nordkalk was granted permission to mine lime on Gotland – more lime than they are breaking today, it would have been. The decision was appealed, but instead of allowing the process to take its course, the government acted by identifying the site as Natura 2000 site. In this way, probably in violation of laws and regulations, the government engaged in an initiated legal process, which resulted in no more mining on Gotland and Cementa thus became much more dominant on the market than they would otherwise have been. Another example is northern Europe's largest limestone discovery in Jokkmokk, Norvijaur. In 2015, an application was submitted for authorisation to charge 200 000 tonnes per year. SGU, the National Board of Education, the National Property Board and the Sami society saw no obstacles. But the government acted, because that's what the government does when companies want to break minerals or produce cement: the government acts but not in a way that creates more cement in Sweden but less. In this case, the government acted and sent the case back to SGU with a clear instruction to investigate another aspect. It was a clear signal that the government was not satisfied with the SGU's statement. That the SGU would then change was no surprise, and five years later, a few months ago, there was a negative opinion from the SGU that had been instructed to primarily look at reindeer nutrition issues. Mr President, I would like to When Cementa made its application for a renewed AOC, a permit that, according to all expert bodies, is incredibly important for the whole of Sweden, the government did not act. There was no thought of taking over the process at an early stage, as the environmental code allows. There has never been a plan for Swedish cement supply, but the government and its authorities have clearly been instructed to counteract this in every aspect available. We are seeing the results today. Suddenly the problem became real, and we now have to deal with a necessary but at the same time very unfortunate proposal. We have all noted the very sharp criticism that has come from the Law Council against this bill, and the criticism is not without points. However, on the basis of the crisis we are now in because of an irresponsible government, we must reluctantly go against the recommendations of the Law Council and approve the bill. At the same time, however, let us remember that the crisis of Swedish cement supply, tens of thousands of jobs and Swedish infrastructure has not been resolved. We do not know today whether we will be able to supply Swedish industry with sufficient amounts of cement in the next few years. We cannot trust that the government is really giving Cementa a sufficiently long extension of the permit. We also do not know whether Cementa will be allowed, for example, to carry lime on trucks in shuttle traffic every five minutes on Gotland, or how large quantities of imports from other companies will be possible. Mr President, I would like to Sweden needs shorter permit processes. The processes need to be more predictable. The government's authorities must become more service-oriented in the process and not, as is often the case today, the enemy of jobs and businesses, but rather some who are here to help and make things easier. The government must also have a plan for Swedish mineral supply and be prepared to act actively when very important applications are received. That is why, Mr President, we must hope for the best and perhaps above all for a new government after the elections, a government that can improve the situation with regard to Swedish mineral supply.
i-ecce55ab0a700c41-74	Mr President, I would like to For this sailing I am compelled and forced. That's what the legend says on Hans Brask's little note that he put under his seal. Now that the Center Party is putting its seal on this afternoon's vote on the law on the government review of limestone stakes, I feel about the same thing. The law that lies ahead is a haste. It is created for a situation that could have been avoided. Me and the Center Party are obliged to avert the situation we find ourselves in. The consequences are enormous if 75 per cent of Sweden's cement production were to be permanently stopped almost overnight. This would have devastating consequences for housing construction and the construction of critical infrastructure projects, which are also central to climate change. This would cause major problems for the basic industry as a whole and for the mining industry in particular. Cementa is, for obvious reasons, one of the most fundamentally important companies that produce inputs in society. Cement lacks natural substitution materials and can not easily be replaced by imports from abroad when production stops. Imported cement, as we have also heard from the pulpit in the past, would mean a considerable climate load, because the mining in other countries has a greater environmental impact than that in Gotland. Climate emissions from transport would, of course, also increase significantly. In addition, we are now in the Environmental Objectives Committee discussing consumption-based emissions. This is a typical example of how they would increase if we do less in Sweden. This also gives rise to great uncertainties as regards national supplies of cement, because even if we adopt this law, it is not self-evident that we will be able to continue. There is no guarantee that we would then be able to import sufficient quantities of cement or to meet a still growing need for cement, because its use is steadily increasing. Of course, a cut-off in production would also be ominous in terms of the thousands of jobs that would be lost in sectors that depend entirely on this input, both on Gotland and in the rest of the country. The fact that the government has allowed Sweden to get even close to this situation is irresponsible and dangerous, and there are now two main tasks for the government to take immediate action. Firstly, the need for cement as a material where there are adequate alternatives, such as housing, must be reduced. Despite the knowledge of the climate impact of the material, we have seen a sharp increase in use. Of the government's ambitions to increase housing in wood, which we also heard the Social Democrats talk about, it has become nothing. This may be because one of the government parties has taken the impossible position of wanting to double the building of houses in wood and to keep the forest intact. If we are to increase housing and wood use, it is also reasonable that we can use our forest instead of letting it stand. We can preserve the wood and carbon sink in long-lasting products such as houses, where it is bonded over a long period of time. Secondly, we cannot have state bureaucracy as a brake block for the changeover. When Cementa, as the first in the world, declares that it should have climate-neutral cement in 2030, it is clearly the state's regulatory framework that puts an end to their plans. We can't have that. When hydropower is to be tested in order to ensure an increased impact and improved environmental values, water authorities present action plans contrary to political will. When new electricity production is to be built, the Swedish Armed Forces put a dead hand over large parts of Sweden without the possibility of dialogue or conditional permits. The list can be drawn up on examples where the government does not succeed and where the state authorities are putting a brake on the transition. A couple of years ago– I've had the privilege of working on climate issues for quite some time now – we complained in politics about business when they didn't see the greatness of the transition, when they didn't see the business opportunities and potential. Now the roles are reversed. Industry wants more than politics and is held back by government bureaucracy, substandard service and complicated regulations. It is totally unacceptable that it should take a decade to build a power line. The Center Party has put forward many proposals to remedy these problems. A first step, which is quick to take, is to set the goal of halving times for environmental permits. The next step is to make regulatory letters coming this autumn and other government management requirements for authorities to increase service to companies and to coordinate before legal proceedings. For me and the Center Party, it is absolutely incredible that we have even ended up in a legal process around these things. This is gonna be solved before you get to the courthouse. It is a failure for Government Sweden and for the government that they are unable to manage companies and make clear demands, but also have clear guidance so that you know what is expected when you seek permission. The difference between Sweden and other countries is miles. Other countries such as neighbouring Finland have equivalent legislation and environmental requirements. But there it goes faster, and that's where you help. Nor can we have a situation in which different authorities take the habit of appeal against each other's decisions. The government needs to speak with one voice. If you have disagreements and views between authorities, you have to take it before going to court. Such matters need to be clarified at the application stage. For a company with a billion-dollar turnover, this is a major problem. For a small company, it is not even worthwhile trying. Climate change needs to be done now. The companies are ready. The question is whether the government is ready. Are we ready to prioritise the integration of climate into the environmental code? Is it ready to accept compensatory measures for the continuation and development of socially important activities? Are you ready to change the Swedish government culture to become an advantage instead of an obstacle in the transition? Sweden has the potential to become a green superpower, to become the country and the economy that delivers green, climate-smart solutions around our entire planet. To get there, a determined effort and an iron will are needed to meet this challenge. Policies are needed to help those who are adversely affected and strengthen local communities. The Center Party has that policy. The Center Party has the determination, and I can guarantee that we will do everything we can to ensure that Sweden is able to cope with the transformation and emerge stronger from it. We are thus putting through the legislation that is being debated today, but we are not doing it without demands. The requirement for the government now is to deliver – to deliver the required legislation, the required governance and the decisions that the government itself has been on for far too long. The climate can't wait. Nor should companies be allowed to do that.
i-ecce55ab0a700c41-92	Mr President, I would like to I will first comment on something before going into my speech, which I have written down. Isak From was smart and threw a dog bone into the Left Party. I wonder if the 3 million tenants, as I hope they listened to it, agree with the Social Democrats that there would have been a great deal of market rent in place. So much about the government's responsibility and trying to blame the Left Party. There's one more thing I just have to comment on. Jessica Rosencrantz told me about state processes. I agree that something must be done there. It's not legal, and it's taking too long. But I hope that this will not be a battering ram so that the government will get into the curves for environmental testing of operations. I certainly hope that does not lead to that. Mr President, I would like to I shall now turn to my speech, which I have written down about the testing of limestone stacks in exceptional cases, which this proposal is about. I do not go into details that explain the content of the proposal, because my colleagues have made that clear by now. But, Mr President, let me explain the Left Party's views on why we have come here and our position not to propose rejection of the bill, which was in fact the main track for us. What has not been debated much, however, is the occasion. In January 2020, Cementa's application for a renewed permit of use was granted to the Land and Environment Court. After that, the judgment has been appealed and reviewed at the next instance. Cementa's application has been for an extended permit to 2041 – listen to it, 2041 – because the current permit expires in October this year. But there the Land and Environment Court has rejected the application. In conclusion, the decision means that the Land and Environmental Court of Appeal considers that it does not have sufficient evidence to assess the environmental impact of the operation and therefore whether or not to grant a permit. This is from a layman: It is not supposed to be super easy to predict the consequences of an open-pit operation that would have been given 20 years of extension of the permit, so I understand the doubts of the Land and Environment Court. It has flourished discussions on social media about the Left Party's view of the issue – quite understandable because our spokesperson stated that our line is that laws should not be changed to save a company. It is fully in line with what should usually be the main track for us in the Left Party. And to clarify something that no one, I think, mentions today: Groundwater for Gotland has been the most important thing for us in the Left Party. It must not be jeopardised. What about Cementa's shortcomings? The fact that Cementa has not come up with sufficient additions or been able to explain in a good way is a flaw in itself. But I believe that the owners of Germany naturally wanted to ensure a long state of affairs so that they do not have to worry about further difficulties along the road to fossil freedom, as they express themselves. In fact, it is admirable that they are trying to be part of the solution and have cement that is made in a good way. But, hand to heart, do you think that groups that are gigantic when it comes to cement production care about Swedish domestic cement production? The only thing I have learned and experienced in my years in terms of large companies, ownership structures, industries and so on is that the further away the owners sit, the less they care about anything other than quarterly reports and the sum that is left over in the last row. Of course Slite is a great place to make cement. The access to the knot and giant loyal employees from the resort – better place is probably not there. Just hope that you are looking for solutions that secure groundwater in Gotland and that you realize how important environmental and climate issues are for future users of cement, because cement will need whatever we think about the subject. The Left Party believes that the climate crisis can only be met by joint action and by the state taking a more active role. The Cement crisis is a clear example of the fact that market forces are unable to deliver the necessary basic functions for society and climate change according to needs and the necessary environmental requirements. We are critical of how the government has handled the situation and the bill. The rapid handling of the bill makes it difficult for authorities, organisations, citizens and not least us in Parliament to understand and assess the content and consequences of the proposal. We believe that the basis and impact assessments are inadequate and that the short period of time for the consultation bodies has made it difficult to formulate detailed responses. The criticism from the Law Council that the proposal is contrary to the Constitution must be taken seriously. Mr President, I would like to However, we share the government's view that this is an extraordinary situation. We do not, therefore, intend to reject the Government's proposal despite the shortcomings we see in this hasty amendment of the law. The Left Party sees great risks with the negative effects that a stoppage can have on society and the effects that it can have on both employment, housing and climate change. The situation undesiredly illustrates that the government has for a long time failed to strengthen the State's responsibility for ensuring that socially important activities have access to the necessary resources and that these are produced in a sustainable manner. Cementa's monopoly-like situation on the market is a clear example of this failure. Sweden needs strategic work in the climate transition to strengthen the role of the state so that vital resources and natural resources for its implementation can be secured through sustainable production. Sweden should not be dependent on a single actor for the availability of the necessary resources for critical social activities. So, is this government solely responsible for the situation that has arisen? No, it has been known for longer than this government's time what the state was and what fears were predicted. Of course, it would have been exciting to see how another government had handled the situation. That since the bourgeoisie does not like state interference at all in something that someone else can earn money on is nothing new. But it's something that bothers me with the handling of this government. We have had four environmental-partisan ministers responsible for environmental issues over seven years, which should be their parade. They have a staff in the Government Office and talented employees who should have been able to call in what was going on. But no, instead, the focus has been on subsidies for electric bicycles for wealthy urban dwellers. My apologies, of course, to those of you who have bought an e-bike with subsidies. Mr President, I would like to Climate and environmental work also includes how we can have a functioning society. Right now, as I stand here defending the Left Party's position, tens of thousands of people around the country are working on jobs where concrete is the main raw material. It could be miners, and concreters, at a wind farm, bridge constructions – you name it. That is, without cement, no concrete. Many jobs would be standing still in the near future. At the same time, we must be able to stand tall even when we have to make a bad decision, when the alternatives had been even worse. We are looking for solutions that, with all the incentives, will be better for the climate and the environment when this overall picture is painted. There are those who claim that the consequences would not be as drastic as it is claimed. But when I clear away all the lobbyists' arguments, the answer is still: There is not on the shelf anywhere in the world the needed amount of cement of the right quality for sale in just over a month. Mr President, I would like to Changing environmental laws to an individual company just to save the company is not what the Left Party agrees to. What we agree to is to find a solution that will be the best for the company Sweden and above all for the climate in the short term. But in the long term, everyone involved must return to the drawing board and prove how future cement production can comply with all environmental laws and insure groundwater, wherever the mining takes place. Then, of course, we hope that the government recognizes the vulnerability when socially critical raw materials can be kidnapped by an individual company that in practice has a monopoly on cement supplies.
i-ecce55ab0a700c41-115	Mr President, I would like to Sweden is a proud industrial nation. However, in recent years the picture has been compromised, partly as a result of political decisions, partly because of Swedish legislation that does not take in sufficient industrial conditions. The reason why we are debating this stumbled case today is that the Land and Environment Court of Appeal has decided not to extend Cementa's permit after the last October to break lime in Slite on northern Gotland, which obliges the government to proceed with this bill. Otherwise, our country is in danger of facing a very serious situation in which the lack of cement would cause a massive shutdown that could be devastating for Sweden's growth, jobs and welfare. The proposal has attracted criticism, not least from the Legislative Council, which has pointed out that the government's handling of the matter risks damaging confidence in the legal system. These are very serious criticisms that deserve to be taken very seriously. However, a balancing of all the elements of the complex issue means that we Christian Democrats are still in favour of the bill. We are not making this position lightly, but it must be seen in the very special context in which the matter is currently in. Having said that, it is worth noting, however, that it is a deeply grave situation that has been allowed to arise, and the government proposal is almost to be seen as a legislative emergency. But given the consequences for Swedish cement production in the near future, it is now necessary to make a decision that solves the emergency situation. Mr President, I would like to There may come a day in the future when the thousands of years of concrete material is no longer needed. But we are not there today, and we will not be there for the next few years. That is why we must ensure that our country has continued access to cement here and now. I would also like to add that we should take advantage of the opportunity to have a company in Sweden that is working to make it a facility that will reduce the climate impact of construction, which would be a fantastic development for the cement industry. Sweden could then be the first in the world with a climate neutral cement factory. Mr President, I would like to We Christian Democrats believe that it is important for the future for the environmental code to be given an overall review. For example, the environmental benefits of fixed-term conditions can be seriously questioned at all. If an activity has been tested for a given volume approved, the time limit does not add any value, but it may cause problems in certain situations. The acute situation of limestone mining is not an isolated accident. There are many examples where the current environmental code risks sub-optimising the societal and climate benefits of ongoing activities and new investments. It can be small-scale hydropower, gravel and quarrying, and it can be mining. The examples could be lined up where we can see how, due to the current regulatory framework, industry is being slowed down in its efforts to make a climate change transition. That is why we Christian Democrats believe that there is also a need for a thorough overall review of the environmental code, so that it becomes a tool for a better climate and not a brake block. Sweden's industry is a key factor in the process of transforming into a fossil-free society, and we need legislation that enables faster and more accurate decisions than today. In addition, we note that this proposal is not a long-term solution for Sweden in terms of access to cement. Therefore, we believe that the proposal in the present proposal needs to be followed up with measures that solve the continuing challenge of securing a long-term supply of cement in Sweden. The government should return to the Riksdag with proposals for measures for a more long-term solution to secure Sweden's need for cement. Mr President, I would like to To this can also be said that the water issue for Gotland is an urgent issue. Regardless of Cementa's activities or not, the water issue is a matter for further work, which was also confirmed when I visited Gotland on Monday and there met a number of different actors who all agree that the water issue is important for companies as well as the authorities and the region. You have to work with it no matter what happens in the future. Before the case of Cementa limestone mining was discovered this summer, an agreement for an investment in a desalination plant had been reached with the region – something that is really welcome on Gotland. What is happening now is that it is at risk if they are not allowed to carry on their business after the eight months that now remain. Mr President, I would like to Today, decisions will be taken to resolve the acute crisis in the short term. But the answers to how we can secure access to cement in the long term remain. The solution cannot be that Sweden will become dependent on imports from abroad when we can actually be self-sufficient. We Christian Democrats believe that the environmental code cannot be such a brake block for Swedish industry, development and innovation as it is today. The legislation needs to be reviewed, and we are ready to discuss it now. We want the whole of Sweden to work.
i-ecce55ab0a700c41-129	Mr President, I would like to I'm here today to take my responsibility. But it is the government that has the ultimate responsibility. One might think that Cementa, with over two billion in turnover, would have both the capacity and experience to cope with difficult environmental processes. But they have had against themselves a very qualified opponent, the Swedish state through several authorities and a government that has done anything but right. Whether Cementa fumbled with the application itself can be enjoyed differently. However, we can see that there are people who charge well for such applications. Mr President, I would like to Then I would like to say that Cementa was unlucky when it comes to method choices to analyse the impact it would have on groundwater. Although various water authorities that the court has listened to say that it is a good way, it was used in a way that could not confirm that the method really worked in the case of Cementa. Mr President, I would like to Having said that, we believe that the court ruling is reasonable. Cementa has not convinced the Court of Justice, and the application must not be granted. The judicial system functions in a way that it is intended to. But Cementa has had a formidable opponent, our government. Cementa's application was submitted in December 2017. After this date, a Gotland ring wall has been built of nature reserves and Natura 2000 sites around Cementa's area of activity. Mr President, I would like to I mention them now in chronological order: Grodvät, Tiselhagen, Filehajdar, Kallgatburg, Hejnum Kallgate, Bojsvätar, Bälsalvret and Hejnum rock. All these decisions have been handled by whom? Yes, the government. It really hasn't been on the lazy side. It has therefore been fully aware that the scenario that we have here today could happen. After the court ruling, political criticism did not wait. Some, with the Swedish Democrats at the head, shouted that the country should be governed by strong leaders and that the government should step in and correct a wrong court decision, to as well as take the law into its own hands. The Center Party, on the other hand, calls out that it is the environmental law that is wrong and that it is the law that is to be changed. In the choice between consuming or protecting eco-resources, the Center Party here of all chose to side with the industry. The speech today only mentioned nutrition, and not much was said about nature or environmental protection. Mr President, I would like to I do not share their views. The Court's decision is correct and reasonable. But Gotland and the rest of Sweden will not survive in the short term without the cement from Slite. That's why we need the Slite factory. The court decision has of course both positive and negative consequences. It is positive that the threat to Gotland's water supply is now being taken very seriously and raised in the light in a very important way, and that it is sensitive. The threat to sensitive natural areas and the extinction of species are also taken seriously, and that is a good thing. The local negative impact is that around 500 jobs are threatened in Slite. It's a lot for a rural town like Slite. It's a disaster. It's about people whose life dreams are at risk of being crushed. The national consequences are also a disaster. This would mean a halt in the entire housing construction that we so badly need in our country. We have barely got out of a pandemic, Mr President, until there is a cement crisis knocking on the door. The global consequences are also a disaster. Cementa has a slogan: Cement for sustainable social construction. The owners express an ambition that Slite operations will be sustainable for real. Sweden, if anything, is a very well-suited market for this. We, the whole of society, must help to create a sustainable mining industry. Public activities need to be driven forward. Cementa and Rise should hook arms with each other together with the water authorities and develop good methods for investigating local groundwater. Länsvatten should, as on Storsudret on southern Gotland, be able to be returned back to the ground. Mr President, I would like to We stand here today, five to twelve, with a code waving red flags. The government is in danger of damaging confidence in our legal system. We stand here today with a parliament and a stressed handling of a bill that makes it extremely difficult to really understand the consequences that what we are about to decide today will have. We stand here today with a government that has acted irresponsibly in so many ways. Liberals are therefore assuming their responsibilities today. But let us remember: it is the government and no one else that is ultimately responsible in this. Climate action must keep pace. Industry is based on creativity, and it should be exploited. There we all have a responsibility not only to whine but to contribute wisely. Slite factory should be helped, because it seems to need it, in order to continue to break lime on Gotland and at the same time not to damage ecosystems. Mr President, I would like to I therefore call for the committee's proposal for a decision to be approved.
i-ecce55ab0a700c41-146	Before giving the floor, I would like to draw the attention of all the debaters to the fact that the content of court judgments must not be criticised or debated in this House.
i-ecce55ab0a700c41-147	Mr President, I would like to I think Mr Olofsgård listened a little poorly to my speech. I spoke very clearly about climate and environmental impact. The whole conclusion was about how we can take the lead as a green superpower. What I did not do, as Mr President has just said, was review the company's environmental impact assessments and court rulings, as the honourable Member did. The Center Party and I quite rightly want to change the legislation. We want to include the climate in the environmental code. For me, it's not getting worse and taking a stand for the company. That is to give priority to the whole issue of the environment and not just to individual parts. The question to Mrs Olofsgård is really: what do the Liberals want to do so that we do not end up in this situation again? What laws are we prepared to review in order to change and improve Swedish environmental legislation so that we do not end up in such a situation as we are now in? It was many fine words, but few concrete proposals. On the other hand, there were plenty of battles against other parties.
i-ecce55ab0a700c41-150	Mr President, I would like to I take on board the criticisms that were made about what I said about the verdict. I recall that the honourable Member did not mention groundwater in his speech. That's what you get. Nor did I hear anything about the natural areas surrounding Slite. But of course the climate was mentioned, which is so important. We believe that it should not have to go as far as to court, but that we should help the industry to resolve the issue of applications. As I mentioned, both Cementa and Rise are going to hook arms with the water authorities so that we do not get back into the situation we have today.
i-ecce55ab0a700c41-153	Mr President, I would like to Let me remind the honourable Member that the debate concerns legislation in general and not specifically Slite, the natural areas around Slite or the groundwater levels in Slite. So I did not mention them in my speech precisely so as not to go into the current court proceedings. It is exciting that the honourable Member is lifting the water authorities. We know that the water authorities have put forward action programmes that differ miles away from the legislation that the Liberals have signed, and that is a major problem. I did not hear about a single legislative change that the Liberals can think of to improve for companies in terms of licensing processes. We are talking about Rise and the water authorities hooking arms, but can the honourable Member make a single proposal for a legislative change that he wishes to see in order to shorten the times for environmental permit processes?
i-ecce55ab0a700c41-156	Mr President, I would like to Let me make it clear that we are in favour of reviewing these licensing processes. They need to be shortened. We need to review exactly what measures are required, and I am absolutely in favour of that.
i-ecce55ab0a700c41-157	Mr President, I would like to Jakob Olofsgård attacked my party in his speech for some reason. I find that a little difficult to understand, because the Swedish Democrats have had neither an impact on legislation nor a review. However, the Swedish democrats said early after the cement crisis that the government must act to enable a continued operating licence. After many if and but acted the government, and several parliamentary parties, including the Liberals, have also listened to the Swedish Democrats' request to enable a continued operating licence. So we did not want to introduce dictatorship; we wanted to make it possible for the operating licence to continue. The Swedish Democrats have had no organised cooperation with the government during this term of office, nor have they had officials at the Government Office. We have had difficulty influencing the situation that has arisen. But how have the Liberals acted in their cooperation with the government to eliminate this crisis? How have Liberal officials at the Government Office worked to ensure that Sweden would not end up in this cement crisis? How have Liberals viewed this problem in recent years, and how have they acted?
i-ecce55ab0a700c41-162	Mr President, I would like to In my speech, I highlighted the various political moves following the Court's decision and that the solution of Sweden's democrats was to go in and amend this decision. That's what I criticized. Again: The government has known about this since 2018 and is ultimately responsible for not having acted in time despite seeing it coming. The Liberals are not in the government. I would like to point out that we accept our responsibility for the situation that has arisen, but that the government could have done much earlier.
i-ecce55ab0a700c41-164	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Democrats, as I said, have not wanted to change any court order but have demanded that the government act to enable a continued operating licence. Fortunately, the government has listened to this, and the Liberals support it, for which we thank them. However, I note that the Liberals think that the legislation is good as it is. There are no concrete proposals, nor can they envisage reviewing the legislation. This is also usually the case in the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture when we discuss natural resources. Liberals are a bit like a reflection of the Green Party. The forest should stand, mineral extraction should not be simplified and difficult conflicts they dare not take in. The Liberals' Green Strategy for the last parliamentary term has been to become a liberal environmental party that cannot cope with conflicts and has not acted in its cooperation with the government to enable Sweden's continued cement supply.
i-ecce55ab0a700c41-167	Mr President, I would like to Let me point out that the Green Party is part of the government, which we criticise. In our environmental policy, we want to balance between two outer edges. We should and should be in the middle, not on any outer edge. Then there are no simple answers, and therefore our environmental policy becomes more complex. That's what we stand for.
i-ecce55ab0a700c41-169	Mr President, I would like to I welcome Jakob Olofsgård to the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture. It will be fun to work with Jakob, and we have a good cooperation with the Liberals. I asked for the floor because this was not really connected. Perhaps it was even a little too liberal. First, Jakob strongly defends the environment and water, which I welcome. Then he defends the judiciary equally strongly, which I also welcome. Then he strongly defends the market and also wants to help it. But how neutral is it to competition? What will the Liberals do for the market? Jakob Olofsgård concludes by criticizing the government. Then my question will be the same as for Jessica Rosencrantz: When would the government have acted? The decision of the Land and Environment Court to reject the application came in the midst of a burning government crisis. When, according to the Liberals, should the government have acted?
i-ecce55ab0a700c41-173	Mr President, I would like to As a new member of Parliament, I thank you for welcoming the Committee on Environment and Agriculture. These are my first line shifts, and it's really instructive. I note that in the speech of the Social Democrats there was no degree of self-criticism. How did we get here? What have we done wrong? What should we have done differently? As politicians, one must be able to admit that something is not good. I would like to stress once again what should have been done, since these things have been known since 2018, and also that all natural areas around then would have a consequence of permit testing. One would have thought about there and then about what happens if a new permit is not granted and what roads we then have when it comes to lime mining in Sweden.
i-ecce55ab0a700c41-176	Mr President, I would like to I was talking earlier about the environmental review investigation. I think it is important that the effects of climate change are also taken into account. We should remember that there are opportunities for lime mining in more places in Sweden, but it is perhaps the case that from Gotland's central position and Slite we minimize the share of truck transport and ensure sustainable maritime transport of the important cement. These are important parts when you look at the whole. I still lack the Liberals' answer to what we are going to help the market with so that there is continued competition neutrality, because it must nevertheless be the Liberals' basic position that legislation, whatever it is about for companies, must be competitively neutral. Then we can't go in there and say we're going to help here but not there and that we're going to rule here but not there. Then the criticism of the government in this case is quite empty.
i-ecce55ab0a700c41-178	Mr President, I would like to When it comes to helping the market, it is a matter of political responsibility to create general opportunities for businesses to function properly. To specifically help individuals, I have not said, but in this case it is about the mining industry and how we are going to help it and create a policy that facilitates authorisation testing, which is very difficult, as we have here today. There also needs to be resources for research and other things that can find opportunities that the industry can take advantage of in order to find solutions. There are things that politics can really support and help our industries in general.
i-ecce55ab0a700c41-180	Mr President, I would like to I get after listening to the other Members' desire to quote an old hive: Man is of complaint bent, never is she really satisfied. It is well in the DNA of opposition policy that if the whole opposition agrees with the government to a hundred per cent, it would like to criticise the government in more bitter terms than is normal. That is exactly what we are hearing today. Unanimity rarely comes with roses and happy calls. But the fact is that I, too, am not entirely satisfied, and I will not be so until it is clear that the business community can secure building materials for socially important construction efforts, while meeting stringent environmental requirements and securing groundwater and that we in Sweden have a more efficient and functioning market with healthy competition. Then I'll be happy. I would like to start this debate with the biggest question: groundwater on Gotland. Gotland has a number of pressing problems linked to water. There has been a long-standing shortage of water, which can be exacerbated by climate change. There is a great risk that salt water enters the bedrock and destroys the groundwater resource. Mining and mining, such as lime, have a major impact on water resources. This may affect, for example, the conditions for using the land in the surroundings or the possibility of getting drinking water in wells or water supplies. This is very serious. It is inalienable water resources that are at stake. That is the point of departure because many Gotlanders and environmentalists have reason to be worried. Here in the Swedish Parliament we invest billions in protecting Gotland militarily. We need to be more prepared to also protect Gotland, its citizens and entrepreneurs environmentally. I therefore welcome the fact that in the 2022 budget proposal there is now fresh money to increase the efforts to secure water resources on Gotland. I hope that everyone will support this. Heidelberg Cement has completely on its own put Sweden and the construction industry, the construction materials industry and the mining industry in a potential crisis situation. There may now be an acute shortage of cement. The reason is that the company has an extreme dominance in the Swedish market and that the company did not do its homework in its application for increased operations. The Land and Environment Court found that Cementa's application was subject to such substantial deficiencies that it could not form the basis for a position. The application was rejected. How can construction companies make themselves so dependent on a single company as a supplier, for such an important product? And what are companies doing now to reduce dependence on cement, increase demand for green cement and ensure that there are more suppliers or at least a plan for business critical risks? Actors who engage in socially important activities cannot accept to put themselves in a situation where one is dependent on a single company. Therefore, greater diversification is needed. A nestor both in our industry policy and in the industry sustainability is Anders Wijkman, who for very many years now has been trying to get us all to understand that precisely lack of raw materials will be one of the big issues we will have to deal with. I think there's reason to listen more to Anders Wijkman in the future. The whole cement crisis is an alarming wake-up call for construction companies. It is for more people, but now there is really an opportunity to scale up the possibilities for wood construction, green concrete and increased recycling. In fact, in the Fossil free Swedish and concrete industry's roadmap for fossil-free competitiveness, which came a few years ago, it says that the concrete industry has set itself the goal in the short term that the concrete's climate impact should have reached a halved level within five years. The main means of this are, among other things, the use of alternative binders. In some other countries in Europe, a larger proportion of slag is already mixed in with concrete compared to Sweden. In Germany, Belgium and the Netherlands it is estimated to be relatively normal with 50% involvement, but up to 90% occur. The Cement crisis will certainly be able to speed up the development of green concrete. Indeed, the time has come for increased wood construction. The wood construction industry can scale up the work of houses with wooden structures and serially manufactured houses. This requires increased competence, which the government invests in BP 2022. When I listen to the opposition parties, I am worried about the environmental situation in these parties. The Cementa affair has taken Swedish environmental policy into the national political hot air. The right-wing conservative parties already last summer demanded that Swedish environmental legislation be repealed. And so have we heard here today. The Center Party complains in its opinion and speech that we in Sweden are complying with EU legislation and environmental laws. The Centre Party clearly does not want all the requirements of the Environmental Code to be met. I would urge Members to replace the word 'environmental code' for a moment with, for example, the soil code or the criminal code, and for a moment of clarity, to see the absurd complaints in the opinion that the authorities comply with the rules that we have decided on here in Parliament and in the European Parliament. If the Center Party wants something else, you must probably take the page from your mouth now and exercise that we should leave the EU, or even introduce a new rule in the Constitution that we should not be so careful when we comply with the laws that we vote for here in Parliament. The government and perhaps above all the Government's Climate Board have worked hard on how to improve permit processes. Increased transparency and efficiency of permit processes are necessary in order not to slow down climate policy developments. At the same time, however, the government is also clear that strengthening environmental requirements is very important for Sweden's competitiveness. Mr President, I would like to There are many opposition parties in this debate who believe that improved licensing processes should be about reducing environmental requirements. The Green Party has now pushed forward efforts to ensure that we have a modern and effective permit testing. There will be proposals in three investigations. In order to bring about changes, the government wants to make changes from a holistic perspective that includes both the material and the procedural regulations, but also issues of organisation and financing. The Center Party has called for legislative changes in this particular area, and as I said, this is under way. However, I am concerned that the Center Party and the Moderates are beating blue in the eyes of many when they claim that it would be possible to amend the EU Framework Water Directive, the EIA Directive. Gotland's vulnerable water situation does not seem to be so important to these parties. After all, it was the water directive's deterioration ban and Cementa's inability to demonstrate a robust environmental impact assessment that secured the water resources that ruled in the Court of Justice. But the cause of long state processes is not just about wrong bureaucracy. Sometimes it is also a question of companies not submitting complete or correct evidence in their applications for environmental permits. In fact, it is best done by companies hiring or hiring people with the right skills. This is not something that we in Parliament can decide on. But this would probably be one of the best ways to speed up environmental assessment. I would also like to add that there are, after all, quite few cases that take a very long time, if you look at the whole picture. State investigations have also shown this. The cuplet I quoted at the beginning also contains the following words: Something to eat, something to drink. In fact, that is exactly what we need to have in mind. We must ensure that the soil is not devastated and that drinking water is protected. We must note that business as usual is not possible. Addressing the twin crisis of global warming and loss of biodiversity requires much more active work in the business world. The decision that we are going to make here in Parliament today means that companies can apply for short-term environmental permits to continue to mine lime within the permits that already exist today but which expire soon. I would like to add that the requirements of the environmental code will apply in this trial.
i-ecce55ab0a700c41-204	Mr President, I would like to I think even Maria Gardfjell needs to listen a little better. The change proposed by the Center Party in the environmental code is about adding climate, nothing else. But that's not really what I wanted to talk about. I sit here with the government's letter on simplification policy in front of me, which came to Parliament about two weeks ago. The first point in it reads: The overall regulatory framework must be designed in such a way that it contributes to promoting Swedish companies' growth, competitiveness and innovation and adaptability. So that is what the Green Party and the Social Democrats agree on. Therefore, I am very curious about how Maria Gardfjell views this. Does the Green Party think that the overall regulations on permit processes live up to the picture that their own government writes about? Does the Green Party have any concrete changes that it wants to see in the regulations, not in terms of government or organisational changes, and which the government itself says it wants to simplify in order to increase the ability to adapt? I therefore simply wonder: what concrete proposals does Maria Gardfjell have in this area?
i-ecce55ab0a700c41-207	Mr President, I would like to I thank you for a very good question from Rickard Nordin. Now that the government is going to review the regulations, three investigations have been set up. It is the Environmental Review investigation that is tasked with investigating and proposing measures for how a more modern and effective trial should be conducted. The aim is to facilitate environmental and climate improvements. It is also a question of facilitating investment, faster access and easier trial procedures while maintaining environmental protection. The study on innovation-critical metals and minerals will review trial processes and regulations to better take into account both local environmental impact and societal benefits, including climate impact, in connection with mining activities. Finally, the Climate Law investigation is tasked with investigating the possibility of weighing climate benefits against negative impacts on human health and the environment through a special balancing rule in the environmental code or otherwise. However, the maintenance of environmental protection is an important aspect of these various investigations. I must also say that I am concerned if the Center Party does not agree that the environmental code should be strong.
i-ecce55ab0a700c41-212	Mr President, I would like to As I said, we want to strengthen the environmental code by adding climate too. I have no other suggestions for the environmental code as such. However, I note that Maria Gardfjell has no proposals of her own. She refers to three investigations. Parts of them are good. It is also the Center Party that has pushed some of them through. But I wonder what the Green Party wants, not what various investigators want. I wanted to add one thing, because I was very curious about Maria Gardfjell's speech. One of the major problems she highlighted in the current situation is market dominance. She also wanted more diversification and more businesses in this area. Then I'll be very curious. What is the Green Party's proposal there? What does the Green Party want to do to increase diversification? Is this about government companies? For example, left-wing parties have today written that they should nationalise Cementa. Do you want to start a new state-owned company in this area? Are we prepared to open up more revenue, because it is necessary if we are to have more companies to enable diversification? So what does the Green Party intend to do to increase diversification? According to the Green Party, more companies are needed, and then there must be more lime. It is not possible to use Cementa lime, because they belong to Cementa. I am therefore very curious about what the Green Party is thinking there if we are not to import cement from other countries, with increased environmental impact. I think it would be very exciting to hear the Green Party's answer.
i-ecce55ab0a700c41-216	Mr President, I would like to I think we have a broad consensus in the Swedish Parliament that we want sustainable production of Swedish-produced building materials of various kinds. The interesting thing in this area is that diversification is not only about cement, but also about using cement where it is needed – and replacing certain elements of cement with, for example, materials that can be reused, that is, reused. Here, for example, the flying shoes and what is needed in the green concrete come in. Then cement is a component that acts as a glue in the concrete. It is necessary for the future, but it is also a question of managing it properly. And when it comes to housekeeping, other aspects come in, such as increased wood construction. Here the Environmental Party wants active forestry in Sweden that actually promotes the possibility of a circular bioeconomy strategy. Unlike the Center Party, we want to invest in circularity, and unlike the Center Party, we also want to ensure that we get more durable products in the circular bioeconomy strategy. This is something that the Center Party opposes – every day of the week, in fact. Mr President, I would like to I think that one of the most important issues when we talk about this crisis, which has come with a wake-up call, is that companies really need to invest more in eco-innovation and in managing groundwater.
i-ecce55ab0a700c41-220	Mr President, I would like to It is hardly that you know where to start after such a speech. Nevertheless, let me say that it is a little regrettable that sweeping accusations of this type are being made by all parties who do not agree with me that environmental legislation should be repealed. In fact, I find this a bit boring for the debate. Most of us are trying to have a constructive discussion about how we can get better and more predictable permit processes, of course with continued consideration for taking good care of the environment and nature. Even worse is perhaps the total lack of self-criticism from the Green Party: Cementa is apparently responsible for our being here; it is Cementa's fault. But it is not Cementa who leads the country, is it not the government that leads and governs the kingdom? I wonder how the government reasoned, for example, when it appointed the Natura 2000 site on Gotland 2018. How, then, was it reasoned when warnings were received from several quarters that it would affect cement production? Did they conduct an impact assessment before or after? Have we looked at what options would be available if this would mean that cement production would have to be closed down because it would not be possible to obtain a new permit? Warnings thus came to the government already in 2018 that this could have an impact on cement production. What did the government do about it, to avert the crisis that we are now in?
i-ecce55ab0a700c41-223	Mr President, I would like to The Green Party is, in fact, responsible for the fact that today we are going to take a unanimous decision in this House on the temporary possibility of continuing the mining, in order to avoid an acute crisis in cement. However, the Green Party is also responsible for ensuring that we stand up for the environmental code that has been tightened up over the last ten years. That is the one that applies in the test to be carried out after this. I can only repeat what my colleague Isak From from the Social Democrats said: the government had no opportunity to interfere in the work of the courts before the ruling came from the Marks and Environment Court. I also wonder if Jessica Rosencrantz has read the ruling in court. The Moderates claim that new Natura 2000 sites risk contributing to the closure of cement production in Slite, as was also heard in the honourable Member's speech. The decision of the Mark and Environment Court to reject the Cementa application does not refer anywhere to Natura 2000 sites on the island. The reason for the rejection decision was shortcomings in the application regarding the impact on water supply on Gotland and the risks of further deterioration in water quality. That's why I wonder if the Moderates have even read the ruling from the court.
i-ecce55ab0a700c41-226	Mr President, I would like to Since I did not receive a response, I can say that the answer must be that the government did not take any action when these warnings were lifted already in 2018. I can't see it any other way. It is quite obvious that the Moderates do not think that we should go in and review a court order. Nevertheless, it shows that something is problematic when Cementa receives a rejection just a few months before the current permit expires. There is also the government's responsibility for the whole of the system somewhere. It is not a question of reviewing court decisions or going into those details. However, we can say that these permit processes in Sweden had to be controlled much earlier than the investigations that have now been set up – and which, as I mentioned earlier, also partly go in the wrong direction by rather wanting to limit more permits and create more uncertainty for companies that are involved. It is clear that there are parts of Cementa's application that were not to the satisfaction of the Court; I will not dispute that. But we need to have a different order in which we can more proactively ensure that the authorities are in the process and point out the errors earlier. In fact, it can't take as long as it does now. There's the problem somewhere. However, I would also like to return to the fact that no other measures were taken by the government. Maria Gardfjell highlights the importance of increased wood construction as a solution to reduce cement dependence. I'm sorry, but it's completely absurd when the Swedish forest industry already states that it's basically hitting the ceiling. How can we increase forest construction and production in Sweden when the Green Party rather wants us to grow less forest than today? How are we going to replace cement with wood if we are going to grow less forest, which is the Green Party's policy?
i-ecce55ab0a700c41-230	Mr President, I would like to What has happened during this period? Yes, the Green Party has acted in a variety of ways. As far as construction materials and the competitive situation of construction materials are concerned, there is actually an investigation in progress where the Government commissioned the Swedish Competition Authority to review this area. As far as I know, that investigation will be presented shortly. It happened in 2018. In addition, the Swedish Environmental Party has worked hard to increase wood construction and to ensure that the work with Fossil-free Sweden expands, with cooperation with different industries. There is one of the most important areas to reduce climate impact in the construction sector, precisely by making more use of cement. More action will have to be taken, and I know that the government is currently looking at what happens if Cementa does not get the environmental permit they will seek now – if they cannot meet the environmental requirements set. What do you need to do? Yes, of course, that's a lot of things. This is nothing we can be completely calm about until we have all the decisions in place, both in this House and in relation to the environmental permit tests that need to be carried out. I am very pleased that the Moderates also pay attention to the fact that wood construction is a very important issue. If we are to cope with increased wood construction, we need to have a circular bioeconomy strategy where we prioritise getting more durable products throughout the circular bioeconomy strategy.
i-ecce55ab0a700c41-235	Mr President and everyone who listens! I'm sure you've seen one of the roof paintings in the Bank Hall. It depicts miners, probably from northern Sweden, who tear with their picks to break iron ore-containing stone. It is a very beautiful painting, but it also testifies to how important the mining industry has been for Sweden and how important it continues to be for Sweden and Swedish industry. Cementa has put its finger on the long and complicated state processes in Sweden. I think that more people in the public sector are also beginning to discover this now. But this has been very clear for a long time. It is, in fact, under all criticism and makes some investments run abroad. It may even be that industries will choose to move abroad. That is why this issue is so hugely important to Sweden. Let me take some examples, including from northern Sweden. Boliden said last year that the licensing processes are too long and too complicated. They threatened to move their production abroad. The same was true of Critical Metals. They gave up an investment in Boden and chose to invest in Finland instead. Boliden made a billion-dollar investment in Norway. For example, we have Kallak, who has now been squalid on the government table for three years. Still, after seven years, Beowulf Mining has not been informed. Why is that? We also have Kaunis Iron in Pajala, Birger Lahti's hometown. A supplementary environmental permit application of 8 000 pages has now been written there, costing a total of 50 million. Yet that is not enough. Then you cannot simply say that it is a question of companies having made too poor a record and sending in. It has to be about other things. Or take this as an appeal by government authorities. I would like to say, my friends, that it is a major problem and a failure when applying for asylum ends up in court proceedings. That must mean there's been something wrong before. We should not be afraid to look over the environmental code and see if it can be supplemented. And we can't have government agencies that appeal each other. Last week our Prime Minister Stefan Löfven was travelling in Norrbotten. He was in Arvidsjaur, where he declared to the media that we will open more mines in Sweden, not least in view of the new green industrial boom in the north. But if that is to be possible, the Social Democrats cannot continue along this path, that is to say, to do nothing about the state processes. Because just as Stefan Löfven said: It is not okay to break cobalt in Congo or China. We need to do this. We have the resources here. But then the Prime Minister and the Social Democratic Government need to think one more step, because this is not good enough for Swedish industry and for Swedish jobs.
i-ecce55ab0a700c41-245	Mr President, I would like to The Green Party in the government has pushed for a modern and effective permit testing that contributes to the green transition. It is a high priority for the government. To achieve this, three investigations have been set up. Earlier here in the speaker's chair, a colleague told Helena Lindahl that this was something that the Center Party really supported. Then I wonder: Is Helena Lindahl also with the Center Party in that opinion?
i-ecce55ab0a700c41-246	Mr President, I would like to The answer is yes.
i-ecce55ab0a700c41-247	Mr President, I would like to I pointed out in my speech that the reasons for the long permit process are not just about the actions of the authorities or the possibilities of the courts. Of course, more resources are needed for the judiciary and the work of the authorities and also for joint prevention. But there is also another side of the coin, and that is that companies sometimes do not submit complete or accurate evidence in their applications for environmental permits. I would like to hear how the Center Party and Helena Lindahl want to work to ensure that companies also improve their part in the issue of environmental permits taking a long time.
i-ecce55ab0a700c41-249	Mr President, I would like to In fact, if we are to be honest, I think it is also up to the authorities to talk to each other rather than to appeal each other's decisions. At least where I'm from, you pick up the phone and call each other if there's a problem. I suppose government authorities can do the same. I find it absurd that these kinds of appeals lead to lengthy proceedings and ultimately to court. This does not benefit the development in Sweden. I'm not just talking about individual companies; I'm talking about jobs and development. Not least in northern Sweden, when we have finally managed to turn the map around and this is where the development takes place, we cannot have it this way. I'm sure Maria Gardfjell will agree with that. Unfortunately, however, this has not yet been achieved. I must say, however, that the government has also set up these investigations under the gallows. I remember that last year, when Boliden took the page from his mouth and said what many industries had said earlier, there was speed during the galoshes of the Social Democratic-led government. Unfortunately, not much had happened before. The same is true on the forest side. I find it boring and really hope for a change. When Stefan Löfven was now in Arvidsjaur, I hope that it gave him the opportunity to think a little bit about how these mining establishments will work in practice when he went home to the big city.
i-ecce55ab0a700c41-253	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your speech, Helena Lindahl, and welcome to the debate in the Committee on Environment and Agriculture! As you can see, we have frivolous debates in which we violate positions against each other, and it is welcome that you are also making your voice heard here. In her speech, Helena Lindahl said: Are all permits really to be decided in court? Well, that's the way it is in Sweden. All environmental permits are examined by the Land and Environment Court. Then they can be appealed, just as Helena Lindahl is at, but the foundation is exactly what the Alliance Government put forward and that Lena Ek during her time as Minister for the Environment worked very strongly for. We now have a number of investigations under way. We will also present a proposal in the near future, which deals with the possibility for the reindeer industry and the Samis to be transparent in their processes. It is not a question of the reindeer industry and the Sami having some kind of veto, but it is a question of having a reasonable opportunity to make your claims, the so-called consultation order. I also think that it should be put and put here to ensure that all the points of view have been heard. This is important for Kallak, Kaunisvaara and others – perhaps for all activities in Sápmi where reindeer nutrition is ongoing. How will the Center Party act when the question of the consultation order is put on Parliament's table?
i-ecce55ab0a700c41-257	Mr President, I would like to As far as the order of consultation is concerned, I will not yet speak on behalf of my party. That discussion is going on in the party, so I cannot give an answer about that now. I think Isak From knows that deep down. As Isak From said, I obviously meant that many permits are being appealed in court. That is a problem because the law is not clear enough. Different authorities interpret the law in different ways, and I can also say that different county boards around Sweden also make different decisions and make different interpretations. For example, when it comes to the mining industry, the deposits are only where they are – it is not possible to move them to another county board that might fit better. I believe that Isak From knows very well what I mean by that state authorities should be able to talk to each other in good time rather than appeal each other's decisions. Finally, I think it is very important that all the points of view are heard. I don't mind. But when you hear that Kaunis Iron has written an environmental impact assessment of 8,000 pages – together, the process has cost 50 million – you start to think about whether this is right and right. Should it be completely impossible to open mines, I think it will be difficult for Stefan Löfven to keep the promise of more mines in terms of innovation critical metals and minerals.
i-ecce55ab0a700c41-261	Madam President, I would like It is certainly the case that the climate change will require sustainable minerals broken in Sweden. That is also why the investigations that the government is now going to present are actually so important. I think it is also important, as Helena Lindahl points out, that we have a very high degree of competence in the applications presented by the companies. We can see that we have not had the same competence in the authorities. I am concerned about this, and that is why the government is presenting increased funding both to the county administrative boards and to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency. We do not want to end up in the situation where the authorities are so poorly equipped that they do not have the competence to test this, but to test it by appeal. It is even more important, then, that the authorities actually sit on the same skills as they do today. Let us agree that we need to strengthen the competence of review authorities.
i-ecce55ab0a700c41-265	Madam President, I would like I can only agree with what Isak From has said in his last speech. I believe that Isak From is as interested as me and the Center Party in a more sustainable environmental review and a state-of-the-art process that does not take seven to ten years. It will not work to have it as if northern Sweden is going to take part in the green conversion and be an engine in the same. In addition, we should remember that the EU identifies Sweden as the country that can help the European Union to make itself less dependent on China in relation to certain critical materials, such as innovation-critical metals. This means, of course, that we will not only recycle, but we will have a greater need to open more mines. Then we cannot say to Northvolt in Skellefteå: unfortunately, there will be no cobalt, but we will have to come back in eight to ten years. It does not work, and I believe that Mr From knows, understands and agrees. Finally, I should like to thank you very much for allowing me to join the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture. This is the first time I have been in a debate with you, and it is very nice! This question touched on the business committee's questions a little, so I thought I might be in a corner. Thank you very much.
i-ecce55ab0a700c41-269	Madam President, I would like This matter, which concerns the report on the revised rules for the control of organic production, is quite technical. First of all, I would like to support the reservation – that is the only one – in paragraph 2. The Government's legislative proposal in this respect is that the Swedish Food Safety Agency and the Swedish Agriculture Agency should be able to delegate tasks within different types of controls to different types of control bodies. It is part of the bureaucratic part of agriculture. The control bodies are responsible for too much administration, controls and administrative burden. This is something that politics has been talking about for quite some time, so that we must make it easier for the green industries when it comes to administration and bureaucracy. You can't hide the fact that we've been failing this for a long time. For the last seven years it has not exactly improved, although we have actually had Social Democratic-led governments for seven years now that have said that it will be simpler and less bureaucracy and administration for the green industries. When it comes to this type of exercise of authority, we from the Moderates believe that it should be consistent, legally secure and effective. Now that these large authorities, the Swedish Board of Agriculture and the Swedish Food Safety Agency, have the opportunity to delegate this to smaller agencies in the country – both authorities and other types of control bodies – there is a great concern that this will not happen. There is a concern that it will not be simpler and that it will not be equivalent control over the whole country. Therefore, in our reservation, which we have together with the Christian Democrats, we believe that a mission should be given to the Swedish Food Administration and the Swedish Agriculture Agency to develop guidelines and some form of decision support so that it can be an equivalent control over the country. There is a report from SLU, which I think came last year, i.e. 2020, which is called Byråkratin in agriculture loads and costs. The results of that report are quite remarkable. They say, among other things, that over the last 20 years, the number of legal requirements in agriculture has increased by 120 percent. The number of requirements for record keeping has increased by 350 percent. And the number of requests for permits and notifications has increased by 450%, Madam President. This has happened in an industry, an industry, where we may need to do exactly the opposite. We have to make it easier. Magnus Oscarsson usually stands up in this for the few-timers, the one-man entrepreneurs, for example small dairy farmers. The administrative burden that we are imposing on them in this powerful way is heavy for those who, at the same time, are responsible for animal production and are self-employed. This is hard, and it's serious. In order to link back to delegating from the major works to the smaller organisations to control this, the farmers are experiencing in the same survey that I mentioned that you meet controllers who do not feel really up to date and do not know what they are actually supposed to control. Farmers also feel that this means that they do not really dare to expand. The expansion of their agricultural holdings will help to achieve higher levels of regulatory controls and requirements. And what does that lead to? Yes, as a result, we do not increase our food production as we have said in our food strategy that we want to increase. What does this lead to in the next step? Yes, it leads to increased imports, i.e. a deterioration of the environment and climate when it comes to food production. The fact that we have been failing for such a long time to reduce red tape, the rules and the administration of agriculture thus have incredibly negative consequences in the long run: increased imports, reduced domestic production, reduced employment and reduced environmental and climate benefits. I think these are questions you should have with you every time. Even when we get such a technical dossier like this, we're gonna have this with us. The red tape and red tape in agriculture burden and cost, Madam President. I think it's time to get to grips with this. I know that within the framework of the food strategy there have been a number of attempts to reduce this and that we had a bourgeois minister who said that he had succeeded in reducing it. But this has not happened, but it is increasing. It has increased rapidly in recent years. This is not how we can proceed, Madam President. This government or government that follows must take seriously these issues – facilitating and simplifying for farmers by reducing rules, bureaucracy and administration for agriculture. Otherwise, it is one of the main reasons why we are moving towards a reduction in food production rather than an increase, as we stated in our food strategy. Madam President, I would like I'll send you this question. It's incredibly important. In fact, it is a little broader than what our report is about, but for agriculture and the green industries it is very important.
i-ecce55ab0a700c41-284	Madam President, I would like I thank Mr Widegren for the extremely important speech he made. Like Mr Widegren, we in this House have had countless debates about simplifying the situation for farmers to be farmers. This is, of course, a key point in the food strategy, which we adopted widely and widely here in June 2017. It would be simpler, with fewer rules and less bureaucracy in the green industries. We all signed that. It's not easy to do the right thing. On the contrary, with the bureaucracy that exists, it is very easy to make mistakes – errors that, in turn, can cost the farmer a lot of money. This is really strange to me. Just as John Widegren was on – we've been talking about this for so long, yet no farmer notices any difference. I have an example that I have drawn in this House several times about the farmer I met at a farmer's breakfast. He said to me: Every morning, Magnus, when I wake up I think: What rule will I break today? We have a regulatory burden that is enormous. As I said, Sweden's farmers have not yet seen any simplifications. Actually, it's just the opposite. Then the question may be asked: Why is this the case? I wish the current government could tell us how to think and what will be so much better in the future. That is why, Madam President, together with the Moderates, we believe that the exercise of authority should be consistent, legally secure and effective and have as little variation as possible throughout the country. The possibility of delegating tasks provided for in the proposed legislation is likely to lead to checks being carried out in different ways depending on who carries out them and to decisions being taken on different grounds. Unfortunately, this is a concern that many people are already seeing and experiencing. Depending on the location of the farmer, the exercise of public authority may vary. We have seen this in reports from different parts of the country. Some may say: This works very well in our part of the country. Others may say: No, it's not possible at all– it's a very much tougher assessment in such situations. We Christian Democrats believe that this is very worrying and serious. That must not be the case. That is why we have proposed a regulatory simplification commission, whose task should be precisely to simplify and reduce the number of rules for the farmer. You should feel that it can actually be trusted that it will be the right way.
i-ecce55ab0a700c41-291	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the report by the Committee on Agriculture and the Environment, which deals with changed rules for the control of organic production. I would like to begin by calling for the proposal in the report as a whole to be approved. I shall now go into what the matter is about. In May 2018, a new EU regulation on organic production and labelling of organic products was adopted. This Regulation replaces the current EU Regulation in this area. With this proposal, the Government is now proposing amendments to the Act on the Control of Organic Production and the Act on EU Regulations on Structural Aid and on Support for Rural Development to bring Swedish legislation into line with the Regulation. The fundamental principles of organic production have not been changed, but the amendments include the possibility for the Finnish Food Authority and the Swedish Agriculture Agency to delegate tasks to control bodies and the introduction of a new authorisation allowing the government, or the authority designated by the government, to provide regulations on the obligation of a control body to provide the information necessary for the management of EU support for organic production. In addition, proposals are also made as to who is entitled to appeal against the decisions of the inspection bodies. In order to ensure compliance with product and labelling rules, organic operators will be checked. Originally, the new rules were intended to apply from 1 January 2021. But the coronapandemine made it difficult for the organic sector to change. Therefore, the new date of application is 1 January 2022. The new EU Regulation sets out principles and rules for production, related certification and use of information on organic production in labelling and marketing, as well as rules for controls in addition to those in force under the Control Regulation. The regulation aims to ensure fair competition for farmers and operators, prevent fraud and unfair practices, increase consumer confidence in organic products and encourage the sustainable development of organic production in the EU. The new organic production regulation will apply to certain specified products of agriculture, including aquaculture and apiculture, and products derived from those products. Overall, the Regulation applies to a wider range of products than the current one. Madam President, I would like The equal and competent nature of food control is important and of fundamental importance. In recent years, the government has taken a number of measures to align control in various ways and to ensure its effectiveness and effectiveness. An important part of the Food Strategy's Part 3 Action Plan, which was presented as late as January this year, was precisely a mission to the Food Authority to take measures to increase the equivalence of food controls throughout the country. By simplifying and making it easier for businesses, controls should be made more efficient, company fees reduced and the time and resources of companies saved. The proposal to change the rules for organic production now provides an increased opportunity for the Swedish Food Administration and the Swedish Agriculture Agency to delegate tasks to the control bodies. This enhanced delegation capacity will lead to a more effective control process and a clearer division of roles in supervisory activities. Madam President, I would like The aim of the new EU regulation and amendment is, inter alia, to ensure fair competition for farmers and operators and to increase consumer confidence in organic products. There is extensive work going on to develop and harmonise food control, and this work is long-term and adapted to the new regulatory framework. In order for the rules for organic production to be applied equally and made clear, the industry has developed the national guidelines for organic production on behalf of the Swedish Board of Agriculture. The industry has helped to interpret the legislation and improve the national guidelines through requirements, LRF and organic farmers. Finally, I would like to highlight precisely the consumer's confidence in organic products; it is absolutely crucial for the organic production market. The proposal for a full list of organic operators to be published on a website can be assumed to contribute to greater clarity for consumers and thus also to increased confidence in organic products. The proposal for immediate enforcement of control bodies' decisions is also positive for consumers, as this is expected to increase their ability to make both informed and secure choices.
i-ecce55ab0a700c41-299	Madam President, I would like Today we are discussing legislative changes for organic production. European legislation in this area is very important, but we should remember that we already had the requirement mark before EU entry. Organic farming started in the 1980s, and many farmers, Madam President, have voluntarily switched to organic farming. The purpose of these rules is to strengthen the opportunities and market for organic products. It's important. The EU Regulation aims to ensure fair competition for farmers and food businesses and to increase consumer confidence in organic products. The new regulation is also wider than the previous one and includes more products, including aquaculture and apiculture products. It is important that the competence of the control bodies is ensured. But it is also important that we have a functioning control organisation in Sweden. For some entrepreneurs and some farmers, it can be a huge advantage that a control body that controls the quality of products can also control organic production. But of course the skills need to be equally good in all these companies, and that is also included in this package. One thing that we do not debate very often, Madam President, and which is not really part of this regulatory framework is who pays for control. In fact, in Sweden it is farmers who pay 100% of the control costs while in other countries it is very common that this is subsidised by the state. There is, of course, an ambition on the part of the state to promote increased organic production. In Sweden, we have an eco-target linked to the food strategy, and within the framework of Green Deal and Farm to Fork, the EU has a target of 25% organic agricultural land in the EU. I am the first to endorse the need to reduce the regulatory burden. At the same time, I think it is a little special in this particular area because it is based on voluntary activity. In fact, no one is forcing a farmer to become organic, but it is something you choose for yourself because you want to run a farm with higher environmental standards and also be able to sell the products at a higher price on the market and thus be involved in financing the increased costs of carrying out a more environmentally friendly agriculture. Organic farming certainly has many advantages. It creates sustainable rural development and creates the conditions for increased biodiversity and species wealth. In organic farming, neither pesticides nor commercial fertilisers are used, and there is a variable crop rotation, which builds more carbon in the soil and helps to make agriculture a larger carbon sink. I would say that the interaction between organic and conventional farmers in Sweden is extremely good. Between forms of production, you give each other tips and advice to learn from each other and improve the forms of production. The residues of pesticides found in surface water, especially in intensive agricultural areas, are a matter of great urgency to be addressed in the coming years. This poses a huge risk to our future drinking water and groundwater. It is of particular importance here that eco-production and eco-farming be increased. With this, Madam President, I would like to support the proposal and say that it is a pleasure that we are able to debate and discuss organic farming, because it is important!
i-ecce55ab0a700c41-309	Madam President, I would like I would like to endorse the Moderate reservation 1, which, in short, aims to reduce the tax on petrol and diesel by 1 crown gallon at the pump. I shall justify this and return to the arguments for it. Swedish environmental policy has not completely fallen, but it has taken very strange forms. Yesterday we were met with news of a terrible tragedy in Gothenburg. We can read on a daily basis that we have unemployment among the highest in Europe and growth rates of the lowest in Europe and that barely every second immigrant provides for herself. Unfortunately, the failures in Swedish society are piled up on each other, and people suffer from insecurity, unemployment and a feeling of not belonging to or knowing trust. It is no coincidence that Sweden has so many problems, Madam President. That is because we have a balanced policy. We have politicians who sign off on their salary but don't do the job. You don't look at social problems in a clear-sighted way. Reforms are not being implemented to remedy the problems, but rather they are being taken elsewhere with a lot of strange theoretical discussions. You are deep inside yourself and your own political parties, but you close your eyes to the country and the problems that exist. And the environment is no exception. At the same time, households around Sweden are thinking about whether they can afford to refuel at all. Last time I refueled, the diesel cost 18.50 liters. I saw that the petrol then cost a little over 17 kroner. One is worried if one can afford to visit the sister in the neighboring town, to drive the children to hockey practice or if it even pays to go to work. At the same time as Swedish households are plagued by the Social Democrats, the Center Party, the Environmental Party and the other tax-raiser parties – which affects Swedish rural areas and Swedish families with children – they have pursued a policy of burning 140 000 litres of oil per hour in Karlshamn. This is because there is no electricity in the Swedish electricity grids. The Center Party, the Environmental Party and the Social Democrats have prematurely decommissioned Swedish nuclear power without any viable alternatives. Then you burn 140 000 litres of oil per hour in Karlshamn while at the same time placing record-high taxes and charges on families who depend on the car. How is this reasonable, Center Party? How is this decent, the Social Democrats? How is this eco-efficient, the Green Party? It is simply not possible to justify the policy pursued on a rational, environmentally-friendly and economic basis. It is driven by a desire to show itself as good and kind as possible at international conferences, but it takes no account of the conditions for Swedish households. So oil is being burned because nuclear power is being shut down, but at the same time households are being tormented with a diesel price of 18.50 litres. It is not a climate-efficient policy. Nor is it a policy that is good for Swedish jobs and for Swedish growth. The Moderates have a very effective environmental policy which, however, the majority in this House is putting an end to. We could drastically reduce CO2 emissions through new nuclear power, by expanding charging poles so that there can be more transport on electricity across the country, through a modern carbon storage technology and by ensuring, instead of paying aid to corrupt leaders in corrupt states, that countries can switch their production to less carbon dioxide emissions. All this is blocked by the Green Party, the Center Party and the Social Democrats. At the same time, these parties impose an unreasonable tax burden on households that depend on the car. Of course, the worst is the people who live in the countryside, where the distances are large, but also all those who live just outside our cities. For no public transport in the world, however expanded it may be, goes from home to preschool and to school, on to the workplace, past Mom at the retirement home and then back for pick-up, home to cook dinner, then to hockey practice, to pick-up after ballet and then to football. It is simply not possible to build such a public transport system. We have built our society on the fact that people have a car, and that also makes society good and life better. But now it is so expensive to use the car that you wonder if you can afford to drive to soccer practice, visit your mother at the nursing home or go to the sister in the neighboring town. Is this what Sweden we want? The year is 2021. We've been working for generations, and we're still working hard – and you need to think about whether you can afford to pick up the hockey practice and whether you can afford to visit the retirement home! This is the very essence of the cynical policy being pursued: it should be so expensive with the necessity of life the car should simply not be able to use it. Living in the countryside should be expensive. It should be expensive and difficult to have children that you need to drive. It is simply expected to set the car and lower the quality of life. In no other way can the policy pursued be understood. But it is not enough with the absurdity of the over-taxation directed at Swedish households, but some major climate or environmental benefit – see how to use the money! E-bike subsidies are one example. The family in the countryside, which is dependent on the car, must thus pay sky-high taxes to subsidise an electric bicycle to the director, journalist and PR worker at Södermalm, so that they do not have to pedal in the uphill on Götgatan. Is this a reasonable policy for the Center Party, the Green Party and the Social Democrats? Is it reasonable for an ordinary family just outside Örebro, Östersund or somewhere else in Sweden to pay 18.50 litres for diesel to subsidise electric bicycles in Stockholm's inner city, which at most has the effect of making public health a little worse when the Director, the PR genius and the journalist do not have to pedal in Götgatsbacken? What have you been thinking there? The proposals of the Moderates are clear. We must face up to environmental problems with a rational and effective policy. We do this by expanding nuclear power. We do this by storing carbon dioxide in the soil. We do this by changing the aid. We do this through record investments in charging infrastructure, so that electric cars are actually possible. But we also want to be able to live all over Sweden, that companies should be competitive and that there should be good conditions for both working and living throughout our country. That is why I am in favour of reservation 1, which says that we should reduce the tax by 1 crown liter on petrol and diesel at the pump.
i-ecce55ab0a700c41-325	Madam President, I would like It hardly comes as news to anyone in here that Sweden is a large and sparsely populated country. In fact, we are the third largest country in the EU – only France and Spain are larger. In addition, we are also the second most sparsely populated country in Europe – only Finland is more sparsely populated. This equation means that very many people in our beautiful country simply lack a reasonable public transport as an alternative to their transport. There is usually no bus to take to and from work. There is usually no bus to take to leave or pick up the children at preschool. There is usually no bus when the children are going to football practice. And there's usually no bus when you're going to help your old parents to the hospital. Therefore, very many Swedes are completely dependent on the car to make the puzzle of life go together at all. Madam President, I would like Very often we hear in this House that all of Sweden will live. But sometimes it is difficult to see that the decisions go in that direction. When I refueled on Monday, the diesel cost SEK 18 per litre, which is a bit more expensive than my moderate colleague had to pay. Yesterday we were able to read that prices were raised further. A year ago the diesel cost 13.50 per litre. Although the Corona crisis had pushed down the price of fuel in the past three months, the price of fuel has risen by 10% and in a year by over 30%. Compared to the Swedish diesel price internationally, you can see on the site globalpetrolprices.com that the Swedish diesel price is second highest in the world. Only Hong Kong has a 90 cent higher price. After Sweden comes Israel and Norway, where diesel is 1,30 and 1,70 cheaper. Madam President, I would like The high Swedish fuel prices affect not only Sweden's private motorists, but also Swedish farmers get higher costs for their fuel. According to LRF, each crown as the diesel price is increased with an increased cost of SEK 270 million for Swedish farmers. In addition, their Danish colleagues have a much more generous tax reduction on fuel consumed in the business. Therefore, the Swedish Democrats aim to reduce the fuel tax for Swedish farmers to the same level as for Danish farmers. The Swedish haulage industry is also affected by the high fuel prices. This is not something that drivers with simplicity can offset by higher prices against customers. In the end, it will be the Swedish consumers who will have to pay the cost of increasing the price of goods. At the same time, the incentives to use foreign trucks that often have worse diesel, towing vehicles with lower climate performance and truck drivers with significantly worse conditions than the conditions for Swedish colleagues are increasing. Even many smaller companies that are working hard to earn wages and taxes have been given a greater yoke to bear, not only in terms of fuel taxes but also in terms of the taxation of their vehicles. We see how the benefit values are recalculated to be more costly. We also see how the penalty tax in the form of bonus malus often hits smaller service companies when the vehicle tax on their light trucks multiply. Madam President, I would like But that is not really what we are debating today. No, today we are debating exactly what we did last year: a temporary break from the 2% flat-rate and automatic overindexation of fuel tax, the so-called bnp indexation, which the government and parliament decided on in 2016. Every year, taxes on fuels are automatically increased without being preceded by a debate or a vote here in Parliament. We think that alone is completely wrong. Every tax increase should be decided here on each occasion. Instead, we must now debate and decide not to increase the tax. But does paused bnp taxation mean lower fuel prices? No, it doesn't. The automatic CPI indexing of both petrol and diesel is still being carried out. It can therefore be said that this decision makes the tax increase a little smaller than it would otherwise be. The main reason put forward by the government for the paused bnp indexation is the increased reduction obligation, which is also a strong contribution to the increase in fuel prices. But a paused bnp indexation unfortunately only provides a very limited compensation for this. We are talking about a non-tax increase of as little as 12 øre per litre for diesel and 16 øre per litre for petrol. Madam President, I would like All in all, we Swedish democrats believe that both the KPI indexation and the bnp indexation should cease permanently. In addition to this, fuel taxes need to be further reduced, not least for residents in Sweden who depend on the car to cope with the life puzzle and who have no public transport as a reasonable alternative. That is why I would like to support the Swedish Democrats' reservation 2 in the report. In our reservation, we are calling for the permanent abolition of CPI indexing and bnp indexing, as well as a further reduction in taxes on petrol and diesel. As the Moderate reservation has the same intention and will orientation as regards reduced fuel taxes, in the event that our reservation falls on the vote, we will support the Moderate reservation 1.
i-ecce55ab0a700c41-337	Madam President, I would like Eric Westroth and I seem to agree that the tax on petrol and diesel is too high. It is simply not justified for environmental reasons to have such a high level of taxation as we do. Instead of helping change, it spoils the lives of people who depend on the car in their daily lives. Madam President, I would like I noted that Eric Westroth announced that the Swedish Democrats will vote on our proposal if their proposal falls. I welcome that, of course. I welcome the fact that all parties do. The Center Party, for example, has an excellent opportunity here to help people who depend on the car and who live in the countryside. I doubt, however, that they will take that chance. My question to Eric Westroth is perhaps a bit of a technical nature, for those of you who are looking at this. But it's still important to sort it out. In your budget there is no money set aside to reduce petrol tax and diesel tax. Only the Moderates have made that priority. Let's look a little forward. My question, therefore, is whether you will put money in your budget for next year to reduce the tax? It requires a priority in the budget if you want to do this. After all, this means a certain loss of revenue for the state. If that money is added to your budget, we agree, and in such cases we can jointly take a step for a Sweden in which it is better to run a company and work in and where it is better to live in the whole country.
i-ecce55ab0a700c41-340	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking, Niklas Wykman! Yes, just as Niklas says, the conditions for living in the country are something that we want to reward, so to speak. We do not find the policy of the present government, with persistent tax increases and dissipation in this regard, to the full. Just as Niklas Wykman said in his speech, nuclear power and a developed charging infrastructure are key to cope with climate change. We can also read in the motor press about journalists trying to make long trips with their electric cars. They finally get to promise their family members not to take the electric car next time, because of queues at the charging poles. There, the trend may be faster than the market is prepared to take. Then there is the supply of money in the area of fuel taxes. We must assume that it will be added. It is just as Niklas Wykman says: it is a matter of priorities. Rural areas are a priority area for us. We see that the car is a prerequisite for being able to live in the countryside, and not only in the countryside but, as Niklas Wykman himself said, also in the vicinity of the big cities. Our budget is not yet presented, but I assume that it will be paid for there.
i-ecce55ab0a700c41-344	Madam President, I would like I welcome that message from Eric Westroth: that money should be set aside in the budget. That is exactly how the Moderates have done in order to really lower these taxes. This is an important issue. First of all, of course, it is important for those who are directly affected, those who need the car to get to work and, as Eric Westroth talked about, to be able to care for their family and take care of their relatives. It is also important when it comes to being able to travel somewhere and get away on vacation and so on. However, the sound, balanced and effective nature of environmental policy is also important because the climate challenge is real and effective action is needed. To continue only with the kind of symbolic policy that the Center Party, the Green Party and the Social Democrats – the government and its support parties – are engaged in risks damaging confidence in politics. People feel they have to pay 18.50 per litre for diesel. The revenue will then be used to subsidise electric bicycles in order to avoid pedalling in Götgatsbacken in Stockholm. It will be a policy that simply hurts people's minds and risks pushing legitimacy and confidence into the whole of environmental policy. I welcome and will read with interest the Swedish Democrats' budget. I look forward to the fact that this time there are really feasible proposals for a reduced tax on petrol and diesel. Then, together with other parties that care about the conditions for jobs and entrepreneurship and the possibility of living in the whole country, we can move forward with a policy that is really climate-efficient without pushing household finances into thin air.
i-ecce55ab0a700c41-348	Madam President, I would like Maybe I'll have to correct myself a little. As I said, we have a budget that is not yet presented. It is a removal of the KPI indexing and bnp indexing in the previous budget. As I said, the forthcoming budget has not yet been presented. But removing both the KPI indexing and the bnp indexing is an important thing to slow down the flashing price development of fuel. We do not have a quantitative reduction in fuel tax in the same way that the Moderates have in their motion. However, I and Niklas Wykman are in complete agreement with the intention: that the tax on petrol and diesel should be reduced for the sake of rural areas and for the activities and industry in rural areas. They should not be forced into urban areas to get their employees to work.
i-ecce55ab0a700c41-350	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling, from a Christian Democrat point of view, for the approval of our reservation 3. What about the country at the moment? I think Mr Wykman highlighted it very well. Sweden is in many respects a two-part country. At the end of the summer, I made a study trip. I started in Uddevalla and travelled inland, towards the coast all the way up to Kiruna and then home to Uddevalla again I came then to go in large parts of Swedish inland, as well as along the coast, and I made ten fifteen different study visits. Only that in itself was interesting. In parts of Sweden you can see gravel roads with 110-signs. It is not very common at home in Uddevalla. It was also interesting to meet one of the officials working for Region Jämtland, who states that the traffic plan in Jämtland contains 60 per cent gravel road. I believe that very few of us who are in this House right now have that experience. At least it is not the case for us who come from Västra Götaland that the region's traffic plan contains 60 per cent gravel road. So there is an incredible difference in how the infrastructure looks. We are also seeing another phenomenon that is emerging at the moment and, of course, affected by the view of taxation. Reducing speed rather than making roads affects the business community, which affects the individual and those who are going to try to take their children to a sports activity or to school. We also see how the price models we work with today result in flashing prices. The price of diesel goes up. Some parties find this positive. There are even those who argue that the price should go up to 30, 40, and 50 kroner. You could say that if you have three minutes to the subway station and ten minutes to work. But that is not how Sweden looks. For a lot of people, Sweden looks like you actually have to take your vehicle and travel both half an hour and an hour to get to work. It is clear that if you then stand and talk about price pictures of 30, 40 and 50 SEK you break parts of Sweden. We Members of Parliament must be aware of this, Madam President. I am therefore surprised to read this rather short report. With a very weak argument, the current majority dismisses the proposal we Christian Democrats have to produce a new fuel and vehicle taxation in Sweden. What is interesting is that this particular proposal and these ideas highlight Tomas Eneroth and also the representatives of the Green Party in the traffic committee debates. In one part of the House, therefore, this is an issue we are discussing, and in the other part of the House, the same majority says that we need a review and says that we do not need such a review. Madam President, I would like I have to tell you, I'm not making that all go together. What, then, is the reason why we Christian Democrats want a review of fuel and vehicle taxation? It is a fact that the current model can only be regulated with higher or lower taxes. The model has no accuracy in the relationship between city and country. It also has no accuracy when it comes to time of day. It has a certain accuracy for vehicles, as vehicle taxation takes into account what you have bought for vehicles. But in reality, today's system is extremely blunt. The Christian Democrats' proposal for a new vehicle and fuel taxation had had the effect of getting to the foreign drivers. Today, Swedish drivers have to pay taxes in Sweden when they drive here, and then they have to pay taxes abroad to drive there. But for foreign drivers, Sweden is one of the few countries where there is no taxation. So we have put in a competitive situation for our own business. Our proposal would also have made it possible to reduce taxation for all those living in rural areas who do not have adequate public transport. Today's tax strikes blindly, and it is difficult to make it easier for those who depend on vehicle transport without at the same time reducing taxes on those who have viable alternatives. So the current system is blunt. It does not meet environmental objectives, it does not meet the social dimension, nor does it meet the needs that exist. It's a blunt system that beats blindly. Our system could also have been used to control transport at different times of the day. If you have a digitised vehicle and fuel taxation, package it up and dismantle all the other systems, you can actually control just like with aviation castles. It can therefore be more expensive for light trucks to drive at certain times of the day, which steers away that traffic especially in larger urban areas in rush hour traffic when people are going to and from work. Taxation can also be facilitated so that at other times transport can drive out and refill in department stores and other important things. It is therefore a tax that could follow the vehicle in a completely different way. We have another factor, Madam President, which too few talk about but which we residents have noted, and that is the Norwegian debate. It is positive that more vehicles go on alternative fuels. But if the alternative fuels are partly tax-exempt according to a steering model, we end up with a situation where fewer and fewer people pay for wear and tear. In Norway there is such a debate: wait a minute, what do we do now? Should we have less money for roads? Perhaps we need to do something at an early stage so that citizens are not fooled over and over again. One minute it would be ethanol. Then charging hybrids would be included via bonus malus. My wife bought one this spring, but as far as I understand from the government's proposal, it will not be included next spring. That kind of hating is not a good way to pursue environmental policy. Madam President, I would like We stand by our proposal in reservation 3, and it is with great surprise that I note that S and MP in the Committee on Transport and Tourism are talking about the importance of a new model, while S and MP in the Committee on Taxation are saying no to such a proposal.
i-ecce55ab0a700c41-365	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating paused bnp indexation of fuel tax on petrol and diesel. At the same time, we must not forget the direction of climate policy and the ongoing climate crisis. Perhaps what caused many of us to wake up is with the weather. The cold and rainy Swedish summers that everyone wanted to escape from seem to be gone. A series of scorching summers have hit the entire Northern Hemisphere in recent years. Temperature records have been broken. The woods have burned. Drought combined with heavy rains that have caused floods has plagued agriculture. Building close to water has become a new challenge with this. Storms threaten both the forest and coastal settlements. We are in a climate crisis and strong measures are needed to reduce CO2 emissions. Our direction must be clear. The green transition of industry needs to be accelerated. Transport needs to be changed, and we need a fossil-free vehicle fleet – the faster, the better. Sweden's climate policy framework says that greenhouse gas emissions from domestic transport will decrease by at least 70% by 2030 compared to 2010. You can't both take this direction and then say that the price of petrol is going down with 1 crown. Some say that this is a rural issue, but is it not also a rural issue that the forest does not burn down or fall? Or that the farmer does not have to compete with the neighbors for the little water left in the river after a long drought? It is important to keep two thoughts in your head at the same time. Many people depend in different ways on cars powered by petrol and diesel, so the price of fuel can't go up all the way. At the same time, progress must be clearly driven towards lower-emission fuels and a fossil-free vehicle fleet by 2030. Since 1994, there has been an annual recalculation of both CO2 and energy taxes on petrol and diesel, for example, with changes in consumer price indices. For petrol and diesel, a flat-rate annual supplement of 2 percentage points to the CPI conversion is also made since 1 January 2016. With this, there is a clear and necessary pressure for change which also promotes the development of petrol-efficient vehicles. On 1 July 2018, a reduction obligation was introduced to mix biofuels into petrol and diesel in order to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. As a result of higher production costs, biofuels are so far more expensive than petrol and diesel. The Government's proposal aims to meet the higher pump prices that may arise as a result of higher blends of biofuels within the reduction obligation. When indexation is paused, pump prices are lower than if the rates had been bnp-indexed as usual. The proposal strikes a balanced balance between the ability of individuals and companies to meet the price increase as a result of the tightening of the reduction levels relative to a high level of ambition in climate action, where the reduction obligation entails a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions from petrol and diesel through the incorporation of biofuels. Madam President, I would like To say that we are taxing vehicles and fossil fuels too much in a situation of obvious climate crisis is not credible. I wish we would instead discuss how we can together increase the ambition of climate policy and do even more, because the climate cannot wait. I support the proposal in the report.
i-ecce55ab0a700c41-375	Madam President, I would like Sultan Kayhan! My main question is that I have been in several debates with Tomas Eneroth, where he highlighted the importance of actually improving our environmental policy and becoming more accurate. He has said on several occasions that he lacks parties in parliament who are prepared to discuss a new fuel and vehicle taxation. I have, in all humility, pointed out that now is probably the third year we have put forward motions on this in Parliament. I have to say that I am a little surprised when you Social Democrats say that you want a more accurate policy and your Minister for Infrastructure says that it would be desirable to have more dialogue with the opposition on this – all respect for it – but you are still voting down motions calling for an investigation into new fuel and vehicle taxation. Such an investigation does not even have to land in that we agree, so we could at least investigate it. I am deeply surprised that, with your commitment to the environment, you choose to say no to this investigation – I think this is the third time in a row – despite the fact that the government itself calls for the opposition to initiate this dialogue. We have tried, Madam President. It's not going very well.
i-ecce55ab0a700c41-378	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question. I think it sounds good that Magnus Jacobsson has an environmental and climate commitment and would like to discuss what we can do even better to develop our environmental and climate policy. Today, as I said, we are discussing the bnp indexation. We agree in committee that we are not going to implement it this year, and the proposals put forward so far do not have wider support for. There are really two different issues here. If we are to have a tax review, perhaps it will rather happen, or I wish it could happen, a broader tax review in which we can look through the whole tax system. That is something that would also be needed, and it is also a point that we had in the previous January agreement, that is, that we need to carry out a broader tax review. But to break out just a tax issue and discuss it when we would really like a broader tax review, that is something to consider.
i-ecce55ab0a700c41-381	Madam President, I would like I would like to quote a previous speaker: the environment does not have time to wait. All respect for a broader tax review. Personally, I think we should have a major overhaul of the entire VAT system. I myself am the owner of a small property and am surprised that we do not have VAT on the rent. It puts investments in the property at a disadvantage and so on. It is also very strange that the municipalities are not part of the VAT system. Instead they had to create Ludvikamomsen. This only creates a lot of problems in the system. There is an incredible amount of work that could be done in the area of tax policy, and I suspect that you, as members of this committee, are far more capable than I am of many of those proposals. But, Madam President, the environment cannot wait. We now have a situation where more and more vehicles will be powered by fossil-free fuels. This means that we will get a tax wedge between those who drive in one way and those who drive in another way. But the roads, my friends, also need money and entertainment. It is a matter of urgency. And I cannot escape the fact that it is surprising that the Minister for Infrastructure wishes the opposition to reach a hand on this issue while the majority vote down the extended hand. Now you have a few hours until the vote at 4 p.m. I hope, of course, that the Social Democrats and the Green Party will change their minds on this issue and will be prepared to investigate another form of fuel and vehicle taxation that will be fairer for those living in rural areas and those who drive environmentally friendly and have a better effect over time.
i-ecce55ab0a700c41-385	Madam President, I would like The environment can't wait. Absolutely. It is precisely for this reason that it is not credible to have a policy that would mean backing up in this area. I suspect that when Magnus Jacobsson asks for an investigation, it is not to change taxes in any other way than to lower them, and lowering taxes further and hard would be a step backwards and not forward for the environment. We also know that travel and transport account for more than a third of Sweden's total carbon dioxide emissions. If you are serious about the climate and the environment not being able to wait, that is the wrong way to go back, which I suspect you would like to see as the result of such an investigation.
i-ecce55ab0a700c41-388	Madam President, I would like The Moderates lower the tax on petrol and diesel by 1 crown liter at the pump. We do this in order to be able to live, run companies and work throughout Sweden. Today's taxation is immoral because so much of the burden is borne by ordinary households with regular incomes. It is immoral because it becomes difficult, for many even impossible, to live in rural areas. It is unjust because it affects families with children and many households with small economic margins very hard. That is why the Moderates propose a tax reduction of 1 crown gallon on petrol and diesel. We are also proposing a very effective climate policy – much more effective than Sweden has today. It is difficult to understand how the Social Democrats, the Green Party and the Center Party get together the logic of punishing households, families with children and the countryside so hard, while at the same time putting down nuclear power so that we have to burn 140 000 litres of oil an hour to cope with our electricity supply. My question to the Social Democrats is: How expensive do you think it should be for an ordinary LO worker to go to work? Let's say you've got 40 miles to work. It'll be 50 miles a day, 400 miles a week and 1,000 miles a month. Let's say you have a cheap diesel car that pulls a pint. It will then be nine miles [9 km] and exactly $140 a month, just to go to work each month for one of the family members. Should it really cost 1 500 kroner only to get to work return if you live in the countryside?
i-ecce55ab0a700c41-393	Madam President, I would like I welcome Niklas Wykman's concern for LO workers. I think there's something we can work on. But I do not think it is right to collect a tax and to conclude from that that LO workers and people with low incomes would suffer a great deal. The budget that the government has just presented is a welfare budget with investments of 74 billion that will take Sweden forward. It is about building prosperity and strengthening security and having a higher ambition for climate policy. In the budget, we also have proposals for certain tax reductions, not least for those who have activity and sickness benefits, people who are in very difficult times, but also temporary tax cuts that will benefit people with low incomes and middle income most. This also applies to people living in rural areas. When we look at tax policy and how people live, we look at the whole. If Niklas Wykman is serious about your concern for LO workers, I would suggest that you vote in favour of our budget.
i-ecce55ab0a700c41-397	Madam President, I would like The willingness of the social democrats to raise contributions or, in this case, as Sultan Kayhan says, to reduce the tax on benefits does not help the LO family that is actually working. And it is not entirely unimportant either for the family itself or for that matter for the whole of Sweden that it actually pays to work. I am absolutely buying the argument that if you do not work but live on subsidies you get a little reduced tax with the Social Democrats' budget, and you are also not as dependent on the car, so of course it will be a good deal. But believe me, for Sweden and for people in general, it is better to go to work. Let's think about how well this example is connected. For an ordinary family, two people who have 40 miles [40 km] to work, it costs almost $1,000 a month just for the diesel return to work. Then there are trips to the soccer drills and the mother at the retirement home, perhaps even having the opportunity to do something fun or an excursion. So we are talking about 4,000, 5,000 or perhaps even 6,000 kroner a month to live in rural areas with ordinary jobs. You may be able to wave that away if you have Sultan's or my monthly salary, but if you go to the factory or elderly care and earn 25 000 – 30 000 kroner a month before the usual tax, we are talking about a lot of money. At the same time as Sultan, the government and the Social Democrats and the Center Party put this burden on the families who work, they burn with 140 000 litres of oil an hour to cope with the electricity supply. It is therefore unreasonable to point out these families and say that they are the environmental villains, when it is you who are pursuing a policy that means that we need to burn with oil to cope with our electricity supply.
i-ecce55ab0a700c41-401	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by reminding Niklas Wykman that Sultan Kayhan, not just Sultan, is my full name. I think it's interesting that the Moderates should always turn on the people who are the hardest in our society. I mentioned people with activity and sickness benefits as examples among several, but our budget will actually strengthen the welfare of everyone in Sweden. The people who have sickness and activity benefits, and who receive a tax reduction, are the ones who have the toughest and would really need this change. I am thinking of Niklas Wykman's claim that the Moderates would have so much more effective solutions to the climate and environmental threats we face and to the criticism that we receive for cooperation with the Green Party, but cooperating is a rewarding and taking. And the party that the Moderates seem to see as their partner party after the next election is actually climate-denial. How does it rhyme with Moderate policy on the climate? We are celebrating a hundred years of democracy this year. A hundred years ago, when the Moderates were called the Right Party, they were not really in favour of introducing universal and equal suffrage. Today you think it's very good and it stands for it. There are also many Moderates who call themselves feminists. Today, however, we are critical of other issues such as having high ambitions for climate policy. Today we do not agree on this and perhaps we will not agree on it tomorrow. But I hope that one day we will come to an agreement, because the climate cannot wait and affects just everyone, regardless of whether you are a low-income or a high-income earner.
i-ecce55ab0a700c41-406	Madam President, I would like The Center Party is in favour of the bill, which is about us stopping with the special bnp indexation of fuel tax. The general indexation of taxes on fuels is a good thing. It follows the development of costs in society, which means that the effect of the tax will not be eroded in line with wage increases or other things. On the other hand, the former, the former or perhaps the former government chose to introduce over-indexation and raise the tax more than indexes. The Center Party, like several parties, has been against this. That is why we are putting an end to it. This is also a remainder of the January cooperation. In the past, we have also contributed to clearer environmental management of fuels. The reduction obligation is extended, i.e. it must be mandatory for fuel companies to mix renewable fuels into regular petrol and diesel. No matter what you think, it should be more environmentally smart. We from the Center Party have previously also ensured that the Swedish Energy Agency has had a mission to look at instruments to increase renewable fuel production in Sweden. And it's good for a lot of reasons, not least security policy so that we'll be less dependent on Russian oil. My guess is that there are a number of British people today who wish they had had more forest and that they have been more offensive when it comes to innovation of domestic fuels. This also means that we get more jobs and entrepreneurship throughout the country, because this raw material is not available in the big cities but in the countryside around Sweden. Madam President, I would like It sometimes sounds like this is just a rural decision in the debate, but it is not true. The Center Party's environmental and climate policy is to ensure that we get more renewable into our fuels. But at the same time we also strengthen Swedish rural areas, because we need real investments in Swedish rural areas and our green industries. The government's commitment to the rural development programme is not far enough. We have therefore proposed an additional SEK 1 billion per year to ensure that we reach the goal of the food strategy, for example. It will also go to young farmers and new innovations. At the same time, more needs to be done for the whole country to have safe and secure roads, so that our cars can travel on our roads without breaking. We want to invest money in strengthening the maintenance of individual roads, on better road lighting, on ploughing and snow clearance of the road network. This is crucial for rural residents. People should be able to live and work throughout Sweden, and it is up to politics to create the right conditions to be able to do so. There must also be service available in rural areas. Here, the Center Party will act to save the rural gas stations, which are in danger of being forced to close because of an unreasonable cost increase for government demands from MSB. The proposal to reduce the tax by 1 krona across may seem good, but in our view it is a little bit of urban policy and very doubtful from a distributional point of view. Half of all the driven miles in Sweden are driven in metropolitan areas, where there is public transport. The metropolitan areas thus receive the biggest tax cuts, not the rural areas. There is a considerably smaller car in rural areas than in Stockholm or Uppsala County, for example. Madam President, I would like The Center Party believes that the present proposal is well balanced between the environment and the economy. It does not increase costs unnecessarily and does not lower Sweden's climate ambitions.
i-ecce55ab0a700c41-416	Madam President, I would like The Moderates suggest that the tax on petrol and diesel should be reduced by 1 crown liter so that you can live throughout Sweden and so that it always pays to go to work. Instead, the Center Party is involved in a government that makes it very expensive for people living in rural areas. Dieseln now costs 18.50 and the petrol around 17 crowns, and then it becomes very expensive when the distances are a bit larger. At the same time, the Center Party is contributing to a policy of heating 140 000 litres of oil an hour because nuclear power has been shut down. It also contributes to e-bike subsidies, which of course has no climate benefit whatsoever, but at most gives a little less public health because the journalists, directors and PR people of Södermalm do not have to tread on the uphills here in Stockholm. Does Helena Vilhelmsson think that this is a balanced policy on the whole? Is it reasonable to have to pay 18.50 litres for diesel when living in rural areas, while at the same time, at the next stage, this money will be used to subsidise electric scooters for people in urban areas? Of course, they had not taken the car but stepped forward on their regular bike. Is it really good that this is the way it is? Is it balanced? Is it not just very stressful for the people who depend on their car in everyday life and for no climate benefit at all?
i-ecce55ab0a700c41-420	Madam President, I would like I thank Niklas Wykman for the question. It is always interesting to hear Niklas Wykman's rich stories about rural life. I have no idea where Niklas Wykman grew up. However, I grew up in the country and have traditionally chosen to stay, because there are many advantages to living in the countryside. But there are also many disadvantages. Secondly, the feeling of unfair treatment in terms of services, public transport and, above all, preschools and schools is enormous, for example, when schools are closed down. There are many aspects that make it sometimes annoying to live in rural areas. Fuel prices are one, but that's not all. I would like to turn the question around and get a clearer answer to whether the Moderates think it is a balanced use of tax funds to reduce the tax by 1 krona straight over on petrol and diesel when the largest sum ends up in the metropolitan areas, where there is public transport and you can actually leave the car at home. No, we will not support any electric scooters. It's an environmental party proposal. We will present bicycle investments in our budget, but it will not be about subsidies for electric scooters.
i-ecce55ab0a700c41-425	Madam President, I would like It was a very surprising and gratifying message that the Center Party will not vote for the Social Democrats' and the Environment Party's budget. I welcome this, and it will mean a big change in how Sweden will be governed next year. It is very much appreciated if this kind of symbolism policy disappears. However, we will have to evaluate Helena Vilhelmsson's statement after we have finished pressing the buttons in this Chamber and see what happens with that. I believe that the Center Party may eventually fall to little and vote for high taxes in the countryside in favour of subsidies for electric scooters in the inner city of Stockholm. Helena Vilhelmsson tries to mislead those who listen by saying that the largest sum ends up in the big cities. Yes, in crowns and crowns it will of course be mostly where it lives the most. However, as a percentage of income, a reduction in petrol and diesel taxes benefits those who have the greatest spending on this, and it is not they who have the shortest distances or who ride the subway – if Helena Vilhelmsson really thinks or believes that. The questions remain: Is a diesel price of 18, 50 reasonable? Is it reasonable for people who work and run businesses in rural areas to pay that much? Is it balanced within the framework of a climate policy that has shut down carbon-free electricity production and instead fires 140 000 litres of oil per hour for electricity to be available in the country? How does this policy go together? Of course, there are many challenges to living in rural areas. One of the biggest is when it gets so expensive that you can't afford it. I have no doubt that Helena Vilhelmsson, with her parliamentary fee, can afford, but also the assistant nurse, the small business owner and everyone else with more regular income, should also be able to afford. Helena Vilhelmsson should probably not live alone in the countryside.
i-ecce55ab0a700c41-430	Madam President, I would like I thank Niklas Wykman for his concern. I do not feel very lonely in the countryside; there are many of us who live there and greatly appreciate it. I note that I did not receive an answer as to why the director or public relations officer of Södermalm should receive a greater share of the tax cut of 1 crown liter than the residents of Laxå or Hofors. I think it is an indefensible measure out of distributive policy. When it comes to climate policy, the Moderates want to invest in nuclear power and use it to burn in an oil power plant in Blekinge as the main reason for it, even though the Moderates know that on this occasion it was cheaper to use oil than nuclear power. In addition, the supply of nuclear power is uncertain, both in terms of the networks and for the closure of the summer for renovation. However, this is rarely shown. I look forward to a strong draft budget and a strong policy of offensive environmental proposals from the Moderates. I think it has been missed so far. This remains to be seen, and we will have to discuss the issue more and also the budgetary issue later on.
i-ecce55ab0a700c41-435	Madam President, I would like The end of the hand-sprit at the speaker's seat is a sign that we are returning to some form of everyday life today when many restrictions are lifted. Madam President, I would like I was going to take my starting point in something much nicer than the debate that has been held so far. Last Sunday I had my two nephews Ronia, 17, and Nellie, 14, for dinner at my home. It was a very nice evening with a lot of laughter but also some more serious conversations. I asked them how they are doing at school and how they feel now that we are finally beginning to get out of the deep and dark tunnel where we have been for almost two years with pandemic, crisis and isolation. Of course, they are happy to avoid distance learning and to meet all their friends again, but there is a great worry about the future. I was told that the adult world is failing us young people. It was on the grounds that we politicians do not take the major climate challenges seriously enough. If you are legislators and aunts of two young girls you get to hear quite straight and hard arguments, but of course you have to take that. On the other hand, I do not believe that my nephews are unique in bearing this concern for the future. If it is something they are right about, it is precisely that climate change poses the greatest threat to humanity. Then we adults today, not least those of us who are politicians and have a great responsibility, must ensure that we leave behind a planet where we have stopped climate emissions and tell today's young people how best to do this. Madam President, I would like I don't want to be an alarmist because I believe in the future. I think we can reverse developments and solve the climate crisis. But I do not deny the threat that climate change poses to our civilisation. The process of transition to climate-smart and sustainable societies is too slow, and needs to be addressed urgently, both at home and internationally in cooperation with other countries. Madam President, I would like Today's report is about a paused bnp indexation for petrol and diesel. It does not describe how bad it is for the climate but gives us an indication of what ambition levels we should have to switch to climate-neutral and renewable fuels. Let me be clear about the ambitions of the Liberals. The emissions of fossil carbon dioxide shall be eliminated and fossil fuels shall be removed. The best way to get there is to continue work to reduce emissions until clean technology competes out the dirty one. For us Liberals, it is about pursuing a rational policy that facilitates the rapid development of climate-friendly technologies. Many people want to do the right thing, but then there must be alternatives, for how can you do the right thing if there are no charging poles and reliable electricity for the electric car or reliable electricity supply to the new fossil-free industrial processes? For us, it is clear and simple. It is the polluter who should pay, not those who take responsibility. This debate calls for honesty and says that a great deal of action will have to be taken to put an end to emissions, but that resistance will also be met, both from companies and from people. Otherwise it will be difficult to be taken seriously. Madam President, I would like Liberal climate policy means that the economy as a whole will emerge stronger from the transition and away from fossil fuels. However, those companies whose activities are based on fossil fuels will see their market shares shrink if they cannot find cost-effective alternatives. I must therefore say that I am a little surprised by the accompanying movements of some opposition parties. It is not the parts that are about us having to secure nuclear power in order to be able to supply electricity and electrify our roads so that we can expand the charging poles so that people who buy electric cars should know that they can charge their cars that I am amazed about, but it is about the parts that are about reducing taxes on the very fuels that contribute to increasing emissions. I think we should be honest and say that the cost of petrol and diesel will continue to increase, instead of trying to hide the cost of emissions behind reduced taxes. Not only does it send the wrong signals to the car industry, which is doing an extremely important job of building more climate-smart cars, but it sends a signal to households that the bar for policy's ambitions to develop sustainable societies is low. This is how you act if you want to tone down climate action in order to avoid taking responsibility. But liberal climate policy is constructive. It means that we can have both – that we can both live good lives and stop climate change. Madam President, I would like We Liberals are in favour of a pause in indexation. We recognise that the increased reduction obligation is likely to result in slightly increased prices initially, but it will lead to reduced emissions. It is therefore important that the production of biofuels is increased, so that the reduction obligation takes effect. But this is a temporary measure in order to be able to phase out cars that run on petrol and diesel. Madam President, I would like To conclude, I would like to refer once again to my nephews. Despite their young age, they take great individual responsibility. They sort, shop in secondhand shops and think about how they travel so as not to contribute to increased emissions. You can't ask more of the young people. But then we politicians must also assume our responsibilities. Our main task must be to eliminate fossil fuels completely for the next 20 years. Reducing road transport must be the first step in this process. There is technology on a large scale, and it has begun to grow. That is why we must step up the process of electrifying our roads. The technology shift is happening here and now, and it's going to be faster and faster. Indexing is a good way to switch from fossil to fossil-free alternatives. Indexing is an important indicator for the changeover but also an important control station to ensure that prices do not flash in the short term. It is also important to emphasise in this debate because the transition will take different periods depending on where in the country we live. But reducing taxes on petrol and diesel is not the way forward. This is something that we should all include in the continuing debate on climate and environmental issues. I therefore support the committee's proposal.
i-ecce55ab0a700c41-452	Madam President, I would like I am making my first debate in this House and must admit that I am very nervous. Now that I'm opening, I would like to start by saying that emissions must be reduced. It seems very important to me that this should be my first message in this House. Madam President, I would like to take this opportunity to support the committee's proposal. An important engine in the conversion is that we have long had a tax on carbon dioxide. This tax has been a stable instrument that has affected behaviour, investment and technology development for 30 years. The CO2 tax has served us well in this way. One effect of Sweden and other countries taxing and imposing limits on vehicle emissions is that emissions are reduced, and in this way everything is exactly as it should be. But reducing emissions also means a change in our behaviour. Lower emissions can be perceived as a minor obstacle to those who care about the environment when it comes to actually using the car. If we drive more we also increase our emissions. And if our emissions increase, the effect of the climate improvements we have made will decrease. Without indexation of taxes on fuels, inflation and economic development would continuously erode the impact of the tax. It is therefore important that we actually continue to safeguard a bnp indexation of taxes on fuels. Having said that, we must also have a climate policy that continues to ensure that we are a country that is sticking together. During our time in the government, we environmental partners have been committed not only to taxing what we want less of in the climate transition but also to helping through support. While we have a high level of taxation of emissions, the government has just presented a record budget for the climate. Here you find a lot of what I'm talking about. For example, if you want to buy a new car that is better for the climate, you should get a bonus for it. And anyone who wants to contribute to the expansion of the infrastructure for electric cars will receive support through climate change. Now that the levels of fuel incorporation are raised to further reduce emissions, it also increases the price at the pump. As a result, we consider it reasonable to pause indexation until the end of 2022. Step by step we are helping to change Sweden, and we are doing so together.
i-ecce55ab0a700c41-460	Madam President, I would like There are few things that make me as upset and uneasy as when welfare systems to support people in need of community support are exploited through organised crime. Money allocated to the LSS and personal assistance should give people with extensive disabilities and their families an opportunity to live a life like others, not fatten criminal activities. The criminal use of personal assistance undermines public confidence in assistance as the vital reform of freedom and rights that it is. At the same time, confidence in the many serious assistance companies that safeguard high quality and good working conditions is damaged. Madam President, I would like We Christian Democrats therefore welcome the proposal that we are debating in this House today. It is a proposal that will provide the Social Insurance Agency and the municipalities with legal support in order to refuse the payment of compensation for personal assistance, which is eligible for assistance, which is carried out in a professional activity without authorisation. The proposal also imposes an obligation on the Social Insurance Agency and the municipalities to inform the Inspection of Health and Social Care when an individual can be assumed to be engaged in personal assistance activities without permission. The proposal also clarifies the possibilities for the Health and Care Inspection to request information in supervisory matters. The legislative amendments are proposed to enter into force on 1 November 2021. All of this is wholeheartedly supported by the Christian Democrats, although we believe that the government has taken too long to implement the proposal. Försäkringskassan already alerted more than two years ago that there was a gap in the legislation that meant that payment could be made to assistance providers who lacked authorisation. In the meantime, we Christian Democrats have produced some forty proposals aimed at stopping welfare crime, not just against assistance but against our collective welfare systems. Madam President, I would like I shall return to the proposal that we are debating today. It also means that when the beneficiary has been informed of the expiry of the authorisation, compensation shall be granted for the assistance carried out two weeks after the date of notification. Where there are special reasons, it shall be possible to derogate from this deadline. In these parts, the Christian Democrats are not entirely satisfied with the government's proposal. To have only two weeks to find a new performer is, in our view, too short a time. Being a personal assistant is a qualified profession based on experience. There is therefore a need for some form of introduction and training at the beginning of a job. For the vast majority of assistance users, therefore, it could cause major practical problems to have only two weeks to find a new assistance provider and then introduce and train staff. It is true that the municipality's basic responsibility for personal assistance would take place during the time it takes to make a change and until a new regular organiser is in place. However, taking in temporary staff in this way can cause difficulties in all the practicalities of the individual's everyday life. In addition, and not least, it would restrict the fundamental right of the LSS legislation, that is, the right of the individual to choose his or her own staff. The Christian Democrats therefore believe that the compensation should be paid for a period of at least three weeks after the user has been notified that the permit has expired. I would therefore like, Madam President, to endorse the reservation contained in the report. The extra week would give the assistance user a little more time to arrange a safe transition to a new and safe everyday life. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to stress that we must be able to keep two thoughts in mind at the same time as regards assistance. Criminal exploitation must be stopped. But, and it is a great but, at the same time, the right to assistance must be saved and developed. Today, a large proportion of people with extensive disabilities and their families are forced to fight against authorities to get the support they need to cope with their everyday lives. It is a direct effect of the S-MP government's regulatory letter to the Social Insurance Agency 2016 with the directive to break the development of the number of assistance hours. The Authority then acted by starting to interpret old judgments from 2009, 2012 and 2015 much more restrictively than it has done in the past. Madam President, I would like National statistics show that the rejection decisions started to grow strongly after the regulation letter 2016. It is thousands of people with extensive disabilities who have suffered extremely badly when they have lost their right to assistance, because the case law has been pursued so far that only that part of the basic need which is considered to be of a very personal or privacy sensitive nature is considered to be the basis for assistance. This means, for example, that it is only the time it takes to take off and on the clothes closest to the body that counts. The time it takes to put on your jacket, even if it's 20 degrees cold outside, doesn't count. It is also that it is only the time that the touch of naked skin occurs during a toilet visit that counts, not the time it actually takes to perform a need. Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats welcome the fact that the government has announced that it will implement the proposals to strengthen the right to assistance in relation to parental responsibility, self-care and supervision. The need for this has been highlighted by the Christian Democrats for a long time. But more is needed. Ensuring that all basic needs in their entirety become assistance-based is a crucial step in restoring the right to assistance – the right of people with extensive disabilities to live a life of self-determination, just like everyone else. It is a question of human rights, and we Christian Democrats will therefore continue to push for the necessary legislative change that is needed.
i-ecce55ab0a700c41-473	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to state that the Liberals obviously support the proposed amendments to the law on assistance and services to certain disabled people and to the Social Security Code presented by the government in today's report. However, we do so with a clarification of the protection of legitimate assistance beneficiaries, so I would first of all like to endorse the reservation contained in the report. Madam President, I would like Criminality and fraud in assistance payments are a threat to the entire welfare system. It is above all a theft from all people with disabilities who need the support of society to cope with their everyday lives and needs. Today's proposal means something that I believe the vast majority of our elongated country already believed to be valid but which has therefore not applied. Surely it is clear that the payment of compensation to licensed activities can only be made to activities that have appropriate permits? I believe that everyone in our country takes it as a complete matter of course, but that is not the case. However, this is finally the case, which is why this proposal is very good. It is, of course, not enough to stop all criminality or irregularities within the systems, but it is a step in the right direction in terms of actually making it more difficult for those who do not have the right to perform personal assistance. The reservation aims to protect those who have the right to assistance in their daily lives, Madam President. It is on this point – in the view of the right-holder, i.e. the person entitled to assistance – that we liberals differ from the government. We Liberals believe that compensation should be paid for a period of at least three weeks after the user has been notified and not for a shorter period, as the government wants. It is important that the basis of the legislation, i.e. the right of the individual to choose his or her own staff, should be retained without restriction. To have only a few weeks to find a new performer is, in our opinion, a very short time. Our liberal mantra has always been, and is, to fight the criminals. We're going to fight the cheats, but we're going to protect those who have LSS rights. We receive regular reports of subsidy fraud, criminal fraud and rogue actors in the welfare field – not least within the LSS. Basically, the LSS is of crucial importance for all people to be able to cope with their everyday lives, Mr. President of the Age. In recent years, however, the government has only watched when many people's support has been withdrawn or withdrawn. In many cases, this has had terrible consequences, for example, when people with very great needs have lost all support. Since 2014, the number of persons eligible for assistance within the LSS has decreased by around 3,000 persons. When criminals exploit welfare systems in general, and LSS and personal assistance in particular, to fund their criminal activities, it damages the credibility of the whole system. Criminals take money from those users who need the support of society most. The abuse also discredits an entire industry that employs somewhere between 80 000 and 100 000 people. This is an alarming development. Perhaps there has been a naivety on the part of all of us around many of our welfare systems, which in some cases are plundered by criminal gangs. It has to stop. Finally, Mr President-in-Office, the Liberals see that so much more is needed. We therefore want to establish what we call an LSS inspection. The main task of the inspection is twofold: firstly, to stop crime and fraud by ensuring that the individual's security and security is maintained at all times, and secondly, to ensure that the integrity of the welfare system is maintained through the shutdown and prosecution of rogue and criminal perpetrators. We also want the LSS Inspectorate to be on the side of the right-holder and ensure that the right-holder has them covered. Legal protection and legal aid are also needed within such a new authority. Liberals are extremely critical of the red-green government's dismantling of the LSS; that cannot be stressed enough. We are the most strongly in favour of supporting people with disabilities. That is why we are particularly concerned that the money should end up with those who need it and not in the pockets of criminals. We care about those with disabilities and now have a great responsibility to deal with the fraud in assistance without blaming those who are actually entitled to support.
i-ecce55ab0a700c41-482	Mr. Old President! As I said, the report we are debating in this House today is about changes to be made to the Social Security Code. This concerns the LSS, i.e. the law on support and service for certain disabled people. The proposed amendments will allow municipalities and the Swedish Social Insurance Agency to refuse payment to activities that carry out personal assistance and are not licensed. It is also proposed to introduce an obligation to provide information in which one becomes liable to report to Ivo, i.e. the Inspection for Health and Care. In order to ensure the gap that may arise, a two-week time limit is introduced in which the compensation can be paid even though the organiser has no authorisation or has been withdrawn. It is also possible to adjust that period of time if necessary, Mr President-in-Office, so there will be opportunities for those who are eligible for assistance to find a new performer. In order to carry out personal assistance, it is today required permission from Ivo. This is to remove the so-called rogue operators on the market and, above all, to provide security to those who need support and assistance. However, this does not apply to municipalities and regions; instead, they have a reporting obligation to Ivo. The same applies to individuals who employ personal assistants; they also need to report to Ivo that they have assistance assistance, but they do not need permission. Mr. Old President! I don't want this to happen. Now we are closing this gap in legislation. To perform personal assistance without permission is not allowed. Therefore, organisers who do not have an authorisation shall also not receive compensation. Tackling undue payments and failure to pay subsidies in society is necessary to maintain public confidence, and LSS is no exception. Every crown will go to those who need it. We're not going to fatten the criminals. I can also note that only in recent years have the media reported terrible shortcomings in rogue assistance providers, and this cannot continue. Despite the fact that many companies have had their permits revoked, the business continues, as their inventiveness is great. That is why it is important that this amendment of the law comes into force quickly – as early as November is the proposal. I am glad that it is a united committee that is behind this change. Mr. Old President! Having said that, however, I would like to emphasise that the LSS is a unique right law that enables people to live a free life and to participate in society. It is therefore particularly important that the support provided for this should go to the right address. Personal assistance is a vital function for many people with major disabilities. The government has implemented a number of reforms to strengthen personal assistance. That work is ongoing, and it continues continuously. Mr. Old President! I am therefore pleased and proud of the government proposal for the coming year. The government chisels out a high level of ambition in the functional field. Among other things, we want to strengthen the right to supervision, we want to reduce parental responsibility, which means that more children and young people will be helped with personal assistance, and we also want to review the issue of basic self-care. According to the investigation's own estimates, it is a question of a further 2 000 people who today need help, but who have not received it, receiving it. We are also investing heavily in the economic area of the individual. Among other things, we propose substantial increases in activity compensation, which many are affected by. And we continue to raise the housing supplement. The government prioritises money for those who need it most in our society. I hope that we in this House will have support for the government's budget proposal so that the proposals can become a reality.
i-ecce55ab0a700c41-493	Mr. Old President! Thank you very much for Mikael Dahlqvist's speech. I agree that it is incredibly important that we get the legislation in place, and I wish it had existed before. It must not be the case that there are obvious gaps where criminals can make use of the vital effort made to help people to live a good life. I would like to hear the honourable Member reflect on whether the two-week overlap may be too short for the individual to find a new organiser. It can be understood that life can become turbulent when it is discovered that there are problems in the licensing of the organiser who has previously been hired. It can be problematic to train a new assistant to make life safe. Does the honourable Member think that the two-week period will be sufficient? Mr. Old President! Mrs Dahlqvist mentioned in his speech the reinforcements made by the government in the budget as regards the financial compensations for enhanced assistance. We Christian Democrats welcome them, and they are great. But I would also like to ask whether the government is willing to meet us in the parts that are so important, namely that all basic needs should be eligible for assistance in their entirety.
i-ecce55ab0a700c41-497	Mr. Old President! I thank Mrs Steensland for her questions. Mr. Old President! There is a discussion about the bill. How long should an aid beneficiary have to get a new organiser? At first there was no deadline at all, Mr Steensland. That is why we have made an adjustment in line with the Council's recommendation, which means that it will be two weeks. If the two weeks are not sufficient, the time may, if there are specific reasons, be extended individually. Why is there such a short period of time? It is, as many people have said in this House in today's debate, that it is extremely important that undue payments are stopped quickly and effectively. That's why we've set a tough deadline-- I agree with that. It is because we want to indicate that if there is no authorisation, assistance should also not be carried out. It's as simple as that. The fact that we are in this situation is absurd, but the criminals are experts in finding different loopholes. The government is making a huge investment in the budget bill. It will be exciting to see if the Christian Democrats support the budget bill. If we get a majority in this House, we can make these great efforts. Only the reforms we are proposing for strengthening the right to assistance will cost billions. Then there is the economic situation. I think we are clearly on the right track and have raised the flag on functional issues in practice.
i-ecce55ab0a700c41-501	Mr. Old President! I thank Mikael Dahlqvist for his answer. I know that the honourable Member, like me, is committed to improving the system. I agree that not a penny too much should end up in the pockets of criminals. At the same time, from the individual's perspective in terms of security in the emergency situation, another week would provide a little more security and the opportunity to actually plan and get started directly with a new assistance provider that is serious and good. Mr. Old President! I hope that the government will evaluate how these issues work. I also hope that, if there is a large influx of applications for which specific reasons are invoked, the question of time limits can be reviewed in some way. I agree with the honourable Member that it is very important that we get these reforms in place. As I said in my speech, we Christian Democrats are making several proposals in this area. We also believe that the organiser who loses his permission should end up in some kind of quarantine so that one cannot directly jump up and start new activities in the same area. We believe that this is an important measure. We welcome the efforts made in the budget. Then, of course, we are critical of other parts of the budget. So that when we Christian Democrats were to adopt the government's budget as a whole, I have to disappoint Mrs Dahlqvist. Is Mikael Dahlqvist willing to make the vital changes required in terms of basic needs? It is reasonable that all the time it takes to go to the toilet is counted as assistance.
i-ecce55ab0a700c41-507	Mr. Old President! I thank Pia Steensland for her comments and questions. Let me go back to the question of the two-week deadline. It is justified by – as the honourable Steensland knows very well – the fact that some assistance workers have high costs for those who have day-to-day service and day-to-day supervision. We can talk about hundreds of thousands in a couple of weeks. There are well-founded economic reasons for making the period as short as possible. There are, of course, specific reasons for the bona fide note, to which the honourable Member refers. But, of course, if things get wrong in some way, as may be with new proposals, we will have to be open to an adjustment. It is always interesting when we discuss welfare crime, as Mr Steensland points out. It is a major problem, and the government has also taken other measures and will take more action. Every chandelier should go to what it's intended for. It would be interesting to raise the issue of labour immigration in the discussion that concerns the LSS more than crime. Our government wants to stop it, but I understand that the Christian Democrats have a different view. It is also such an issue that should be discussed in order to have a whole. The government has presented its draft budget with priorities. Then we must hope and believe that the Riksdag supports them.
i-ecce55ab0a700c41-511	Mr. Old President! When we in the Moderates formulate our policies, it is man who is our starting point. We believe in the individual and in the individual's right to freedom. When it comes to LSS legislation and personal assistance, this means that regulations and laws must be designed so that the people who need the support of society most also get it. We Moderates safeguard the long-term and legitimacy of the assistance reform. This applies to quality, freedom of choice, continuity, legal certainty and efficiency, as well as financial commitments on the whole. It is the policy's task to ensure that laws, funding and regulations live up to this. Mr. Old President! Let me say the obvious: personal assistance has meant a lot and means a lot to many. It is often a prerequisite for being able to live like everyone else and be a part of society. Personal assistance also enables children to grow up in their family. When personal assistance works well, it means security and freedom. For me as moderate, it is in the spinal cord to have as a starting point that all people have a will and ability to self-determination, at least in the specific situation, provided that you are surrounded by people who have knowledge and experience enough to understand and respect your will. Mr. Old President! There is a significant diversity of private actors and providers of personal assistance. It is quite easy to start operations and get permits, and the profits are relatively low. This indicates that competition between organisers works. It is important to understand why beneficiaries of assistance are largely, and indeed also increasingly, opting for private alternatives. In a survey, the Assistance Committee indicated that those who have personal assistance and who have chosen a private performer experienced greater self-determination and freedom of choice than others. People who received municipal assistance felt less able to choose assistants and to be involved in deciding how the assistance should be carried out. We in politics must pay attention to this and see how self-determination can increase even when you receive municipal assistance. Mr. Old President! To cope with the increased welfare costs of the future, order is needed. There must be clear and clear laws and regulations for what applies when operating and managing LSS operations, such as the personal assistance operation, regardless of the type of operation involved. This is primarily about ensuring quality, but, of course, as has been mentioned in previous speeches today, it is also about combating organised crime, cheating and over-exploitation. Mr. Old President! Today's report will provide the Social Insurance Agency and the municipalities with legal support that is lacking today in order to deny payment of compensation for personal assistance in the absence of authorisation. In connection with this, it is proposed to impose an obligation on the Social Insurance Agency and the municipalities to inform Ivo, the Inspection of Health and Social Care, when an individual performer is assumed to be operating without permission. The report also contains a clarification of Ivos ability to request information in supervisory matters. Mr. Old President! The Moderates essentially believe that the Government's proposal is a step in the right direction. It is about the importance of safeguarding the security of the beneficiary of assistance. The authorisation requirement also increases legal certainty. There has been a lack of legal support in the past, and it is good that this is now in place. As my colleagues have done well to explain earlier, it is important that the money to be spent on assistance beneficiaries goes precisely there and not to criminals. Mr. Old President! When we talk about personal assistance, I would like to mention that there is something you can do to make it both more legal and better. This is something that would have a great effect. I'm talking about the collective headship. As we all know, there is a majority in the Riksdag for a single government headship. I would like to remind you of this, because the directives presented last week stated that consideration should be given to proposals for alternative solutions. It was nothing but a great disappointment that the government did not heed Parliament's will.
i-ecce55ab0a700c41-524	Mr. Old President! For several years, disabled people have been abused from a double point of view. Firstly, they have been affected by the government's saving requirements and regulatory letters. Secondly, the system has been attacked by organised and large-scale fraud. Fraud has led to large-scale funds intended for people in need of support being spent on clans and organised crime. At the same time, fewer people are granted assistance, and more than 80 per cent are refused their first-hand application when they apply for assistance via LSS. Therefore, the wrong payments must be stopped, so that the funds paid out also go to those for whom they are intended. Mr. Old President! The Swedish Democrats have previously pushed the question of the absurdity of operating without a permit. It is already illegal for Försäkringskassan to pay assistance compensation directly to an organiser who has no authorisation. However, if the beneficiary chooses to receive the compensation himself and then buy the assistance, the Social Insurance Agency cannot refuse payment, even if the authority knows that it goes to an operator without permission. We think this is wrong. Without authorisation, no activity shall be permitted. We cannot have a system where authorisation is required but where it is still possible to sell the service assistance, so to speak, even if you do not have the required authorisation. Today's permit requirements will in practice be completely ineffective if the individual can still hire an organiser who has no authorisation. What we are doing with today's proposal is to close the gap in the law by preventing assistance compensation from being paid to assistance companies without a valid authorisation. This makes it more difficult for rogues and criminals to exploit the beneficiaries of assistance. The proposal, which is now on the table, provides for compensation for assistance that has been carried out within two weeks after the beneficiary has been informed that the authorisation has been withdrawn. The person entitled to assistance thus has two weeks to find a new organiser. Mr. Old President! We share the view that a two-week deadline should be sufficient for the vast majority to be able to carry out a change of organiser. Having said that, however, we would like to emphasise that it is very important to safeguard freedom of choice and the possibility of choosing staff that you enjoy, work with, feel safe with and trust. At this stage, it is important that assistance beneficiaries are not adversely affected by the proposal. Therefore, it is good that it should be possible to test whether there are particular reasons for an extended two-week deadline is not considered sufficient to find a new organiser or change organiser. The bill that is now on the table gives the Social Insurance Agency and the municipalities the legal right to refuse an eligible payment for assistance performed by an activity without authorisation. It will therefore no longer be possible to receive compensation and pay an organiser who is not authorised. That is reasonable, and that is exactly what we have been aiming for. This is a good proposal that we support. I support the proposal, Mr. Old President. Moreover, it must be added in this forum that assistance payments must be increased. The basic needs must be the basis for assistance in its entirety. Parental responsibility needs to be changed and reviewed, and Sweden needs a proper LSS lift.
i-ecce55ab0a700c41-535	Mr. Old President! Thank you very much for your speech, Carina Ståhl Herrstedt. I am pleased that we agree on the background to today's report and that welfare crime must be stopped. However, I am a little concerned about your history as to why assistance hours have decreased over a number of years. That is why it would be interesting, Mr President, if Mrs Ståhl Herrstedt showed me where in the budget we have cut personal assistance over these years. The correct description, Mr President-in-Office, is simply that stricter interpretations of the legislation have been made. It started in 2009 at the Supreme Administrative Court, in a number of judgments that have become case law and that the Social Insurance Agency, which is an independent authority, follows. That is why, unfortunately, the number of assistance hours has fallen, and that is what the government is now correcting in a commendable way.
i-ecce55ab0a700c41-538	Mr. Old President! First of all, it is not just the budget that regulates what the activities should look like. Perhaps we should be honest and discuss what has made things as they have become. We cannot hide the fact that the government's regulatory letter to the Swedish Social Insurance Agency contained savings requirements such as holding back the number of hours. This, of course, means that the business has had to review what it has been able to reduce. What has led to the application of these judgments at such a late stage is quite obvious. I am not saying that it has started now, but since 2015 when that regulatory letter came there has been a severe deterioration. I don't think anyone can screw with that.
i-ecce55ab0a700c41-540	Mr. Old President! I should like to thank Mrs Stål Herrstedt for her reply – or the lack of answers, perhaps I would say. I am still calling for the honourable Member's answer to where in the budget we have been reduced in the area of LSS. This is how it works, Mr President-in-Office: this is a law of rights which, in every positive decision, generates a cost. When the year is over, the financial perspective is summed up, and the treasury pays out the money that is decided. There is no framework whatsoever around this budget. Moreover, Mr. Age President, these changes began in 2009, during the time of the alliance government. So we are talking about more than ten years of deterioration in the LSS, which is terrible, but I think that right should be right. Furthermore, does Carina Ståhl Herrstedt not think that it is important for our independent authorities, in this case the Social Insurance Agency, to comply with the legislation? That's what you've done. It follows case law and legislation. You can't do your own interpretation. And the government, Mr President-in-Office, must certainly not interfere in the exercise of the responsibilities of the independent authorities.
i-ecce55ab0a700c41-544	Mr. Old President! No, nor have I claimed that there were cuts in the budget, although it is certainly possible to find them. On the other hand, it is quite interesting that the honourable Member is in the speaker's seat criticising my history. It makes me unfettered to think that it has happened before that someone has criticized my history description, for example when Magdalena Andersson stood here and claimed that my history of her statement about stopping the cost development of health insurance and personal assistance to pay for other areas was not correct. In the end, it proved true. So it is not the first time that I have been accused of having a wrong description of history which has finally proved to be quite correct. Then I can agree with the honourable Member that much is being done right now on the right track. But it is still a bit of a bit, and I think it is good that somewhere you take responsibility for the failures, in some sense, that you have done. I strongly believe that the laws should be complied with. Even then, I thought that the government should get to grips with this and try to bring about a change in the law. There are current cases up right now that show that you can override laws if you really want to.
i-ecce55ab0a700c41-547	Mr. Old President! I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal for a decision to be approved and, therefore, for the government's proposal to be approved. The assistance reform, which entered into force on 1 January 1994, has enabled the self-determination and influence of thousands of people with disabilities. Assistance reform is one of the great freedom reforms of our time - more and a reform that needs to be protected and developed. One threat to the reform is abuse and irregularities. In order to protect the long-term viability of the reform, it is therefore important that measures are taken against, for example, assistance companies that do not comply with rules and requirements. The most common reasons for withdrawal of permits for providers of personal assistance are financial mismanagement or bankruptcy of companies. According to information that I have been able to access, it happened on two occasions during the period 2017– 2019 that permits were withdrawn due to abuses in companies that were so serious that it put the person entitled to assistance at risk of life and health. In some cases, there have also been links to crime. That is why it is now good that the government has acted and that we in this House today can take the decision to regulate this and give the Social Insurance Agency and the municipalities legal support to act. The decision also contains welcome proposals for increased cooperation between the Swedish Social Insurance Agency, the municipalities and the Swedish Health and Welfare Inspection. Not least, as has been mentioned earlier in the debate, there is a valve for specific reasons so that the deadline can be extended, where the proposal today is two weeks. Finally, Mr President-in-Office, I hope that the decisions we will take later today will help to strengthen and protect the right to personal assistance in the long term.
i-ecce55ab0a700c41-552	Mr. Old President! Thank you for your speech, Nicklas Attefjord! I can only agree with the importance of getting these legislative changes in place. I find it remarkable that it took just over two years from the time the Swedish Social Insurance Agency discovered this gap until the government acted. However, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I must resist the description of the history of the government's party representatives in this House today. The Member's colleague from the Social Democrats opposed the fact that the government's regulation letter issued in 2016 has actually led to enormous restrictions on the human rights of people with extensive disabilities. I can say that it was not perfect under an alliance government for some time, but now not only Members of this House but also the Minister for Social Affairs have repeatedly said that there are no political decisions that are the reason why there have been cuts in assistance. I can only imagine how it feels for all the people who hear it. Political decisions are made in different ways. I believe that a regulatory letter to an authority containing a clear directive to break the trend in the number of hours of assistance is a political decision. The Authority must act to comply with the Directive, and the Authority ensured that judgments, old judgments from 2009, 2012 and 2015, were interpreted much more restrictively than before. Never, otherwise, than in the seven, almost eight, years of this government, people with disabilities have had such a difficult time. They are being questioned, and so are their human rights.
i-66Ufc4J2t3yvbMQTsQZWwN	Mr. Old President! Thank you, Mr Steensland, for the questions. I had the impression that we would be discussing the legislative proposal that is on the table and is about tightening up the rules for the payment of assistance. However, the honourable Member is now asking questions about regulatory letters that the government has decided on and about the effects that it has had on people with personal assistance. I can say that I share the view that it is a problem as applied by the authorities responsible for managing personal assistance and payments. That is also why the government has now ensured that there are two different investigations under way that will review the entire assistance legislation, which it is all about, in order to protect and strengthen the right to personal assistance in the long term. My answer is that this is the way the government has chosen to deal with this.
i-7FdfcdJxiUyJaS9re822Jc	Mr. Old President! Thank you, Nicklas Attefjord, for your answer! I apologise for putting Mr Attefjord a little bit on the edge of the pot here, but since he is here as the representative of the government parties, I could not help but raise this issue. Mrs Dahlqvist has the opportunity to press himself in an extra four minutes in this debate, and it may perhaps be an opportunity for the honourable Member to respond to this situation. Because it is remarkable that the government parties not only give these directives, but also do not act when one sees how great the negative consequences have been when the right to assistance has been curtailed in this way. As I said in my speech, it is down to the level that when you go to the toilet, only the time it takes to dry your butt counts. All the time it takes to actually perform the need doesn't count. It's completely unworthy. We can't have it like that. I find it remarkable that the government has not acted to actually make the necessary legislative change. We welcome what is happening now, but it is extremely remarkable that, moreover, the government repeatedly denies that political decisions lie behind the situation we have today. A regulatory letter, a directive there, is, in my view, a political decision, and it has had devastating consequences that have led people with extensive disabilities and their families to live under very difficult conditions for a long time.
i-ecce55ab0a700c41-564	Mr. Old President! Mr Steensland continues to argue that there is a malevolent political decision behind its application. I would argue that this is not the case. There are regulatory letters, and decisions about them are made politically. The exact application is not political decisions; it is decisions that activities or courts then examine. The government has also seen this, and these investigations have now been set up to deal with it. Speaking of dressiness, it is good to remember that this is not a new phenomenon but that it is something that has existed as far back as the Alliance government, as you talked about earlier.
i-ecce55ab0a700c41-567	Mr. Old President! We are now going to debate the implementation of the whistleblower directive. A whistleblower is a person who calls an alarm about irregularities, often at his or her own workplace, mainly to the media or control bodies in the event of the detection of irregularities by authorities and companies, for example. For example, whistleblowers have exposed corruption, arms smuggling, the interception and registration of opinions by states of their own population, the murder of civilians by military personnel, environmental crimes and shortcomings in care and patient safety. Whistleblowers have often suffered severe consequences by being prosecuted for espionage, slander or, if the accusation is directed against their own employer, being fired or relocated. Workers who sound the alarm about irregularities at their workplace should have strong protection against reprisals. It is a prerequisite for workers to dare to raise the alarm about abuses and a fundamental part of a free and democratic society. Such protection legislation shall be simple and easy to understand for those whom it is intended to protect. The Left Party notes that the Government's proposal for a new Act on the Protection of Persons Reporting Mistakes, which implements the whistleblower directive in Swedish law, is neither simple nor easy to understand. In addition, like several consultation bodies, we can see that the government's legislative proposals are, in several respects, a deterioration compared to the current law on special protection against reprisals for workers who sound the alarm of serious abuses. Mr. Old President! The implementation of such directives almost always means that legal arrangements take precedence over practical application, particularly in the field of working life. This also applies in the present case. The Government has not made any efforts in the bill to remedy this either. The Left would have preferred to have seen more comprehensible, accessible and user-friendly legislation that makes it easier for workers to sound the alarm about abuses. The very best way to achieve this would be to extend the constitutional protection and search ban of public authorities and public bodies to more areas of private activity. Mr. Old President! In order to minimise the risk that, due to its complexity, the new legislation will lead to fewer people opting to raise the alarm about maladministration, I believe that the introduction of the new law should be complemented by a broad educational effort. I believe that the government should give the appropriate authority the task of coordinating, in consultation with the social partners' organisations, a broad educational effort with regard to the rights deriving from the new law and, in this context, of making it clear that the law does not restrict any of the rights deriving from constitutional or other law. I very much regret that the committee does not see the urgency of getting this form of broad educational input. Another measure that I believe the government should take is to carry out an impact assessment as a matter of urgency with regard to the delimitation of activities that should be required to have internal reporting channels and reporting and follow-up procedures. In my opinion, the Government has not given sufficient consideration to the consequences of the fact that so many employees are not covered by whistleblower protection in the directive. Mr. Old President! The obligation to have internal reporting channels and reporting and follow-up procedures shall apply to operators who, at the beginning of the calendar year, had 50 or more employees. Several consultation bodies have comments on this proposal. Statskontoret, for example, sees a risk that the authorities with fewer than 50 employees choose to completely ignore the directive and its meaning. Saco points out, for example, that all employers should consider how and where whistleblowers can report internally, even if they do not have these specific reporting channels. The Left Party shares the concerns of the consultative bodies. In this context, Sweden has only 9 000 companies with more than 50 employees, but 1.2 million companies with fewer than 50 employees. Thus, a majority of the country's companies will not be subject to the obligation to have internal reporting channels. This means that employees in companies with fewer than 50 employees will be less able to report the maladministration in the manner prescribed by the new legislation. Mr. Old President! The Left Party has nine points in its reservation, and I promise not to account for everyone. But I would like to highlight one more important point. The Government proposes that an operator should not be allowed to take reprisals because someone turns to their employee organisation, i.e. goes to their union, for consultation on reporting. The operator shall also not be allowed to impede or attempt to impede such consultation. That is quite right – I and the trade union consultation bodies share that view. However, both we and Saco and Akavia object to the discharge not involving a member who disregards the obligation of professional secrecy in the consultation of its employees' organisation. For most, it is natural to air the anxiety about abuses with their very trade union organisation. It is very important to safeguard this and provide it with the necessary protection when it is linked to whistleblower functions, which this law is about. It is both likely and reasonable that sensitive data can be discussed in the context of such consultations. There should not be an obstacle to contact with the trade union organisation in view of a decision on whether it is appropriate to proceed with reporting. Anyone who consults an employee organisation should therefore be given a discharge in the event of a breach of professional secrecy. Mr. Old President! I support the Left Party's Amendment No 2 in the AU3 report.
i-ecce55ab0a700c41-581	Mr. Old President! It is to be welcomed that the whistleblower directive is now being implemented in Swedish law and that through it we are taking further steps to ensure that there is a strong protection for whistleblowers who are alerting us about abuses. It is also welcome that protection is developed into more than employees. Working procedures for an organisation's management to be able to know about possible abuses and to remedy them are important. There are good examples when whistleblowers have alerted and this has led to important changes. One such is lex Sarah, the social services legislation that imposes an obligation on employees to report if patients suffer ill. It came about thanks to whistleblower Sarah Wägnert, who was the assistant nurse of a nursing home, alerted about misdemeanors. Whistling isn't just about people getting hurt. It can also be important to expose widespread corruption. In the context of the European Parliament's submission of the whistleblower directive, for example, there is the widespread money laundering revealed by whistleblower Howard Wilkinson, who was employed at Danske Bank. This case also shows that it is important that there is protection that allows those who have been alerted internally but have not been heard to be able to choose to proceed and alert externally. Some employers work structured with channels for whistleblowers where you can report abuses, others do not. At times, a major incident has led large organisations to set up channels for whistleblowers on a voluntary basis. This happened after, for example, the big mutagen in Gothenburg, which Karin Törnqvist, then consultant at Gothenburg Energi, was involved and revealed as whistleblower. It is welcome that the law now clarifies the responsibility of organisations for having functioning channels. Money laundering, bribery and abuse that affect patients are all clear examples where it is in the public interest that information comes to the management and where it is also in the public interest to proceed and alert externally if management does not act. Mr. Old President! However, there are other abuses where it is not as easy to perceive as individuals a general interest. For example, it took an extensive international appeal under the name metoo to allow women in different sectors to come forward and talk about sexual harassment and abuse that they have suffered at their workplaces. For the individual who is subjected to sexual harassment or bullying, it can be difficult to assess whether this is in the public interest, because it is something that is perceived as difficult to talk about and you do not know if it is only you who is affected or if there are more. It may also be difficult to highlight the problem to the management or to a safety representative given the sensitive nature of the issue. It is therefore very important that this aspect is well taken care of and given attention in the application of the legislation. It is also important to make it clear that sexual harassment and similar abuses are precisely abuses and that there is a general interest in their emergence. Consequently, they are to be covered by Chapter 1. Section 2 of the new Act on the Protection of Persons reporting on maladministration. In order to clarify this, Mr President-in-Office, we in the Liberals have left a reservation of reasons in the report, reservation number 1, to which we also call for approval.
i-ecce55ab0a700c41-589	Mr. Old President! Today we are debating the report of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs 3 on the implementation of the whistleblower directive. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would like to begin by calling for the proposal in the report to be approved and for all reservations to be rejected. It may seem that it should be a matter of course that one should not be punished for pointing out serious abuses in a workplace. All employees shall have the right to alert them of maladministration. It is important for the individual worker, but also a crucial element for a free and democratic society. No one should feel the fear of being put in the freezer at the workplace or even being laid off for sounding the alarm about misconduct at their workplace. We do not want workplaces where silence and submissiveness are rewarded. Workers already have legal protection against reprisals from their employer in the event of serious misconduct. We decided in this House on the whistleblowing law that came into force in 2017. We are now moving forward in the implementation of the EU whistleblower directive, which means that protection is strengthened and made clearer. It will be easier and safer to whistle. The law on reporting abuses that we propose should apply in all private and public activities and should replace today's whistleblower law. More will be covered by the legislation. In addition to employees, this law also applies to job seekers, self-employed workers, volunteers, trainees and others. It will be clearer how to use whistleblowing and how to handle the data. It is, Mr President-in-Office, that I have said in several previous debates in this House: a genuine democracy rests on secure citizens. To see and experience serious abuses but to be afraid to expose them because one can be punished is not a labour market model that creates secure individuals – quite the contrary. In accordance with the current government's desire to strengthen the Swedish model, with strong social partners and secure individuals at work, this legislation is another step towards creating a better society for all. I am very pleased that we have a broad political majority to implement this bill in Parliament today.
i-ecce55ab0a700c41-595	Mr. Old President! We are therefore debating today the Government's proposal for a law on the protection of persons reporting on maladministration and the law on changes to the Publicity and Confidentiality Act. The Government's proposal includes the inclusion of more people in the protection of whistleblowers, the introduction of requirements for certain operators to set up internal reporting channels, the introduction of a regime for the handling of whistleblowers' reports and the protection of whistleblowers' identity. This proposal implements the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the protection of persons reporting on infringements of Union law, the so-called whistleblower directive. The proposal replaces the existing law on special protection against reprisals for workers who sound the alarm of serious misconduct with a new law. The legislative proposal is proposed to enter into force on 17 December 2021, i.e. shortly. The current regulation for persons reporting information on maladministration means, according to the government form, that each person is guaranteed certain fundamental rights and freedoms in relation to the general one. One of the most important is freedom of expression, which includes all individuals, i.e. employees. For civil servants, this also means protection against the employer. As a general rule, an authority cannot intervene against an employee of the Authority because, by exercising its freedom of expression, it has caused disruption to its activities or has damaged its reputation and public confidence in the Authority. People who report abuses also have some protection against reprisals through Sweden's international commitments. The ECHR has been incorporated into Swedish law and has been in force since 1995 as a Swedish law. Workers who report maladministration are protected by labour law both from being separated from employment and from interventions in the course of employment. The protection of labour law consists of both laws and legal principles developed in case law. With regard to the proposal, the whistleblower directive contains detailed conditions for the protection of reporting persons. The terms are not matched by what applies under the Swedish Constitution or under the labour law regulation. Furthermore, the Directive provides for protection for a wide range of persons. Today's protection in the whistleblower law and the Employment Protection Act is limited to workers. Basic law protection applies to everyone but, with some exceptions, does not provide protection against reprisals or research measures in the private sector. Here too, therefore, Swedish protection cannot be said to be equivalent to the protection required by the whistleblower directive. New provisions are therefore needed to ensure the protection of reporters and other persons under the whistleblower directive. The directive is implemented generally, that is not only in the areas and in the cases of infringements identified in the whistleblowers directive. It is therefore proposed to introduce a new law providing for the protection of persons who, in a work-related context, have received or obtained information on maladministration and then report it. The protection is also proposed for non-reporting persons, such as persons assisting the reporting person and legal persons to whom the reporting person owns, works or otherwise has a link. Finally, Mr. Old President, the Moderates are in favour of the bill.
i-ecce55ab0a700c41-603	Mr. Old President! Just in time for the centenary of democracy, the anniversary of universal and equal suffrage, we are also today, by a large majority, in favour of strengthening the protection of so-called whistleblowers. We therefore continue to work towards a fairer everyday life. The Swedish Democrats are in favour of the committee's proposal in the report and welcome the strengthening of protection. The whistleblower directive originates in the European Parliament and will replace the current law on protection against reprisals for workers who sound the alarm of malpractice. The new law contains positive changes, such as protecting the identity of whistleblowers through confidentiality and confidentiality, and including not only employees but also job seekers, self-employed workers, volunteers, trainees, members of a company's management and shareholders who are active in the company. That's good. With regard to the relationship of the law with other regulations, it is proposed that the law should state that it does not restrict protection under any other law or regulation or on any other basis. It is also proposed to include an information provision on the right of everyone to communicate and publish information on any subject in constitutionally protected media. That's a good clarification. Mr. Old President! Now let me give you a brief history description. When the Swedish law in 2016 and 2017 was to be introduced and processed, the Swedish Democrats felt that the law should be extended based on what we thought was missing and needed clarification and proposed the following: 中 The worker considering setting the alarm needs better guidance on the relationship between the proposed law and other regulation. 中 There is a need for clearer rules and directives on where the limit is for whistleblowers and employment with professional secrecy. The protection of the whistleblower's identity in both public and private activities should be increased. The source protection guaranteed to the person who sends messages to the media shall provide guidance for the protection of the identity of whistleblowers. A statutory absolute confidentiality when notifying, for example, shortcomings in health and safety at work and infringements exists in the financial sector, while the same does not apply in other areas, and the government should therefore come back with proposals for greater protection of the identity of all whistleblowers. That is exactly what is on the table today. Unfortunately, the improvements proposed by the Swedish Democrats in 2016 were rejected that time, and even then our country was governed by no less than the Social Democrats – as is the case today. So, because of our country's ruling politicians, we have lost years of better and clearer protection for whistleblowers. But now we finally have the opportunity to strengthen the law. Once again, the Swedish Democrats show that we are guiding politics. Although we believe that our nation is perfectly capable of dealing with satisfactory legislation itself, we are, as usual, humbled by the fact that our proposals are still being implemented and finally become a reality. This does not place any emphasis on who ensures that they are implemented, which in this particular case, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, happens to be the colossal Europe.
i-ecce55ab0a700c41-614	Mr. Old President! I must say that this is the first time I have had the pleasure of being present when this very senior president is serving in this Chamber. Nobody believed this in the early '90s when we started our journey in the party. It feels very fun! It has nothing to do with today's business, but I still wanted to say something that is a little personal. I would like to begin by calling for approval of the proposal. It is very important that irregularities of various kinds are noted as early as possible. Often employees or persons close to an activity are the most likely to detect irregularities of all kinds. At the same time, we all know how difficult it can be to be the one who points to problems, not least when it comes to irregularities. There is a risk that you are seen as an unsolidarity risk in the group, in the company or wherever you are – that is, someone you can't really trust. Then it is all the more important that there is substantial legal support so that you both dare and can do the right thing. Mr. Old President! With today's proposed decision, we significantly increase the protection of so-called whistleblowers. That is good, but it is also necessary. A big difference is that the new proposed law will, to a much greater extent than the current one, involve both public and private activities. We think it is perfectly reasonable that, as far as possible, both public and private activities should be treated equally. Furthermore, the Christian Democrats believe that the government has landed correctly with regard to the various balances that have been made. It is perfectly reasonable that matters relating to national security or terrorism, for example, should be dealt with in special order. So far, I've told you like everyone else. However, I think it is good to make a small addition which is not part of the law but to which we must pay attention. Unfortunately, reality is not always rose red. It's not always simple, black and white and so on. At some point it will happen that someone somewhere uses whistleblower law in a way that is only intended to harm the company you work at. I think it is important that our control authorities are careful to follow up on the various things that are happening so that individual companies do not get extremely hurt. This is going to be on the margins-- I realize it, or I hope it is. Nevertheless, it is an important aspect to bear in mind that it is not always as everyone is kind, good and sweet. Sometimes there are those who want really bad, and then we need to be alert and able to resist. As I said, I am in favour of the proposal.
i-XL4aFbuZvQcc6N3ZgaZEYy	Mr. Old President! Today we are discussing the report by the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, AU4 Samhall. I would like to begin by calling for our reservation to be accepted and for the committee's proposal to be rejected. A united committee supports a proposal for an announcement at the Parliamentary Session 2019/ 20 to review Samhall's mission so that Samhall returns to his basic mission for persons with physical and intellectual disabilities. In view of this, the government has taken several measures. In April this year, it was decided to amend the Regulation concerning special measures for persons with disabilities with reduced working capacity. The change clarifies the target group for the specific actions, and in particular for protected work. The change also clarifies what applies to protected work. In order to be assigned to a protected job, a person's work capacity shall be so reduced as to result from a disability that the person cannot find another job, and his or her needs shall not be otherwise met. The regulation entered into force in June and is based on an agreement between the government parties, the Centre Party and the Liberals. Mr. Old President! In the owner's instructions adopted at the Annual General Meeting, a review of the assignment was carried out with clarification of, among other things, the adaptation of the conditions of persons with disabilities with reduced working capacity. The Government states that the company should, over time, seek business opportunities in a number of industries in order to have broad access to tasks adapted to the needs of different people. The Government has also submitted several assignments to Arbetsförmedlingen in the regulations letter for 2021. Among other things, the definition and target level of priority groups will be reviewed. This shall be reported by 15 October 2021. Another task is to review knowledge of Swedish and the presence of disabilities that result in reduced work capacity. This must be reported by 28 February 2022. Mr. Old President! In 2014, the European Commission launched an examination of State aid for protected employment in Sweden. The Commission then assessed that the Swedish State had granted Samhall aid which was incompatible with the internal market.
i-ecce55ab0a700c41-630	With this in mind, it is unreasonable to support the committee's proposal.
i-ecce55ab0a700c41-631	Mr. Old President! The fact that there are people who want to work but who are outside the labour market because of a disability that results in reduced working capacity despite being able to work with the right support and adaptation is a huge untapped resource and a loss for the whole of society. That is why Samhall's role in active labour market policy is very important. Samhall's position as an entry point into the labour market for people who are otherwise at risk of being excluded from work is unique; I think we all agree on that. I therefore welcome the committee's commitment to protecting Samhall's mission and share the view that Samhall should clearly be there for people who, because of disabilities, are far from the labour market. This is also the reason why the Environmental Party supported the Committee's proposal at the Parliamentary Session 2019/ 20 that the Government should review Samhall's mission so that Samhall returns to its basic mission for persons with physical and intellectual disabilities. Since then, the government has made several changes in the governance and follow-up of Samhall. In addition, Arbetsförmedlingen has received four specific assignments in its regulation letter for 2021 based on the announcement. It is about reviewing the definition and target level of priority groups, analysing the process and application of the occurrence of disability resulting in reduced work capacity and following up the instructions for protected work at Samhall. Finally, Arbetsförmedlingen has an assignment concerning interventions for persons who, in addition to reduced work capacity due to disabilities, also have a lack of knowledge of the Swedish language. None of these missions have yet been re-reported; it will be done in October of this year and in February of next year. As we write in our reservation, there is therefore good reason to wait for a further announcement until the government has re-reported the previous mission as a whole. Of course, avoiding unfair competition is important. Here it is important to bear in mind that Samhall is not just any company but a state-owned company that has a special social mission. It is the government that specifies the number of hours of pay that Samhall will reach per calendar year for the forms of employment protected work and wage subsidies for the development of employment. Samhall's activities are financed by the additional cost compensation, and Kammarkollegiet has the task of verifying that the compensation does not exceed the needs of the business. The government also has the opportunity to recover funds should this be justified. Audits from both the European Commission and the Competition Authority disagree that the company would have an unhealthy market impact. Against this background, I do not think that any new announcement should be made, but I am calling for the committee's proposal to be rejected. Mr. Old President! In this context, I would like to take this opportunity to refer also to employment-integrated social enterprises. They are an important complement to Samhall to create opportunities for groups that are far removed from the labour market. These are people with disabilities who have reduced working capacity, but also people with social problems, long-term unemployed, new arrivals and other people who for some reason need extra support to get and retain a job. The Green Party wants a regulation containing a clear definition of labour integration social enterprises. Such a definition would make it easier for the Public Employment Service, among others, to cooperate with these companies around groups that are far from the labour market. That way we can get more people to work.
i-ecce55ab0a700c41-644	Mr. Old President! We are now again debating Samhall and its activities. In an announcement, the committee proposes that the government set up an external investigation into Samhall and return to the Riksdag with an account of that result. The reason for our initiative regarding an announcement to the government is among other things the very sharp criticism of Samhall that has emerged from many stakeholders with good and relevant transparency in the organization, not least media such as Mission Review and the journal Dagens Arbete. Nor has the government come back from the first announcement, which the committee made in 2019. Let me say something briefly about Samhall's mission. Samhall AB belongs to the state-owned companies. It was founded in 1990 and of course has a special community mission. They have 25 000 employees, and it is the Riksdag that decides on the social mission, which aims to generate effects other than financial returns to the owner. Samhall is part of labour market policy, and Samhall's articles of association show that the company's mission is to create meaningful and developing jobs for people with disabilities who cause reduced working capacity. To be assigned to a protected job, a person's work capacity – note this! – be so reduced as a result of a disability that the person cannot find another job, and the person's needs should not be met by other interventions. Furthermore, it is clear that the business is to be conducted in accordance with commercial principles and market conditions, and it is to be ensured that other businesses are not exposed to unfair competition. The articles of association currently in force were adopted at Samhall's Annual General Meeting on 28 April 2014. Several audits of Samhall's activities have been carried out. The European Commission considered that the Swedish State had granted Samhall State aid incompatible with the internal market. Statskontoret expressed the following: The working capacity of the employees has increased, and this is due to sales growth. The Competition Authority expressed the following views regarding the additional cost compensation: This is remarkable. In order for you to understand what our criticism is about, I would like to give a few examples. They have been taken from, among other things, reportage in Mission review and come from managers at different levels and areas as well as from what employees have expressed. I would really like to point out that what I quote is quotes: The ones with the real needs don't get into Samhall. You don't stand a chance. The best staff will go to Samhall. They should be able to stand, walk and be strong. The state doesn't care about Samhall. There is a significant increase in non-European births, while the proportion of people born in the EU is decreasing. 中 Language deficiencies may be a reason for an instruction to Samhall. 中 Samhall has gained increased influence over Arbetsförmedlingen. You choose the workers you want. 中 Samhall has received 6.6 billion regardless of the diagnosis and need for adaptation. The business is ahead of the people. The workplaces lack chairs and lighting that are adapted to each user or employee, even though Samhall receives a grant for it. Samhall also has employees at Arlanda Airport who were previously employed in a private company with cleaning tasks. When Samhall took over the business, parts of the staff – completely healthy individuals – were transferred to Samhall's operations. How could it have gone so far? I will also mention the facts about the target group. I have received this information from the Parliamentary Investigation Service. These are questions that I have put to the management of Samhall, to Arbetsförmedlingen and to the Minister for Labour. Every third person has a cognitive disability. I have asked what classification is used – what is really meant by the diagnosis? One might think it is at a detailed level, but it is an extremely relevant issue as this diagnosis group has increased so dramatically. In order to carry out a review and provide input for improvements, facts and in-depth knowledge of the organisation are required, hence my question. Every fifth person has impaired learning ability. Clarification of that concept is also something I have asked for. At the same time, the number of employees with reduced or limited mobility has halved in five years. In 2015, it was 26 per cent, and in 2020 it was 12 per cent. That is a remarkable reduction. The details are important because they enable us to understand cause and effect. You have to know the concepts. I have not received any answers to these questions. The age range has also changed. In 2011, 59 per cent were older than 45 years. What we can now see is that over 45 years they have fallen to 20% in nine years. That's remarkable. The share coming from the priority groups fell from 73% in 2019 to 63% in 2020, i.e. a decrease of 10% in one year. Gender distribution is 65% for men and 35% for women. It is a great overweight of men, and I have asked for an analysis of this, but it is missing. Today's Work has talked to managers at Samhall around the country. I'll quote from interviews. Many people have heard from them and wanted to witness, says the magazine. They say the same thing. It's not a personal introduction. It is not an adaptation to each and every one's ability. We're all going on the same schedule. These are serious flaws. Samhall has an important role to play, and of course there are examples of workers who have made good results and who are happy and so on. But the shortcomings that have been revealed, which have now been highlighted, obviously require action. That is also why the announcement we are discussing today is extremely relevant. According to the notice, the investigation should review:
i-DMtCNPGagKTVmNrQv9sADo	中 if Samhall's operations are appropriate for the assignment and the target group according to the articles of association and the owner's instructions and if collaboration with Arbetsförmedlingen is appropriate 中 whether the State compensation to Samhall for the operation of a service of general economic interest is appropriate or whether it should instead be linked to any person assigned according to the ownership instructions If the activities carried out by Samhall as the organiser of the operations of work training and enhanced work training are to be covered by the State compensation paid to Samhall for the operation of a service of general economic interest If Samhall meets the statutory requirements for systematic work environment management and, if necessary, makes proposals for improvement measures. Of course, the Moderates are in favour of the proposal for this announcement.
i-ecce55ab0a700c41-673	Mr. Old President! We are here today to debate another announcement to the government, on which the Committee on Employment has proposed, concerning Samhall. I would like to begin by calling for the proposal to be approved. Mr. Old President! Samhall AB shall be part of the Swedish labour market policy and produce requested goods and services, thereby creating meaningful and developing jobs for people with disabilities that affect their ability to work. That is something on which I am sure we are all very much in agreement in this House. Unfortunately, however, the problems for Samhall have been recurring. As early as 2019, the Riksdag chose to address an announcement to the Government that Samhall should return to its basic mission: to create work for people with physical and intellectual disabilities. The background to the Riksdag's announcement was that more than half of the participants in Samhall were born abroad, as Statskontoret stated in the report An analysis of the process and conditions for employment at Samhall AB. Mr. Old President! Language confusion should not be seen or treated as a disability, and poor people should under no circumstances be placed in Samhall. On the one hand, it takes resources from those people who actually need Samhall's support, and on the other hand it is very unfavourable for those who, with the right efforts, could instead enter the regular labour market. The nature of the assignments indicated a serious underlying problem in the Employment Service's work process, in particular regarding the coding of those who would have access to Samhall's services. Mr. Old President! The government listened to the criticism, and Samhall's owner's instructions were revised and new directives on coding were submitted to the Public Employment Service. It is an authority that owns that part, and that is something Samhall cannot influence. It is a Rules of Procedure that should be called into question. Even more remarkable is the fact that Arbetsförmedlingen becomes the authority that will examine itself and Samhall, which we strongly oppose. Mr. Old President! New question marks came up. It culminated when the media were able to take part of surveys that showed major health and safety problems within Samhall. It is one of the points highlighted in the announcement. It is particularly important here to get to the bottom of the problem. How can we impose demands on other actors in the Swedish labour market unless a state-owned company meets the statutory requirements for systematic work environment management? Work environment work will become even more important in the future. Mr. Old President! Another point in the announcement that is important for the Swedish Democrats is the question of whether the compensation for Samhall is properly designed. We believe that today's remuneration model makes it difficult to monitor and review the quality of the efforts given to people assigned to Samhall. In order to overcome this, we believe that the support received by Samhall should be reported at individual level in line with what applies when private companies employ people with disabilities with reduced working capacity. We note that, without monitoring the aid at individual level, it is not possible to evaluate the aid correctly and fairly. This, Mr President-in-Office, is some of the points highlighted in the announcement which show that the announcement that is now being addressed to the government regarding Samhall is important and necessary. The government should take it seriously and urgently launch a process to review the case.
i-ecce55ab0a700c41-682	Mr. Old President! I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report. The fact that people most in need of support must have it first should be a reasonable starting point in labour market policy. To see man and his potential to shape his life and contribute to society is another important principle, at least if you are liberally minded. But somewhere there we can see that these principles are not the guiding principle of labour market policy today, especially when it comes to the governance of the state-owned company Samhall. Mr. Old President! Samhall calls itself Sweden's most important company and has a special position among the state companies. For this important special position, Samhall receives SEK 6.6 billion annually from the state. When Samhall was founded over 40 years ago, the intention was to create meaningful and developing jobs for people with physical and intellectual disabilities, but several people on the inside believe that the pursuit of business takes precedence over man. Many enrolments are not at all relevant to Samhall, for Samhall does not accept them. Unfortunately, that is not the only problem in this soup. Mr. Old President! Work is an important source of meaningful everyday life. It is about working together and the empowerment of an income. According to SCB, more than 400 000 people have a disability resulting in reduced working capacity. One solution for those who cannot get a job with any other effort is Samhall, which should then be a defined but important tool for more people to get into work based on their conditions. However, we receive constant testimony that the disabled are sorted out in order for Samhall to be able to win more difficult assignments. There is evidence of a poor working environment, where, for example, people with a need for clear instructions do not get the support they need when the timetable is pressed. There are testimony from former managers about a pricing that ordinary companies cannot match and that they bring in people without disabilities to solve the mission. We really can't have that. It is clear, not only to me, the Center Party and to a large part of my colleagues in this House, that something has broken in state Samhall. It is an unfortunate development with criticism from employees, the function rights movement, researchers and competitors. That is why the Center Party and the Liberals have taken this initiative and are calling for external scrutiny. It is our common duty to ensure an effective disability policy that opens the doors to self-sufficiency and self-determination for those who really need it. Mr. Old President! State Samhall is no ordinary company. It is Sweden's largest company in terms of the number of employees in Sweden. But with size comes a special responsibility – a responsibility to live up to the assignment given by the client. It is about setting an example in the work environment, including and creating opportunities for individuals with disabilities instead of benefiting Samhall's customers financially through under-pricing. In addition, there is no end in itself for a state-owned company. That must be borne in mind by the management of Samhall. Mr. Old President! The purpose of this committee initiative is not to give the government parties a snap. After the last announcement two years ago, we have been a constructive force within the framework of January cooperation in finding possible ways forward and resolving the issue. For example, we made sure that the government commissioned Arbetsförmedlingen to investigate if it is the right people who end up at Samhall and how the instructions are actually done, using an overview of the entire disability coding at Arbetsförmedlingen. The results will be presented at the beginning of next year, as one of my colleagues said earlier. We have ensured that the government has amended the regulation so that it is made clearer that protected work may only be given to those who have a disability. Language confusion should not be seen as a disability. In addition to that, we have given four concrete assignments in the regulation letter to Arbetsförmedlingen within the framework of our January cooperation. But the permissiveness of Samhall is frustrating. It is simply too slow, and the company chooses to reject all criticism. Instead of listening to their clients, you choose to hire consultants to map politicians' views on the issue. That is not acceptable. It is we in politics who run Samhall, not vice versa. Mr. Old President! With state resources in the bottom and high profit margin, Samhall has taken a dominant position and in parts of the country won almost as many cleaning contracts as the four major competitors combined. The effect will be both that the target group – people with disabilities with significantly reduced working capacity – does not get the opportunities and support they need and that ordinary companies are competed out. Ultimately, those who buy cleaning services from Samhall benefit at the expense of people in need of support and jobs in private companies. Of course, disability policy should cost, but then it must also deliver and be able to be evaluated. It must under no circumstances take out jobs and people. Now the state company signals their intention to enter new markets. It is unclear what political decisions are behind these plans. That is why it is particularly important for us that the problems that have been identified should be urgently addressed so that they do not spread further. There's a lot more to say about Samhall, but I choose to stay here.
i-ecce55ab0a700c41-697	Mr. Old President! I would like to ask Mrs Akhondi a few questions. The first question is: is there any particular reason why it is not possible to wait for the government's work on the last announcement? Another question is: The notice states that the activities carried out by Samhall in the form of work training and enhanced work training should be covered by the state compensation received by the company for its mission. After all, these efforts are not part of Samhall's mission but are a commitment made by state companies, public authorities and other employers to support people who are far from the labour market. Does the Center think that these authorities and companies should also provide these places without compensation? There's also talk of an external investigation. I assume that it is not the Swedish Work Environment Authority that will review the systematic work environment work at Samhall. And if it is not the expert authority that is set to check whether the company meets the requirements of the Health and Safety Act to review Samhall, who thinks the Center is best suited to do so?
i-PbeccwE9RZxDwtVtzjfqq9	Mr. Old President! Thank you for the questions, Marianne Fundahn. You might think we could wait another two weeks. We could do that, but nothing had changed with it. The measures taken are clearly not sufficient. If the honourable Member reads the report, the honourable Member sees that there are more proposals than that which the government intends to come back with in October in a first step and in February in a second step. The honourable Member had more questions, but I failed to take note of them. I'm sorry about that.
i-ecce55ab0a700c41-703	Mr. Old President! Then I repeat the question again: It is stated in the announcement that the activities carried out by Samhall in the form of work training and enhanced work training should be covered by the state compensation that the company receives for its mission. These efforts are not part of Samhall's mission, but are a commitment made by state companies, public authorities and other employers to support people who are far from the labour market. So my question was: does the Center think that these authorities and companies should also provide these places without compensation?
i-ecce55ab0a700c41-705	Mr. Old President! Thank you again for the question. We have a state-owned company, Samhall, which is Sweden's largest company, as I said in my speech. They receive SEK 6.6 billion annually. It is in politics that we decide what to use our state-owned companies for and what to do with them. In the committee initiative, we have written that it should be examined whether there is a possibility of this being included in the mandate that Samhall has without them receiving any additional compensation for it. I do not see any strange things about this given that Samhall, for example, has not lived up to the number of hours delivered. So you get a good remuneration in relation to what you deliver. Today, too, we have no idea exactly how this relates to the individuals for whom this is supposed to be an additional cost compensation. Absolutely– they're just gonna deliver on what we're asking them for.
i-ecce55ab0a700c41-709	Mr. Old President! So it is a unanimous opposition from the right to the left that is behind this initiative in committee on the activities of Samhall. It is about the need for the government to act and investigate a number of important issues about how Samhall works. This in itself says something about that there are many different aspects of the operations at Samhall and a lot of different problems and challenges that need to be addressed. For my part, ever since I had the privilege of serving as a call-in replacement in the Riksdag in 2013, I have followed the development at Samhall by visiting and listening to employees who had had critical views. I have spoken to trade union representatives and heard news and reports. I have been in contact with representatives of other types of activities aimed at partly the same target groups as Samhall and of course also heard what the company's management and political leaders had to say. I and the Left Party have raised various issues in debate articles, interpellations and motions. Looking back, I see that it's because there's a lot to fix and that a lot of the problems are recurring. I think it is important to emphasise that Samhall has an important role to play in our country's overall labour market policy. There are many who do a very good job daily for the business to flow on and function, and there are many employees who enjoy well and who have Samhall as a safe place in life where they find meaning, community and development. At the same time, there are a lot of problems that cannot be ignored and which it is important to address, not least for those of us who really believe Samhall needs to remain and do not believe that other types of activities – it can be purely commercial in the social business sector, non-profit and municipal – can completely replace what Samhall does in a good way. I say this because I would like to emphasise that I am not naive in relation to the representatives of the other opposition with whom we want a common position. Of course, I and the Left Party understand that it is partly different from ours that are behind the criticism of Samhall from that direction, not least to reserve the possibility of commercial profit for other actors in, for example, the cleaning industry – things that can make bourgeois hearts clap faster. Nevertheless, we come to some similar conclusions on what needs to be reviewed or further examined. Mr. Old President! In the magazine Fastighetsfolkna number 6 2021, one could read quite recently that the trade union Fastighets sued Samhall in the Labour Court after an employee in Östergötland was dismissed. It was about a woman who had been employed in Samhall for more than ten years and who was assigned there because of several disabilities. She has had different jobs, including reception work. But in recent times, like a rapidly growing group, she has been referred to cleaning. After a few years of cleaning, I had problems with my shoulders and collarbones, says the woman. She wants to work. She says that she can perform lighter tasks, such as certain types of packing work that she has done. But now she has been laid off because Samhall believes that there is no such information for her. Real estate has then driven this to AD as a violation of the special collective agreement that Samhall has. This is certainly an interesting dispute. I shall not claim to be familiar with the specific details of the case, beyond what is stated in the articles. But the basic problem itself is a recurring core issue in the Samhall discussion, and it is a problem that it is recurring. Thus: If Samhall is not the right place for a person with multiple disabilities and low work capacity but who has both the ability and the will to work in some form, what is the right place? Then there is this with cleaning where Samhall has expanded the business very strongly. I think it may be excellent that Samhall creates hours in cleaning and also wins procurements. But it is also clear that cleaning is, from some points of view, very hard work that suits some people very badly. If there is too little work of a different nature then the target group will be adapted to certain types of work rather than the other way round. This, Mr President-in-Office, is not an abstract bureaucratic issue, but something that has concrete effects on people. In the case I mentioned earlier with Fastighets, the woman concerned says: When I work, I feel happy and proud. I don't want to just sit at home. I know I have a very low working capacity. But where am I supposed to go? I'm only 51 years old and I can't spend the rest of my life at home. This problem, with ambiguities around the target group for Samhall's operations, was also revealed in the Mission Review programme in April this year. The Minister for Labour then chose to refer to this as anecdotes. This is something that representatives of the government have done repeatedly, even when, for example, there has been data on serious health and safety problems, employees who have felt that they do not dare to say away from and stressed supervisors who have known that they have to deliver hours without being able to take into account the quality of the employees or the specific task that Samhall has. It is this approach that makes it urgent with the kind of announcement from the Riksdag that we are discussing today and are going to take a decision on. Mr. Old President! There are many different things that one can and should investigate and try to improve when it comes to Samhall. Basically, one needs to relate to the important work that Samhall does in a broader perspective. It is about how one views the future labour market and the role of labour market policy. In order to be able to steer Samhall in the right direction, there needs to be an idea of where to go, about the direction. For the Left Party, it is crucial to return to this in different contexts, i.e. that we need a more spacious labour market in Sweden, a labour market adapted to the fact that people who populate our country and make up our society are both different and changing. My hope is that the government can use the announcement, which is reasonably voted through by Parliament in a moment, to initiate a wise and offensive process from this point of view. One needs to look at the opportunities that exist to make Samhall work better together with other tools, such as subsidised employment and the flora of work-certified social enterprises that exist in Sweden together with a health insurance that will be based on people's needs in a modern welfare society and an active labour market policy in general. I know that it is not very likely if one looks at the government's track record of slowness and visionlessness in this area and at the neoliberal rollback of a number of social advances that have marked politics in much of recent times. But we can hope, we can nag and push. We can also recall that we are happy to discuss and cooperate on these matters. We will continue to do so, because these are important questions for how we organise our society and for individuals to be able to trust that society is on their side when they need it.
i-QRZ3Pj3RopiXeSNqzz9HHx	Mr. Old President! The Christian Democrats obviously support the proposal for an external investigation by Samhall. Samhall is one of the most important activities we have, because it is available for people with disabilities and reduced work capacity who cannot find work in any other way. I think everyone has said that, and it is good that we agree on that. We also agree, of course, that Samhall is an important labour market measure for this particular group. This is why the company receives financial support and opportunities to act in a way that other companies in the regular market do not have. Samhall is a social activity. However, in order for Samhall to continue to develop, it is important that Samhall's activities cannot be questioned on the basis, for example, that it creates an unhealthy competitive situation, that one works with the wrong target group or that the cost to the individual cannot be seen from the financial report. Mr. Old President! It is clear to everyone that the requirements for being employed by Samhall have increased over the years. This means in pure Swedish that the individual's disability becomes increasingly crucial for employment or not. The more severe the disability, the more difficult it is to get employment at Samhall. There may, of course, be a number of reasons for this, but it seems that Samhall is somehow moving away from the original mission, on which we have all agreed here, is important. This is a development that we, as responsible, cannot accept, and therefore an external investigation is necessary. Mr. Old President! Let me say that poor language skills cannot be equated with a disability. But, maybe someone says, do you know that at Samhall they bring in people who have poor language skills and give them jobs? No, I can't be 100 on it. There's a rumor. It's claimed, sometimes from inside Samhall. But it's bad enough the suspicion exists. That's why we need an external investigation that goes to the bottom of whether Samhall is following his mission or whether this slip is real. There is a defined order for how the relationship between Samhall and Arbetsförmedlingen should work. Theoretically, it is so decided that Arbetsförmedlingen directs people to Samhall, who in turn has to offer a job that suits the person with work that that person is able to do. It is now quite clear that the process is easily reversed, i.e. that Samhall procures services and then is ordering people from Arbetsförmedlingen who can fulfil the tasks required by the contracted service. For example, there has been a lot of talk about cleaning. It is not surprising because cleaning is now one of the biggest businesses Samhall is doing. Samhall wins contracts for cleaning, and to be able to get a job at Samhall you must have a physics that allows you to do cleaning. It's pretty clear, but that's wrong. It should not be the case that Samhall's need for labour controls, but it should be the Swedish Public Employment Service's need to get people into work on the right function that should be driving. Thus, the relationship between Samhall and Arbetsförmedlingen is reversed and there is a great risk that people with certain or more severe disabilities will be discriminated against and placed outside. To ensure that this does not happen, an external investigation is required. Now that Samhall has become Sweden's largest cleaning company in all categories, it starts at least with me ringing warning bells. Samhall could never have been meant to have such a dominant position in a particular industry. It can be thought that this major investment in cleaning has led to other activities within Samhall, such as industry and manufacturing, being excluded. Samhall's mission is to assist with a broad range of tasks in different sectors to give disabled people the opportunity to work and participate, to find a place that suits them. To investigate this, an external investigation is required. Mr. Old President! When a government operation such as Samhall, a state-owned company governed by politics and supported by more than SEK 6.5 billion in tax money each year, comes into the normal labour market, there is of course a risk that competition will be eliminated and that other actors will not bid if they know Samhall does so because they know they do not have a chance. If companies in the normal market or labour-integrated social enterprises feel disadvantaged and feel that it is not worthwhile to fight because Samhall is so much stronger than they are, then it is a loss not only for the individual companies but also for those who have a disability and are not able to participate. As long as Samhall does not report his finances in a way that allows us as decision-makers to follow the money at the individual level, it will be like we are groping in the dark. We do not know what these 6.5 billion are actually going to. I'm not saying Samhall is competing on unfair terms. I'm not saying Samhall dumps prizes. But I say that in order to gain full knowledge and all the facts on the table, an external investigation is required. I am convinced that there is tremendous consensus in the Swedish Parliament that Samhall is one of several important means of creating work for people with disabilities. I am equally convinced that Samhall's activities and organisation must be examined by an external investigation. Therefore, it feels pretty good that the Riksdag will be able to give this task to the government in a few hours' time. We need a search, especially for the sake of the disabled.
i-ecce55ab0a700c41-740	Mr. Old President! Sweden has a record level of long-term unemployment. This unemployment started to increase as early as autumn 2019, before the pandemic struck. It is just as good to start at that end because many of those who are long-term unemployed, half of whom have been unemployed for over two years, are people with low education and less knowledge of Swedish but also people who have different types of disabilities that contribute to incapacity for work or lower work capacity that means that they do not have equal chances and opportunities to enter the regular labour market. It is remarkable, I think, when the Liberals have raised this issue repeatedly. The initiative in autumn 2019 was the Liberals' committee initiative. We already called for clarification in the regulation on the work of the Public Employment Service with persons with disabilities because we already saw the problem that several people are now going up in the speaker's chair and confirm, namely that there is a risk of displacement effects. More and more demands are being made on Arbetsförmedlingen and Samhall through the instructions and assignments that exist from the government. No one from the Social Democrats seems to want to pronounce some kind of self-criticism on this issue, but refers to old missions and that everything is already on the roll. Liberals do not agree with that picture. It was not the case that the Social Democrats rushed forward with reforms for Arbetsförmedlingen and Samhall after the 2019 committee initiative, but it was only in April 2021 – after a year and a half – that the government could present a minor adjustment in the regulation to clarify the target group for the Employment Service's instructions to Samhall. Madam President, I would like There has been carelessness in the debate on how to shift individual cases to Samhall. If I am going to say something to Samhall's defence, it is not Samhall who makes the assessment or chooses and wrecks among these people, but it is Arbetsförmedlingen. The Arbetsförmedlingen assesses, maps, for action plans, for discussions and has discussions with Försäkringskassan and other interested parties in difficult cases, and then classifys, encodes and directs the persons to Samhall. Arbetsförmedlingen also deserves criticism, but responsible for Samhall and Arbetsförmedlingen is the Swedish government and ultimately the Minister for Labour. In addition to the amendment to the regulation that came in April, which is due to be re-reported in October, we believe from the Liberals and the Centre Party that a broader mandate should be given. It is extremely gratifying that several parties in this House support our initiative. The assignment should not only be about the economy but also about the articles of association, the working environment and unhealthy competition. What drives me most, as some fellow Member mentioned, is that this activity is not just any. People with disabilities find it extremely difficult to enter the labour market. This is twice the unemployment rate for people with disabilities, almost 20 per cent, compared with the rest of the population, which is 9-10 per cent in 2020. Now it is sinking, but we do not see the same recovery in the case of people with disabilities. There is a lower employment rate among people with disabilities, and many of the individuals who are registered as unemployed with disabilities also have a lower level of education – not post-secondary education – than the rest of the population. Madam President, I would like It is therefore important that society – be it municipalities or the state – has activities that can receive and offer these people more opportunities and opportunities. It should apply not only to education but also to the labour market. There should be no question of economic requirements, competition requirements or of Samhall being used as an integration policy measure. Samhall has commented that if a person has a combination of disabilities and language deficiencies, there is no strangeness. Then the person fulfils the basic criterion. But there are many who get into Samhall who really shouldn't be there. That is the message of the Liberals. We appeal to the government parties to help us with the initiative. If it is planned this afternoon to vote against the proposal, there is a risk of delay and delay so that the government does not take the initiative. Some have asked why there should be an external evaluation. I was previously in the Education Committee, and there we had about the same debate on Pisa. The government chose to commission the National Agency for Education, its own school authority, to review Pisa's results. The Swedish National Audit Office's audit concluded that this was not an independent external audit. Other experts have also said that the government was wrong. We are in danger of making the same mistakes here, and I want us to avoid this. I support the proposal in the report.
i-ecce55ab0a700c41-753	Madam President, I would like I thought I'd ask the same questions to the other parent about the announcement, Roger Haddad, as I did to the Center's representative. Is there any particular reason why it is not possible to await the government's work on the previous announcement? We assume that we first want answers to the questions asked last time before moving on with new questions. The committee's position shows that the activities carried out by Samhall in the form of work training and enhanced work training should be covered by the state compensation received by the company for its mission. These efforts are not part of Samhall's mission but are a commitment of state enterprises, government agencies and other employers to support people who are far from the labour market. Do the Liberals think that these authorities and companies should also provide seats without compensation? There's talk of an external investigation. I assume that it is not the Swedish Work Environment Authority that will review the systematic work environment work at Samhall. If it is not the expert authority that is responsible for checking that the company meets the requirements of the Health and Safety Act to review Samhall, who does the Liberals think is appropriate to do so?
i-ecce55ab0a700c41-757	Madam President, I would like There were a number of questions, but I know most of them because they were asked a moment ago. First, there was the question of the various missions. Let it be unconditional; let the external reviewer look at all the points. The nature of the mission is to look at what should be included and what should not be included in remuneration systems, how instructions should be reformed, whether the mandate should be changed in the articles of association regarding transition requirements to regular labour markets and so on. There are many details in the report. We do not want to wait because we believe that the points that are going on do not cover these parts. In part, this is the case with the amendment to the regulation that took place in April to clarify the target group. It is one of the most important points to be reported back in October. However, we highlight several points in the report. That's why I don't think we should wait and let more time pass. I do not have a ready-made proposal for external scrutiny. It is definitely not a question of another government authority under the Ministry of Labour. For example, it may be the academy or international academics who work with issues related to labour market policy and with other experiences can look at the Swedish system.
i-ecce55ab0a700c41-761	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the full reply from the honourable Member.
i-ecce55ab0a700c41-762	Madam President, I would like You're welcome! It was so little.
