i-4ea466e417cac37b-0	Mr President, I would like to Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm has asked me what I intend to do to ensure that the regulations mentioned in the interpellation are not in contradiction with each other and that the working environment in ambulance care is improved. Initially, I would like to point out that employers have a responsibility to assess and manage risks in the working environment. This also applies in ambulance care. Of course, the ambulance staff should have a good working environment. The interpellant believes that the regulatory framework is in contradiction with each other. However, the exemption for the use of safety belts provided for in the Swedish Transport Agency's regulations, to which Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm refers in her question, does not deprive the employer of the responsibility to ensure that the work environment work is carried out in such a way that the intention of the Work Environment Act is fulfilled. The employer is obliged to investigate, implement and monitor the activities to prevent accidents and ill health and create a good working environment. The equipment in ambulances must of course enable both good care and a good working environment for the employees. However, what specific equipment should be available is a matter for employers and relevant authorities. Finally, I would like to reiterate that the government supports the regions, as health care authorities, by awarding the regions SEK 85 million for ambulance care in 2021 and SEK 3.2 billion for good conditions for healthcare employees through agreements between the state and Sweden's municipalities and Regions. The funds can be used to strengthen ambulance care and support a sustainable working environment. I assume that the interpellant and I agree on the importance of the employer taking responsibility for ensuring a good working environment for the health care employees.
i-4ea466e417cac37b-6	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for Social Affairs for his answer. We have had this debate earlier – in mid-May, if I am not mistaken. I raised the debate again because I was not quite satisfied with the answer, and I cannot say that I am this time either. Among other things, the Swedish Work Environment Authority's regulations on the use of work equipment follow, as I wrote in my interpellation, that work equipment should be used as safe as it can only be as protection against ill health and accidents. In connection with authorization to issue regulations on traffic, transport and communications, it emerges, among other things, that the Government and the authority that the Government decides may issue regulations on traffic rules. The Traffic Regulation states that if there are safety belts in a vehicle, everyone should wear safety belts. The Swedish Transport Agency's regulations on the use of safety belts state that there can be exceptions for the use of safety belts in the rear seat if this in any way hinders the exercise of the profession. These two regulations speak against each other, and it is the responsibility of the government to ensure in regulatory letters to the relevant authority that these regulations are not in contradiction with each other. In order for these two regulations not to be in contradiction with each other, the government must assume its responsibilities, issue regulatory letters and review how these regulations are designed, so that this contradiction can be eliminated. If the government does not assume its responsibilities in this case, it will be a moment 22 – on the one hand, people should wear a seat belt, on the other hand not. We always have a responsibility to have a good working environment in ambulance care. I am pleased that the government's budget provides more funding to the regions, but, as the Minister for Social Affairs says, it is the regions as employers that have the ultimate responsibility. When there are still seven regions in our country that do not have the necessary tools to secure the working environment for ambulance care, it will be up to each region to assume its employer responsibility. There is no government requirement that the government's budget contribution should guarantee this.
i-4ea466e417cac37b-14	Mr President, I would like to I think Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm makes it much more complicated than it really is. Government regulations are always complementary to the governing rules. I may not need to sort this out mainly for Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm, but I think that those who listen may find it a bit complicated. I am therefore going to take some time to do this. The purpose of the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare's regulations on ambulance care is to support ambulance care so that it can meet the overall objective of the Swedish Health Act for good care. After all, we also have what is about good and close care, and there is, of course, a lot in this. The Swedish Work Environment Authority's regulations specify the requirements for the work environment according to the Work Environment Act. Both of these regulations must of course ensure compliance by employers, but the authorities themselves are responsible for their regulations and their content. The government could very well initiate a specific review through specific government decisions, but not by saying that it should stand in a specific way. The Authority has its own regulations. The Swedish Transport Agency's exemption for the use of safety belts in the rear seat is not something that exists only for ambulance services, but also for police, prison, customs and certain other health professionals if the practice of the profession so requires. Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm and I had an interpellation debate here in May. At that time, however, it was very much about whether we should ensure that there were specific medical devices in all ambulances, and from the government's side we cannot prescribe specific medical devices. As Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm and I talked about that time, the development is very rapid. It is not possible to specify this. I also think it is important to say that this is not just about the specific situation. You may need to stand up to hang up a drip, grab a suction or the like. There are several elements and situations. If personnel need to make that kind of movement and stand up, you should not be subject to a fine or to a criminal record for doing your job. Preventing all these elements as far as possible, both in ambulances and in police, penitentiary, customs and others, is a matter for employers. The exception is for the individual not to end up in a criminal record and receive fines in certain situations. The authorities are responsible for their regulations. Although one might think that some equipment should be used, we cannot prescribe certain medical devices. I think Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm and I agreed on that last time, but I say it again.
i-4ea466e417cac37b-21	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for Social Affairs. Yes, we agreed that we cannot make demands that there should be specific equipment in ambulance care. I am aware that there are other occupational groups that we can also discuss in relation to the working environment. But right now I have focused on ambulance care, especially when it comes to CPR, which is one of the most urgent tasks that ambulance care performs. We assume that when the accident arrives we will get the best and most high-quality healthcare that can only be offered in Sweden. There are many examples in ambulance care of accidents that have occurred for staff in ambulance care, which could have been avoided if there had been adequate assistance in each ambulance. As I said, there are seven regions today that do not have, for example, a mechanical cardiopulmonary rescue machine in all their ambulances. This means that an ambulance nurse who is going to perform CPR must stand up in the ambulance cabin throughout the journey from the patient's home to the hospital or to the healthcare facility where the care will continue. There's the problem that you can't be strapped on with a seat belt in the back seat while trying to save lives. The problem I would like to highlight is that there are two sets of rules against each other. As an ambulance nurse, you will do your job, save lives and provide safe care to our citizens. At the same time, you should be able to feel confident that you have a working environment where you know that after the end of the day you can come home to your loved ones and not have an accident yourself. It has happened on several occasions that ambulance carers have stood up and carried out care measures while in a three-ton ambulance at a brake in front of red light or in a curve they have fallen down and hit themselves very badly. It does not feel safe to have such a work environment for paramedics, and they themselves maintain that it is not a safe working environment when you do not have adequate work equipment that allows you to be strapped to the back of an ambulance. Therefore, my question is again to the Minister for Social Affairs: how are we going to eliminate the regulatory problem that makes it impossible for us to provide a good working environment for our brave people who work in ambulance care in Sweden today?
i-4ea466e417cac37b-28	Mr President, I would like to First of all, we must state that these are two different regulations that do not resist each other. You have to relate to both of them, and it is possible to do so. But the government cannot prescribe a specific medical device. Not all ambulances look the same either. There are different moments where problems could arise. There may be a collision if you don't handle this properly, and of course I don't mean a physical crash. Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm says that we cannot have these two regulations at the same time. Yes, we can, and one must, as a caregiver and as an employer, relate to both. I think this is important to say. Now we are talking specifically here again about CPR and that moment. But reaching for a craving to clean the airways is also something that can be absolutely crucial, and depending on how the ambulance is designed, one may have to stand up. What I'm trying to describe here is that we have two regulations and that we have to relate to both. It is the employer's responsibility to offer both a safe working environment and a good health care for the patient. But in order for the individual not to end up in a situation where he is fined for simply breaking the law when he is forced to perform certain tasks untied, there is an exception for certain professions. I'm not prepared to remove that exception. It would have very unfortunate consequences for individuals. But these rules should be applied at the same time. This is also why we have both the Occupational Safety and Health Inspection and the Inspection for Care. I think it is wrong to describe it as regulations which necessarily stand against each other. One must be able to relate to more than one regulation in the business, and exactly what the regulation should look like is responsible for.
i-4ea466e417cac37b-33	Mr President, I would like to I am aware of the need to comply with all the regulations, the Minister for Social Affairs. However, in certain situations it is not possible to relate to both regulations. It is not possible to stand up in an ambulance and perform certain tasks while wearing a seat belt. Regardless of what measures the employer has taken, the two regulations cannot be reconciled. Of course, the employer has a great responsibility for the design of an ambulance. As far as possible, you try to design it so that the ambulance nurse can sit on a belt, and all the tools and what you need for your work should be within reach without having to reach and stand up in an ambulance. However, we still have one of the major discussions that I have raised in the past, namely that there are not the right equipment in all ambulances and where the regions as employers do not accept their responsibilities. There are seven regions in Sweden that do not take responsibility for their employees being able to have a good working environment. We are actually back in my part 22, where I say that the different approaches and regulations cannot be reconciled.
i-4ea466e417cac37b-37	Mr President, I would like to According to the Work Environment Act, the employer has a statutory responsibility for a good working environment. It is obliged to comply with the regulations in this area, and there is an occupational safety and health inspection that carries out supervision and must ensure that this is done as well. Then there is the Health Act to ensure that patients receive the best possible care. We don't have a system that lists any medical equipment. This applies to healthcare in general and also in ambulances and ambulances. However, we provide resources both to ambulance care specifically for skills-enhancing interventions and other interventions that you see a need for as well as to the entire healthcare system, including ambulance care, both for measures that improve the situation in the field of staff policy and for us to receive good and close care at all. I would like to conclude by saying that having double regulations means being able to take both into account. You cannot choose a good working environment or a good health care. I would regard it as unfortunate if we were to remove the exemption for certain professional categories to be able to stand up for certain elements. That's why it'll still be there. Otherwise you would break the law when you do your job. The care provider has a responsibility for good care and a good working environment, and we must continue to work on this. This applies to all practitioners of Swedish health care, not least ambulance care.
i-4ea466e417cac37b-42	Mr President, I would like to Yasmine Posio has asked me why we rarely hear criticism from me and the government about the situation of women in the United States while we do so about women's situation in other countries. She has also asked me what I and the government intend to do in order for all women in the United States to be able to control their own body. Furthermore, she has asked me how I and the government intend to act in order for the US to ratify the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women. Let me state from the outset that Sweden is making the same demands on all countries as regards respect for human rights. Sweden has a very close and intimate relationship with the United States, which of course also includes these issues, and stands up for the enjoyment of human rights by all women and girls everywhere. It is also my firm impression that the current administration broadly shares Sweden's view of gender equality and women's rights. Most of the questions raised by Yasmine Posio are the subject of intense and sometimes heated debate in the United States, where the administration is trying to push for a reform agenda. The USA is a large country and is in some ways more comparable to the EU than to Sweden. For some of the challenges raised by the questioner, responsibility lies with the government's direct counterpart, i.e. the administration. For others, responsibility lies with the Swedish parliament's counterpart, i.e. the k ongress. This applies, for example, to the ratification of conventions, which requires a two-thirds majority in the Senate – for example, the UN Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women. For others, responsibility rests with the Länder or courts, for example on the issue of abortion. The questioner will know that in the latter case, the Federal Ministry of Justice has initiated proceedings against the state of Texas and wishes to codify the right to abortion as a federal right. After all, at federal level, a great deal has happened recently. Never have so many women held ministerial positions in the federal government, in addition to Vice President Kamala Harris. A subsidised childcare facility has been introduced and the emergency packages developed under the coronapndemine have strong gender equality components. Sweden follows the domestic debate of the United States closely. Many American politicians and decision-makers are interested in hearing about Swedish experiences. Equality always has its place on the agenda when official representatives from our countries meet.
i-4ea466e417cac37b-50	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Foreign Minister, Ann Linde, for her reply. I have been thinking for a long time about raising the situation of women in the United States, one of the world's patriarchal high-borgs – because the situation of women in the United States, and especially women with low incomes, is under all criticism ensuring that the United States claims to be the world's greatest democracy. Moreover, what is happening in the United States is gladly taken as a justification for other countries to follow. When Texas introduced the abortion law, I realized that this is the moment I have to raise the issue, because obviously the pressure on the United States is not enough to make the women there better off. A quarter of Congress are women, and the fact is that between 1920 and 1990 it was more common for women to inherit their place to Congress than for them to be elected. In fact, this rule that women can inherit their husband's place of congress still applies today. So the United States is one of the worst Western countries when it comes to women's representation in parliaments. That partly explains why women have such bad rights in the United States. My question is how the government acts towards the United States, where women's situation can be called into question. There is no statutory paid parental leave. The statutory right to be on parental leave for 12 weeks without compensation applies only in workplaces with 50 or more employees. A vaginal delivery costs 5,000 to 11 000 dollars, and if complications occur, it becomes even more expensive. So the birth itself is already a costly story. Then there is childcare, where married people spend an average of one-tenth of their income, while single people add one-third. Higher education is also expensive, and more and more women are being forced out of the labour market because they cannot afford both student loans and childcare costs. Another example of how difficult it is for women and girls in the United States is the resistance to abortion. Just getting to an abortion clinic is a terrible experience when opponents of abortion are standing outside the clinics and loudly demeaning those women who, for whatever reason, want or must have an abortion. Furthermore, the clinics have been destroyed, and staff have been subjected to threats of violence and violence and even murdered. Between 1993 and 2015, eleven people were shot to death or died in explosions against the clinics. Therefore, the number of clinics performing abortions in the states with the worst opposition to abortion is also decreasing. Just as Sweden requires countries to protect human rights activists, we should demand that the US protect abortion clinics. The answer I got was a bit of a tribute to the new administration, which has not yet managed to deliver much, and a lesson about how the United States works. It shows how difficult the government seems to have to criticize the United States in the same way as other patriarchal countries are criticized. But this does not help the women of the United States. I therefore wonder what the Foreign Minis t you Ann Linde wants to do so that they too, like women in other patriarchal countries, will feel our support in their struggle to have their human rights met.
i-4ea466e417cac37b-62	Mr President, I would like to As I explained in my initial answer, Sweden has close contact with the United States on these issues. Last night I attended a video conference on gender equality organised by Georgetown University. We were three speakers, and the other two were presidents of the White House Gendarmerie and the Deputy Director of the White House for Human Rights and Democracy. Our embassy in Washington has a strong outreach activity, where gender equality is particularly highlighted. For example, next year's major exhibition at the House of Sweden in Washington's gender equality theme. The Embassy has also been invited to the Congress to give talks on this theme, in the presence of, among others, Speaker Nancy Pelosi, and interviews have been given in leading American newspapers. Furthermore, we discuss and bring forward gender issues at every meeting with US representatives. The United States has now abolished Mexico City policy, which was introduced under Trump and strangled funding to organizations that worked on abortion or for the right to abortion. A gender equality council has been set up in the White House, and a gender strategy will be completed in October. So it was the chairman of this Council, Jennifer Klein, who took part in the video conference I mentioned earlier. The Biden Administration's proposal for a support package, Build Back Better, which is now to be voted on in Congress, contains strong gender equality components. We are talking about strengthening women's opportunities in the labour market, female empowerment, federal support for states providing good childcare facilities, tax credits for families with children, which in practice is a child benefit, tax credits for households paying for childcare or elderly care, and tax credits for companies that grant their employees the right to paid sick leave or parental leave. So we are basically addressing all the points made by Yasmine Posio in her question when we have talks with US representatives.
i-4ea466e417cac37b-69	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Foreign Minister, Ann Linde, for her reply. Let us hope that at least some of this goes through. As I mentioned earlier, it was the change of law in Texas that made me write this interpellation. Men's desire to have power over women's and girls' bodies uses the resistance to abortion as the way to the goal. It's not unique to the United States. It's showing itself around the world. In the United States, however, it has managed to create such a strong opposition to abortion that it has even led Republican presidents such as Bush and Trump to go from being for women's and girls' right to decide over their own bodies to letting the state decide. Women and girls have had abortions at all times, and in the world some 23,000 women and girls die each year from illegal abortions. Many more suffer serious injuries, and some even become sterile. There are many different reasons why women and girls want to end a pregnancy, and none of the reasons weigh more heavily or more easily than the others. September 28 was the global day for safe and legal abortions. The day before, RFSU created a thread on Twitter where those who had had an abortion could state their reasons. The reasons for ending a pregnancy varied and made it clear that the right of women and girls to choose for themselves is the right thing to do. When Trump appointed additional opponents of abortion in the Supreme Court, everyone understood that soon some state will try to worsen the laws for women even more. For those who want to learn more about how abortion laws have changed over the years, I recommend the documentary Reversing Roe. For the way the states view abortion varies in the United States. In 45 of the states healthcare professionals are allowed to refuse care, and in 42 of the states medical clinics are allowed to refuse care. There are different limits to when a woman or girl last gets an abortion, it takes reflection time and in some states you have to listen to the heart sounds and look at the ultrasound. Everything is a variety of ways to prevent women and girls from having an abortion. The law in Texas prohibits abortions after week six. Not everyone who's pregnant even knows it so early. However, in some U.S. states and countries where abortion is difficult, rape, incest and the life and health of the pregnant woman are in danger are allowed. That is not the case in Texas. It is clear that the patriarchal opposition to abortion is hoping that when and if this law is tested in the Supreme Court, it will go through. But it is not just the extremely short period of abortion that frightens. The one who is punished is the one who makes the abortion or who proposes the same. So it's the doctor, the nurse, the partner, the friend... well, whoever's somehow involved-- who's risking a fine of $10,000. In addition, this $10,000 can be awarded as compensation to the late-abortion reporter. It's a kind of angivery system that reminds me of the witch hunts of old. The fact that the Federal Ministry of Justice has initiated a trial against the state of Texas with a desire to codify the right to abortion as a federal right is positive, now that it is a democratic president who is in power, but unfortunately we do not yet know the outcome of the process. And there is no doubt that Minister for Foreign Affairs, Ann Linde, must also be able to mention the horror of what has happened in her written interpellation response, even if it is the United States that we are talking about.
i-4ea466e417cac37b-79	Mr President, I would like to I, like thousands of others all over the world, stood up in all my social media for the right to abortion the day before yesterday on the International Day for Safe Abortion. There is, of course, no doubt as to where Sweden stands on the issue of abortion or whether the US administration is aware of the Swedish position. Nor is there any doubt as to where the US administration stands on these issues. Abortion is the subject of a very heated debate in the United States, where the actions of various states are in danger of thwarting the achievements of the 1973 Roe versus Wade court ruling. The federal government has responded by prosecuting the state of Texas that is trying to shake the verdict. The administration also wishes to establish the right to abortion as a federal law, which requires that the required majority can be reached in Congress. The same applies, for example, to the Women's Commission, The Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women. Ratification takes place in the Senate and requires a two-thirds majority. At present, as I understand it, there is not the majority in the Senate. I hope that Yasmine Posio is as active with his American friends as we are with our American friends and not just standing in this Chamber reading out statements that will make no difference to women on the ground in the United States. We have an ongoing discussion with the United States on the issues, and I myself have participated in six American democratic conventions where this issue has come up every time. We highlight the Swedish experience, and we support the reform efforts of the American administration. The democracy summit convened by President Biden in December will include strong gender equality aspects. The Participating States will make commitments to be followed up at a conference one year later. Among other things, Vice-President Kamala Harris has expressed the position and rights of women as a measure of the status of democracy, or in English: The status of women is the status of democracy.
i-4ea466e417cac37b-84	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister of Foreign Affairs Ann Linde, for this discussion! It's not the first time we've been talking about the SRHR. The reason I am raising the issue is that it actually has a certain effect of talking about it in this House. It's not enough just to talk about it with your friends around the world. The United States is one of the few countries in the world that have not yet ratified the UN Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women, together with Iran, Palau, Somalia, Sudan and Tonga. But the fact is that nowhere in the world have we been able to achieve equality. This shows how strong the patriarchal forces are and that we must fight them both here in Sweden and in the world. Here, opponents of abortion tried to break a wedge in our abortion legislation by means of the so-called conscience clause, which is nothing more than a refusal to care. They did not succeed here, and we have many fantastic examples in the world showing that girls' and women's rights are on the rise. Ireland, Argentina and most recently Mexico have introduced laws for safe and legal abortions. But in other countries, as I said, things are going in the wrong direction. That is precisely why it is important that this should be raised in this House. Women in Sweden must know that although we are not yet equal, there are those who will fight for the equal rights of women and girls to participate in and succeed in society. Women and girls in the world need to know that we are fighting for their equal right to participate and succeed in society. This applies to all women, whether they live in Poland, Zambia, Iran, El Salvador or the United States.
i-4ea466e417cac37b-88	Mr President, I would like to Yasmine Posio expresses concern that is largely shared not only by the Swedish Government but also, in fact, by the American administration. It is not between Sweden and the US administration that there are differences of opinion, but rather between the US administration and the political opponents that exist in Congress or in various states, such as Texas. This is a political reality that must be taken into account when dealing with these issues. We want to support in every way the reform efforts of the current administration in these areas. It is my firm impression that they appreciate the exchange of experience with Sweden on these issues. I would also like to raise the question of and the great interest in our feminist foreign policy. I am pleased today that several countries have followed suit, including Mexico, but also Canada, Spain, France and Luxembourg. We have a very close cooperation, and we also had it in New York last week in a special collection. I believe that this can serve as an inspiration for the American administration as well.
i-4ea466e417cac37b-91	Mr President, I would like to Kjell Jansson has asked me what initiatives I am prepared to take on route 77 and when I intend to ensure that road 77 will be built. The investment on road 77 in Stockholm County is included in the regional transport infrastructure plan for the period 2018–2029, and the expansion is in the plan with the planned construction start 2022. Since road 77 is part of the county plan, it is a matter of dialogue between Region Stockholm and Trafikverket.
i-4ea466e417cac37b-92	Mr President, I would like to Government of Tomas Eneroth! The reason I am raising this debate is that there is a great frustration in my municipality that the road is never built. It has been under planning for many years. Road 77 was part of the Stockholm county plan, which was decided in 2008. It was one of the objects in the so-called Cederschiöld package. Road 77 is the only object of the 2008 plan that has not been implemented. Every year an average person dies on this road, which is very narrow and crooked. Parts of the road have set the speed to 50, but it may not be observed by everyone – there are those who drive fast there too. Road 77 is a strategic road. It connects Mälardalen and Kapellskär harbour, and a lot of goods going to Mälardalen, Västerås, Örebro, Karlstad etc. go that way. This road is therefore very important, and it is also a link between Norrtälje and Arlanda. Norrtälje municipality is large today; we are 64 000. It is therefore an extremely important road. The municipality of Norrtälje has been on for 14 years to get this built, and Trafikverket has stalled and pulled on it. Three different proposals for draws have been drawn up. This must probably be done for reasons of plan, i.e. have different options. The idea was also that the road should be built as a 100-way, but it has been slowly but surely ground down by the officials of the Finnish Transport Administration. Now the zero option will apply to draw, after all the years. This means that you will basically broaden the path and maybe make it a little straighter in some places where it is very curvy. Half the profits, reducing driving time, have been prioritised down. You're supposed to have an 80-way today, not a 100-way. This means that it will not be much better; the road may be a little more road safety than it has been, but it is the only improvement. The proposals have been consulted on a number of occasions, and the views of the municipality have received very little attention – very little. It was written in Norrtelje Tidning last week that after 14 years the Swedish Transport Administration has announced that it will purchase consultants to make a procurement. Now, after 14 years, you have to shop for consultants. Should it take 14 years to get there, Mr President? Does the Minister think it's okay that it takes 15 years to procure consultants? The Swedish Transport Administration's project manager says in Norrtelje Tidning that the start of construction for stage 1 will be the earliest turn of the year 2023/ 24. Stage 2 will be no earlier than 2025. It's 17 years after decision. Does the Minister intend to bring this up with the Finnish Transport Administration? It feels like it is quite dysfunctional at Trafikverket when it comes to getting enforcement in decisions. It is so narrow on some parts of this road that the rear-view mirrors of the trucks hit each other. I will stay there, Mr President.
i-6secst86wvsqrc3NwxuDV2	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your commitment, Kjell Jansson! There are now considerably more resources for infrastructure than there were at the time when the agreement was signed for this road. It was Carl Cederschiöld who had the mandate of the Alliance Government to negotiate, and in 2007 an agreement was signed in which it was indeed – it is important to remember – assessed that the road could be implemented after 2019. Thus, even then, the regional representatives and Carl Cederschiöld were aware that this was quite a long way ahead. Then it is that this is a responsibility that lies on county plans. Kjell Jansson is welcome to contact Iréne Svenonius, Kristoffer Tamson or the regional representatives in the Stockholm region who are responsible for the implementation of the county plan together with the Swedish Transport Administration in the region. It is, in fact, a matter of negotiation. From the government we have contributed more money to the county plans, and most recently the Riksdag – but not Kjell Jansson's party, but the Riksdag as a whole – stands behind a framework of nearly SEK 900 billion where we increase the resources for the counties to be able to make more efforts. This is therefore not a matter for the government, but a matter for the region. Kjell Jansson is very welcome to turn to the region for the implementation of county plans.
i-4ea466e417cac37b-103	Mr President, Mr Eneroth, Minister for Infrastructure. I am fully aware of this. The reason I raise the question is that I think the control of the Swedish Transport Administration is too weak. The regulatory letters are too thinly written, and much clearer control is needed. The work does some freely chosen work, is the picture we have here in the county. One problem is procurement, with long processes and a lot of demands that can be called into question. On the other hand, there are poor implementation requirements. You should be able to drive two shifts all the time in the summer, when it's light 24 hours a day. We have many road constructions that stand still on Fridays – then it's not a person there working – and all weekends. Then they come back on Monday morning and drive until Thursday night. Actually, I don't think that's okay if you're going to carry out a project and get the traffic to work. We have a bridge on Furusundsvägen, where I live. They've been doing that bridge since May 1st – or if it was May 2nd they started – and they finished this week. It's a small bridge, maybe 150 meters long. I can't believe it's gonna take such a long time. There was also not a person working on Fridays; then it was apparently a red day in Trafikverket's world. What is needed is that the Swedish Transport Administration is reformed and steered up, with better regulation letters to get its operations in order and stop the billion-dollar roll in costly costs. That is what is happening today: every construction is delayed and expensive – everywhere. This applies not only to the Stockholm bypass, but in principle to every construction.
i-4ea466e417cac37b-107	Mr President, I would like to I just want to correct a couple of things. As mentioned above, representatives of the county have to engage in dialogue with the Finnish Transport Agency and agree on the timetables for implementation. There are actually two parties, and Kjell Jansson's own party is very much responsible. It would therefore be welcome if the criticisms were addressed. The second is that, of course, we are always concerned about the cost of these things. We have recently had a debate here about Bypass Stockholm, which became more expensive and where we work with Trafikverket to look at the costs. Nevertheless, it is a relatively small cost in relation to the enormous cost of the region's own metro projects – nearly 9 billion costs. It is actually about how to steer up and secure and how to have cost control. There is clearly a great deal to be desired in terms of the region's governance of various infrastructure projects. I therefore believe that there is a responsibility of its own in the Stockholm region, not only for the implementation of road 77 – which I think is urgent – but also, of course, for what cost control it has on its infrastructure investments. I think it is urgent that we invest more in both roads and railways and in infrastructure in the country, and that is why a Social Democratic-led government has received Parliament's support for nearly SEK 900 billion in investments. In its draft budget, the Moderate Coalition Party had 30 billion less to invest in new ways. This would not have facilitated the conditions for road 77 or other operations in the country.
i-4ea466e417cac37b-111	Mr President, I would like to It is also – and the Minister knows this – that the Moderates are against the high-speed trains that the government has in its national plan. We do not think that that much money should be wasted in order to transport people down to the Malmö-Copenhagen region. The purpose of the high-speed train is to kill Arlanda. That's the only purpose there is. High-speed trains are not needed in this country; make sure that existing railways work instead, with X2000 everywhere! It is true that the region is responsible – absolutely. But the Finnish Transport Administration, like many government agencies, is a fairly closed organization. You don't take to heart what's said when the councilman courts the work. You don't listen, you knock yourself out. That's not good. After all, I believe that the Transport Agency needs to be reformed. More responsiveness and a review of procurements are needed to speed up the implementation of items. Now many objects become more expensive and moved forward, displacing new constructions of both roads and tracks. So there is a lot to do here, and there is also much to do to improve maintenance. The speed of major European roads, including the E14 in Åre, is reduced to 80 kilometres per hour. The Minister also understands that the person who is going from Sundsvall to Åre cannot lie in 80 on a large, wide road. People become criminals. They drive too fast. A broad road invites you to it. Make sure the maintenance works!
i-4ea466e417cac37b-114	Mr President, I would like to This debate is about road 77. I note that Kjell Jansson would rather blame the authorities than make sure that the region accepts its responsibilities. This is an unfortunate trend, and I hear it increasingly from moderate representatives. We should stand up for public representatives who will certainly do their best on the basis of the conditions available to find good and constructive solutions with regions and municipalities. As I said, responsibility rests very much, in this case, on the region. It has the resources and the means to do this. The government has made sure that Region Stockholm gets more money in the county plans. With regard to the reticent argument about high-speed trains and the like, we should remember that the national plan contains essentially three objects. It is Gothenburg– Borås, Lund– Hässleholm and Ostlänken. These are the costs of new high-speed trains. I have tried to get answers from moderate representatives on whether they are opposed to the routes Gothenburg– Borås, Lund– Hässleholm or Ostlänken. The regional representatives, such as Johnny Magnusson in Gothenburg, Carl Johan Sonesson in Skåne and Niklas Borg and others in the area along the Ostlink, are strong supporters of these efforts. Is it the Stockholm Moderates and the party leadership who do not see the regional interest in getting more capacity on the railway, expanding labour markets and strengthening opportunities in West Sweden, southern Sweden and along the East Link? Even the Stockholm region still needs to realise that this makes a great deal of money in both the region and the whole of Sweden.
i-4ea466e417cac37b-118	Mr President, I would like to Lars Beckman has asked me if the government intends to proceed with the investigation's proposal and make it a strong piece of legislation. In March this year, the Modernised Consumer Protection Report presented its proposal for the implementation of the new EU Directive on Modernised Consumer Protection. The Directive contains important improvements to consumer protection, including by adapting the regulatory framework to the increased digitalisation of today's consumer markets. Part of the study's work has been to consider whether Sweden should make use of the possibilities for derogations from the harmonised rules of the Directive. One of these exceptions concerns the possibility of exempting from the right of withdrawal repair services which have been fully performed in off-premises contracts when the consumer himself explicitly requested a visit from the trader. The investigation has proposed that the right of withdrawal shall not apply to a service which has been completed and which imposes a payment obligation on the consumer, where the consumer has expressly requested a visit from the trader for the purpose of carrying out repairs and has expressly agreed to the commencement of the service. The proposal was sent out for consultation during the spring, and the consultation period ended in July. The Government is now working on a legislative referral based on the investigation's proposal and taking into account the referral points received. In this work, the Government will consider which parts of the investigation's proposals are appropriate to proceed with. Today, I cannot provide further information on what will be included in future legislative referrals and proposals. When companies offer services or goods using dubious methods or there are shortcomings in the goods or services they perform, it is obviously serious. Within the framework of current EU legislation, we will continue to protect a high level of consumer protection and to best design the legislation so that serious companies do not suffer from unfair competition.
i-4ea466e417cac37b-122	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. As the Minister said, the interpellation is about an investigation that has been put on the table and which means that consumer protection in Sweden can be greatly weakened. I want to make it clear that we Moderates are in favour of a high level of consumer protection. We are also in favour of fair competition between companies. The investigation has suggested that Sweden should be able to make use of the possibility to exempt certain repair services from the right of withdrawal. The proposal in Chapter 2 Section 11 of the Distance Contracts Act means that the right of withdrawal shall not apply until the service has been completed if the consumer has expressly requested a visit from the trader for the purpose of carrying out repair operations and has expressly agreed that the service begins to be performed. Mr President, I would like to This means that for a consumer who has been contacted by a company, for example by someone knocking on the door, the right of withdrawal would not apply. Who is affected by this? Those who google and write are given strong guidance on who would benefit if the government went ahead with the investigation. This would have almost disastrous consequences, Mr President, for older people, for example. We have been able to read terrible media data on how it is done. Someone knocks on the door of an older couple and says that for example the roof is bad, that you have a gap in the schedule and can immediately start repairing the roof. If the government went ahead with this proposal, it would benefit organised crime. I think it is very good that the Federation of Villa owners has flagged this situation. I don't know how many debate articles I've seen from places around the country. I use Parliament's search engine service and can see all the debate articles. It cannot, of course, be in the interests of the government and the consumer minister to weaken consumer protection in the way that this would mean. We have been able to read in the newspapers how older people have been fooled by the price and suffered a heavy overcharge. Something that would cost 150 000 has cost 450 000. In addition, the work has been substandard. In pure Swedish they have done a really sloppy job. It is possibly about enterprising people doing this in Sweden, but it is definitely part of organised crime. The newspaper Expressen had a big report about where the criminal pavers lived and how they lived luxury life in Ireland. In view of the increase in crime in Sweden, we should absolutely agree with party politics that we should in no way give organised leagues a tool from parliament and government. In fact, we should do everything we can to make it more difficult for organised leagues to operate in Sweden. What I miss in the first speech by the Government is a clear, straightforward and clear message, namely that this part will not go forward with the investigation's proposals at all. I think that very many people who see this debate would like a clear, clear and straightforward message from the Minister: of course we should not impair consumer protection, and of course we should not make it easier for organised gangs to ravage Sweden and deceive people. I would like to know whether the Minister can give a clear, clear and straightforward statement that it does not intend to proceed with this particular part of the investigation.
i-4ea466e417cac37b-131	Mr President, I would like to The government has taken several initiatives during its term of office to strengthen consumer protection. It is very important that we constantly try to prevent things that can happen, but often it has also been about reacting strongly when mistakes have been made. The Swedish Consumer Agency has been given opportunities for stronger supervision and sanctions. We are also looking at how we can tighten up the legislation. At the same time, we know that when it comes to consumer law, these are markets without borders. That is why it is of great importance that what we decide on also actually applies throughout Europe and preferably beyond. There are several proposals in this area. As far as the proposals in this study are concerned, it is important to know that exceptions to the harmonisation rules can be made, as Lars Beckman did a little bit. It is important that every country looks at it. Let me just say one thing. The reason why this has come to light is that there are serious small businesses – we have to take that on board – who have not been given the right and received the compensation they were entitled to when, after a repair operation, people have claimed that they did not order it. Such situations also exist. However, I would really like to emphasise that it is at the same time a question of counteracting those who are using practices that deceive people. Therefore, when the government makes a proposal, which we are now working on after consultation, it is important for us to be able to fulfil our mission to provide a high level of consumer protection, which must exist, and to strengthen consumers' rights. At the same time, we must protect the companies that are doing well. That is exactly what we are looking at right now in order to make a good proposal.
i-4ea466e417cac37b-137	Mr President, I would like to It is interesting that the Government addresses the Swedish Consumer Agency as the expert authority. When you read what various consultation bodies write about the proposal, I have noticed that the Swedish Consumer Agency is extremely clear, unlike the Minister. The Swedish Consumer Agency writes that the Swedish Consumer Agency is opposed to the investigation's proposal to introduce an exemption for repair operations that have been completed. The current regulation of the DAL (the Distance Contracts Act) is well balanced because there is already a possibility to exclude the right of withdrawal if the consumer has expressly agreed that the service will start and agreed that there is no right of withdrawal when the service has been completed. It goes on to say that the introduction of the opt-out is also liable to lead to border problems regarding the concept of repair measures. If the nature of the service is unclear, it may be difficult for the consumer to know what different conditions mean by excluding the right of withdrawal, i.e. when it is sufficient for the consumer to have explicitly requested a visit from the trader or whether the consumer must have agreed that there is no right of withdrawal when the service has been completed. The Swedish Consumer Agency is therefore extremely clear. I would say that the Swedish Consumer Agency is overly clear on this issue. It cannot be in the government's interest to make it easier for organised crime to operate in Sweden. I saw some headline that said: Sweden is a paradise for theft leagues. I do not think that Sweden should be a paradise for rogue pavers or roofers. I don't think we should open the door on the clearing to make it easier for criminal gangs to be in Sweden and fool people, because that's what it's all about. Just as I note that the Association of Villa owners writes in its referral, I naturally think that there should be a safety valve that means that you can do business even when the consumer has contacted the companies. We seem to agree on a strengthened level of consumer protection. We Moderates have voted in favour of every proposal the government has put forward, insofar as it has put forward some. However, on this issue I would still like clarity. My question to the Minister for Consumer Affairs is: Does the Minister share the view of the Swedish Consumer Agency on this issue of the investigation that is on the table? Does the Minister share the view of the Swedish Consumer Agency in what I read out as it has written?
i-4ea466e417cac37b-143	Mr President, I would like to I have been very clear in my answer. If Lars Beckman doesn't understand it, unfortunately I can't do much about it. I believe that we, as a government, are both committed to a high level of consumer protection and are committed to taking more initiatives to strengthen it. With the development that is with e-commerce and very many actors that use systems, the government is very clear that we are going to strengthen protection. We are doing this not least by now setting up a new authority against incorrect payments in the welfare system, for example. With regard to the legislative proposals that we are putting forward, it is a question of having prepared it well. We are starting from the strengthened consumer protection that will apply and that we have the opportunity to make exceptions to ensure that we do not have those rogues who exploit the situation. I understand that the Moderates think it is a good thing – at least you have said it before – to make sure that they support serious small businesses. Then we must balance the proposals we make. It is important that we ensure that we have both the enhanced protection of consumers and, at the same time, do not have small businesses that often deal with the administrative burden, that they do not have legal competence and so on, so that they can always know what is going on. It is important that we have a proposal that is sufficiently prepared. That is exactly what we are working on, and we will eventually present it to Parliament.
i-4ea466e417cac37b-148	Mr President, I would like to I began my first speech by saying that we Moderates are in favour of strengthening consumer protection. I said we should have competition on equal terms between serious companies. The Minister expresses the clarity of the government. I'll read it again in the answer. Then whoever sees this debate will have to think about whether it is clear or not. The Government is now working on a legislative referral based on the investigation's proposal and taking into account the referral points received. In this work, the Government will consider which parts of the investigation's proposals are appropriate to proceed with. Today, I cannot provide further information on what will be included in future legislative referrals and proposals. ..................................................... It is possible that the Government thinks it is overexplicit or clear. I do not share that view. I think that the Government in the part where, for example, the Swedish Consumer Agency has been clear and said that we should not favour criminal gangs would have been able to give a clear and clear answer here and now that in the part that means that we would make it easier for asphaltists and roofers and protect the consumer better, we will not go further. That would have been a clear and direct message. I note that the Minister does not leave it. We will see when the government comes forward with its proposal and what it will put on Parliament's table. Nevertheless, I would like to appeal to the Minister not to make a proposal that would make it easier for criminal gangs to come to Sweden and make it easier for the totally rogue players who are now lurking people in terms of both asphalting and roofing. Of course, the serious business community in Sweden should be protected. Thank you for the debate.
i-4ea466e417cac37b-152	Mr President, I would like to I believe that Lars Beckman, as a Member of Parliament, knows very well that all the proposals made by the Government to Parliament must be prepared in a good way. Otherwise, I think we will have other criticisms of ourselves. It is important that we put forward proposals that protect consumers and where we have the opportunity to strengthen consumer protection and access rogue operators. At the same time, we will ensure that those who behave are also supported. That's exactly what this is about. I am convinced that we will come forward with proposals that are good and remove what is bad in the investigation.
i-Gg1xxPqUnPK5DhcmWsYQqi	I would like to welcome the ministers. Questions are answered today by Minister for Infrastructure Tomas Eneroth, Minister for Foreign Affairs Ann Linde, Minister for Culture and Democracy Amanda Lind and Minister Lena Micko. An issue shall be of a horizontal and general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties. Minister for Infrastructure Tomas Eneroth answers both general policy questions and questions within his own area of responsibility.
i-4ea466e417cac37b-155	Madam President, I would like This weekend DN reported on the political horse-trading of important infrastructure that the government is engaged in behind-the-scenes. In the Bromma case it is about an order job for Swedavia and a report that has not been published so that the rest of us have been able to take part of it. In addition, plans are being made for the development of Arlanda in the trash can. The government's actions jeopardise accessibility to many parts of the country, and many around the country have also expressed their concern about developments. Here in Parliament there is a very clear majority who do not accept or do not want to see an early closure of Bromma. It's very clear. It has been expressed in two contexts.
i-4ea466e417cac37b-158	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Maria Stockhaus, for the question. Of course, the Government will also listen to the views, thoughts and ideas of the Riksdag. With my parliamentary background, it is, of course, self-evident. The question of Bromma has been discussed for a very long time. I think that even before the pandemic we could see how the flight was reduced. We had the discussion about air cams and people chose other options. During the pandemic, we even had a period in which virtually all flights remained stationary throughout Europe. It is a deep crisis for aviation, and in that situation we must also see how the airport structure in Sweden can be secured in a good way. This was the reason why we set up an investigation that looked at the conditions for closing down Bromma but also how the capacity at Arlanda can be secured. That investigation is now complete. The committee has been given a presentation of it. I myself invited myself to the committee to discuss it. It is now out for a referral. I'm looking forward to the referral.
i-4ea466e417cac37b-161	Madam President, I would like The Bromma study actually points to very great uncertainties about the development of aviation, especially when it comes to the question of when one can assume that the aircraft has landed in some kind of new normal state. Now the domestic flight starts to start up again, even to and from Bromma. Many people in the country are grateful for this, for it increases their opportunities to get to and from Stockholm. Given all these uncertainties, does the Minister of Infrastructure think it reasonable at this point to decide to close an airport? We don't know what the future is.
i-4ea466e417cac37b-164	Madam President, I would like The important thing when making decisions is to have good basis, and we have that now. I think everyone realises the challenge for Swedavia, who wants Bromma to be closed down because there is a significant overcapacity today, and large costs are involved in running both Bromma and Arlanda. Letting Bromma stay for a long time means that Arlanda will also find it difficult for a long time to have a sufficient supply to compete not least for international direct flights. The price is therefore high for those who do not now see structural changes in aviation.
i-4ea466e417cac37b-166	Madam President, I would like I have a question for the Secretary of State. At a meeting about three weeks ago, the Minister for Foreign Affairs was very clear: Those who, against the advice of the Ministry for Foreign Affairs, had gone to Afghanistan on a holiday and then needed the help of the Ministry for Foreign Affairs to get home to Sweden again should bear the cost themselves. At a meeting with the Cabinet Secretary last week, I asked how to calculate the cost of air travel for Swedish defence aircraft, for example, and whether the people will have to pay the actual cost of the sometimes extremely expensive flight hours, but I did not get an understandable answer. Therefore, my question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is: will these individuals have to pay the full cost themselves, or will part of the cost or the whole cost be passed on to taxpayers?
i-4ea466e417cac37b-170	Madam President, I would like The evacuation from Afghanistan was the most difficult evacuation operation that Sweden has carried out. We got home about 1 100 people, of which about 400 with Swedish passport or Swedish citizenship. They'll have to pay for the trips themselves. Precisely how this calculation is done is not clear, but for this type of travel – such as expulsions or other – the cost is usually set at the equivalent of a regular flight ticket. Here it may be a little more expensive, but of course it will not be the crown for everything. This was a very large evacuation operation.
i-4ea466e417cac37b-172	Madam President, I would like In the media, I understand that the Ministry for Foreign Affairs considers itself to have consular obligations vis-à-vis foreign citizens who are considered to have fled Afghanistan and been granted a residence permit in Sweden because of their need for protection and then went on a holiday trip to Afghanistan. Does the regulations look that way, and does the Minister for Foreign Affairs think that is reasonable?
i-4ea466e417cac37b-173	Madam President, I would like Sven-Olof-Olof Sällström makes a lot of assumptions about holiday-traveling Afghans and so on to throw shit at people. I'm not going to participate in that. Sweden has a consular mission for everyone who has a Swedish passport or a Swedish permanent residence permit, and we will of course try to help when we can. On the other hand, it is very much more difficult when we have a disadvantage, and one should take a big responsibility of one's own. Then we can't always help people. But otherwise it is part of the consular mission.
i-4ea466e417cac37b-176	Madam President, I would like My question is addressed to Minister of Infrastructure Eneroth. It is not for once about Bypass Söderköping but about the quality of the roads for which the Finnish Transport Agency is responsible around the country. I refer to the roads that we carelessly call county roads, even if they are not to be called that anymore. It should not come as news that the quality of these roads around the country is sometimes dire. Every time I come here to the Chamber, I drive myself on one of the roads where the Finnish Transport Administration is in charge of road maintenance. The road is so bad that summer guests almost roar when they drive into it. We who drive there all year round are used to that the standard is low. In my own county but also in other counties, such as Jämtland, protest lists have been filled out and debate articles in the county newspaper about this. There the standard is so bad that there is a traffic hazard. In the years in which our parties have worked together to develop a state budget, the funding for road maintenance has been increased. But my question to the Minister for Infrastructure is what the government intends to do, not only in terms of the budget, but also in terms of the governance of the Finnish Transport Administration, to ensure that the standard is maintained.
i-4ea466e417cac37b-180	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Magnus Ek, for the question! I share the view: it is too poor quality on the Swedish road network. This is one of the reasons why both in the national plan 2018 and in the upcoming national plan we are making substantial increases in the funding for road maintenance, which has been underinvested for a very long time. It should be investments in road maintenance made throughout the country, not just in metropolitan regions, precisely to maintain quality. The latter has now also been carefully addressed in the directives to the Finnish Transport Administration in preparation for work on the forthcoming action plan. In the budgets that we have worked together on, there are special funds for road maintenance to roads in rural areas. We need improved road quality. We need to ensure both that it is safe for traffic and that commuting distances are reasonable.
i-4ea466e417cac37b-184	Madam President, I would like That is all well-lawed, but at the same time we know that the road standard is not raised around the country. We've had exchanges before on minimum acceptable standards. It has been rejected by the Government, and he has referred to the fact that the Finnish Transport Administration is actually based on a standard. But when that standard is so bad that the roads get holes, pits and frost damage and it is not fixed, it is clear that people living in the area are frustrated. Does the Government see that there is a possibility that the issue of minimum acceptable standards needs to be raised again?
i-4ea466e417cac37b-186	Madam President, I would like I do not rule out the need to look at the way in which the management of resources is to be regulated. However, we must be aware that we are now providing more resources than ever for road maintenance. We also provide more resources to the county plans. This is an increase of 8 percent, which means that the counties can better prioritise strengthening the quality of roads in the counties. I think it is absolutely necessary for us to see that space. There are parties here that have completely different views and are not prepared to provide resources for infrastructure in the future.
i-4ea466e417cac37b-189	Madam President, I would like I would like to ask Mrs Lind a question as Minister for Sport. Yesterday, the last audience restrictions were lifted in the country's football stadiums, and both clubs and supporters have long been preparing for a folk festival. Unfortunately, there is now an increase in polarisation between police and supporters throughout the country. It risks putting the mood at risk and leading to messier arrangements and lost revenue for the clubs. I think it is obvious that the criticised conditionality staircase is back. The police's restrictive conditionality assessment today means that if a single person breaks the law during a football match, for example by lighting a bengal, there may be demands for more audience hosts and ceilings as well as bans on flags and so on. I believe that the demands of the police on football are unreasonable. Other organizers would not accept this – I think of music festivals, city festivals and so on. My question is whether the Minister sees any possibility of taking a political initiative to remove this kind of collective punishment which today affects football clubs and supporters.
i-4ea466e417cac37b-193	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to say that we all share the view that all sporting events of any kind should be safe and secure. There should of course also be good opportunities for supporters to express themselves. It's a very special atmosphere, and the fans really contribute to it, not least when it comes to the big sporting events. As far as police work is concerned, it is not up to me as a sports minister to comment or assess what action is taken on the basis of existing legislation. But the government, of course, closely monitors the work and ensures that it is informed about the work. The Government Mikael Damberg has had a meeting with the police, and I have very close dialogue with various actors in sport. Work on a new handbook is now in full swing. It's out for a referral. From what I understand, it is a good dialogue when it comes to that manual. I also understand that there is a long-term ambition to strengthen trust between supporters, clubs and the police, but also to reduce disorder, that is, what we all have as a common objective.
i-4ea466e417cac37b-196	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I think we have to remember that the police introduced the conditionality staircase in a situation where it was very quiet at our games. Measurements show that the safety was very good. Other clubs in Europe visited Sweden to see how we had achieved such a positive gallery culture. I'm worried. If work on the new manual is delayed, you risk breaking the good support culture we have had and the good cooperation that has existed for many years between the police, supporters and clubs. I feel like I'm in a hurry. Can the Minister give any more information about when something can happen?
i-4ea466e417cac37b-198	Madam President, I would like We can look back in time. As Vasiliki Tsouplaki says, it is a confident dialogue and close cooperation between the forces of order and sports organisers that have led to an improved security situation. It is not least a question of a confident dialogue. This is something that I, as Minister for Sport, naturally see as important also in the future. Now there's the manual. There is constructive work. I hope, of course, that we can reach a better position in the future.
i-4ea466e417cac37b-200	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Tomas Eneroth. At the end of the summer, I had the privilege of making a trip from Uddevalla, along Inlandsvägen and along the coast all the way up to Kiruna. I made ten or twelve different field trips. The signal was clear. What happens to our roads? On several routes, where children would go out into traffic, there was neither a walkway nor a bicycle path. At the same time it rolled large, heavy trucks. There were frost damage and reduced speeds. In Jämtland, an official cautiously pointed out that 60% of the regional plan is gravel road. We have a situation where we begin to destroy the road body. Then my question to the government and the Minister for Infrastructure is: why do we invest so little in the infrastructure plans and the economy that is now coming?
i-4ea466e417cac37b-203	Madam President, I would like I appreciate the commitment, Magnus Jacobsson, and share the view that we need to strengthen the quality of the Swedish road network. It was after years of underinvestment, when tax cuts were more important than infrastructure investments, that we had to take over in 2014. In the national plan 2018, we were able to add an investment. It was SEK 700 billion, with a sharp increase also in the appropriation for maintenance of both roads and railways. In the national plan that the Parliament has now supported, it is almost 900 billion, and within that framework it is an essential reinforcement of precisely efforts for road maintenance. This is done because in Sweden we need to strengthen our infrastructure in order to keep the country together, cope with climate change and increase road safety. But it is also a question of making room for better commuting opportunities throughout the country, both in terms of road and rail.
i-4ea466e417cac37b-206	Madam President, I would like I note that the budget now presented for next year and the next three years does not solve the burden. You don't solve the maintenance shortage. It does not do enough to even reach what the Finnish Transport Administration points out – what you need to be able to fix over time the lack of maintenance that several governments are responsible for. From a Christian Democrat point of view, we will spend 61⁄2 billion more than the government on this. I still wonder why the government is not taking any more action.
i-4ea466e417cac37b-208	Madam President, I would like It is during this period of government that we strengthened the resources for sustainability, BK4. It is a huge billion-dollar investment so that even heavier vehicles, such as those in the forest industry, can make their way. You can then drive 74 tons of heavy trucks. This did not exist before. In addition, it is now that we spend money in every budget – this is a special destination. This is not least about roads in rural areas. So we're making bets. I regret that the Christian Democrats have chosen to make savings on new roads and railways.
i-4ea466e417cac37b-210	Madam President, I would like Today, a re-initial study on culture has been presented. Let us hope that it is well-timed and that we now really see the start of a new era for culture, a recovery and a long-term sustainable strengthening. When you read the investigation-- I've only skimmed through it so far-- you recognize quite a bit in the descriptions. It's about how the pandemic has hit culture. Established institutions, amateurs, infrastructure, famous artists and beginners have suffered quite a lot from the pandemic and the nutrition ban that has partly been in place. But you can also see how the pandemic has exposed problems that were already known. It is about underfunding cultural life, difficulties with digitalisation, difficulties with social heritage and so on. Unfortunately, both the acute problem and the long-term problem are recognised. My question to Minister Amanda Lind is therefore: Does the Government consider that the budget that the Government has now put on Parliament's table meets the urgent and long-term needs described in the Restart investigation?
i-4ea466e417cac37b-213	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Christer Nylander, for the question! The re-launch investigation will be, and is already now, an important tool in the work for the short-term re-launch but also for the long-term recovery and hopefully also for the development of our cultural life. Now I have just received the report. I will, of course, be very familiar with these proposals. I note that the cultural budget for next year is the largest ever, together with last year, and that there are a lot of proposals that respond directly to the proposals of the Re-starting investigation, such as production incentives, strengthening regional culture and a great deal of support for free cultural life. We have also set aside funds to stimulate cultural life, which can also be used to meet the proposals of the Restart investigation. Many of the reopening proposals are also long-term, and my assessment is that we need to continue our efforts to strengthen culture in future years' budgets.
i-4ea466e417cac37b-216	Madam President, I would like I share the assessment made by the Government at the end, that we need to have long-term investments in culture also in the future. As far as film policy is concerned, I note that the government is doing about one third of what is proposed in the study, which points to the need for a new film policy, a digitisation strategy, to do something for the e-books and so on. My second question to the Government is: which of the initiatives identified as necessary by the investigation does the Government intend to proceed with?
i-4ea466e417cac37b-218	Madam President, I would like I have just received the Restart investigation, so it is an impossible question to answer concretely. I can see that there are many suggestions in the investigation that are interesting. Many are similar to analyses we have been able to do in the past. Some of the proposals are budget-related, while others deal with investigations that could be set up or other types of initiatives. Now it will be a top priority for me and the Ministry of Culture to put your teeth properly in the investigation and of course continue the work quickly. The restart will take time, and we need to get started as soon as possible.
i-4ea466e417cac37b-221	Madam President, I would like The climate is the big issue of our time. In order to reach the Paris Agreement's 1.5 ‐ degree target, industry is the key, and that is why the major new green industrial establishments in northern Sweden are so important. The jobs will be in the north, and I therefore welcome the clear demand of the Minister for Labour for the unemployed and the Public Employment Service that more people should be able to move to where the jobs are. However, if the green industrial transition is to be successful and the shop window that we all hope needs to be done more. The disadvantaged infrastructure in northern Sweden is one such thing. Although the construction of Norrbotniabane is under way, more needs to be done to develop road and rail infrastructure.
i-4ea466e417cac37b-224	Madam President, I would like I really share the view. We are in a situation where Sweden is changing and where the industry is also leading the conversion work. However, if the thousands of billions of investments made in northern Sweden are to be able to function fully, the infrastructure must also function. That is why we are now making the biggest railway effort in modern times. We are speeding up the construction of Norrbotniabanan, and we also give Trafikverket an extra assignment to review if there are more things that can be done. These may be bottlenecks that can be removed and investments that can be brought forward, in stark contrast to other parties here in the Swedish Parliament – Moderates and Christian Democrats – who want to make big savings in the 30–50 billion class on new investments in infrastructure. I am very grateful that we now have the resources to meet Northvolt, H2 Green Steel and the other major investments with better commuting opportunities and better opportunities to transport goods in a climate-smart way.
i-4ea466e417cac37b-227	Madam President, I would like This sounds very good. A follow-up question will then be how the Government and the Finnish Transport Agency intend to involve the municipalities in the important planning work. It is also a key to the fact that this is actually going to happen.
i-4ea466e417cac37b-228	Madam President, I would like I very much share the view that it is important. Ever since I took office as Minister of Infrastructure, I have been very careful to get a planning process in which the Swedish Transport Administration is not alone but deeply involves municipalities, regions and business. It is absolutely necessary, sometimes because it is part-financing, sometimes because it is also necessary in connection with the infrastructure for housing and other solutions. I am very clear: It should be close and close cooperation with the municipality and the business community.
i-4ea466e417cac37b-230	Madam President, I would like The Sami people have been subjected to widespread abuse throughout history. The Sami have also not been sufficiently included in Swedish society or had enough opportunity to influence matters that affect them. Work to develop a consultation system has been going on for a long time to give the Sami people real opportunities for influence over issues that affect them. It is an important step in the right direction and something that has been pointed out for a very long time, not just by the Sami people. Sweden has also received criticism in international reviews because Sweden is slow to ensure that indigenous peoples have their rights met. Therefore, I wonder now whether Minister Lind can inform us about what the consultation order means, how it can make a difference, what the status is right now and what the plans look like in the future.
i-4ea466e417cac37b-233	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Camilla Hansén, for an important question! The Sami are an indigenous people in Sweden, and the government has high ambitions for the work on human rights and to live up to the commitments we have towards our indigenous people here in Sweden. The consultation system is deemed to be an important step in ensuring the right of the Sami people to participate in decision-making processes and to promote the influence of the Sami people on issues of particular concern to them. By this we mean and expect that Sami interests and rights will be able to be better highlighted, get into processes earlier and thus also have the opportunity to show greater consideration. This is therefore a procedural right which gives the Sami the right to participate in decision-making. I am pleased to tell the House of Parliament that today the Government has decided on a proposal for a consultation scheme for the Sami people, which will then be submitted to the Constitutional Committee and the Riksdag.
i-sG6qvjqaa7aFQ2gpePTb2	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Amanda Lind, for the joyous news! For the Green Party, it has been important to strengthen indigenous peoples' self-determination and influence. We want Sweden to ratify ILO Convention 169 on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples and for Sweden to take responsibility and provide redress for historical abuses. We also want sacred objects and remains to be returned to Sápmi and have pushed for the appointment of a Commission of Truth. The Society has submitted a report on the preparations for the work of a Truth Commission. I wonder what the next step is in that work.
i-4ea466e417cac37b-238	Madam President, I would like I fully agree with what Camilla Hansén says. Getting a commission of truth in place is important in putting history under a lup and in bringing to light abuses that have taken place historically. In the long run, it can lead to reconciliation. I have received the anchoring process that the Sameting has done, and right now we are working on directives for a committee to work on this. It is, of course, hoped that the Commission will be able to start its work in the autumn.
i-4ea466e417cac37b-241	Madam President, I would like I would like to ask Mr Eneroth a question. The Swedish Transport Agency is now planning to reduce the speed of many roads due to poor maintenance, including on the E14 route from Sundsvall to Trondheim. I may find it embarrassing on such a highly frequented road that, among other things, feeds all car traffic to Åre. Does the Minister consider the Finnish Transport Administration to be able to carry out its maintenance mission? It is also very bad on the county roads here in Stockholm County.
i-4ea466e417cac37b-244	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Kjell Jansson, for your commitment! Precisely action on the central railways on roads, for example, which means that you do not lower speeds, but may even increase them, but at the same time maintain and strengthen road safety, is a very important effort that is currently being made on very many roads in the country. This goes on the so-called development grant, and there the Moderates propose a saving of SEK 30 billion. So there will be less money to make such measures that can shorten commuting times but still maintain good road safety, not least in rural areas. I think it is extremely important that we strengthen the quality of infrastructure throughout the country, and that is why we have now received Parliament's support with a framework of nearly 900 billion to make investments. For us, it is more important than tax cuts. This also requires finding a system of smart solutions to have good road safety without lowering overall speeds. The Swedish Transport Administration has this task, and it can be done with centre railings and middle barriers.
i-4ea466e417cac37b-248	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer, but I am not entirely satisfied. It is referred to that the Moderates lower the appropriations, but this does not apply to maintenance. Much of the maintenance doesn't cost much. It may be a matter of filling up with rock crushers off the asphalt edge. It can be a question of better maintenance by means of asphalt plans and asphalting the roads before they are completely exhausted. Now it goes so far that the road bodies start to run out in many places.
i-4ea466e417cac37b-250	Madam President, I would like As far as the grant is concerned, I note that the Moderates in opposition have far more money for infrastructure than they had in government. Nevertheless, the Moderates propose a saving of SEK 30 billion on the development grant, which includes environmental and trim measures for, among other things, increased road safety. It is a significant reduction to new efforts that could have been made to improve road safety. Now this proposal did not win Parliament's voice, but now we will hopefully get better investments on roads throughout the country.
i-4ea466e417cac37b-253	Madam President, I would like Svanen, Ecolabel, Fairtrade, Svenskt Sigill, From Sweden, Kravmarkade, Svensk Fågel och Arlakannan is just a selection of the labels that consumers encounter daily. Food can be labelled Origin of the EU, although the rules on animal husbandry and agriculture may differ considerably from one EU country to another. The use of antibiotics in Swedish animal husbandry is very low, and in our plant cultivation we use at least plant protection products throughout the EU.
i-4ea466e417cac37b-256	Madam President, I would like I thank Angelica Lundberg for the question. It is important for consumers to have access to good information and to know, not least, the labelling of products. That is why, together with decisions taken in this House, the government has ensured that there is a good label in the form of swan marking. There is also cooperation in the EU on many of these issues. The Swedish Consumer Agency is also constantly trying to have updated information. Then there is the constant monitoring of developments and the need for further initiatives. The government is now preparing several questions in this area. Among other things, we will present a proposal that will deal with animal husbandry and animal welfare linked to food management.
i-4ea466e417cac37b-259	Madam President, I would like Many consumers are keen to support Swedish companies, and the requirements we have for food production in Sweden are high. However, we do not make the same demands on goods imported as we do on our own producers. With higher demand for Swedish-produced products, the degree of self-sufficiency can also increase.
i-4ea466e417cac37b-261	Madam President, I would like As I mentioned, the government is taking several initiatives to ensure that we stimulate better consumer protection and better information while companies in the market take their responsibilities. There must be a connection between them. It's about making wise and good choices. Several of the proposals we are now preparing will further strengthen consumer protection. At the same time, there will be good supervision of the market's responsibilities.
i-4ea466e417cac37b-264	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister for Foreign Affairs Ann Linde. Every day we get frightening reports from Afghanistan showing how vulnerable women and girls are. They are not allowed to go to school, and they are subjected to executions and all manner of horrors. After all, we were afraid that this would happen, and now we get testimony that it is happening. When Sweden and the EU now discuss various types of measures, how can the Minister for Foreign Affairs make sure that we do not legitimise the Taliban administration in any way?
i-4ea466e417cac37b-267	Madam President, I would like I thank Annika Qarlsson for the question. This is one of the really difficult issues that we discussed a lot at the UN General Assembly in New York last week. We now see that the situation is imploding in Afghanistan. There's no money coming in, people are hungry and the spread of covid is terrible. The question for us is how we can support the Afghan people, not least women and girls, without legitimising the Taliban movement. It goes without saying that we should not send any money directly to the Taliban, but they must open up the possibilities for receiving humanitarian aid so that aid activities can continue. It won't be easy.
i-4ea466e417cac37b-270	Madam President, I would like I thank the Foreign Minister for his reply. As the Foreign Minister describes, this is an extremely worrying situation. As usual, those most affected are the most vulnerable. Is there a structure that it is still possible to work with in the non-profit sector or with the help of other aid organisations to fund the most important things?
i-4ea466e417cac37b-273	Madam President, I would like What exists and works are the UN organisations. They said they're gonna stay and deliver. They'll still be here, and we can use them. I spoke in New York with the head of one of the world's largest aid organizations, the International Refugee Organization. They have 1,700 people working in Afghanistan, especially internally displaced persons. We can use them, too.
i-4ea466e417cac37b-275	Madam President, I would like I want to continue on the UN track. This week, a UN report was presented showing that sexual abuse has been committed by UN employees in Congo-Kinshasa. There have been media reports on the WHO in particular, and an independent Commission has been set up which has shown that more than eighty employees have committed crimes in the form of sexual abuse of children, girls and women. This is serious. Sweden has made itself known through Ambassador Compass, for example, who has previously reported on these issues. Sweden is also a great UN friend. Therefore, I wonder what Sweden is doing to press the UN for those responsible to be held accountable and for the problems of sexual abuse within the UN system to be taken seriously and to surface faster and more resolutely than is happening today.
i-4ea466e417cac37b-277	Madam President, I would like I thank Håkan Svenneling for the question. Unfortunately, such abuse is a real problem. Håkan Svenneling addresses the Swedish diplomat Compass, who got into trouble because he drew the attention of the entire UN system to the fact that this occurs and demanded action. In principle, he had to stop at the UN. This has, in itself, been a wake-up call for us to act so that it does not result in free movement for those who commit these abuses. We must have better control systems for UN employees. I fully share Håkan Svenneling's view that these abuses are totally unacceptable to those who have been subjected to them, but it is also a danger to the UN system if it is not possible to trust the UN.
i-4ea466e417cac37b-280	Madam President, I would like I thank the Foreign Minister for his reply. I hope that Sweden will continue to be the best friend of the UN system by sending a clear signal to our office in New York to follow up the report and ensure that responsibility will be held accountable. The UN must take these issues seriously precisely because it is so important to have confidence in the UN system, humanitarian aid and other development efforts that the UN provides in many places around the world.
i-4ea466e417cac37b-282	Madam President, I would like Yeah, we're working on this in a lot of different ways. After all, the OSSE is the regional organisation of the UN and the world's largest regional security organisation. I can tell you that tomorrow all OSCE military advisors will be coming to Sweden. I will take them to the Nordic Gender Centre in military operations, where they will see a film about sexual Harassment in operations. Then it will be stopped, and then they will have to discuss how we will follow up on this. It'll be fun.
i-4ea466e417cac37b-285	Madam President, I would like In recent years, I have asked Minister Eneroth several questions about the reclassification of the individual roads. Many individual routes lost their contribution with this reclassification. To one of my questions, which was written, the Government replied as follows: So there were no concrete promises to review whether or not the reclassification has been done fairly and correctly. Individual roads are of course a very important part of our infrastructure, not least for those of us who live in rural areas. In addition, they actually make up the largest part of the Swedish road network. My question to the Minister for Infrastructure is: Has the information given to the Minister for Infrastructure now, two years later, led to the Government intending to change the classification again so that the contributions are withdrawn and the standards of the individual roads can therefore be maintained?
i-4ea466e417cac37b-289	Madam President, I would like This is an important issue, because it concerns a very large part of the Swedish road network. An important part is about both the state subsidies and the support that exists for individual roads to maintain road maintenance but also the quality of the road. At the same time, in those cases – and there are not many of them – where there is a change in the responsibility for road maintenance, a rather far-reaching process is required for it to be possible. In fact, at the last stage it is something that is directly tested by the government and me, as I have such matters on my table, and I think it should be very much more before making a change in ownership. This is also what the parliamentary preparatory work says. That is why it is not so often in cases where there is disagreement about this. There may also be times– there are a number – when you agree to change road maintenance responsibilities. Then the situation is a little different. I am following this matter closely, but I have not seen that there are now grounds for a major review. However, I will follow if it turns out to be a concern.
i-4ea466e417cac37b-293	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer, although it was not the answer I wanted most. It is good that the Government says that this is an important issue, but when it does not come with money, it is not a priority issue. Moreover, when the State withdraws the contributions to the individual roads, the contribution from the municipality falls because the contribution from the municipality is dependent on receiving contributions from the State. This means that roads will be double punished, and therefore they cannot be maintained.
i-4ea466e417cac37b-296	Madam President, I would like I hope and believe that Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson and I will have more opportunities to talk about this. But the fact is that it is not often this happens, and at times when it happens, it takes a lot to avoid fulfilling the responsibilities that have existed before. It is extremely low-traffic roads. But let us have a discussion and see if there is reason to act in any particular case.
i-4ea466e417cac37b-298	Madam President, I would like My question is to Minister for Civil Affairs Lena Micko and concerns the prerequisites of idea-based actors. The idea-based organizations work in different forms of association. What distinguishes these actors is that they put social objectives above economic ones. These organisations reinvest the profits back into their operations and drive them on the basis of their respective values. We Social Democrats have expressed – the last time Prime Minister Stefan Löfven did so in the Government Declaration – that we want to see more ideas-based actors in welfare. My first question to the Minister is therefore how the Minister views the potential of ideas-based actors to contribute to welfare.
i-4ea466e417cac37b-301	Madam President, I would like I would like to say straight away that Mr Rojhan Gustafsson is asking a very urgent question. The question is how we take advantage of these actors. They are in themselves a powerful force with their particular character, but it is also about how we make things easier. This in turn is quite a lot about procurement. It is also a question of making sure, on the basis of the study on the concept-based public partnership that has been submitted, that legislation is used to promote these actors. I and the government believe very much that this is a force that we need to use more actively. We will make proposals in the Riksdag about making use of this speciality and finding ways for them to make a positive contribution.
i-4ea466e417cac37b-304	Madam President, I would like The Minister mentioned how important it is to create the right conditions for harnessing the power that really exists in this sector. There's a deal. But I know that the sector is waiting for this investigation to turn into concrete proposals. Can the minister tell us anything about what's going on with the investigation?
i-4ea466e417cac37b-305	Madam President, I would like I'm the first person to think this should go faster. But we need to ensure that it is legislation that works all the way, and it is European law that we are in the process of analysing. But we will leave a bill that will strengthen the role of these actors in welfare.
i-4ea466e417cac37b-307	Madam President, I would like Many industries testify to recruitment problems. Sweden is now opening up, and the tourism industry is an industry that many have longed for. It is also an industry that has taken a lot of pain during the pandemic. We want to see a change, as the industries need help with recruitment. The government has received signals that this will happen. I would like to know what the Government is saying. There are 190 000 people who have been unemployed. There are about 46 000 in the tourism industry, of which 18 000 in hotels. Is the government satisfied with how to handle the control from the Employment Service?
i-4ea466e417cac37b-310	Madam President, I would like This is absolutely true – there are great opportunities now that we are re-starting society after the pandemic to ensure that we have good recruitment opportunities and are able to cope with the skills supply. That is one of the reasons why we have made massive investments, not least in educational places, and that we have an active labour market policy in which we ensure that we invest so that more people can now take the jobs that are emerging, be it in the tourism industry, industry, welfare or other sectors of society. I feel confident that there is also development work within Arbetsförmedlingen to facilitate and support and help stakeholders find the right matching and the right efforts so that they get the right skills. The important thing now is to ensure that we also support such a development. Among other things, we do this with large investments and with an active and offensive policy, not least for the climate change transition.
i-4ea466e417cac37b-314	Madam President, I would like I am pleased that the Government mentions this issue of education. There are 5,000 people in the Place Bank of Arbetsförmedlingen. There is a small window now before customers start thinking that there should be cleaning and food and that everything should work in the hospitality industry. Therefore, I would like to know what the government is doing concretely to match these places with people in the Employment Service register who may need a small, small education, very intensive and very short, to get in question.
i-4ea466e417cac37b-316	Madam President, I would like That is quite right – sometimes only a small, specific education and sometimes a slightly broader education is required. That is why we have broadened the training efforts that are being made. If you look at the strong expansion we have made in these years within the framework of the Knowledgelift, you can see that it is specific short-term courses but also longer courses that we have created, precisely in the context of an active labour market policy that can offer the right training to the industries that will now grow after the pandemic. I feel safe with the big investments that we are actually making.
i-4ea466e417cac37b-319	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of Culture and Democracy Amanda Lind. Today, the report of the Restart investigation was presented from crisis to force, which is a welcome study that we are all analysing in greater detail. The Green Party, under its leadership of cultural policy, has brought culture closer to government power. Film policy has been completely nationalised, social media can expect binding measures if they do not regulate public opinion themselves and museums have become debate museums. I believe that the government allows identity policy to shape support and that the media should relate to quality requirements based on the government's image. At the same time, it is repeated that the distance of the arm should be kept and that the culture should be free. In the Swedish Agency for Cultural Analysis's report So free art is stated that political governance has a negative impact on artistic freedom. In the current situation, it appears that a double thought is being demonstrated. What does the government mean by arm's length distance to culture, and does it intend to reduce its impact on contemporary art in the future?
i-4ea466e417cac37b-324	Madam President, I would like It was the government with the Environmental Party in the leadership of the Ministry of Culture that partly ensured that we got the Museum Act during the previous term of office, and that we reviewed the regulatory letters from, among other things, the former alliance government to tighten arm's length. We have worked tirelessly on these issues. I was the one who initiated the Swedish Agency for Cultural Analysis. I received their report this summer and have since analysed the proposals and will continue to make proposals to strengthen arm's length and safeguard the freedom of culture. Madam President, I would like The re-initial investigation is very important and aims to create a resilience and sustainability in cultural life in the future. This is also one of the absolute priorities for the autumn. I would like to put a counter-question to Mr Emilsson. Aron Emilsson talks a lot about the environmental party's cultural policy, but what about the Swedish Democrats? The Swedish Democrats are the party that most clearly wants to use culture for its own political purposes. Does Aron Emilsson intend to change this?
i-4ea466e417cac37b-328	Let me remind you that this is a Question Time for the official duties of the Ministers of State.
i-4ea466e417cac37b-329	Madam President, I would like I can reassure the Minister for Culture that the Swedish Democrats are by far the opposition party that invests most in culture, but we are investing in the part of cultural life that the vast majority of the public sees as most prioritised and neglected, not least the cultural heritage system, which shines with its absence in many other respects in the Government's budget. Is the government prepared to actually increase incentives such as crowdfunding, foundation funding of cultural life, private sponsorship and other things that together with the public could create resilience and sustainability in cultural life in addition to public subsidies?
i-4ea466e417cac37b-331	Madam President, I would like I noted Aron Emilsson's non-answer to my question. I will analyse all the proposals of the Restart investigation. I find it interesting and exciting proposals, among other things, to strengthen external funding. Here I want to be clear about the differences between my politics and the Swedish Democrats. We do not see it as a substitute for public, broad support to support the diversity and breadth of cultural life, but as a possible complement. Now I'm going to take note of the investigation's proposals, and we'll get back to you on how to take them further.
i-4ea466e417cac37b-334	As I said, this is not an interpellation debate; it is a question time concerning the performance of the duties of the Ministers of State.
i-4ea466e417cac37b-335	Madam President, I would like Since May 2018, Sweden has received one of the EU's worst environmental controls during car inspection. It is not the fault of the inspection industry, but rather the responsibility of the government, as it has introduced new regulations for vehicle inspection where limit values for harmful particles have been raised, not lowered. More harmful particles are thus allowed to pass. For old diesel vehicles, exhaust measurement is no longer fully controlled. This has led to an increasing number of cars with harmful emissions being released since 2018, i.e. more today than before. This is a clear deterioration of the environmental ambitions of vehicle inspection. The inspection industry has appealed to us to do something. Now the question is: does the Minister intend to take any initiatives to tighten up environmental control in vehicle inspection so that we control more cars based on emissions, not fewer?
i-4ea466e417cac37b-338	Madam President, I would like It is incredibly important that we reduce emissions from the entire transport sector, not least from road vehicles. We're going to reach the 70% target by 2030, and then we're in a hurry. We do it with reduction obligations, biofuels and electrification. Sweden is the country in the EU that has the highest number of rechargeable cars now, so it is fast. This applies to new car sales, and it also applies, as Jens Holm says, to taking care of the fleet of vehicles that we have today, with clear and well-functioning inspection instruments. The challenge there has been to implement the existing EU directive and guidelines while meeting the wishes of the inspection industry to make more frequent checks. There is an important dialogue between the authority and the inspection industry, but it is also important that we use the resources in the best possible way so that we get the best possible control and change of emissions from the entire vehicle fleet. I intend to follow this work very closely.
i-4ea466e417cac37b-342	Madam President, I would like I note that other EU countries interpret the directive quite differently from what Sweden has done. They have raised their ambitions for vehicle inspection, not lowered them in the way that the government has let through.
i-4ea466e417cac37b-344	Madam President, I would like I do not share Jens Holm's reality statement, but it is a more adequate and technically correct control that is now being carried out by the vehicles. Let us examine to what extent changes in emissions result from their use after inspection. The dialogue between the inspection industry and the Swedish Transport Agency is important. I note that several EU countries have slightly different implementation strategies for the directive that exists. I think that Jens Holm and I are very much in agreement that we should do our utmost to ensure that emissions from the entire automotive sector are reduced.
i-4ea466e417cac37b-346	Madam President, I would like My question goes to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Last week, the Secretary of State and the Prime Minister attended the 76th UN General Assembly, which could now, as it were, meet for real. I know that the Foreign Minister hosted meetings on the agenda for women, peace and security and held talks on Swedish participation in conflict zones and in war-torn countries, such as Afghanistan but also Yemen, which is now in its seventh year of war. As early as 2018, 85 000 children had died as a result of the conflict, and hundreds of thousands more children are at risk of dying of starvation in the future. It's the world's biggest humanitarian disaster right now. Can the Foreign Minister tell us which are the most important issues she brings with her from last week's General Assembly?
i-4ea466e417cac37b-350	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Olle Thorell, for bringing up the General Assembly! As I said, there were a number of issues that were about, not least, women, peace and security, equality and support for multilateralism, that is, that we should work together. I believe that one of the greatest successes we had was an extraordinary meeting on Yemen, hosted by Sweden and Switzerland. Both me and my Swiss colleague, but also the Minister for Development on an earlier occasion, have done a lot of work on this. At our meeting, we made the countries promise half a billion dollars more, in addition to what has already been given, to strengthen the situation in Yemen. I must also say that the issue of gender equality was raised in very many contexts. I am pleased about that, and this shows the commitment of the new American administration to the issues.
i-4ea466e417cac37b-354	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister for Foreign Affairs, for your answer. It is gratifying that the focus on Yemen remains with the Swedish Government after, among other things, the peace talks held in Rimbo a few years ago and Sweden's work during its time in the UN Security Council. I would like the Foreign Minister to say a few more words on how to achieve humanitarian aid for the suffering people of Yemen, when the spotlight is on other countries of the world.
i-4ea466e417cac37b-357	Madam President, I would like One thing that is very gratifying is that the UN has appointed a Swedish diplomat, Hans Grundberg, as a new UN envoy. He has just just begun to travel around the region to talk with all the actors to see how best we can help politically but also how we can get humanitarian aid in. You can see a little n lightening in the engagement, but on the ground it is still very bad.
i-4ea466e417cac37b-359	Madam President, I would like Already in 2019 Minister Eneroth pointed out that regulation, possibly through national guidelines or legislative proposals, was needed to create order and order for electric scooters. These must not endanger others when placed, inter alia, on pavements or bicycle paths. Municipalities are primarily responsible but so is the state. According to the Accident Protection Act, particular attention must be paid to preventing people's deaths and other serious injuries. MSB, i.e. a government authority, will coordinate, monitor and support the municipalities and promote compliance with the law. Yet, there has now been a tragic fatal accident after a cyclist drove on an abandoned scooter on a bicycle track. Action must therefore be taken as a matter of urgency so that this does not happen again. I wonder, Minister Eneroth: what are the government's actions?
i-4ea466e417cac37b-362	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mrs From Utterstedt, for the question. I share the view that there is a need for a proper boost in the work to ensure the use of electric scooters. From the government's side, we appointed an investigation that provided better guidance on how municipalities should act and perhaps above all use the Order Act, because it is the most applicable in this context. We have seen how many municipalities now come forward and regulate in a very clear way. In fact, some say completely no to electric scooters, others are clear about where to park them and how to set them up, and they put fines. That is where responsibility should lie. I am concerned about the municipalities that have not yet applied this. It can lead to serious accidents, such as the specific one mentioned now, which was extremely tragic but also perhaps the most frequent accidents on Fridays and Saturdays, when young men who are intoxicated actually get their faces destroyed. It requires the maintenance of clear rules, but also the police to exercise control.
i-4ea466e417cac37b-367	Madam President, I would like The question goes to Minister of Culture and Democracy Amanda Lind. In two weeks' time, the Swedish Government will organise the Malmö Forum for the Holocaust Conference in Malmö. It is a meeting that is welcomed by many and with European leaders on the ground and where freedom of religion and the equal value of all people are put in focus. Although belief and outlook on life is a private matter, there is probably reason to stress the social perspective. For my part, at regular meetings, I have gathered representatives of both the Jewish Central Council and the Islamic Association of Cooperation and the Swedish Church in order to reconcile current situational descriptions and try to contribute to the work to find forms of increased knowledge and insight. But the work itself is carried out locally in close collaboration with civil society and municipalities. I emphasise that the Church of Sweden has played and plays an important role in this.
i-4ea466e417cac37b-371	Madam President, I would like Malmö Forum will be a very important opportunity to strengthen the work against anti-Semitism. The government has already presented a number of commitments that we will implement, ranging from setting up a museum about the Holocaust, strengthening security-enhancing funds and working on action plans against various forms of racism to the important work of developing a strategy to promote Jewish life in Sweden. I and the Prime Minister took part in a very good conversation the other day with various representatives of Jewish organisations. Malmö's forum also includes apostrophaeing antiziganism and the work to strengthen Roma conditions in Sweden. Religious dialogue is an important aspect. It is done in two ways now, partly through the government's community of faith, and partly through the Authority for Support to Faith Society, which offers support. We are actually making a reinforcement to the agency next year, so that they have a wider opportunity to also generally continue working on their work.
i-4ea466e417cac37b-374	Madam President, I would like On September 6, three terrorists of the worst terrorist cult in modern times landed at Arlanda. They were not unexpectedly unwanted by the Kurdish authorities, who believe that they were a security threat. The Swedish government, on the other hand, was keen to bring them here. The Ministry for Foreign Affairs had sent a delegation of experienced diplomats, security personnel and doctors and assisted with the transport – this for three terrorists who, like about 150 other IS returnees, can now walk freely on our streets in the midst of our children, parents, colleagues and friends. Of course, this arrangement was not free. My party colleague Björn Söder and I have therefore previously asked for answers to what it has cost but without results. I think there are many people who are keen to hear the Minister for Foreign Affairs tell us how much of their tax revenue goes to actively bringing mobile security threats to Sweden. Will the government continue to assist terrorists consularly if they wish to return to Sweden?
i-4ea466e417cac37b-377	Madam President, I would like Markus Wiechel insinuates in ordinary SD order that we should go down and get terrorists, which of course is in no way in line with the truth. When three IS women with their children are expelled by Kurdish self-government, Swedish authorities are responsible for receiving them. They were taken out of the camps by Kurdish self-government, they were kept in a shelter by Kurdish self-government and they paid their tickets to a normal commercial flight home. On the other hand, we assisted during transport because it is a matter of children. We're not talking about any dehumanized people here. When you throw out children, we obviously have to take care of them. They have now also been taken care of by the social services. Besides, the Secret Service wants us to have an orderly reception, which we had. I'm glad we were the ones who were in charge of it and not you.
i-4ea466e417cac37b-381	Madam President, I would like My question goes to the Minister for Infrastructure. The government has recently issued a mandate to investigate the possibility of introducing a form of congestion tax for aviation. The proposal is to tax flights under pektides, that is, when it is most popular to fly. At the same time, the government wants to close Bromma airport prematurely and refers to the fact that there is not enough flight – a measure that risks further exacerbating congestion in the airspace. On the one hand, we want to overcome congestion in the airspace, and on the other hand, we are making it worse. My question, therefore, is whether the Minister thinks a new tax on aviation is reasonable when the industry has not been able to recover from the pandemic and its effects? Is it that the government wants to create crowds to get more tax money for the barns?
i-4ea466e417cac37b-384	Madam President, I would like I thank David Perez for the question. That's not what this is about. These kinds of congestion charges are now being investigated in several countries around the world. It is one way of making more effective use of existing airspace. There has been a discussion over a long period of time on the use of airspace, not least following the congestion situation in Central Europe and perhaps southern Europe a number of years ago. But it is true that at the moment congestion is hardly the big challenge. On the contrary, there are hardly any planes. There are very few aircraft flying, and it will take a long time for the aircraft to recover. It is then a good thing that we can now look in good time at whether this is an instrument that can be used if there should be a development in the future that will give us reason to find better and more efficient ways of using airspace. This may mean, for example, that we steer away so that we do not get noise at different times of the day or that we can find better space for domestic aviation, for example. I believe that care should be taken to give a prior opinion and to draw conclusions from this.
