i-99f77955078f664d-6	Madam President, I would like Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin has asked the Minister for Gender Equality and Housing whether she intends to take measures to increase or reduce overall the construction along our shores on the basis of the proposals made by the study on the revision of the beach protection. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. As Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin mentions in his interpellation, the investigation submitted its report to the government in December 2020. The report is now in the process of being consulted until 3 May this year. I look forward to hearing the referrals, but I cannot precede the preparation of the investigation's proposals.
i-99f77955078f664d-8	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for that not entirely comprehensive answer. So I had to wait a month to get a non-answer to my question. However, in order to try to obtain some kind of response to the voters who may be interested, I would like to clarify my question. There must still be some purpose in setting up an investigation. This is what I'm trying to drill a little bit into now. With regard to this beach protection investigation, which was submitted in December, when you read the directives you can have a little conflicting feelings about what is really the intention of the investigation. And it does not improve when one listens to the various government representatives' description of the purpose of the investigation. If you listen to the Center Party, you are given the idea that the aim of the reform is to liberalise the beach protection and make it possible to build more places and build more in beachfront locations. If you listen to the Green Party, Madam President, you almost get the feeling that the aim is to twist the thumb screws when it comes to the conditions for building and protecting more of Sweden's shoreline. If you read the report, you can see that much suggests that it is the Green Party that has drawn the longest straw and got the most attention for its line in this, in that the investigation very much emphasizes that in most places in southern Sweden there is no talk of any relaxation of the beach protection. But since the government makes decisions as a collective and hopefully speaks with one voice on this issue, I would like to know: what is the purpose of this reform? Is it that overall it will be built more or less in our beachfront locations? This is my question to the Government here today.
i-99f77955078f664d-13	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin, for the question! However, I feel somewhere that Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin could have made the calendar easier for both of us by simply going in and reading the point about the beach protection contained in the January agreement. It says what is the purpose, and if that is the question, it would have been a lot easier just to read what it says. I don't know what it's like with the Moderates-- sometimes you start wondering-- but we from the January parties have the ability to keep two thoughts in your head at the same time. We can see that there are areas where there is the opportunity to have more flexibility and build more even in beachfront locations, where there is a lot of beach, the pressure of exploitation is low and the population is small, for example, while there are also areas that are very hard exploited and where the beach areas are increasingly less accessible. We also know that this is something that affects everyone's opportunities for recreation and outdoor life and also affects the animal and plant life in our nature very much. We know that beach areas are an incredibly important habitat for many species. If you look at the red list of endangered species, you can see that about 250 species depend on beach areas in order to exist. We – both Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin and I and the rest of the Swedish Parliament – have taken on the responsibility to achieve the environmental goals that the Riksdag has supported; one of them is a rich plant and animal life, and another is living coastlines and seas. It's a job to do. This means that we say, for example, that it should be much easier to build beachside in rural areas. But we also say that there should be strong and, if necessary, reinforced beach protection to protect unbroken coastlines as well as the right of public access, which is a treasure in Swedish regulations and which we really must ensure continues to function fully. We must also safeguard accessibility and the environment in areas that are highly exploited. I think that is a real principle. It should not be that only those who have the thickest wallet and can buy themselves a beach plot should have access to our fantastic beaches, but it is a public asset that we have the right to enjoy no matter where we live and what income we have. There is a hint in Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin's question that this would be about whether it is possible to build more or less in Sweden. That question had also been answered by Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin if he had looked at SCB's statistics. He would have seen that every year during this government more than a single year has been built when Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin's Moderates were in government. In fact, the pace of construction is now almost twice as high as the average of the Alliance's time in power when they designed housing policy. We have also ensured, through investment support, that rental housing has been built at a rate that we have not seen in decades, which means that it is possible for people with lower incomes to have very good housing. So let us not be fooled and say that the question of whether or not it is possible to build depends on how we act about the protection of the beach – it is a false picture. We have shown in practice that we can build a lot. Now we are also building at a higher rate than population growth. So we are in the process of building up, unlike what it was like when the Moderates ruled housing policy and constantly, every year, slipped behind and got a bigger and larger housing debt for future generations.
i-99f77955078f664d-20	Madam President, I would like If it had been the case that the Government was concerned about both our calendar time, it is fascinating that the Government chooses in its response to spend more than half the time talking about something that has nothing to do with the issue of general construction and investment support. If it had been the case that he was interested in both of our common times – I stepped up at 5 a.m. to get to this interpellation debate – would the Government at least have been able to try to answer my question, i.e. the question I wrote in the interpellation and now clarified: Does the government want this reform to mean that it is built more in beachfront locations or less? Madam President, I would like After all, it is not difficult to draw the conclusion that the Government is uncomfortable in answering the question simply because there are two diametrically opposed views on the purpose of this investigation in the framework of intergovernmental cooperation. On the one hand, we have the Green Party, the party represented by the Government, which believes that it should not be built more in coastal locations. On the other hand, there is the Center Party, which believes that much more should be built. That is why the directives for the investigation are so contradictory. The Government probably unwittingly points to the contradiction when he says that on the one hand it will be easier to build in rural areas and, on the other hand, that the protection of unbroken shorelines must be strengthened. Madam President, I would like I wonder if the government has ever been to the countryside. In many places in Sweden it is the same, and if there is something we have plenty of in the countryside, it is unbroken shorelines, and they will now get further strengthened protection. They are unbroken because we have a beach shelter that lays a dead hand over the possibility of rural development. If there's anything we have in this country, it's beaches. In my own county of Dalarna, which has no coast, there is still half a kilometre of shore strip per household if you knock it out. There are very good conditions to protect biodiversity and at the same time open to allow people to build close to the shore. The only problem is that the investigation lands in a conclusion that sets out so many criteria to get to the reliefs that in practice it becomes impossible. Of course, the Government knows this, but he is not interested in talking about it in this debate, because he realises that there is a rift in the cooperation that has managed to agree on totally contradictory investigative directives. As I mentioned, the Government itself puts its word on this: it will be easier to build in the countryside, but it is more important to protect untouched coastlines. What, then, is a high degree of exploitation? The study estimates that in large parts of southern Sweden, which therefore holds 90 per cent of Sweden's population, the conditions are quite limited to lighten the beach cover at all. That is to say, for the vast majority it will be a tightening of thumb screws and not at all better conditions for building near the beach. For all these people, it is extremely little comfort that the government has introduced investment aid, as the Government mentions in the debate. That has nothing to do with this issue.
i-99f77955078f664d-28	Madam President, I would like I have already answered Mr Bohlin's question. In fact, my predecessors have also done so, because Mr Bohlin has asked them the same question. The answer is that we have a process that we follow, and in my mind it is about the same process that previous governments have followed. That is to say, we are setting up investigations, receiving proposals and sending them out for consultation. Consultation means receiving views from interested parties and then deciding whether changes to the proposals need to be made or whether the proposals are good as they are and you can move on with them. All of this pretends Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin as if he can predict-- he already knows what's going to happen-- or that as a minister, I can ignore the process. Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin knows very well that the work in the government does not work that way. In fact, we have a responsibility to listen to the consultation bodies. Since the referral is still out, we have not received the views of the consultation bodies. But perhaps Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin thinks that we should ignore the democratic basis of the referral procedure? Is that how we interpret the question? It also seems that Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin is unaware that Sweden does not look the same everywhere. I do not know if he thinks his home country is part of what is called highly exploited parts of the country in the January agreement. This is not my picture, but perhaps Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin has his own opinion on this matter. However, it is clear that the coasts we have are not at all protected and not exploited, which Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin seems to mean. If you are interested in statistics and actually want to follow up what is actually happening, it is clear that the total length of the seashore line affected by settlements between 2015 and 2018 increased by 3 percent. It's a pretty high rate of exploitation. If you follow that key forward, you can see that in the not too distant future it will be very difficult to access the shoreline if you are not the owner of the land. In total, 28 per cent of the total coastline was affected by settlements in 2018. For those who want to see reality, it is quite obvious that parts of our coastline are very highly exploited. Then the question is: Should all the people who live in Stockholm, Gothenburg, Malmö or other large cities not have the opportunity to get out into the archipelago to enjoy beautiful beaches and open sea? Should it be a privilege only for those who have a thick wallet and can buy themselves to that court? That is not what we feel is our responsibility on the part of the government and the January parties. We feel that we have a responsibility not only to let go of everything, as Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin seems to want, and let anyone build anywhere. We have a responsibility to ensure that the beaches are available for those who, for example, want to be out and enjoy nature, camping, make a day trip or a longer hike. However, as I said earlier, we can keep two thoughts in our heads at the same time. We can see that value, but we can also see that there are parts of the country where there is a lot of sea, lakes and streams and also quite small population. There is a value in opening up opportunities to build more beachside than is currently the case. Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin does not seem to understand that you can think two thoughts at the same time. Then it is difficult for me to explain to Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin how we do it. But I have already given the answer. I can, of course, give it one more time: we think that we can act differently in different parts of the country. If Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin has a different opinion, I'm worried.
i-99f77955078f664d-38	Madam President, I would like The government shows its ill-hidden contempt for ordinary people when he asks what it would look like if anyone were to build on our shores. The reason why beach plots and beachfront accommodation are today reserved for people with thick wallets, as the Government puts it, is the regulation that the Government itself advocates and holds dear, namely that only properties constructed before the general beach protection was introduced today can be claimed to live in. This is what drives up the prices for this type of accommodation. The government says he has answered my question on three occasions. I am not sure that those who hear this debate agree with that. So the answer to the question is, if I understand the Government correctly, that you have a process. Okay, you have a process. But the question was: Does the Government want the process to lead to more or less building along our shores? Even if the process is not finished, Madam President, you must be able to answer what was the intention of the investigation. The Government may reveal that he has not read the investigation in detail or know where in Sweden Dalarna is located. We belong to central Sweden, and the investigation states that in southern and central Sweden the space for so-called rural areas is quite limited. The problem is that the investigation sets out extremely tight premises for building in coastal areas.
i-99f77955078f664d-42	Madam President, I would like Although I have to thank Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin for his confidence, I did not set up the beach shelter. It came back in 1975, in the modern version, when I was four years old. On the other hand, I think it is a heritage that we have a responsibility to manage. It has been important to open up opportunities for people who cannot afford to buy their own beach plot, so that they can be out there, get recreation, be in coastal areas and enjoy the fantastic environment. That's what I think – it's my vision anyway – that people should be able to do in the future too. I think that Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin's question and a little insinuant tone shows contempt for people who cannot afford to buy their own beach plot. We think that this should be a right for all people, not just for a few. That is why we also think it is worth protecting the untouched coastlines and safeguarding access to beaches in areas where there is a high pressure for exploitation. The area we are in now, the Stockholm region, for example, is such an area. We should be able to agree on that. Instead, Mr Bohlin pretends that there would be some major conflict on this issue. That is what makes me think that Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin does not think there should be any restrictions at all. I think that is rather cynical, Madam President. The Moderates have, of course, as I might need to remind Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin of, signed and voted in favour of the environmental objectives system that Sweden has. It says that we should have living lakes and streams. We will have the sea in balance and the living coast and archipelago. We're going to have a rich animal and plant life. The beaches are an incredibly important habitat for a large number of animal species and even plant species that are threatened. As usual, the Moderates are eager to sign goals, but when it comes to implementing the goals and reaching them, the Moderates are not there, but then they are happy to move on to protecting other interests instead.
i-99f77955078f664d-47	Madam President, I would like Emma Ahlström Ahlström has asked me the following: Firstly, whether I believe that the so-called High School Act has been and is an effective instrument, or whether I intend to take action to take account of the views of, for example, SKR. Secondly, if I have looked at what has been favoured by the High School Act and if I can then exemplify it and, if not, if I intend to review it. Thirdly, if I believe that the High School Act plays a role in a long-term and robust Swedish integration policy and what reasons are the basis for this, then. On 1 July 2018, a new residence permit was introduced under the so-called upper secondary rule. This meant that certain unaccompanied young people who had received or would otherwise have been given an expulsion decision under certain conditions could be granted a residence permit for studies at upper secondary level. The aim of the proposal was to provide a residence permit for such studies for the group of young people whose prospects for a residence permit have deteriorated significantly due to very long processing times at the Finnish Immigration Service. These were those whose application for a residence permit had been registered with the Finnish Immigration Service on or before 24 November 2015 and who had had to wait more than 15 months for their decisions. These people were in an exceptional situation as in 2015 Sweden received more asylum seekers than ever before and the processing times increased sharply. The network was effective and benefited all young people who were granted a residence permit for studies at upper secondary level. In the light of the exceptional circumstances, these young people were given a chance to work their way into Sweden. If they complete their upper secondary education, establish themselves in the labour market and do not commit crimes, they will have the opportunity to stay. I think this is the humane and pragmatic way of solving the situation we were in. There were concerns that this would mean that more unaccompanied people would go to Sweden. That has not been the case. Last year Sweden had the lowest number of unaccompanied asylum seekers in 15 years.
i-99f77955078f664d-55	Madam President, I would like I listen with interest to the Minister when he answers me, but I do not hear any self-criticism. I think it's because of ignorance. Allow me, therefore, to explain how things are done out there in real life. The 2015 refugee crisis is known to both of us. It was that year that a large number of refugees tried to get to Europe to seek asylum. Most of the asylum seekers came from Middle East Syria or South Asia Afghanistan. But the high fees of the refugee smugglers did not guarantee a safe journey. On the contrary, many of these journeys contained dangerous or deadly moments that certainly none of those involved have come through unmoved. Seeking asylum is a human right, a right which I am proud that we can offer people in need. However, it is also up to individual countries to decide on what grounds a person has the right to apply for asylum in that particular country. We both know that Sweden and Germany took a major responsibility during the refugee crisis. In fact, Sweden has never received as many asylum seekers as during this period – as many as 163 000 people. There are almost twice as many as in 1992, when the Balkan war was going on. Those who are deemed to have grounds for asylum shall be granted a residence permit, but those who have been refused must leave. But then the government introduces the High School Act, a gap. It is an exception for persons who might otherwise have been given an expulsion decision. These persons could be granted a residence permit for studies at upper secondary level if they met the other requirements. Alarms weren't waiting for them. SKR said: This is difficult to implement in practice. It creates uncertainty. Delmi, the Delegation for Migration Studies, wrote: The law gives dual messages, and a shadow society emerges in the shadow of it. Switching of tracks and appeals on appeals contribute to a long, lengthy and expensive asylum process. In addition, only half of those who have been rejected have left the country voluntarily. Many have also deviated completely. The rumour of Sweden's generous reception spread, and more people wanted to apply for asylum here. The Swedish Parliament's decision on the Upper Secondary Education Act was made by the municipalities. They were given clear directives to reconfigure, reprimand and adapt reality in order to meet the new group. The Finnish Immigration Service, social services, the police, school, health care, public transport and many other social functions did their utmost on the basis of the staffing, skills and financial conditions they had. Five years later, it really is high time for an evaluation. In fact, in October 2020 only 55 of the 7 600 persons covered by the Act met the requirements – 55 individuals. Now the government has made further reliefs for unaccompanied minors to be able to meet the requirements for residence permits even though they did not meet the original requirements of the law. This is remarkable. I would like to repeat the questions in my interpellation and hope for a developed answer from the minister responsible: Has the High School Act really been effective? Who has benefited from it, and what role does the High School Act play in a long-term and robust Swedish integration policy?
i-99f77955078f664d-67	Madam President, I would like Emma Ahlström Ahlström thinks I should engage in self-criticism. Then she adds that I am ignorant. So, Madam President, I have been responsible for this area for over six years. I was responsible for the migration minister during the refugee crisis. Emma Ahlström Ahlström does not have to stand and teach me about how many came in autumn 2015. Over 100,000 people arrived in four months – September, October, November and December. I was in the middle of it, Emma Ahlström Ahlström, so I don't need any lessons from you or anyone else to know what happened at the time. The problem was that we had entered that term of office with an inheritance from the Moderates. The Moderates had pushed forward and achieved the most generous asylum policy across the EU. This meant that more people came to Sweden than to other countries. 12% of all asylum seekers who came to the EU came to Sweden. And as Emma Ahlström Ahlström said, there were 163 000 asylum seekers. At times it was 10,000 a week. We tightened in the autumn of 2015. We introduced border controls. We introduced the ID checks. We introduced the temporary law. But it wasn't exactly that the Moderates were something to hold in hand at that time. On the contrary, the Moderates were not even able to vote in favour of ID controls in this House. Now Emma Ahlström Ahlström did not sit in the Riksdag then, but she probably knows how her fellow party members acted: You couldn't even vote for ID controls. It was the ID checks that gave us control of the number of unaccompanied minors who moved on from Germany and Denmark in particular, because they often did not have ID. Had we not had the ID checks and the Moderates had got what they wanted, yes, then we could well have had not 35 000 unaccompanied minors but tens of thousands more and thus a much greater problem than we had to deal with in the end. Thanks to the austerity, the ID controls, the border controls and also the temporary law, which took Sweden's asylum policy down to the minimum level of the EU, we got it right. The vast majority of these young people were granted a residence permit, and they are now, I say, on their way into Swedish society. They're doing pretty well. They are driven by a strong motivation to establish themselves in Sweden and make Sweden their home country where you should live. They go to school and try to create an existence here, and I say as I said, it's going pretty well for most of them. There were those who either had to wait a very long time or were rejected. It was a rather large group, and as a result of that many in a short time we had a situation where many were still here, rooted here, got friends and family here, went to school here and learned Swedish. The question then arises: What should be done in that situation? I think we should have a pragmatic and humane way of looking at this. In that situation we said that if you go out of school, stay in the skin and do not commit any crimes and if you establish yourself in the labour market you will have the opportunity to stay in Sweden. You will have an opportunity to work your way into Sweden. Now most of these young people are still in school. Nor is it 55 who has been granted a residence permit on this basis any longer, but the latest figure is actually 226. The vast majority are still in school, so we will see how they will fare in the coming years as they leave school. As a result of the fact that the pandemic has also made things worse, there are reasons, I think, for also giving them a little longer time to be able to establish themselves in the labour market. That is the background to the proposal we made to Parliament yesterday.
i-99f77955078f664d-77	Mr. Old President! I appreciate the Minister's commitment to these issues. There is no doubt that the Minister has just been involved and present. It is in how we conduct a humane refugee and migration policy that we differ. The Minister says that many of these young people are doing quite well in our schools. Well, I don't fully share that picture. I would like to take the Government out in reality at several of the schools that were tasked with working with the very young people that the High School Act meets. I don't think the Minister has been there as much as I have. I was one of those who worked at a reception high school in 2015. We who choose the teaching profession are passionate about working with young people. We are passionate about teaching and enjoy working with people from different cultures, backgrounds and social classes. Me and my colleagues who worked in one of the largest schools met with a seemingly energetic and alert group of young people from other countries. Soon, however, we learned that they were worried, broken, and broken. To have to see and be part of Sweden's inability to meet up with this enormous need for support did one to say the least. I would like to read out some completely authentic requests that I received during this period, and I think that each points to obvious shortcomings in the way we take care of these young people. Here comes the first: I have nowhere to live. The one I live with now and is placed with a lot of alcohol, and I'm afraid. Another says, "I'm having nightmares. I see my father getting shot over and over again, so I find it hard to get to school in a while. A third says: I don't want my scarf, but the others freeze me out when I talk about it. Who can I turn to? Someone said, "I can't come to math class today, because I need to pray." Or why don't you pay out CSN? I told you, I'll be back from Syria in a few weeks. How does the Minister think that these students or students who have similar problems – they are and have been many – should be able to study and focus? How can they integrate when they do not receive the support they need? I mean, the High School Act is an incomplete law. It does not take overall responsibility. Many students dripped in during the current semester, right into the school bench without preliminary introduction. Is it humane? Once in place, the lack of important support functions was evident. I have mentioned some already; others are study supervisors, psychologists, curators and nurses. In some places they were not available at all. Is it humane? There was no plan for what these young people would do on holidays. Some came into school at the end of the spring semester and had a long summer vacation ahead of them. This meant many inefficient weeks where they could not learn Swedish to the same extent. Nor were they entitled to CSN, which for many was the only income. Is it humane? There was no plan for accommodation. The lack of teaching and skills was great, which means that there is a great variety of quality in schools. I wonder if this is the humane policy that the Minister wanted Sweden to stand for.
i-99f77955078f664d-91	Mr. Old President! Now Emma Ahlström Ahlström is here trying to give the impression that she cares about these young people and that they will do well. The truth is, she wants to throw them out. The truth is, that's what the Moderates stand for. You don't want a high school team. You want to ensure that when these young people had waited 15 months, even if they came before November 2015, they would not get a second chance, but would be deported to Afghanistan. That's the line the Moderates are holding on to. Even now that we go to Parliament and say that the pandemic has made it harder for these young people to be able to establish themselves in the labour market and that we would therefore like them to have a year to get a job instead of six months so that it becomes a little easier for them to manage, the Moderates oppose and will try to gather a majority here in Parliament to stop it. My question to Emma Ahlström Ahlström is therefore: does she think that the young people whom she has met and who have had these concerns are more or less concerned about the prospect of being deported to Afghanistan? That's what the Moderates stand for and nothing else. We had to face a situation in 2015 when there were very many unaccompanied at the same time. About one third of all unaccompanied minors who came to the EU came to Sweden. It was, of course, an untenable situation, and that is why we introduced austerity with the temporary law, the border controls and the ID controls, which the Moderates, as I have said, were unable to vote in favour of, but, on the contrary, abstained on. So we had to deal with a situation when we had got very many at the same time. I therefore dare to say that the vast majority of those who received their residence permits are then on their way into Swedish society. They are doing well, and it is also good for those who have not been granted a residence permit but who then got a chance with the new High School Act. I say that there is a very strong motivation and drive even in them, and that is why we say: Allright, you get a chance to work your way into Swedish society. Go out of school, commit no crimes, establish yourself in the labour market, then you'll be able to stay. That's our option. Instead, Emma Ahlström Köster's alternative is that every single one of these young people should be deported to Afghanistan and have no more chances. That is exactly what the Moderates are actually advocating. I have three children myself at school, so I would say that I have close contact with the school. Emma Ahlström Ahlström says that this has put a great strain on the school. It did so initially when there were so many in 2015 and 2016. However, the group we are talking about today, I do not claim to be a very heavy burden or a challenge for the school. The group we are talking about today, those to which the High School Act applies, is about 4,700 young people who have temporary residence permits on this basis. Then there are another 2,000 open cases. Let us say that these are between 6 000 and 7 000 young people. How many young people go to Swedish schools? So if we count the age group 15 - 20 years old, five years old, and each year's litter is about 100,000, it's about half a million in total. We are talking about a group of about 1 percent of all children and young people who attend Swedish schools in that age group. Then you can try to paint that particular group as a heavy burden for the Swedish school. I'm saying it's not like that. On the other hand, there is often rhetoric from some places where you want to make these young people guilty of all kinds of problems that exist in Swedish society. I am opposed to this, but we can also do this.
i-99f77955078f664d-101	Mr. Old President! No, it's not that the Moderates want to throw everyone out. What we are talking about, and representing, is a clear policy of integration and migration. The secondary school law is unclear. The signal out is that we are generous, that we are reconsidering and that we do not stand for what we say from the beginning. It is a lack of clarity that causes people to fall between the chairs. Sweden handled the refugee crisis quite differently from our neighbours and other countries in Europe. The criticism has been great, and I think the Minister should take it seriously. Sweden should help – and so do the Moderates. But it is naive to receive more than one can fully and wholeheartedly, socially, economically, educate and integrate. As I said, asylum and integration policies must take place in an orderly manner with a focus on long-termism and credibility. The government's actions demonstrate a naive and unrealistic approach to reception and integration, which has already had consequences and will continue to have far-reaching consequences. This applies above all to individuals and also to society. The fact that the Minister is still not self-critical, I think, suggests that the government is not capable of seeing reality. They turn a blind eye to inefficiency and the signal value of their policies. I would like to conclude with what Ulf Kristersson often says, namely that we should take a partial responsibility for a broken world, but we must also take full responsibility for the individuals we bring here. It is regrettable that the government does not agree with this.
i-99f77955078f664d-107	Mr. Old President! This is the upside-down world. Sometimes you feel like Alice in Wonderland. The reason why Sweden ended up in this situation in 2014– 2015 was that the moderate-led government drove Sweden into the refugee crisis. The then moderate-led government pushed forward the most generous asylum policy across the EU, which meant that more people applied to Sweden. Then we took office in 2014, and we had to deal with the refugee crisis in 2015. Then came as many as we could no longer handle. How did we do that? Well, then we tightened up with border controls, ID checks and the temporary law. What did the Moderates do? Well, you were sitting here abstaining and you couldn't even vote for ID checks. You are nothing to hold in your hand when it really blows and is crisis. So the Moderates turn 180 degrees and lie down at the far right side together with the Swedish Democrats, away from everything that Fredrik Reinfeldt has uttered in the debates at all, and instead you take a completely different line because you feel that is where the wind blows. We are now being attacked from the other direction, that is to say, we are being attacked because we are not as strict as the Moderates want to be. In the next breath, Emma Ahlström Ahlström says that she cares about the young people when she actually just wants to throw them out. That is the practical meaning of going against the Upper Secondary Education Act and also not being involved in adjusting the Upper Secondary Education Act in such a way that young people can have a real chance to establish themselves in Sweden. No, the Moderates have constantly hurled themselves here and there over the years in the debate, and sometimes I think it is the Moderates who should take a little self-criticism about how they have acted. Now we are in a situation where we have the lowest number of asylum seekers in 20 years and the lowest number of unaccompanied young people in 15 years, and we have re-established the control over migration policy that was lost in the year of the moderate-led government in particular.
i-99f77955078f664d-112	Mr. Old President! Amineh Kakabaveh has asked me questions about how the government has taken into account the fact that the introduction of market rents may lead to deterioration for certain groups, if we can promise that free renting will not be extended to the entire rental market and how we can guarantee women's and low-paid people's need for rental rights. The principle of active housing policy is based on the fact that housing is a right for all. Since the government took office in 2014, housing construction has increased sharply. In 2019, 90 per cent more dwellings were completed than in 2014. This is due, among other things, to the government's investment aid. 45 000 homes have been granted investment aid – housing with lower rents that are provided with reasonable demands on the applicant's finances. The Government has also set up an investigation to create the conditions for socially sustainable housing provision that facilitates the situation for households who find it difficult to obtain housing on market conditions. In accordance with the January agreement, the Government has set up a study on free leasing for new production. The study covers only newly produced apartments, which is about 1 per cent of the total number of apartments. There is no point in including existing housing units in the reform. It is important not to compromise the safety of today's tenants. The purpose of the study is to analyse the importance of the proposals for the future stock of rental rights and for society as a whole. Among other things, the impact of the proposals on tenants and applicants for housing and the impact of the proposals on equality between women and men should be highlighted. I do not wish to anticipate the outcome of the investigation, but it is important to point out that it is only a matter of newly produced rentals and therefore not an existing stock.
i-99f77955078f664d-118	Mr. Old President! I thank Morgan Johansson for a clear answer. We agree that investment aid has been necessary and should actually be increased. But the tendency is that housing policy has unfortunately alienated itself from the fact that housing is a right for everyone. I describe this in my interpellation. It is true that the investigation should only deal with the effects of market rents in new production, but there are strong forces that see this as the first step towards more free renting. Just look at how the Moderates have acted. It is good that we agree to return to social housing policy rather than continue to follow the market and property owners, especially at a time when the shortage situation will persist for a long time. Mr. Old President! The right to affordable housing is enshrined in both the UN Declaration of Human Rights and our Constitution. This right means that the public has a responsibility both for the housing supply and for the housing market. Historically, this responsibility has been exercised by the Riksdag and the Government. I would like to point out that renting, rent regulation, the millions of programme areas, the common good and the utility value system have been the responsibility of politics. However, there is not much left of this responsibility. Social housing policy is almost nothing but a memory. Public-interest rentals have largely been converted, not least in Stockholm, into market-driven residential apartments. The same applies to the housing supply. Many with me are concerned that market rents in new production are a first step towards introducing market rents for the entire stock. This has actually happened in Finland, for example. All bourgeois parties have expressed in different ways support for market rents. The difference between the property owned and the rental right is already large, and it is becoming even bigger. You pay 3,000 more to live in a rental apartment compared to living in a tenant-owner's apartment. The interest deductions for owning dwellings amount to 30 billion, and investment support for new production with the aim of pressing rents amounts to just over 2 billion. It is a huge injustice because the 30 billion goes almost exclusively to people with a good economy, while investment aid will contribute to the pressured rents of people on low incomes, such as women, poor pensioners and those in need of shelter – people who actually cannot afford to live in expensive housing or buy a home. I would like to ask the Government again: can the Government guarantee that it will not be social housing, where poor housing is built for poor people, and that market rent only applies to rentals in new production? It is important to know and that we agree on it.
i-99f77955078f664d-125	Mr. Old President! First of all, I would like to make this clear: there are no plans to introduce market rents for the existing rental stock. I don't want anyone to worry about that. We Social Democrats will never accept that. We stand for a social housing policy, and we always will. I would like to have said that and underlined it in this debate. What we are talking about here is free renting for newly produced apartments and then only initially. Then the rents will either be negotiated or controlled according to a tariff. That is what the January Agreement says. As I said, it includes a system for newly produced apartments. We are currently discussing what such a system should look like. At the same time, it must protect consumer and tenant rights. One should know that new production represents about 1% of the total stock, so there is a small part we are talking about when it comes to newly produced apartments. I would like to acknowledge that this was a concession for us Social Democrats, a compromise in the great agreement we made with the other January parties. It is not so great, this concession, as it sometimes sounds in the public debate. It's not a system shift, but it's a concession. That's it. Then why did we do it? Well, the simple and short answer to that is: in order to maintain and develop one of the most important parts of Swedish housing policy, namely the multi-billion-dollar government investment in housing construction, which is investment support. Investment aid was set up during the last term of office and, I believe, it has been absolutely crucial to bring up housing. It has also been very successful. In total, we have entered over SEK 15 billion in investment aid during our reign in order to build more than 46 000 rental apartments for a rent that is significantly lower than usual – about 20 percent lower than newly produced apartments that are not built with this support. This has been crucial to building housing. We have almost doubled the building since we took office. We are now up to over 50 000 new homes per year, and about half of them are rental apartments. You can look back at the statistics. Amineh Kakabaveh says that some of the tenancy rights have been sold out by bourgeois municipal executives for a long time, and that is how it is. As soon as the bourgeoisie comes to power in a municipality, you begin to look at what commons you can sell out, what dwellings you can sell out. We are, of course, totally opposed to that. However, I would like to point out that we are now building more rental apartments than we have in almost 30 years, so investment support has meant that we are actually building many more rental apartments than before. Amineh Kakabaveh says that investment support is good but should be increased. Yeah, that's exactly what we're doing now. In 2019 investment support was 2.1 billion. From 2020 onwards, it is EUR 3 billion per year, so we are increasing investment support. In addition, we add a requirement that one eighth of all apartments built with this support should go to the municipalities in order to be able to be communicated to young people and to residents in a particularly vulnerable situation, so we also use investment support to steer in a social way. We've almost doubled the construction in six years. We build more rental apartments than in almost 30 years. The rental apartments built with this support have less rent than others, almost 20% less rent, and we are actively using the support to build for particularly vulnerable households. Now the parliamentary situation is such that if we had not had the January agreement, then this investment aid would have been abolished. It is thanks to the January agreement that we have the opportunity to support housing construction as we do now.
i-99f77955078f664d-137	Mr. Old President! Thank you very much for a clear answer, Minister Morgan Johansson! It is honest to say that this is a concession for the Social Democrats. In fact, it is more than sad that housing policy is at stake. The Minister says that it is a single percentage, but as he himself pointed out, it is often the case that as soon as there is bourgeois rule, it is seen as lucrative to open up to market-driven housing policy. That's what's dangerous. Last and last term of office, I was the spokesperson for the Left Party. I remember that we already needed 200,000 homes at that time, more than half of which would be rental apartments. It is clear that it is being built today, but it is not enough to meet the urgent need we have. I meet a lot of women who are vulnerable, who are actually exposed to violence. They ask me, "Where are we going to live with our children, Amineh?" Even at the women's shelters, there is no possibility if you are, for example, a mother with several children. If you are a single parent, a poor woman or a poor pensioner– usually a woman, because the majority are women– it is difficult to get a housing at reasonable rent. I believe that EUR 3 billion in investment aid compared to EUR 30 billion in interest rebates is a huge difference. I think the Minister agrees with me that interest deductions should be phased out in favour of investing in good housing, as a majority of the Swedish people actually cannot afford to live in the expensive housing in the rich areas. Yes, many rental apartments are built, but very few percent are built with investment aid. The rest is built in fine areas where it is impossible for an ordinary person with an income to pay the rent. I hope and believe that the Minister agrees with me that the 30 billion interest rebates are simply not for the people we are talking about here. They are for those who already have thick wallets, and so are those who pursue this policy. It is taxpayers' money that is distributed so unfairly that living in a rental apartment today costs 3 000 more than living in a tenant-owner's apartment. I am pleased that the Social Democrats will not agree to anything more than market rents in new production, but I hope there is a guarantee for that. It is unfortunate that this is now being loosened up. According to the report, there will be a lot of rent increases if this becomes law – in Stockholm 52 percent, in Gothenburg 51 percent, in Luleå 43 percent and in Uppsala 34 percent.
i-99f77955078f664d-146	Mr. Old President! If we were to move to free renting and market leasing in the existing stock, it would have the effects that Amineh Kakabaveh points to; then we would have significant rent increases in the existing stock. That is precisely why I am as clear as I am and say that there is no point in switching to market rents or free renting in the existing stock. The agreement we have made in the framework of the January agreement does not mean this either, but it is only a question of letting new production free for an initial period. After that, it should be converted to a system where you negotiate rents or where it is done via a tariff. At the same time, there must be strong protection for both tenants and consumer rights. We stand by this, and I believe that this is an important signal to those who may be concerned that there will be a change of system. That is not what we are talking about. However, as I said, this is a compromise. We, from the Social Democracy side, have agreed to and accepted a system of free renting in new production, and that is what we are working on now. For their part, the Centre Party and the Liberals have agreed to continue developing investment support. That is how it sometimes works in politics – you have to try to find compromises and common solutions that both can accept and think is good. For us Social Democrats, investment aid has been extremely important to fight for. This is what in recent years has meant that we have almost doubled the construction in Sweden and that we are now building more rental apartments than we have done in almost 30 years. We build them with lower rents than the use value rent, in general – for apartments built with investment support, the rent level is about 20 per cent under other new productions. So we can push down rents by means of investment aid. We also have a new part to play in this. One eighth of the apartments built with investment aid must be allocated to the municipalities so that they can be distributed to young people and particularly vulnerable households. I also think that this is an important part of this. I have to say that the Tenants' Association has been very good and effective at negotiating rents in recent years. During our term of office, when we have managed, the rent increases have overall been somewhere between 1 and 2 percent per year. In general terms, there have been relatively small rent increases since we took office. Income development in Sweden has gone faster than that; wage development is perhaps 2 – 2 1⁄2 per cent per year. Everything suggests that wages have risen faster than rents during our government period, and all the households involved may have been given more money to move with once the rent has been paid. I think it is important to ensure that we have this negotiating system, which allows us to discuss where the rents should be set and really go through what are reasonable rents. I can only conclude that the Tenants' Association has been successful in its negotiations. As I said, renting is only valid for new production. One might wonder whether this will mean that rents in new production will increase sharply in relation to what they are today. In fact, it doesn't have to be that way at all. We already have a system of presumption rents, which are negotiated rents at a higher level. Much suggests that the rent level for new apartments is already so high that the market is thus saturated, so I would not believe that the new system will actually have a major impact on the overall rents.
i-QuzTvcAQNoeq8cNWDBtuFV	Mr. Old President! Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Of course, investment aid has an impact. It's pushing down the rents. That's good, because we need this. These 30 billion go to those who already have money and do not need it. Why should this not be phased out or distributed in order to increase investment support so that we get more and better cheap rental rights for people – for students and single or violent women? The women's shelters always cry out for housing for all women and children who are victims of violence. That is, in fact, what should be a priority. I asked this earlier, and I would like to emphasise that: can the Minister and the government guarantee that it will not be social housing, as we are talking about, that is, poor-quality housing for the poor? This can be found, for example, in England and other countries. We do not want that in Sweden. We do not want to build a system of A-teams and B-teams, but it should be much fairer. The distribution policy in the case of rentals should be on the same terms as in the case of owner-occupied dwellings. As I said, the property is owned by 30 billion people, but tenancy rights receive only good 2 billion. Now we are going to increase this by 1 billion, but in relation to what we need it is nothing. Wages go up, but it is actually also considerably more expensive to live at all, especially now during the pandemic. That is why clarity is a good thing. Thank you again for a good debate.
i-99f77955078f664d-160	Mr. Old President! Thank you, Amineh Kakabaveh, for the debate. I think it has been clarification. I believe that there are many people who believe that a major shift in the system is about to take place in housing policy. I would like to say that we are not going to switch to market rents in the existing stock; that is not what we are talking about. What we are talking about is new production and having another system for putting rents into new production. I think it is important for many people to hear this. I fully share Amineh Kakabaveh's input into this debate on housing policy. For me, housing policy is part of general welfare. I do not want a situation where we break this up and get the different systems that exist in other countries, where you talk about social housing and where you often in practice lock people in a very bad housing where maintenance is neglected and where you do not care about either the people who live in the apartments or the apartments and the properties themselves. We're not going that way. When we discussed this with the Centre Party and the Liberals, it was important for us to find a common starting point. We said that we could agree to look at free renting for new production during an initial period; then it should be negotiated rents or controlled via a tariff. We are working on such a system now. We also said, however, that they would then have to agree to continue developing investment aid so that we could use it to get building up. There we are now, and I can only say that this works very well. As I said, construction has almost doubled since we took office, and we are building more rental apartments than we have in 30 years. We can also use the investment support to push down the rent level. Sometimes this is the case with politics: you try to find compromises that you might still think are good. I would say that this is basically a fairly good compromise.
i-99f77955078f664d-165	Mr. Old President! I apologise in advance if I say so, Mr President, at some point; that will certainly happen. Mr. Old President! Camilla Brodin has asked me whether the government is about to come forward with proposals aimed at meeting the two recommendations that the OECD made to Sweden in its review report Regulatory Policy Outlook. Camilla Brodin has also asked whether there are any other initiatives under way which stem from the experience gained during the so-called simplification journey. Simplification policy is an important part of enterprise policy. It helps to strengthen Swedish competitiveness and create the conditions for more jobs in more and growing companies. As Minister of Economic Affairs, I have taken a number of measures to reduce the costs and constraints that may result from regulation. The Government Office is currently preparing new simplification policy objectives in the area of simplification. The starting points are set out in the budget proposal for 2021. The objectives will form the basis for the government's continued simplification efforts. The Government intends to return in the near future with a decision on the new objectives of the simplification policy, which promotes Swedish competitiveness and the ability to adapt and innovate. During the simplification journey, it was stated, among other things, that the processing times of authorities need to be shortened and that there are differences between counties in the way in which supervision is carried out and how the authorities' examination of permit cases is carried out. Modern and effective licensing processes are an important issue for the government. The government has therefore recently set up an investigation to review the current system of environmental review. The investigation will propose measures to achieve a more modern and effective trial. Effective licensing processes also require review authorities to be in a position to carry out their tasks. In order to shorten the processing times and strengthen the work on environmental testing and inspections, additional funds were added to the administrative appropriations of the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and the county administrative boards in the budget proposal for 2021. Mr. Old President! I can also mention that the county boards have been tasked with analysing the conditions for supervision based on joint planning, common working methods and enhanced cooperation at peaks. The County Administrative Boards have also been tasked with analysing the possibilities of improving the efficiency of their review activities. In addition to the ongoing work, the Swedish Agency for Growth was commissioned in connection with the simplification journey to identify appropriate simplifications based on the comments received. The proposals made by the Swedish Growth Agency are currently being prepared in the Government Office. In conclusion, I can assure you that the government's regulatory simplification work takes into account the OECD recommendations set out in the OECD Regulatory Policy Outlook 2018.
i-99f77955078f664d-173	Mr. Old President! First of all, I would like to thank Minister Baylan for his answer. We agree that this is an important issue for Swedish business and therefore also an important welfare issue, because a well-functioning business sector is absolutely essential for there to be some resources for welfare. The background to my interpellation is that for a long time we have received clear signals from the business community that there is a lot in the current regulations that should have a review based on the ambition that it should be easy to start up but also run companies in Sweden. With the mission of Minister Baylan as Minister of Economic Affairs, it obliges it to be interested and stand on its toes to see what can and should be done to simplify and improve today's difficult and unnecessarily complicated regulations. Therefore, many of us noted with interest that the Minister for Economic Affairs showed a good willingness to listen and take in stories and experiences from Sweden's entrepreneurs when the Minister proclaimed that there would be a whole tour for this purpose in connection with the simplification journey. On September 6, 2019, when the first move was made, we were told that the purpose of the trip was that there would be more companies in Sweden and that there would be growing companies in Sweden. That's good. Then we were able to follow the Government via various press releases from the Ministry until 25 November 2019, when it was announced that the trip was completed with the visit to Malmö. From the press release that day, we learned that work is now beginning. It was such an important message that it was already in the title, so that no one would miss it. The rest of us got a little on hold. It is now almost two and a half years ago that we learned that the work was about to begin. But what has happened since then? Yes, we can well note that a few months into the new year, that is, 2020, we had reason to reschedule a lot in our planning. Pandemin came as an uninvited guest to our entire community and influenced us all. There are a five-digit number of Swedish citizens who have died so far. Many more have been ill. The vast majority have a good recovery, but many have long-term symptoms and still suffer even if they do not need to be hospitalized. This must, of course, be in the main focus. But the country must also continue to be governed, and work must continue. For our business community, the pandemic has brought bankruptcies. Many have been laid off, given notice, or laid off. In order to mitigate the economic and social impact, the Riksdag has decided on various support packages. Much has been agreed across party boundaries, while some could have been done differently, if I am asked as a Christian Democrat. But in addition to providing support and to some extent artificial breathing, it is even more important to build counterfire to create the best possible conditions for entrepreneurship in our country. Against this background, Prime Minister Baylan's simplification journey has become even more urgent than any of us anticipated in autumn 2019. To return to the question of what has actually happened since the Government unpacked its suitcase in November 2019, I wonder: What proposals have we seen? What concrete measures have been presented? The question is relevant and important, but it is unanswered so far.
i-99f77955078f664d-182	Mr. Old President! Thank you, Camilla Brodin, for highlighting an important issue! Not to be rude, but it's a year and a half from November 2019 to April 2021, not two and a half. But I still know what you mean. Very much hard work, not only at the Ministry of Enterprise but throughout the Government Office and in our entire society really, has focused on saving human lives, just as you say, to curb the infection as far as possible and to mitigate the effects on our business community as well. The truth is this has been priority number 1, number 2 and number 3 for the Ministry of Industry. Why? I think that Camilla Brodin also remembers what happened last March, that a large part of the business community experienced a total stop. Industries had to close down and the services sector, which is still largely in the crisis, saw its revenues fall sharply and dramatically in a way that we have never seen before. This has meant that the government has focused on this and presented about ten different support programmes to mitigate the effects. I say soften, because unfortunately there will be negative consequences, despite our rather great efforts to try to mitigate the effects, both in our country and in many other countries. If our situation is a misery, it is still better than in many other countries. But that is no consolation for the companies that are affected and for the 80 000 - 90 000 people who have lost their jobs. Nevertheless, Mr. Old President, as Camilla Brodin says, reality is still rolling. In addition to focusing on developing support programmes and helping in the rather deep crisis that we have been in for almost 14 months, we are naturally pushing on and continuing to work on a number of issues. One of them, which was perhaps one of the most important ones that came up almost wherever I was on this simplification journey, was precisely the regulations concerning the various types of authorisation testing and their application. It's one thing what our rules are. But in this case we have a large number of county boards and municipalities that handle these, and we realized that they handle them very differently. Against this background, we have pushed forward by reviewing the rules themselves. We appointed an investigator this summer, i.e. in August last year, to review how we can simplify the rules on the environmental code in order to be able to make quite rapid changes, for example. This was one of the things that emerged during the simplification journey. As I said in my interpellation response, Mr President-in-Office, we are going to review the application and to add resources to both the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, an authority that was raised during these meetings and unfortunately not too positive, and the county boards that received a lot of criticism in the same way. We will ensure that they develop and mainstream their handling. It is not reasonable, as a lot of companies and others express, that an application can be handled completely differently depending on which side of the county border you are, so we will continue to work with this. In addition, we are working on new objectives for regulatory simplification, and I will also come back with further concrete proposals.
i-99f77955078f664d-191	Mr. Old President! I thank the Minister for his report. The reason why I wanted to give Minister Baylan the chance to come to us in this House was that the Government would be able to give us a general plan that is partly based on the experiences from the simplification journey described by the Government, and also meets the recommendations in the OECD review 2018. During the month of March last year, Minister Baylan promised that the common web portal recommended by the OECD to Sweden to create for consultations and to be able to take part in rules and proposals etcetera would be completed within a few months. It has now been over a year, and we have not seen one. The second recommendation was to extend work on regulatory evaluation by carrying out in-depth reviews in different sectors and policy areas. Here I have not taken note of any specific commitment from the Government to exactly when proposals will come that meet this recommendation. How far is a string? When I hear the Government's response. We are only told that the Government intends to return in the near future with decisions on the new objectives of simplification policy that will promote Swedish competitiveness and the ability to adapt and innovate. But when is the time? It would be interesting to hear the Government develop this message a little. Are we talking about the spring term this year or next year? Does short-term mean shorter or longer than within a few months? Last spring the web portal would be ready within a few months. Obviously this means at least a year because we have not yet seen anything. I hope that in the near future means shorter than last year's a few months. Otherwise, I'm a little worried. Mr. Old President! I would like the Government to clarify a little when we can see this web portal on site. I have not been able to read anything about it in the Government's answer to my rather important question. When can we see a concrete result? It was supposed to be in place within a few months a year ago.
i-99f77955078f664d-198	Mr. Old President! This coincided precisely with the fact that we entered the deepest crisis the Swedish business community and society experienced in modern times. As I said earlier, priority one, two and three has been to combat the pandemic and its effects on jobs and entrepreneurship in our country. It is important to be humble. Unfortunately, we have not yet come out of the pandemic, however much I would have liked it, both on a personal level and for those parts of our business that are now in their 14th month of this. In a situation like this, this is the focus of the government and of course for me as Minister of Economic Affairs. This is important to remember when you ask what has happened over the past year. This has been the focus. Camilla Brodin asked me a specific question to answer. There's such a portal. On the Government's website, all proposals referred to are easily accessible. It also provides information on how and why referrals are sent out and how referrals should be designed. I therefore believe that we have responded to the OECD recommendation. Since it is the government that refers, it is natural and logical that this is easily accessible on the government's website.
i-99f77955078f664d-201	Mr. Old President! I thank Ibrahim Baylan for his reply. This surprises me a little, and we will see if the business community agrees that the web portal is ready and in place. I am convinced that there are also many outside the Chamber who are interested in the formulation of objectives that the Government talked about and which we are still waiting for. For us Christian Democrats, these issues are very important, and I think that all the parties in Parliament think these issues are important. Nobody's questioning that. I am surprised that these regulatory simplifications, which are needed so well to kick-start society after the pandemic once we reopen, have not been more prioritised. We all know what many companies are going through now, and we know that regulatory simplification would help those companies that are currently hampered. We have two crises that need to be dealt with in parallel, the health and economic crisis. Then it is urgent that these issues are taken very seriously and that we work in parallel with this so that we are ready when society can be opened up. When will we hear about the goals that the Minister of Economic Affairs is talking about? I thought we would have been able to see them back in the autumn when the budget was presented, but I understand that it is being prepared in the Government Office. Can we get a schedule?
i-99f77955078f664d-206	Mr. Old President! We fully agree that these are important issues – for several reasons. For example, we should not have unnecessary bureaucracy, and we should defend the values that we all think are important, such as clean environment and not poison water and air. I also feel that we have a great deal of agreement with our business community about the need for a regulatory framework but that it should be as simple as possible. These include the application of the rules. Digitalisation is accelerating, and our authorities are working to make it as simple as possible. Here, the IRS is a good role model. Although we share the view that this is important, I believe that it has been more important for the many companies that have lost everything from 50 to 100 % of their revenues that we have received support programmes in place. In this way, we have been able to help with the fixed costs, such as rent and other things, wage costs, sick pay costs and liquidity, both through guarantee programmes, the tax account and more. This has been central and, as I said, priority one, two and three, and it will continue to be so as long as the pandemic continues. We do not want to lose healthy businesses or jobs unnecessarily. We have learned a lesson from the financial crisis when Sweden unnecessarily lost a great many jobs. We are not making that mistake again, and that is why this is a priority one, two and three until the pandemic is over.
i-99f77955078f664d-211	Mr. Old President! In connection with SJ AB's termination of the agreement with Mälardalstrafik, Magnus Ek has asked me what measures I intend to take to ensure that SJ AB, together with its owners, takes responsibility for maintaining traffic during the ongoing pandemic and that SJ AB does not press the regions and the tax collective there to cover the company's losses. Furthermore, Magnus Ek has asked me for what reason and for what purpose the Swedish State is the owner of SJ AB and what I intend to do within my area of responsibility in the Government to secure commuting opportunities in the important Mälardal region for Sweden's economy. Mr. Old President! The Swedish State's ownership in SJ AB is a consequence of the companyisation of the former Swedish National Railways Agency 2001. The Riksdag has decided that SJ AB will operate on a commercial basis. In accordance with this, the company's business purpose is to contribute to the achievement of transport policy objectives and thus long-term sustainable transport supply throughout the country. SJ AB is a competitive company. The administration of SJ AB shall take place within the Parliament's mandate and in accordance with the rules on competition and state aid. The government is not in a position to ignore the requirement for commercialism, because it is a parliamentary decision. Whether it is the regions or the state that covers the losses suffered by SJ AB by operating traffic in Mälardalen during coronapandemia, it is ultimately taxpayers who bear the cost. As a company, SJ AB cannot carry unlimited losses on its own. The government has increased general state subsidies to municipalities and regions and has provided targeted state subsidies to regional public transport authorities to maintain public transport capacity during the pandemic. As a state-owned company, SJ AB shall act in an exemplary manner and in a manner that ensures that they enjoy public confidence. Questions about SJ AB's agreements and relations with customers and contract partners are operational issues and thus issues for SJ AB's management and board to handle. Ensuring transport supply in Mälardalen is a responsibility of the regions and municipalities responsible for meeting the need for regional public transport. When the interpellant reported that he was prevented from attending the meeting, the President-in-Office admitted that Kerstin Lundgren was instead allowed to take part in the debate.
i-99f77955078f664d-217	Mr. Old President! Thank you, Minister for Enterprise, for the answer to my colleague Magnus Ek's interpellation! Unfortunately, he is not in a position to be here today and has asked me to take the answer instead of him. Of course, SJ AB will be operated on a commercial basis. As the Minister says, the Riksdag has stated this. This does not prevent an owner being able to take responsibility for the company acting in a reasonable manner. As the Minister says, it is a state-owned company that should act exemplaryly and in a way that enjoys public confidence. There, Mr. Old President, I think you can think. Unfortunately, we are still in a pandemic. We have given many tax crowns from the Riksdag to many different activities in order to maintain them despite the pandemic and to ensure that the Swedish Public Health Agency's rules can be complied with. In this case, it is a question of how the owner rules SJ according to the Swedish Public Health Authority's regulations. There was a deal. SJ and Mälab have had an incentive agreement, as it is so beautifully called, where the operator takes all the profits but also all the losses. In the agreement, Mr President-in-Office, there was, of course, no knowledge that a pandemic would strike, and a previous lucrative agreement was suddenly not profitable but generated losses. In this situation, SJ – the example that should exist – chose to terminate the agreement and terminate the traffic from September onwards. During the ongoing negotiations, it was said that traffic will be stopped from September onwards. This means that many people will be affected by not having the opportunity to go with Mälab during the autumn, when we hope that we will be able to start up Sweden again. The new agreement for the Mälar region will take effect from December. There, obviously, third parties, who we want to go collectively, get caught. 48 per cent of the workplaces are located in this region, and many choose to travel collectively. This has been the aim, also in order to achieve the transport policy objectives and the environmental and climate objectives that we have set in Parliament. Third parties are thus caught when SJ ceases traffic because they do not receive compensation. Are there, then, possibilities to receive compensation? According to the instructions given by the State and the Government, it is possible to obtain compensation on the basis of the regional public transport authorities for the traffic and ticket revenues they have lost, but not for this type of construction because ticket revenues for regional operators are not included. So there's a gap here. There are no instructions. SJ will set an example but will, from September onwards, for a great many people in the region, prove to be a really bad example of state ownership.
i-99f77955078f664d-224	Mr. Old President! The background to the situation that we have on the Swedish railway market is a decision that the Riksdag took in 2009 and that Kerstin Lundgren voted in favour of. It was the then majority government, consisting of the four bourgeois parties, that proposed that the Swedish railway market be fully liberalised and that SJ, with its commercial nature, should compete on the same terms as everyone else. I remember this well, Mr President-in-Office, because I was chairman of the Transport Committee at the time and opposed it, on the grounds that we felt that the government's proposal to abolish SJ AB's exclusive rights on the state's railway network would put the individual at a disadvantage and lead to a deterioration in and more difficult to understand rail traffic. This was our reservation. Nevertheless, it was a majority government, and the then parliamentary majority voted through the proposal. I assume that Kerstin Lundgren was one of those who voted in favour. This is the reason why we have the situation we have, where there will be competition and procurement. The agreement that Kerstin Lundgren is talking about is an agreement between SJ and Mälardalstrafik, a so-called service concession agreement, which means that SJ is responsible for both ticket revenues and costs. It is designed so that any excess revenues are shared between operators and clients, in this case between Mälardalstrafik and SJ, while losses are borne by the operator SJ. The agreement that exists gives the operator SJ the right to renegotiate if the conditions for the agreement change substantially. Whatever we agree on or do not agree, we can surely say that the conditions have changed substantially. Since the outbreak of the pandemic in March 2020, SJ has wished to renegotiate the terms of the agreement. This is due to a very simple matter. SJ's CEO says that ever since then there have been heavy losses: half a billion – I think there are now 3 – 4 million per day. That is why we wanted to renegotiate the agreement. Just as Kerstin Lundgren says, the negotiations have not been concluded, so the agreement has been terminated. Then Kerstin Lundgren wishes me to go in and direct in a way that would be completely contrary to what Kerstin Lundgren himself, in this House together with the three other bourgeois parties, was involved in deciding, namely that the business should be competitive and also commercial. As I said, I was opposed to this development. We could see that, when this kind of opening-up is done in a market that is basically a natural monopoly in many ways, it has consequences when you end up in a situation like this. It is clear that I wish that SJ and Mälardalstrafik can find a solution to this. This would be the absolute best thing, especially as, as Kerstin Lundgren says, in the latest procurement that Mälardaltrafik has made, MTR has won but will start driving the traffic only from December 2021. I cannot order SJ AB to operate in a non-commercial manner in accordance with the applicable regulations. In addition, they try to comply with their agreement to the letter. If Kerstin Lundgren were not to file a complaint against me in order not to comply with Parliament's decision, I think some others in this House would do so quite quickly.
i-99f77955078f664d-232	Mr. Old President! When I listen to the Minister for Economic Affairs, it sounds rather like he is still almost angry, I would say, that the Parliament has taken a decision against which the Minister for Economic Affairs once reserved himself. The Minister has been present in various guises in governments for some time, but nothing else has happened there. To be honest, it sounds almost like the Minister for Economic Affairs feels that he really has nothing to do with SJ. There is no room for the Minister for Economic Affairs to take any initiative. There is no possibility to instruct the business company SJ to act. But then, of course, I am thinking of the following, Mr President-in-Office: in what way should the company be an example? How will the example be shown to the people in the Mälardal region from September when everyone will stand there and yell that SJ no longer drives? I'm one of those people who usually ride on these trains, but they won't go. It is clear that many will then consider the following: Why should SJ be state-owned if the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Government cannot act at all? What is the reason, then, if the Minister for Economic Affairs feels completely paralyzed at this point? There's a pandemic going on. And the pandemic has meant that we have gone into several areas, such as aviation and other areas, with different compensations in order to maintain the Public Health Authority's regulations. Mälardal traffic shall not run with more than 50 per cent load on their trains in order to keep distance. SL, public transport in the Stockholm region, was invited to continue driving. They have had a ticket revenue of SEK 3.9 billion and received compensation from the government of SEK 1.3 billion. But they keep driving. The question is why. Because you want to try to make sure that people can get to their jobs, those who can't stay home during the pandemic. Of course we hope that the vaccination has been completed this autumn so that people can go to their jobs. But people in the Mälardal region – Katrineholm, Örebro, Västerås, Linköping, Norrköping, Uppsala, Sala and so on – will not be able to travel with Mälardalstrafik during the autumn because SJ has said that it stops the traffic. Mr. Old President! Then, of course, I wonder whether there is not the slightest possibility for the Minister of Economic Affairs to signal in owner talks or in other ways that it is expected that SJ will be perceived as an example in Mälardalen also forward and that SJ will go back to the negotiating table in that case. In the middle of the negotiations, they were abandoned and said that traffic was stopped. If it is the kind of behaviour that sets an example for the state-owned SJ, I think about how the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Government wants to signal and describe the concept of example.
i-99f77955078f664d-239	Mr. Old President! I'm a little surprised. First of all, we are voting through a regulatory framework, and that is what I am explaining. That's what's in charge today. It is a competitive market. It has been decided by Kerstin Lundgren and her party together with the four bourgeois parties. My assessment is that there is still a pretty big majority for this in the Swedish Parliament. Should that change, I am the first to discuss with constructive parties another system of things. But at least that is not my picture of what the situation is in the Swedish parliament, and that is what I am describing. That, too, is what governs. A parliamentary decision with a directive – an owner's directive in this case – is not voluntarily chosen work for the government. Of course, we have the deepest respect for the decisions taken by Parliament. That is the case, and this should also be the case because the Parliament is the elected representatives and the people's main representatives. As far as public transport is concerned, it is just as Kerstin Lundgren says that they, like many other sectors and modes of transport, have been severely affected. It is against this background that we have together ensured that we have also set aside extra money in the budget to ensure that public transport is maintained in these rather difficult circumstances. In the budget that applies, we have ensured that it has been paid SEK 3 billion to the public transport authorities. Of these SEK 3 billion, SEK 1.6 billion has gone to Mälardalstrafik in order for them to maintain traffic. A further SEK 2 billion will be allocated when the financial statements are completed on 30 June 2021. We have done this together in the budgetary cooperation that we have precisely in order to maintain traffic. In parallel with this, this is, as Kerstin Lundgren says, a business that has been going on. I do not need to say this in terms of ownership, but I can say this from the Parliament's pulpit: it would be very good if solutions were found within the framework of the agreement that has been reached. What Is an Example? An example is to ensure that we act in an honest and fair manner in accordance with the agreements we meet in a competitive market. These requirements are imposed on all the state-owned companies and also on SJ AB. I am the first to wish that a solution could be found which would enable us to manage to solve the public transport challenges that exist as long as this pandemic continues, but also to do so in such a way that we also take joint responsibility. It is clear that the tax collective is taking the cost. So far we have jointly, in this case through losses at SJ, taken costs of almost half a billion for Mälardalstrafiken from the state according to SJ– 3– 4 million SEK per day according to SJ's CEO. Then it is natural that you also have a negotiation. The absolute best thing would be for solutions to be found instead of having a lot of conflicts. Of course, there is a need for will and constructiveness. And I hope it's with all the parties. But I would also like to ask Kerstin Lundgren a little more specifically. Given the directives – I understand that there is no majority in Sweden for other directives – what do Kerstin Lundgren think I should specifically order SJ to do? It would be very interesting to find out, given the rules that exist.
i-99f77955078f664d-248	Mr. Old President! I would like to thank the Minister for the fact that he still sends out a signal that he wishes you to get there. It is something that I understand they also want from Region Östergötland, Region Sörmland, Region Västmanland, Region Stockholm and Region Uppsala. I note that Monica Johansson, Vice-Chairman of Mälardalstrafik, says that she feels that it is so strange that SJ already perceives the negotiations as concluded. From, for example, Region Uppsala says: The reasonable thing is of course that SJ, like us regions, takes responsibility for maintaining traffic during the ongoing pandemic together with its owners. Of course these are other people. But the problem is that you decide to stop traffic because you do not get cost recovery. It has also been stated, Mr President-in-Office, that the regions have received compensation. However, the compensation for public transport paid has been paid to the regions, but not for this type of cross-regional traffic. Mälardalstrafik is also like SJ a limited liability company and acts on the same terms. In this case, the resources that we have provided together must not be used. Then the instructions must be changed. That is where we are today. I hope that the Minister for Economic Affairs has nevertheless felt that there is an opportunity to act in order for trains to go this autumn, even though it is a decision that the government and the Minister for Economic Affairs do not like.
i-99f77955078f664d-253	Mr. Old President! This is, of course, an important issue and, of course, we in the Ministry of Industry have had a dialogue with the regions. A State Secretary, together with the Ministry, has of course met them. I've explained the situation, and it's clear as a sausage pad-- if you can use such simple expressions-- that we want solutions to be found. If so, however, it must mean that we are prepared to find solutions in accordance with the agreement we have, and that is a rewarding and a taking. According to the agreement we have, there is an opportunity to renegotiate if something substantially changes, and we can say that it has happened. I hope, of course, that the renegotiation will come about in finding solutions at a rather difficult time. That's the message we're giving from here and that I'm giving to everyone I meet. I believe, however, that what many people want – namely that we from the Ministry of Industry should order SJ to carry out an activity that both operational management and the board of directors make the assessment is not business-like and has not been business-like for a long time – would of course directly violate the rules that the Riksdag has established and the state council rules that exist. Of course, Kerstin Lundgren knows this. As I said, I have not understood that there is a majority in Parliament to change these. As long as this is the case, we naturally try to ensure in our ownership dialogue with SJ that they, like all other state-owned companies, are an example and that they follow the directive that exists from the Riksdag to conduct business in a competitive market.
i-99f77955078f664d-257	Mr. Old President! Alexander Christiansson has asked me what the government intends to do to ensure that small businesses get started quickly when society opens after the pandemic. Mr. Old President! It is a very tough situation that many companies find themselves in because of the coronapndemine. The government has therefore launched a series of support measures to mitigate the impact on both jobs and businesses. By supporting fundamentally viable companies, they can be ready to start again as soon as society begins to open up. Several of these aids can be taken into account by individual traders, such as temporary reductions in employers' contributions and social security contributions, temporary reductions in fixed rental costs in certain sectors, deferral of tax payments and state loan guarantee to SMEs. An important measure is also the turnover aid to individual traders, which is to replace the larger turnover step. The government has proposed that several companies' support be extended in June, as the pandemic continues. One sector that has been severely affected and which also includes many small businesses is the tourism industry. Therefore, the Government has invested SEK 75 million through a commission to the Swedish Agency for Growth to work with development and conversion efforts at the tourism industry. More effective and simplified regulatory frameworks can also support business recovery following the ongoing pandemic. The Government Office is currently preparing new simplification policy objectives. The new targets will form the basis for the government's continued simplification work, which is an important issue for many small businesses. At the moment, the most important effort for companies to restart is to reduce the spread of infection. In order to reduce the spread of infection, we all have a responsibility and must help each other, both by vaccination and, of course, by following the recommendations made by the Public Health Agency.
i-99f77955078f664d-263	Mr. Old President! Thank you for your answer, Minister. This week, the Association of Small Entrepreneurs presented a report by Nima Sanandaji and Erik Sjölander, entitled De Företagsnare 2021. Sweden has about 1.2 million companies, of which about 347 000 are SMEs with at least one employee. These are the companies that are supposed to be the enterprising ones, because they are companies that generate jobs. The report shows that just over 8 per cent of the entrepreneurship companies in Sweden have disappeared in the past year, in the wake of the pandemic. The report is interesting because it points to the link between unemployment and entrepreneurship in municipalities. The municipalities with a large proportion of small businesses have lower unemployment rates, and that is perhaps not surprising in itself because four out of five jobs are created by small and medium-sized enterprises. I therefore believe that the interests of small businesses must be protected. Another direct negative consequence of the non-survival of small businesses is the reduction in tax revenues to the municipalities of the country. According to several surveys, small businesses account for around 30% of the municipal tax revenue, which of course is a large part of the wealth. Mr. Old President! I believe that small businesses are key to many of the problems we will have to deal with after the pandemic, not least unemployment. Unfavourable subsidised labour market intervention is not the solution to the problems we have with unemployment that are now to be pushed back with vigour, but it needs broad and generous efforts that make it easier for companies to grow and employ. Here I believe that small businesses are a large part of the answer. Small businesses are the ones most affected by the effects of the pandemic. When customers have disappeared, state subsidies have been delayed and life's work has not been saved, trust in the government has been cut off, to say the least, which is something I often hear when I'm out meeting small businesses. They do not understand why bureaucracy and complicated regulations should put sticks in the wheels in the middle of a burning pandemic. Nor have we seen the final result as we do not know how many people have managed to save their businesses. For those who walk on their knees but are now beginning to see the light in the tunnel, it is important that the reboot works and that the right efforts are already in place. Here, we in the Swedish Democrats believe, among other things, that employers' contributions need to be reduced for the first two employees in general – not through special treatment for certain groups, which has also been shown to create displacement effects on the labour market. I believe that broad and generous efforts are needed for all companies, small and large, which should dare to invest out of the crisis. In his reply, the Minister mentions that new simplification policy objectives are currently being prepared at the Government Office and that the new targets will form the basis for the government's continued simplification work, which is an important issue for many small businesses. I absolutely share that picture, but in addition to the simplification of the rules, I note that the Minister is lifting the measures taken during the pandemic and is not saying much about what is to happen after the pandemic. Although I agree that regulatory hassle is a huge problem for small businesses, it has been even before the pandemic and during the pandemic, and it will be a problem even after the pandemic. My question to the Government is therefore whether there are any new concrete responses to measures to facilitate the re-launch of business. I also wonder if the Minister has any concrete answers to what rules might change. Or what is new in the proposal? The proposal to simplify the rules also existed before the pandemic.
i-99f77955078f664d-271	Mr. Old President! Yes, many companies live on very small margins during this deep crisis. They've been hit hard by the pandemic. We know that companies in the tourism, cultural and travel sectors – large parts of the service sector, in fact – have seen their revenues fall. They've decreased by 50, 60 or 70 percent-- yes, even over it, 80 to 90 percent. Everyone understands that this is an extremely difficult situation. It is against this background that, since March last year, we have ensured the introduction of support programmes. We have helped with the fixed costs, made sure that you can get help with the liquidity and made sure that you can get help when it comes to sickness pay, etc. We are doing this precisely to try to make sure that we together help to get out of it. We help otherwise healthy companies survive and overwinter this rather harsh situation. We do this, of course, because we are protecting our businesses, but we are also protecting jobs. Before the pandemic, Sweden had the highest employment rate in the European Union. We still do, but of course it is at a lower level than it was before the pandemic; it is 80 000 – 90 000 people who have lost their job in the last year. Is this effective? I think it is very important to be honest and say that when you are experiencing such an incredibly deep and broad crisis as we have done, there will be negative consequences. Nevertheless, we see that many of the support programmes, although sometimes perceived by small businesses in particular as complicated or bureaucratic, have also been effective. When we look at the number of bankruptcies in 2020, we see that they were fewer than in 2019. That does not mean that we can therefore blow the danger over, quite the contrary. We're still in the middle of the pandemic. That is why we have continued to focus on helping and supporting our companies and employees. Although I share the optimism that is now present in many companies – you start to see the light in the tunnel, just as Alexander Christiansson says – we don't really know. We hope, of course, that the current vaccination will be effective both in Sweden and in many other countries and that we can get out of this and the deep crisis. Nevertheless, we know that there are uncertainties. That's why we continue to have a lot of focus on companies. In addition, we are implementing a large number of measures. This means that we make sure that we support the economy. Take the over 100 billion to additional reforms that were in the 2021 budget! It is about keeping consumption going. There should simply be resources for the Swedish people to be able to maintain demand. This is especially true when we get out of the pandemic. Just take one such measure that I know Alexander Christiansson's intended cooperation parties would like to remove, the reinforcement of the unemployment fund for a great many people. It will mean a lot when we get out of the pandemic that there are people who want to shop, visit a restaurant and make that trip, In addition, Mr President-in-Office, we have just presented a budget with additional measures. This applies both to support and to ensuring that we can get out of this stronger once we get started.
i-99f77955078f664d-280	Mr. Old President! Thank you for your answer, Minister. It is still the case that we are talking about things like the support that exists now. What I am looking for is the measures to be taken after the pandemic. It's somewhere that we have to start planning for now. We can't start doing that then. The Minister also mentions that the pandemic has negative consequences for business. But how are we going to solve it? That is what I would like an answer to. Let me just take an example of how individual traders may have been affected during the pandemic. We can take an individual firm, let's say a masseuse, who last spring suffered the pandemic. She entered the register to survive. The masseuse received compensation from the unemployment fund that gave some money for a couple of months so that the rent could be paid, the food could be served to the children and the business could survive. It is an unemployment fund which is, moreover, calculated on the basis of profits after all the costs for an individual trader. This could be compared to a worker who would be allowed to calculate SIG after fixed costs. I think it is completely unreasonable because they pay the same employer's contribution through the self- contribution as everyone else. Summer came, and the business started to roll again. In the fall came the second wave. Individual traders could also benefit from the turnover support, which would keep the masseuse afloat at the end of the year. But not. If you went to an unemployment fund during the year, you cannot take part of the turnover support, the information was received. It came as a cold shower for very many small individual traders. I also wrote a question to the Minister, I think it was in January, on the question of whether it would be possible for those who have been refused aid because of unemployment funds to be able to benefit from the aid retroactively. Unfortunately, however, the answer was no from the Minister. But for the masseuse, it is no longer possible to pay the invoices. She simply goes into personal bankruptcy. Vaccination is getting started, and now society is starting to open up again. After a long dark time for so many small individual traders, the light begins to come in the tunnel. But for the masseuse, payment notes and debts are what remains. How is she going to start her business again? She can't even sign a mobile subscription because of the payment notes that the state indirectly gave her through the restrictions. Mr. Old President! The Coronapendemin 2020 shows that prevention measures of a crisis preparedness nature are needed. This applies, in particular, to the facilitation of becoming indebted, to getting out of debt and to being able to restart their activities. This applies, of course, in the event of a crisis in which the entrepreneur could not foresee the situation. In the spring of 2020, the Swedish Democrats presented a proposal for a committee initiative on the need for the government to make proposals on this. Unfortunately, our initiative did not win. There is still a need to come up with proposals for a crisis preparedness plan for similar situations, so that the problem can be avoided or at least better addressed in the future. As I mentioned in my previous speech, 8% of entrepreneurs have disappeared and many employees have been affected. As the Minister also mentioned, entrepreneurs in hotel and restaurant activities have been particularly vulnerable. A company or a person may be declared bankrupt if the debts cannot be paid. Actual bankruptcies can be likened to redundancies and bring with them rising unemployment. Many people have lost jobs and income, and unemployment is rising. After a crisis, entrepreneurs need help to restart their activities. This is why the Swedish Democrats are determined that a crisis preparedness planning in this area is needed. How are those who are now stuck in debt and payment notes to be helped? This applies in particular to individual traders who have been personally affected by state restrictions during the pandemic. What can the government do to ease the debts and payment notes that hinder the possibility of restarting?
i-99f77955078f664d-294	Mr. Old President! I don't think this is the time to do it. As early as last autumn, when we presented the budget for 2021, we made great efforts precisely to maintain the emergency preparedness and support programmes, but also, of course, to prepare ourselves for the minute that can be reopened. Now Alexander Christiansson says that it depends on the government's restrictions. The truth is – and we have received some criticism for this, but still stood up for – that Sweden is one of the countries that has imposed the least restrictions. It is in the sense that we have not had the type of lockdowns that we have seen in many other countries both in our neighbourhood and in other parts of the world. We have done this precisely to ensure that we do our utmost to save human lives and to curb the infection, but to do so by means of measures that we still know have a certain effect, unlike those that can only be struck with. This has been done in many countries, and it has turned out that it has not been that simple. Clearly, it has meant a great deal to our economic development. It is in many respects better than in many other European countries. Nevertheless, it is – and I think you should be very humble in saying this – that we will have to go through properly what Mr Christiansson is talking about, namely the emergency preparedness, but also the lessons from the pandemic and its effects on health care, human life and the spread of infection and, of course, economics, businesses and jobs. It's just as they say here. It is clear that many companies have experienced and continue to experience a rather tough situation because the pandemic is still continuing. Although we see that the number of bankruptcies decreased in 2020 compared to 2019, this does not mean that it is not companies that have gone bankrupt. That's how it is, and that's how it's been before. But it is important to take it with us that we also see a sharp increase in start-ups during the second half of last year. It is important to take this with you. It's a tough situation for a lot of people. But there are also many who feel the confidence in the future that we are talking about and who are prepared to start operations. We can take the industry that may have been hardest hit by all of them, namely the tourism industry – both on the travel side and hotels and restaurants etc. In addition to the initiatives I describe and the support programmes we have, we are also working in parallel with a tourism strategy. There, together with the industry, we are trying to take in the lessons of the crisis and what we have been through to see: how can we get a real start on a business that went very strongly before the crisis? In many ways it is already a basic industry for Sweden and has the potential to become an even larger and stronger base industry after the crisis. It is clear that we work in close dialogue and in close cooperation with the industry in order to be able to come again. Then it is important to make it structured. It is about resources, but of course also about other elements that can help businesses and the employees there.
i-99f77955078f664d-303	Mr. Old President! After all, the size of the restrictions in itself is not so relevant in this case because small businesses have been affected by the restrictions. No matter how large these were compared to other countries, it is still those who have put companies in this situation. That is my point, and that is what I meant in my last speech. Twenty years ago, Sweden was one of the worst countries to run a business in. Today, we have relatively good conditions thanks to the reforms made to the tax system. Personally, I still think that, for example, regulatory problems, high employers' contributions, skills provision and increased crime are obstacles that hamper growth opportunities for small businesses to an excessive extent. I know that not least myself, who has been self-employed for many years. What I read from the answers, the Social Democrats do not directly have any new proposals for re-launching. And if the Social Democrats get through the tax increases that are being talked about in the party, how does the Minister think it will hit Sweden's small businesses? We can take as an example an increase in capital taxes. Does the Minister of Economic Affairs not see that it creates a lack of clarity and twitchiness, which hampers growth enormously and risks undermining competitiveness? The result is that you do not invest, that you prefer to start a business abroad or simply refrain from starting a business because it becomes more expensive and more difficult. How does the Minister of Economic Affairs believe that taxes on capital, property tax, corporate tax and possibly reintroducing wealth tax will hit the Swedish business community? The Minister himself said that we need strong customers in our country. It is a rhetorical question, for it is clear that it will hit the business world hard, which more than ever depends on a strong customer stock. I know that many people are interested in getting answers from the Swedish Minister for Economic Affairs to this question. I would like an honest answer to that, if possible.
i-99f77955078f664d-309	Mr. Old President! I'm always just as surprised. The Swedish democrats want to call themselves friends of Sweden, but there is no party that is equally occupied by banking the country Sweden in the forwards and describing it as negative as possible. Take what we heard right now, that Sweden would have been one of the worst countries in the world to start and run a business in. After all, it is not in harmony with the truth, either 20 years ago or today. In almost all international comparisons, whether they apply to Europe or are global, Sweden remains high up, both when it comes to setting up and running businesses. It is against this background that we have more and growing companies. Yeah, we're in the middle of a pandemic, with all that means. Then we'll help each other. We use taxpayers' money for that, and it is precisely by taking in taxes. Had we not conducted the fiscal policy we have conducted, saved in the barns, we would never have been able to support our business through the perhaps absolutely worst crisis we have experienced and hopefully need to live through in modern times. Similarly, it is clear that taxes are needed if we are to invest in the supply of skills, which are of course very important for companies, and for infrastructure, energy supply, research, innovation and more. As I said, it seems to be a very great interest of Swedish democrats – who like to call themselves friends of Sweden, which makes it surprising – to beat Mother Svea down in the boot, while saying that we should have very low taxes and still invest in everything. If you are an adult, you can understand that you cannot have the cake and at the same time eat it. It's your choice. Our choice is very clear: we will ensure that we take joint responsibility, both for jobs and for entrepreneurship.
i-99f77955078f664d-315	Mr. Old President! Tobias Andersson has asked me how it is that the government has done no more for regulatory simplification during the pandemic and whether I and the government intend to take any action in the near future. The overall goal of industrial policy is to strengthen Swedish competitiveness and create the conditions for more jobs in more and growing companies. Economic policy is an important part of this work. More effective and simplified regulatory frameworks can also support business recovery following the ongoing pandemic. The Council has taken a number of measures to reduce the costs and constraints that may result from regulatory action. For example, the Swedish Agency for Growth has previously been commissioned by the Government to compile and concrete simplification proposals for companies based on the experience of the Förekling journey. The Government Office is now working on the proposals submitted by the Swedish Agency for Growth. The Government Office is also preparing new objectives for the simplification policy, which are reflected in the budget proposal for 2021. In addition, effective licensing processes are an important issue for the government. The Government has therefore set up an investigation to review the current system of environmental review. The investigation will propose measures to achieve a more modern and effective trial. The Government has also set up an investigation to propose simpler regulatory frameworks for micro-enterprises and modernisations in the Accounting Act. The County Administrative Boards have also been tasked with analysing, among other things, the possibilities of improving the efficiency of their review activities. D a series of initiatives aimed at reducing the complexity and are expected to lead to concrete simplifications for a wide range of companies, which is positive in the light of the ongoing coronapndemine.
i-99f77955078f664d-321	Mr. Old President! For a long time, the regulatory burden has increased for the Swedish business community, as have the costs of the same and for the additional administration. The Swedish democrats have therefore repeatedly campaigned for relief in this area. We have proposed structural changes concerning, for example, a new regime for regulatory implementation and a halt to the over-implementing of EU directives. However, we have also criticised individual unjustified rules such as the dance state and the hotel state. Had the government carried out active regulatory simplification before the pandemic, it would have made it easier for the business community once the consequences of the pandemic had affected it. It can only be regretted that this did not happen. However, it is directly remarkable that the government has not taken the opportunity now, during the pandemic, to implement a comprehensive policy of simplification. For a year, parts of the business community have been hard-pressed and have become directly dependent on the support measures that the opposition has managed to push through. It is possible to discuss the accuracy of the support measures, their size and the length of their processing, but they have been needed. As we emerge from the pandemic, they will need to be stepped off and artificial breathing will end. In order to facilitate restarting, structural changes are needed to ensure that it is not hampered by costly and unjustified regulatory burden and administration. Unfortunately, the government has not acted in favour of this during the pandemic despite both time and proposals, not least from the final report of the simplification journey. Instead, the work has stopped. Again, Ibrahim Baylan and the government have blamed the lack of regulatory simplification on the pandemic. Don't get me wrong, Mr. Old President. I have every respect and understanding that the pandemic has been a great test for both the government and the parliament, but not least for Swedish citizens and companies. No one can blame Ibrahim Baylan for not prioritising regulatory simplification in the beginning of the pandemic, during the then prevailing chaotic forms. Nor can it be said that active regulatory simplification would be the most appropriate measure to take at an early stage to support the affected traders. On the other hand, it is directly clear that active regulatory simplification, combined with structural and process changes in this area, will allow for a faster recovery of the affected parts of the economy. Once we reopen society, it would be directly devastating if the government still failed in this area. Then we have missed an excellent opportunity to implement much-needed measures. Perhaps the clearest example of Ibrahim Baylan's failure and the government's failure in this area is the absence of the new simplification policy objectives, which should have been included in the autumn budget but which have not yet been presented to Parliament. Time and again they have been postponed, and now they will only be dealt with in Parliament after the summer due to the government's snail speed. In other words, they risk being delayed for a whole year. Can Ibrahim Baylan explain and defend why this has been the case?
i-99f77955078f664d-330	Mr. Old President! It's very simple. Prio number one for the government and of course for the Ministry of Enterprise has been to curb the infection and save human lives. As far as enterprise policy is concerned, priority one, priority two and priority three have been the same: to ensure support for Swedish companies and employees through this crisis – to help them overwinter. I think we all share the view that this crisis has been going on for far too long. We are all rather tired of it, as individuals and individuals, but of course also as entrepreneurs. For more than a year, parts of the service sector have now lost between 50 and 100% of their turnover because they do not have revenue. It is clear that it has been very important for those companies to have an active government to support them when they do not have revenue and turnover in terms of liquidity, for it is clear that it will quickly end if you do not have any revenue. It has also been important for those companies with a government that helps with the fixed costs, because if there is no revenue, it is difficult to pay fixed costs regardless of whether it is the rent or other fixed costs, and a government that ensures that the wage costs are supported and helped. I think most people want to keep their employees as much as possible, but if you do not get support and help, it will be extremely difficult to do so. The answer to Tobias Andersson's question is, Mr President-in-Office, that this government has prioritised and will continue to give priority to supporting Swedish business and employees through this crisis so that as many healthy companies as possible survive this crisis and as many Swedish employees as possible can remain at their jobs. We know from the experience of past crises, albeit not as broad, deep or long as this – the financial crisis is an example – that if you do not help out, you risk losing businesses but, above all, jobs that then do not come back. It's the experience. That is why the government has prioritised and will continue to prioritise, as long as we are in the midst of this crisis, the work to support the Swedish business community. We do this with a dozen different support programmes and are well up in 14 or 15 additional amending budgets, which we have presented in addition to the regular ones, with hundreds and hundreds of billions – I think we are up to 400 billion – who have gone to support different parts of Swedish society, including the Swedish companies. In parallel with this, of course, we have also continued to push for some processes. I presented some of the things we did. One of the things that repeatedly came up regardless of where I was in the country when I made my simplification journey was the issue of permit processes. It wasn't just about the rules. There were many who said that they understood the acquis but not the application of it. How can it be applied in one way on one side of the county border and in another way on the other side of the county border? It has been different in different municipalities. We have continued to work on this, both against the state authorities and looking at the regulations themselves. We have appointed investigators to go through this and ensure that we have more effective and simple decision-making processes without compromising the interests that I believe we all share, namely clean environment, clean water, clean air, etc. Mr. Old President! The answer is that we have prioritised supporting Swedish business through this crisis, and we will continue to do so.
i-66GjUAmJL5yZhRzxkVVrHu	Mr. Old President! Thank you for the answer, Ibrahim Baylan! I can only say that I am aware of the support measures taken by Parliament and the Government. After all, I and the Swedish Democrats have been most involved in ensuring that they have arrived. Where I and Ibrahim Baylan differ are in view of what constitutes an aid measure. It is undeniably the case, as I touched on in my first speech, that if we had had an active policy of simplification, we would also have been able to remove the wet blanket that dampens parts of the business community and has been able to facilitate the re-launch. In order to give the business community the conditions it deserves, we need to carry out active regulatory simplification work. It is a form of support measure that the government has unfortunately left entirely behind. But despite the government's substandard work in this area, the Riksdag has continued its persistent work in this area. As letter 75 showed when it was dealt with recently in the Committee on Economic Affairs, most of the announcements are on the table of the government, which has been refused. Even more may be involved in Parliament's discussion of the motion report on simplification before the summer comes. The announcements that already exist and that the government has not been able to complete are that more state authorities should be tasked with facilitating entrepreneurship in Sweden, that the government should come up with additional measures to simplify entrepreneurship and increase digital interaction between public authorities, that the government should try to use so-called sunset clauses, which means that a provision does not last until further notice but needs to be reviewed at a certain time to ensure its impact, and that the government should work to ensure that EU directives are implemented in national law in a way that does not put companies' competitiveness at a disadvantage. The starting point should be that EU directives should be introduced at a minimum level in national legislation and that, where there is reason to exceed this minimum level, the impact on businesses should be clearly identified. In other words, there are plenty of existing proposals for action to be taken when it comes to regulatory simplification, partly on the basis of these announcements. In addition, there are a number of concrete and ready-made proposals following the so-called simplification journey that Ibrahim Baylan has highlighted in this interpellation. He often talks hotly about the trip that took place earlier during his term of office. The final report presented after this trip contains several proposals on both individual rules and process improvements that the government has not yet acted on. In the near future, further proposals will rain in to the government as the simplification investigation will soon be completed. Mr. Old President! Against this background, one has to ask why the government has not come any further to meet these announcements and why Ibrahim Baylan has not gone ahead with concrete proposals that already exist, which have already been presented to the government and which have already received support from relevant parts of the business community and other stakeholders. As I said, we have several announcements where the Riksdag has said to the government: Please, do this to make it easier for the Swedish business community! Nevertheless, Ibrahim Baylan and the government have chosen to stop at work and not to move forward, not to advance and not to carry out effective regulatory simplification work.
i-99f77955078f664d-346	Mr. Old President! I can assure Tobias Andersson and those who listen that there is an active work going on – I have explained some of this – and we will of course continue to do so. Tobias Andersson says, on the one hand, that nothing is going on and, on the other hand, that there will be proposals for investigations. These investigative proposals come because the government has appointed these investigators because we want to ensure that we have the most effective regulatory framework possible. Add what is also happening during this pandemic, namely that we, individuals, authorities and companies, are now using digital technology at a completely different level than we did before. This applies both to the management of companies and to the authorities. It offers huge opportunities to speed up the simplification process. Sometimes it can be a simplification of a rule, sometimes it can be about the application of that rule and sometimes, in fact quite often, it can be a question of digitising the way you work – where the Tax Agency is a good example – and thus simplifies for the individual but also wins a lot of time and therefore also resources that you can reallocate to other things. Mr. Old President! Although the Government Office is large, it is smaller than the Government Offices in many other countries, it does not have unlimited resources. We can take as an example the issues we are now discussing, simplifications of the rules. There are two people at the Ministry of Enterprise who work with these. When we entered the acute crisis in March last year, we all had to help each other, as we have seen in many other parts of our society: in health care and in care for the elderly; we help each other when it is very tough. Then, as I said, the order of priority is to give priority to the development of support measures, to save as many healthy businesses as possible and to ensure that employees do not need to leave their jobs unnecessarily. In addition, according to the current laws and regulations we have, simple questions and interpellations always go before – Tobias Andersson knows that. There are certain deadlines. It is both the duty and the right of the Riksdag to review the Government and the work of the Government. Then, of course, the government will also respond within a fixed time. That is the order of priority. In addition, as I said, we have pushed the work that I am talking about. And we will continue to do so, for all reasons. Among other things, we do this for the sake of companies. But from my point of view, however, every crown you invest in unnecessary bureaucracy is a wasted crown. Add to this the enormous opportunities that are now emerging. Thanks to the growing digital technology and the maturity of both our entrepreneurs and citizens and public authorities, there are also great opportunities to look at not only regulatory changes and the application of these rules; how we use digital technology will also be able to revolutionise this. As I said, we use the Swedish Tax Agency as a role model. I think we've all seen what their journey has meant over the years.
i-99f77955078f664d-354	Madam President, I would like Once again, I would like to thank Ibrahim Baylan for his reply. When Ibrahim Baylan boasts that an investigation has been set up to look at simplification measures, we should bear in mind that the Ministry of Industry did its utmost to stifle it. In fact, it required a letter from the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, NNR, the Entrepreneurs and so on with an invitation to the government to provide the resources needed for the investigation to even be able to come to fruition. So if I had been Ibrahim Baylan, I would have been careful to point to the investigation as something positive that the government is behind, backing and providing the necessary support. This has not always been the case. I understand that there are limited resources. I understand that there are different priorities. What I have tried to emphasise in this interpellation debate is the fact that there is already a proper basis. There are issues that do not need further investigation. There are suggestions for action from well-informed stakeholders, from the Förkling journey, from the announcements in the Riksdag and so on. It would have been able to take hold of these and would have been able to act without having required an unreasonable workload. For example, there has long been parliamentary support to stop over-implementing EU directives. Nevertheless, the government blames the EU instead of doing something for itself when letter 75 was recently handled. Madam President, I would like The question I ask myself is whether Ibrahim Baylan has managed to carry out any simplification, remove any rule or change any process to make it easier for business. Is there anything that he has actually managed to row in port, that has come about? I don't mean anything that's stuck in an investigation or that the government is going to deal with without something concrete. Can the Minister of Economic Affairs give such an example?
i-99f77955078f664d-359	Madam President, I would like We were told this week that the Swedish Democrats have the ambition to become governmentable and to ask for the voter's confidence to be part of a government or in close government cooperation with the Moderates and Christian Democrats. When you listen to Tobias Andersson you become aware of how extremely long that journey is. They believe that a proposal which is then to be submitted in a proposal to the Riksdag is sufficient without ensuring that proper documentation is produced, the consequences and the costs for companies or the public are reviewed and that it is subject to judicial review. You need to investigate the issue, you need experts and lawyers to look through it and you need economists to review the consequences and how many millions or billions it will cost. They think you can only shoot from the hip and say: However, it is against this background that we continue to push forward, through investigations and also concrete proposals. Tobias Andersson would like to hear concrete proposals. I have already mentioned a number of concrete proposals that we have presented. There is one more thing, which I have not mentioned, but which also came up during the simplification journey: ex post charging. As an example, the government has moved on with and introduced it in the food sector. We will, of course, look at the other proposals and make it easier as far as possible for our companies. Every crown of unnecessary bureaucracy, as I said, is a squandered crown that is needed elsewhere, especially after this pandemic.
i-99f77955078f664d-363	Madam President, I would like Mr Arin has asked me what urgent measures I intend to take to speed up the processing and payment of lay-off payments to Sweden's entrepreneurs. Madam President, I would like The current pandemic has had major consequences for many companies, and the restaurant sector is one of the sectors that is particularly vulnerable. In order for affected companies to overcome the crisis, the government has presented a number of support that the restaurant industry can take part in. The aid has been used to a large extent. We see, for example, that they go to a large extent to, among other things, the tourism industry, including the restaurant industry. The possibility of re-opening support for short-term work for the period December 2020 to June 2021 will open on 29 March this year, and the Swedish Agency for Growth started payments during week 14. In order to speed up the process, the Swedish Agency for Growth has recruited more than 200 new administrators since early 2021, and the Swedish Agency for Growth has received additional funds to reduce the processing times, among other things. Madam President, I would like In parallel with the short-term aid, there are other aid measures, such as conversion aid, turnover aid to individual traders, credit guarantees – the so-called Enterprise Act – and the aid granted through the tax account after the grant of a tax deferral. In order to save more jobs and businesses, the government has also proposed that several of these subsidies be extended in June.
i-F71wqj1cW7cR2f2BmyLzWi	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Enterprise Ibrahim Baylan, for your answer! Madam President, I would like We'll be in on the 15th month with the coronapndemine. Covid-19 has hit our society hard and has reaped many lives. Many have had to limit themselves. It has been necessary to reduce the spread of infection. It is an economic crisis, and we are still in that crisis. The restaurant business is one of the industries that covid-19 has hit hardest against. It's a staff-intensive industry. Managing a restaurant is not like running an industrial company where production can be planned, where orders come and where there are long lead times. If you run a restaurant you do not know when you open at 10 or 11 o'clock in the morning how many guests come during the day. It can be from zero to several hundred. The restaurants have had to limit the number of guests and ensure that guests keep their distance. An alcohol stop has been introduced, that is, the last serving is at 8:00. And at 8:30, everyone has to leave the restaurant. These are also tough controls and restrictions. If you run such a staff-intensive business and the compensation is not paid, the bankruptcy is waiting around the corner. I am fully aware that it is not possible to save everything in a crisis by providing public money, but there are restrictions which, in principle, almost prohibit trade. It would have been much better if you had just told all the restaurants that they would shut down and just drive home deliveries. It would then have been possible to develop a similar type of outage insurance or similar support. There are many options. But we're not there. In spite of the fact that many entrepreneurs are doing the right thing, the compensation has not been paid. It has been a lengthy bureaucracy and long lead times. I'm not saying the government hasn't come forward with corona support. You've done that, but what's the point of the support if the money freezes in? Wages must be paid out, and bills must be paid. This is a highly staff-intensive industry. We know that people lose their jobs there. The restaurant industry is one of the sectors with the lowest thresholds for entry, both as a young person and as an immigrant. The industry is a perfect example of how immigrants who have come to Sweden have saved money, perhaps taken loans, borrowed from their relatives or joined relatives to start a business, thereby enabling a much brighter future for their children. However, this industry has taken a lot of beatings. As I said, it is a staff-intensive industry, and we know that the margins there are very small at normal times. In the industry, it is difficult to obtain credit. You live on small margins. I'd like to ask the Minister for Economic Affairs a question. In the written reply, I can read that during week 14 payments have been started for the quarter that has been. But what is the answer to those restaurant owners who have not received their lay-off support since August?
i-99f77955078f664d-375	Madam President, I would like I smiled a little when Arin Karapet described many of those who come into the restaurant business as young and immigrants because I recognized myself so well in it. Here's the thing. It is not only about new arrivals, but also many young people have this as their first job. Over the years, I have opened and closed restaurants and I can illustrate exactly what Arin Karapet is talking about. You don't know in advance how many guests you get. I learned early in the restaurant where I worked that the weather played a big part. If it was sunny, the day went very slowly. Because the restaurant was in a department store, people didn't go in. However, if it rained, the day went very quickly. Often you also had to go without lunch; you worked all the time. Here's the thing. In this way, this industry does not have the same predictability as the industry. Add to that, Madam President, the tough situation we have had as a result of the pandemic. Now Arin Karapet says we should have shut down. It is not, of course, the proposal put forward by his party, and I believe that there has been a great consensus in Parliament not to go into unnecessary lockdowns with dubious results. We have seen them in a number of other countries, and there is no clear answer as to whether it would have helped. Now we are in the 14th month since March last year when this started. Unfortunately, it would not only have been the restaurant business that we would have had to close if we had followed Mr Arin's proposal. With some small exception, the travel industry has been in a crisis at the end of summer and early autumn, where between 80 and 100 percent of the revenue is gone. We all know how extremely tough it has been in the cultural sector. The same applies to other parts of the service sector, such as the hotel industry. Madam President, I would like We have tried to introduce general support for a number of sectors to help when revenue for various reasons fails. It could be because of the pandemic or restrictions. We will continue to do so because it is important to ensure that healthy companies can survive. However, Madam President, during this year many of the subsidies have been considerably higher than we or anyone else initially predicted. We've almost had to build a whole new business. Let us take short-term aid as an example. Last March, zero people worked with this support because it did not exist. More than 500 people are now working on this at the Swedish Agency for Growth. In answer to your question about what we are doing: we have provided resources so that qualified officials can be hired to deal with this. Let me give examples of what this has meant. On 29 March, the round of short-term aid was opened for 2021. On 13 April 13 461 applications had been received. Of these, 4 319 applications had already been accepted for a total of 699 million, according to the Swedish Agency for Growth. Of course you're working on it. When will there be delays? Yes, when there are ambiguities with the application or when it is difficult to establish a dialogue with the company that made the application. Then it may be a while. It does not necessarily mean that it is something strange, but when you use so much of the taxpayers' money, you still have to make checks.
i-99f77955078f664d-383	Madam President, I would like No, I'm not in favour of a lockdown. I just took it as an example, but let me clarify it. When you say there is support, you also give hope. This is money that companies have been involved in producing through both their employees and their businesses. However, when subsidies are not paid, bills are still dimming down in the mailbox and wages have to be paid – the employees have a rent to pay. In the restaurant business, you have a special relationship with your employees. As the Minister for Economic Affairs said, Madam President, in our families we have both restaurant owners and family members who have worked in the restaurant industry. There you know how important it is to have a loyal waitress, bartender or cook. It is very difficult to find excellence and someone with high work ethic – the one who always stands up when someone else is sick or when you have a big booking, for example at holidays. This wears on the body, but you have a special relationship with the employees and you may feel that without that particular person the business will end. I was talking about lengthy bureaucracy. For example, I can tell you about the historic restaurant Löwenbräu on Kungsholmen. It has served the Stockholms fantastic German beer and schnitzel. As long as you think about the schnitzel, you want to go there and put your teeth in it. For 110 years the Stockholms have served high-quality food. There is a completely different atmosphere where the manager, the worker and the lonely person, perhaps the pensioner, can meet at the bar. Why? Well, you love that schnitzel and the cold beer. This has disappeared – temporarily. However, it is important that restaurants like Löwenbräu survive. Because if they go bankrupt, such meetings are no longer possible. What has happened, Madam President, is that you have the right to short-term leave. The Minister for Economic Affairs will tell you about the applications. My question, however, concerns the long-winded bureaucracy that speaks of comparative months when someone may have been ill for a few days. These are small details that prevent you from getting a compensation that is at thousands of crowns because an administrator will again look at an application that probably ends up in another queue where there are several weeks' waiting time. After that, you can pick it up again. If there is something we are good at in Sweden, it is bureaucracy. We're masters in it. There's nothing to be fooled with. My question to the Minister for Economic Affairs is: Should entrepreneurs like Löwenbräu have to sell off assets in order to pay wages? They've been involved in paying taxes before. Another restaurant owner I heard about has taken over the million in loans from Spendrups to pay wages. At the same time, they know that they are entitled to compensation from the state, but the money is freezing in because of the bureaucracy. How will the Minister speed up payments to companies entitled to compensation?
i-99f77955078f664d-389	Madam President, I would like The easiest answer is that we ensure that the Swedish Agency for Growth receives additional resources. We have provided these – over 400 million at the beginning of the year, in addition to the resources they received last year, and another 260 million in the first quarter. This has meant that they have been able to continue to employ people. They have gone from zero employees who worked on this March 2020 to over 500 people who sit daily and work on this. In parallel, we have paid out over 30 billion in short-term aid to date. I'd say we're up to 33 to 34 billion that's been paid. Of course – precisely the reasons we discuss – the restaurant and visitor industry is one of the industries that has received the most. Of course, when we spend so much of taxpayers' money, it is also important that we ensure that they end up in the very hands of companies that are entitled to them and do not end up in the hands of organised crime or scammers. Are there, then, such risks? Yes, former National Police Commissioner Stefan Strömberg has submitted a report on the risks involved and what it could mean if it is open. Then some reason: Yes, but if 5 percent goes wrong? Is that not less important in this context? But tell me that this short-term aid is landing at 40 billion; how much it will be, none of us know today. 5% would then mean that 2 billion of taxpayers' money would end up in the pocket of people who are not entitled to it. It could be organized crime or other scammers. No, we can't stand up for that. We must ensure that these resources are put right. What does this mean? Should we accept any length of waiting time? No, we're not. It is against this background that we are actively working to ensure that the Swedish Agency for Growth can hire people and thus handle these applications. It is also against this background that I describe the situation with regard to the applications that have been submitted. 13 461 applications were received from 29 March to 13 April. In these two weeks, the Swedish Growth Agency handled and approved 4,319 of these to a total of SEK 699 million. Of course, further action can be taken. My picture today is that they have strengthened and refined their work. If the application is complete and correctly made it usually goes quite much faster. But it may also be that there are ambiguities. As Mr Arin says, the restaurant industry is an industry where the number of employees can shift over the season. We all know that. It can go up and down quite a lot. For example, when you do a check at the Tax Authority and you notice that the number for which it has been applied for and the number for which employers' contributions have been paid is not the same, it does not have to be weird in itself. This may be precisely because the number of employees goes up and down. But you have to ask the question-- that's reasonable. If that process goes smoothly enough, it will also go faster. If, on the other hand, there are and continue to be ambiguities, it takes longer. That's why we've been providing resources. We have seen examples where it has gone far too far. That's not good. That is also why, as has been said, we have contributed more than 700 million to hiring additional people in order to manage this support, which is there for companies to overwinter. In addition – I would like to emphasise this – we have introduced nine additional subsidies that the restaurant industry has been able to take part in various parts.
i-99f77955078f664d-396	Madam President, I would like This could be summed up by the fact that there is a great deal of support. Companies such as Volvo have economic muscles, a whole department of lawyers and economists and a HR department. But perhaps the small individual entrepreneur has only himself. When you're going to get help with something, you use an external service that usually costs a lot. As we hear, it is not just a support. The Moderates have come forward with a proposal to transfer short-term lay-off to conversion aid. If you are granted conversion aid, you can well show that you are a spotless entrepreneur. It is better if fewer authorities have a relationship with the green-marked company and manage the contacts and processes. As a restaurant owner or shop owner – or a small business owner regardless of industry – there is usually no time for government contacts. You are completely dependent on making sure that the company goes around. You have customers. You have to deliver. Usually these people also have a family to look after. Very rarely do they have their own leisure time. The Moderates have therefore come forward with the proposal to add short-term lay-off to the conversion aid. Oversteps the processing time four weeks – pay out the aid and do thorough post-checks! No, money should not be paid out to organised crime. But we also know that it is when companies go bankrupt that organised crime beats the claws of restaurants. Just look at the reports from Norrköping and Östergötland.
i-99f77955078f664d-400	Madam President, I would like These are, of course, urgent issues. When we hopefully come out of this crisis one day, we will obviously have to go through this properly to see what has been good but also to see what has broken and to make sure to remedy this. There is much to learn from such a deep, wide and above all long crisis. With regard to the concrete issues of making further changes in the way these subsidies are managed, I can say that I think it would be very unwise to make further changes in the midst of this, which is now under way in the way I have described, which would delay support for companies. The sum of some of these aids may land at 30, 40 or 50 billion– we do not really know. I think that many who listen are surprised that the Moderates are prepared to pay out so much of taxpayers' money in the hope that they can be recovered afterwards if things go wrong. Everyone understands that it only works if it is honest entrepreneurs who have pure flour in the bag. If they do not have pure flour in the bag, we will not see the smoke of these considerable resources from taxpayers' money. Yes, we already have problems with organised crime as it is today. We should not ensure that these criminals can easily throw themselves over billions of taxpayers' money and thus grow stronger. We will make sure to support our companies. It's supposed to be order and order. But we shall also have controls, so that the money goes to the companies that are entitled to them and that have pure flour in the bag, as the lion's share of Sweden's companies of course have.
i-99f77955078f664d-404	Madam President, I would like Alexandra Anstrell has asked me how I intend to ensure that the Swedish Agency for Growth is given the opportunity to take the right decisions on short-term aid, how I intend to ensure that the responsible authority pays aid promptly to the persons who are entitled to it and what the timetable for it looks like, and whether it is my assessment that there is a need for clarification in the regulatory framework and what measures I take in that case. The government is working intensively to deal with the consequences of the ongoing pandemic and has presented several support measures to mitigate the economic impact on businesses and entrepreneurs. One of these aids is the aid for short-term work. The scope of the aid has exceeded all initial forecasts in terms of both the duration of the aid, the number of applications and the total amount of aid paid. In addition, it has meant a very large and new task for the Swedish Agency for Growth. The Government has therefore, on a number of occasions, provided the Swedish Agency for Growth with funds to ensure that it is possible to manage the processes surrounding the support during short-term work as efficiently as possible. In order, among other things, to shorten the processing times, the Swedish Agency for Growth has received an additional SEK 265 million in appropriations through an additional amending budget, which was decided by the Riksdag on 24 March this year. The Swedish Agency for Growth has also recruited nearly 2 5 0 new administrators since the beginning of 2021 to speed up the process. It goes without saying that the existing laws and regulations should be complied with. It is clear that the Swedish Agency for Growth has failed to deal with appeals. Now it is important that the Authority takes strong action to prevent it happening again. The Government Office also has close contacts with the Swedish Agency for Growth, and the agency is working on an action plan that will be followed up continuously to ensure that it has the desired effect. Madam President, I would like From 29 March this year, companies economically affected by the coronapandemine have been able to apply for short-term support for the period December 2020 to June 2021. Payments of aid granted to enterprises started in week 14. Companies applying for support for the entire period from December 2020 to June 2021 will be able to receive six months of support after the application has been granted, i.e. for December 2020 to May 2021. The companies then make a reconciliation in July and then, if necessary, apply for support for the month of June.
i-99f77955078f664d-409	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. The commission review revealed before Easter that the Swedish Agency for Growth has repeatedly made wrong decisions regarding short-term support to companies under the coronapandemine. One of the errors relates to the so-called comparative month, which is used to see what level of pay the employees of an applicant company have been on. The agency uses the wrong month and does not comply with the law, according to both the Administrative Court and the Administrative Court of Appeal in Stockholm. In at least 20 judgments, the Administrative Court has found that the Swedish Agency for Growth does not comply with the law regarding the reference month. The Swedish Agency for Growth has tried to pursue cases further but has been denied leave to appeal in the Administrative Court of Appeal. They have now appealed to the Supreme Administrative Court. However, several of the judges have already gained legal force, and by the end of March more than 5,200 appeals were high to be settled in the administrative court. So, Madam President, this is not just a case. Moreover, it has now become apparent that many of the cases are not complete. There are a lot of things missing in the various cases, because it takes even longer before it can determine what is right and what is wrong. The Minister says in his reply that the Swedish Agency for Growth has failed in handling appeals and that it is important that the agency now takes strong action to prevent this happening again. The Minister also said in a previous debate that the solution is more money for the Swedish Agency for Growth. I still have to ask the question: if the Swedish Agency for Growth interprets the laws in its own way, is not the solution anything more than more money? Further problems that many entrepreneurs have heard from are that the Swedish Agency for Growth is said to be an authority where you do not get your own administrator to have contact with. V id telephone contact with Tillväxtverket there is no one who can answer where in the handling matter is or when one can expect an answer. It is also extremely long response times. Is the Minister and the Government okay with us having an authority whose behaviour is perceived to testify that service is completely lacking and which is perceived to be opposed to entrepreneurship and thus also its own name, the Swedish Agency for Growth? Some entrepreneurs have now been without support throughout the pandemic period. They have continued to pay wages, taxes and employers' contributions. But somewhere, everything ends. The question is only what ends first – the pandemic or the energy of entrepreneurs. When making new applications, companies must answer the question of whether the company is in default. After up to 13 months without payment of aid, many people have to answer yes to that question. In that case, the application will almost automatically be removed because aid will only be paid to viable companies. Many companies will therefore not be able to apply because they have become insolvent because of the Tllväxtverket's inability to deal with their cases. I wonder, Madam President, how the Minister views this. What does the Minister say to these entrepreneurs when aid is not forthcoming? In practice, entrepreneurs are forced to sleep with money for up to 13 months. When are the subsidies coming?
i-99f77955078f664d-420	Madam President, I would like I'll take the last question first. As far as complete documents are concerned, as I said in the previous debate, it is in this round, from December onwards, which opened on 29 March, 13 461 applications received until 13 April. During the two weeks, 4 319 of these applications have already been accepted, and the amount granted is 699 million. And you're supposed to get back to work. Why is it faster now? Because, step by step, we have ensured that they can employ additional staff. After all, as I have said in previous debates, Madam President, this is an activity that did not exist last March because, thankfully, we have not suffered a pandemic in the past. But now we did, and it is against that background that they have been given resources. It is not about money but about having qualified officials who can take on the many applications that have been submitted. Of course, it is not the case, as Alexandra Anstrell is trying to say, that no companies have received support. The vast majority have received short-term support; more than 32 billion net has been paid since March last year. A great many people have been able to benefit from conversion aid, as well as from aid for employers' contributions, tax deferrals and so on. During such a deep crisis, in which many companies for far too long have experienced and felt that revenue is running out, it is clear that we are helping each other and making sure that you can overwinter. This does not mean, of course, that we can promise that there will be no negative consequences; I think we all understand that. Some of the issues raised by Alexandra Anstrell, Madam President, are difficult for me to get into. We have the order in our country, according to the constitution we have, that the government submits proposals, proposals, to the Riksdag. The Parliament makes law, and the law is then issued by the Government. We then have a strict ban on the government and individual ministers to influence or engage in the application of these laws. It stands for the authorities, especially against individuals. This is the very definition of ministerial government, which is strictly prohibited. In addition, we have a distinction between the judiciary, the government and the parliament, which I believe we fully agree on. There's even a word for this-- it's called not to infuriate them. As long as there is a court case going on, as Alexandra Anstrell raises, I am prevented from getting into that discussion. However, I have been very clear, and when it turned out that more than 5 000 appeals were raised, I called the management of the Swedish Agency for Growth to the Ministry of Enterprise. They had to explain the reasons for this, but above all what action they should take to ensure both that it is speeded up and that it never happens again. They have presented an action plan which we will follow up strictly and continuously to ensure that it is implemented, Madam President. In addition, as I said, we have provided resources, and we see that the system is running again, along with many of the other support systems. Does this mean that everyone who has applied will receive compensation? No, of course it doesn't. The vast majority will have it, but for this to be the case, one must of course meet the conditions laid down by the government and the parliament.
i-99f77955078f664d-430	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. The Minister says, on the one hand, that you must not have ministerial rule and, on the other hand, that you should follow up an action plan that has been decided on to see if it has the desired effect. It is obvious to do certain things, but only the things that the government itself wants. The restaurant business is on its knees and the travel industry as well. In January I had a similar debate with the Minister. The Minister then said that the government is constantly analysing the need for the necessary measures for business in a very difficult time. I wonder when the Minister will stop analysing and instead start acting. Is there a red thread in government action? Does the Red-Green Government not want to retain a tourism industry when the pandemic is over? Is that why the Minister and the government refuse to act in order for these companies, which have been viable, to receive the support they need? Obviously, they do not receive all the support that is promised. Today and in the past, the Minister for Industry has referred to a number of decisions that have been taken, and the government has also produced a lot of amending budgets. Yet there are very many entrepreneurs who are screaming for help and have not been reached by the promised subsidies. So there are entrepreneurs such as Jannica at Resedmannning, who are waiting to get money paid out since the summer. That is, in fact, totally unacceptable! If it's going to be that long, something must be really wrong. Now it is not just one company that has it in this way, but there are quite a few. Does the Minister not agree that it seems very strange? Aid shall be paid to healthy undertakings. But how should a company remain healthy and benefit from the various subsidies if you do not receive the money you have applied for? It will be a bit of a part 22; the Minister agrees with that, won't he? Since the start of the pandemic, the government has promised and promised, but it is clear among Sweden's entrepreneurs that it is perceived as a lot of talk and a little workshop. Earlier this year, the Minister has stated that in order for us to overwinter, we must help each other over this period. I'd like to remember that he said that earlier today, too. The question then is: with what part does the Minister and the Government help to overwinter when aid does not reach everywhere? It's a bit like looking at a buffet through a glass pane or ordering a dish that then goes up in smoke. When will the government understand, an entrepreneur asked me yesterday. When will it be understood that the tourism industry in Sweden is about to end? When does the government intend to assume its responsibilities, roll up its sleeves and make decisions that actually produce results in the end? Quite a long time ago, on 7 October, the Minister replied to a written question to analyse and monitor developments. Then one wonders how it actually goes with the desire to follow the developments and with the analysis. After all, none of this really matters if you do not intend to act, so that you can see that subsidies reach out all the way. In debate after debate and in question after question, we wonder what is needed for the government to act to ensure that the support that is promised also reaches all entrepreneurs. Many are now no longer on their knees, Minister. A lot of people walk on the corner teeth, if that's what it is. You have borrowed yourself and your families and have not been able to take out wages for a long time. Entrepreneurs are encouraged to hold on and endure. But if the subsidies do not arrive, how will they endure? They still have to get food on the tables.
i-99f77955078f664d-441	Madam President, I would like Since this crisis began to hit us – it was in China before that – this government has both put forward proposals and received Parliament's approval for some fifteen additional amending budgets. Some ten aid measures have been introduced. Many billions of taxpayers' money has been paid to companies that need support, whether it has been for fixed costs or for wage costs when revenues have been frozen due to the pandemic. That is the case; it is a fact. I myself have been in the opposition role for eight years, and perhaps it is part of the opposition role to constantly argue that nothing happens. However, in this particular period, what Alexandra Anstrell says appears to be very de facto for the many taxpayers who are watching this debate. Take short-term support, for example. Over the past 13 months, we have paid 33 - 34 billion dollars of taxpayers' money to save as many people as possible at work and to save our companies. Add conversion aid and many of the other aids. They've been effective. How, then, can I say this even though businesses are affected? Well, companies are being hit because we're in the middle of a pandemic. Unfortunately, that is the case. I can say this because if we compare the number of bankruptcies, we can see that, thankfully, there were fewer bankruptcies during the pandemic year 2020 than it was in 2019. It is clear, then, that aid has been effective. Everyone understands that without the aid there would have been many more bankruptcies than they are today. What 2021 will look like, of course, we will have to look at when the year is over. Against this background, we will continue with the support. Yes, there have been some delays and problems, especially for those applications that have not been complete or where the right data has been difficult to obtain. Yes, there have been deficiencies at the Swedish Agency for Growth. I try to interpret my fellow human beings positively, but it actually sounded as if Alexandra Anstrell encouraged me to enter into authority against individuals or to interfere in a court proceedings that are ongoing. As Alexandra Anstrell says, the Swedish Agency for Growth has appealed to the Supreme Administrative Court on the question of the comparative month, which means that it is a legal process that is under way. I take it more like a rhetorical point when she says that the Minister certainly does nothing but call for me to violate the Constitution or go into court proceedings, because that is what it sounded like otherwise. Madam President, I would like It's a tough situation. Unfortunately, it will continue to be until we get the vaccination through in Sweden and in many other countries. We're going to have to keep helping each other. Then it is both for companies and for employees. After all, we fully agree on aid to businesses, although not always the methods. However, I was a little surprised by the last thing Alexandra Anstrell said about food on the table, and I would like to ask her a question about it. I share her view, but why is it important in this situation to cut back support for employees? Why do the Moderates want to remove the additional crisis support that we, together with the Center Party and the Liberals, have introduced with regard to precisely the temporary increase in unemployment benefit because it is a crisis and almost 100 000 people have lost their jobs? Isn't it important for employees to have food on the table, Alexandra Anstrell?
i-99f77955078f664d-450	Madam President, I would like If you make a decision, you want it to be a certain way. If this is not the case, you may need to change your decision. In my previous speeches, I have tried to say that we have now had this debate for a long time – that is how it feels – but not as long as some entrepreneurs have been without support. I find that remarkable. Many people's lives, future dreams and savings are already gone, and many more will disappear before this crisis is over. It is devastating to hear their stories, how they have mortgaged themselves and the families and how they reposition and adapt and yet are punished. Yes, we are still in a tough position in the difficult pandemic. It's a situation that's tough for a lot of people. Then it is important that you take the responsibility that you need to take from the position that you have. Then we also need to develop measures that work, and in the case of measures that do not work, we can change the decisions. It is not enough for the government to monitor developments closely. Entrepreneurs are encouraged to hold on and endure. But how long will they last when they need food on the table? Following a development can neither pay bills nor feed stomachs for our entrepreneurs and their families. Does the Minister intend to take seriously any decisions to make a difference to the entrepreneurs to whom the aid does not reach? Can you make any decisions or change some decisions, or is it too much to ask? Is there perhaps a little too much prestige in this matter, Minister?
i-99f77955078f664d-455	Madam President, I would like I note that Alexandra Anstrell did not answer my question. We fully agree that we will support our companies and entrepreneurs. But why do the Moderates, in the midst of a burning pandemic, propose to cut back support for the workers who have become unemployed, even without fault of their own? Why should the unemployment fund be pulled down, in the midst of a burning pandemic, as the Moderates suggest? I would have had to hear the logic of the Moderates, but since this is the last post I do not get it. As far as support for companies and entrepreneurs is concerned, we are making historically large investments in a way that, for example, was not done during the financial crisis when the Moderates led the government. We are doing this because we believe it is important that we help each other during this very difficult crisis. It is about ensuring that otherwise healthy companies, as many as possible, can survive and overwinter. The crisis is still ongoing. We will therefore continue to help each other. In the same way, of course, we continue to work continuously to ensure that the management of these aids is improved. I can be humble and say: when we introduced them last March, there was one thing that was absolutely important. It was to get them in place quickly because large parts of the Swedish business world then stood still. It is clear that during the year we have made sure to work with building the organization. After all, there was no one working on these subsidies because they did not exist. Today, over 500 people work with them. Yes, there have been shortcomings, and we are dealing with them. No, I will not be able to interfere in court proceedings or in the exercise of authority against individuals – it would be directly illegal – as long as these proceedings are ongoing. Then the Moderates say, "Why don't you change the rules?" I think it would really be good to do both companies and ourselves a disservice to keep changing regulations. Then you'd have to start over all the time. I don't think either of us is the valet of that.
i-99f77955078f664d-461	Madam President, I would like Tobias Andersson has asked me two questions about the European Union's recovery instruments. The first is whether I see a risk in mismanagement of economies now taking the opportunity to implement the desired efforts at our expense and whether the government intends to take any measures to prevent it. The second is if I see a risk that the corona fund will not have the desired effect, but instead contribute to a more federalist Europe and if the government intends to take any measures to prevent it. Madam President, I would like The answer to the first question is no. The recovery instrument shall not provide general financial compensation to individual countries. In order for a Member State to benefit from the money from the Recovery Facility, there are clear criteria. The measures that can be financed shall be reported in a recovery plan for each country. They will strengthen growth in the long term. They will promote employment. They will contribute to climate change and to the digital transformation. This will be carefully examined, by both the Commission and the EU Member States, to ensure that the money goes to the right things. If this has not been the case, payments shall not be made. Madam President, I would like The answer to the second question is also no. All decisions concerning the Recovery Instrument have been taken within the framework of the existing Treaties. It has not been brought up to date here to give the EU new powers in federalist direction. Nor, as is well known, is that what the Swedish Government wants, and we will be careful to ensure that we stick to the current division of competences. The Recovery Instrument is a unique effort by the EU to re-launch the European economies following the pandemic. There have been differences of opinion about the size and the distribution between loans and grants. But that the compromise reached is needed to face the greatest crisis since the Second World War, the government is fully behind it. It is necessary to provide temporary and well-targeted support for a chance for Europe's economy to recover.
i-99f77955078f664d-468	Madam President, I would like On March 24, the Parliament passed through the EU's large debt package after the government had received active support from the Center Party and Liberals and passive support from the Moderates and Christian Democrats. The debt package, also known as the Corona Fund, means that Sweden will have to pay SEK 150 billion, which corresponds to five times as much as the Politigheten's budget, mainly to countries in southern Europe. Madam President, I would like According to the Swedish Democrats, this is an economic and political insanity, both for practical and moral reasons. We did our utmost to put an end to it, but unfortunately all parties except the Swedish Democrats and Left Party Sweden and the Swedish people failed. I would lie if I said that it was mainly Hans Dahlgren and the Social Democrats I was disappointed in. Instead, it was the Moderates and Christian Democrats and their betrayals that irritated me the most. They will also hear this in future election movements. Having said that, Madam President, I will say that the original idea of the support package was to jointly lift Europe after the pandemic. However, as many times in the past, the EU is rarely ill-equipped for the task. Through the pandemic, the EU conflict has proved to be a bureaucratic nightmare, unable to deal with everything from vaccines to basic co-ordination of recommendations for travel between Member States. This is the body that Swedish politicians have chosen to put their trust in. In the background of the Corona Fund, a federalist Europe is also lurking, which sees this as a chance to usurp more and more power and influence. The borders between Member States' self-determination and tax law are becoming increasingly blurred in the boundaries of the EU bureaucracy. When much of the Recovery Fund focuses on green transformation and digitalisation, it is difficult to shake off the perception that politicians are using the pandemic as a pretext for running their wishful projects, projects that the inhabitants have never put up with under normal circumstances. Even now, EU auditors are warning of the risk that part of the money will not go to the intended ends. This risk is undeniably made clear by the fact that countries that will receive aid are talking about proposals such as reduced retirement age, reduced working weeks and the introduction of citizens' pay. It is, of course, up to these countries to decide what they want to fund. But Swedish taxpayers should not pay the bill. Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, we are doing so now, because of the government that Mr Dahlgren represents and the other political parties that did not dare put an end to this. I asked in my interpellation Hans Dahlgren whether he sees a risk in mismanaging economies now taking the opportunity to implement the desired efforts at our expense and whether the government intends to take any steps to prevent it. His reply suggests that the government ignores the fact that southern European states immediately chose to change the tempo after the debt package was clubbed, given the knowledge of the upcoming Swedish tax funds that they will be allocated. Has Hans Dahlgren missed this, or does he see no problem with it?
i-99f77955078f664d-479	Madam President, I would like I can start by saying that what I miss in Tobias Andersson's reasoning and also in his interpellation is any thought about in whatever context this whole discussion is being conducted. It is now a pandemic whose ravages threaten to get even worse than they were when the packages were adopted last summer. It is a humanitarian crisis with massive human suffering. In the wake, it is also an economic crisis of enormous proportions. Production has been lost in country after country. Lots of people have been out of work. Several countries in the EU lost over 10% of their production last year. Some have compared the effects of the pandemic to a natural disaster. It is clear that I agree that it is essentially the responsibility of the Member States to pursue sound economic policies. However, this economic crisis affects all of us throughout Europe, whether we like it or not. With the intertwining that exists between all European economies, it is also of the utmost importance for jobs and welfare here in Sweden that it goes well in other countries in Europe as well. Unfortunately, I have not been able to see any sign of this in Tobias Andersson's interpellation. That is also why I believe that it was quite right for European leaders to try to agree on a package last summer that put the wheels back on track, which would create jobs and growth, purchasing power and a rapid recovery. I am really glad that a compromise was reached on this last year, and I am also pleased that the attempts of the Swedish Democrats, together with the Left Party in the Riksdag here a few weeks ago, to put an end to the agreement so badly failed.
i-99f77955078f664d-483	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the answer from Hans Dahlgren! I want to be clear that I am signing up to the problem picture that Hans Dahlgren describes about how the pandemic has abruptly hit both Sweden and other parts of the world. Where we differ, however, is when it comes to where Sweden should target its resources and where 150 billion do the most good. There I am of the opinion that there are large parts of our welfare, our economy and more that would have needed that kind of resources rather than giving them away. Swedish unemployment is rising. The heroes of welfare work hard under substandard conditions. Police leave the profession because of low wages. Care queues are growing, and mental ill health among young people is increasing. Gang violence is escalating, and we are forced to raise the retirement age to cover the holes in public finances. While all these problems are spreading in our society, Hans Dahlgren, the government and other parliamentary parties, apart from the Swedish Democrats and the Left Party, choose to donate 150 billion to other states and their citizens. And what do the recipient countries do for our money, the money that Swedes have already worked for and the money that we will continue to work for for decades to be able to repay the debt that the government has incurred us? Just as I touched on in my first speech, other states are now in a position to sit back and take it easy, aware that we are supporting them. In connection with the fact that the Parliament put the debt package through and thus chose to vacate 150 billion in tax revenue, it was clear that Spain will test to introduce four days of working week. The proposal came from the left side and involves a three-year pilot project costing EUR 50 million, equivalent to over SEK half a billion. According to the plan, EU money will subsidise the additional costs of all employees in the first year and then decrease to 50% in the second year and then 25% in the third year. Madam President, I would like Was this what Hans Dahlgren and the government had in mind? You want us to pay for Spaniards to be free on Fridays? I see it as a yes or no question. I think there's a lot of people wondering. If the answer is yes, that the government had envisaged this, the voters deserve to know about it. If the answer is no, that is to say that the government did not intend to do so, the question remains whether it intends to act and take any action. Add to this that France, as you know, has far too much to say in the EU, has now said that the fund would have to double from EUR 750 billion to EUR 1 500 billion. Should it become a reality, Sweden risks having to ship another SEK 150 billion to poorly managed economies, while, as I described earlier, we have a lot of problems here at home that would benefit from increased resources. Madam President, I would like I would like to ask Hans Dahlgren if he does not believe that the 150 billion that the government has donated would have been needed here at home.
i-99f77955078f664d-494	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by making a real objection to this way of setting needs here at home against European cooperation. It is not in this way that we can achieve results, either in Europe or for our own citizens. I believe that if the European Union is described as a bureaucratic nightmare that is incapable of even being able to obtain vaccines, then it has a completely different picture than I have of what is real today. We have a job in vaccinating now, and it is probably 1 1⁄2 million Swedes who have received the vaccine in their arm already. This has been done because the members of the European Union have worked together to do this. I cannot therefore accept this contradiction. Nor can I accept Tobias Andersson's description of the fact that we are looking at EUR 150 billion. I don't know where it comes from at all. But I mean this: Tobias Andersson suggests in his interpellation and also here in his posts that Swedish taxpayers should pay the bill when other countries should be able to lower the retirement age, shorten the working weeks or introduce citizens' wages. But that is simply not true. Firstly, not a single euro has been paid out from these funds yet. Secondly, the recovery money will only be used to pay for what has been approved in each country's recovery plan. These plans have both the Commission and we in the Council the opportunity to influence so that it does not go wrong. Those guidelines are very clear about what is to be financed. I see in the interpellation that Tobias Andersson is ironing over this, but it is precisely to stem the climate crisis and to speed up digitalisation that a large part of this money must be used. I know that the Swedish Democrats are not so interested in the climate issue. They believe that the climate threat is excessive and that the Paris Agreement would be some kind of PR product. But for all of us, who take the climate seriously, this is a great opportunity to both get a recovery in our economies and take a good step forward to face the climate crisis. In order to apply for this money, each country must submit a recovery plan specifying in detail what it is seeking. It is then examined by the Commission and shall be approved by the Council. As I understand from our own discussions with the Commission on our own plan, they are rather careful with their examination of what we are going to present, and there is no room here for getting money either for citizens' wages or for reducing pension ages. I would also like to say a word about the argument that we are burdening future generations by putting them in debt for a long time to come. I don't believe it. I believe that in the current crisis, all of us will benefit from the recovery of the economies of Europe. Everyone will benefit from more jobs, more consumption and more investment. For us in Sweden, which exports 70% of everything we export precisely to other EU countries, this is of course absolutely fundamental. If this were to fail, if we were to choose the more isolationist line so that our countries would be drawn into a downward spiral, it would indeed be precious for future generations. Then we are no longer talking about a few billions a year, but threats of major declines, mass unemployment and deep depression. It is not a future that I would wish for even the children or grandchildren of my opponents.
i-99f77955078f664d-503	Madam President, I would like Thank you, once again, for the answer from Hans Dahlgren! I am not the one who has made up the idea that this four-day week in Spain should be financed by EU funds, but it has been reported that it is the ambition. Then, of course, it is true that the funds have not yet been paid out. I am the first to hope that it will be stopped; that is why I raised the issue. On the basis of Hans Dahlgren's answer, I therefore hope that Sweden will try to act to change this. It will be something strange to think that we would contribute to the climate or to improved digitalisation just because we finance Spaniards' day off. I find that difficult, Madam President. I have touched on this in the past, but it seems to me that the debt package is made up of long-known federalist dreams and already identified political ambitions. Investing in green and renewable, scattering money over digitalisation and innovation and opening up EU taxes and more is nothing new. There are recurring requests from the EU elite which are now being disguised as corona-related support. In addition, the corresponding, or similar, fund has previously been requested by euro area countries to save the euro. In other words, it is quite clear that a more federalist Europe is being opened up, not least through the ambitions of taxes that Mr Reuters presented as late as Wednesday. How can Hans Dahlgren turn a blind eye to the problems that exist at home in favour of financing the laxness of other countries? How can one close one's eyes to the fact that Sweden had needed the funds to invest in our Swedish recovery before we distribute them to anyone else? I find it so hard to understand, Madam President.
i-99f77955078f664d-509	Madam President, I would like This is an exceptional crisis – the worst we have experienced since World War II. This is evident in Sweden, but it is even more evident in other parts of Europe. Exceptional crises may need exceptional solutions. This is a one-time bet, and it's supposed to be a one-time bet. There is no question of giving the EU new powers in federalist direction. Let me conclude by saying that this discussion has been good because it has highlighted the ideological gulf that obviously exists between social democrats and Swedish democrats. This can be seen from the arguments from which the Swedish Democrats come in this. They believe that we are best off if we keep to ourselves, take care of our own country, that alone is strong – strongly inclined in a nationalist direction. My experience is quite different. Sweden as a nation has so much to gain by being open to the outside world, seeking cooperation, trading freely with other countries. Several hundred thousand employees in the country depend entirely on Sweden being able to deliver goods and services to other countries in the EU. Their jobs depend on European cooperation and our full participation in it. I have been in work ever since Sweden joined the European Union, and I know that in Sweden we make a lot more money in being on the market and in cooperation than we have to pay. I understand that this does not sound good in the ears of the Swedish Democrats. What will now be really interesting in the future is to see how much the policy of the Swedish Democrats will have in the nationalist thoughts when they negotiate a political platform with Moderates and Christian Democrats. I look forward to that discussion.
i-99f77955078f664d-516	Madam President, I would like Markus Wiechel has asked me what measures I take to strengthen democracy and reduce polarisation with subsequent consequences, what measures I and the government take to contribute to a factual climate of debate in Sweden, and how I and the government work to ensure that the government's representatives in their respective roles answer questions or criticism from journalists or elected representatives. During 2020 – 2021, in connection with the 100th anniversary of democracy in Sweden, the government is carrying out an initiative that includes several efforts to meet the challenges of democracy today and equip it for the future. Several of them are about strengthening people's ability and ability to participate in democratic processes. Among other things, 14 government agencies have been tasked with carrying out awareness-raising and education efforts. The government's measures to safeguard the democratic dialogue against threats and hatred are described in the Action Plan for the defence of the free word. It is about increased knowledge, support for those who are exposed and a strengthened judicial system. During 2018–2020, the Committee has also been tasked with working with outreach efforts that increase people's resilience to misinformation, propaganda and online hatred. In recent years, the Government has also implemented a large number of measures to combat and combat violent extremism and terrorism, including the work of the Security Service and the Political Authority, the work of the School Inspectorate and the Centre against violent extremism, and several legislative initiatives. Madam President, I would like I believe that all prominent politicians and opinion-makers have a particular responsibility to keep a good and objective tone in the public debate. It is a responsibility that I know the whole government takes very seriously. It is also important that the political parties continue to hold an internal discussion on these issues and cultivate a culture based on the principle that political dialogue should be conducted with respect, sensitivity and in good and objective tone. At the same time, it is important to distinguish between an offensive and disrespectful tone in the debate and sharp criticism based on ideological differences of opinion. For example, to be criticized for what policy and which party you work with is not the same as not being treated respectfully. In conclusion, it is my view that both myself and the other ministers in general have a high level of accessibility when it comes to questions from journalists and that, of course, we are also happy to have a political debate with the opposition or answer questions.
i-99f77955078f664d-523	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by thanking Minister Lind for taking part in the debate and for her response to the interpellation. I would also like to make it clear that I regret that it is Amanda Lind who must be here today. My reasons for raising these issues do not really concern her. I believe that we have seen on a regular basis how several of the Prime Minister's colleagues act in a way that I call deeply reprehensible. They act dishonestly not worthy of a minister. Why am I raising the questions today? As you know, Sweden has had a good climate for debate for many years. We have avoided much of the indecent attacks that we have seen in other countries – not least recently in the United States. Members of Parliament from different parties have talked, debated, socialised and enjoyed themselves in spite of serious political contradictions. It is beautiful and beautiful, which makes all democracies feel good. Madam President, I would like It is becoming more clear that it has become less important to distinguish between the thing and the person in Sweden and to tell the truth. We see lies after lies in the debates. We see political representatives lying about other politicians and parties. It's obscene. The Government said the following in its answer: It is a responsibility that I know the whole government takes very seriously. It is also important that the political parties continue to hold an internal discussion on these issues and cultivate a culture based on the principle that political dialogue should be conducted with respect, sensitivity and in good and objective tone. ..................................................... This sounds great, and I sign every word. I can only agree with the spirit. But why are several of the government's representatives – not the Minister for Culture – mainly complaining about the polarisation of society that happens to contribute most to this? I am talking about the Prime Minister, Minister Morgan Johansson and Minister Anders Ygeman and others. The government's representatives claim to be concerned about the lack of respect for democracy, but at the same time they are doing everything they can to contribute to this phenomenon – probably because they believe they benefit politically. That is deeply regrettable, Madam President.
i-99f77955078f664d-529	Madam President, I would like I stood here in the speaker's chair and answered a similar question from the Swedish Democrats as late as Tuesday. As Markus Wiechel himself says, this interpellation debate will be about my service as Minister for Democracy, and I will not review or comment on individual representatives here in the speaker's chair, whether they are ministers, party leaders or other political representatives. What I have tried to describe in my reply, Madam President, and which I take very seriously as Minister for Democracy, are the threats that we are seeing to the democratic dialogue today. This is something that is well described in the Government's democracy strategy, and it is something that I and my representatives have taken several initiatives to work with. It's about countering threats and hate. We see how they increase in different ways, not least how the emergence of social media affects. It's about the big global tech giants, how we can find sensible regulation that protects transparency and freedom of expression – there are high demands and a high-ranking culture in Sweden – while minimising the risks of being exposed to pure illegality. We know how the algorithms behind these companies' business models tend to promote extreme materials. It is about how we give people the tools to participate in the debate. We know that far too many people in Sweden stand too far from the political debate. That is why the Committee has worked to promote the democratic dialogue and pointed out a number of things that we are working on in the future. Then, Madam President, I have said – also in my interpellation response, and it is something that I have had talks with, among others, the Speaker of the Riksdag about in the light of the fact that we are celebrating the democratic anniversary this year – that the parties also have a responsibility to think about these issues. However, I would like to make it clear that we need to distinguish between the concepts of this debate. The fact that there are differences of opinion in Sweden, differences of opinion between parties and between ideologies, is no secret. This has also been the case in Sweden. Polarisation as such can be something that creates a more irreconcilable climate for debate, but it is also about us not to underscore the fact that there are major differences of opinion in Sweden. It is also part of the democratic dialogue. One should be able to debate hard on issues of substance, have ideological differences of opinion and disagree on various issues without being accused of fuelling negative polarisation. That's what I'm turning against. That being said, threats and hatred do not belong in the public conversation. I hope that together we can do what we can to curb both what comments you put forward in the comments fields of your YouTube channels and how we behave ourselves and what we trigger and encourage in our social channels. I would also like to underline what I said in my reply to the Member of Parliament – that we must also distinguish between criticism against which parties we cooperate with and against ideologies. We must also be able to look at the issue of democracy soberly. There is, of course, a big difference between that and believing that democracy will be overthrown overnight, but we must be able to see and accept that there are different kinds of challenges for our democracy. Many of the proposals and opinions expressed by the Swedish Democrats risk having an impact on our democracy in the long term. I mean that and the government, and I am happy to continue to talk about that in an objective and respectful tone.
i-99f77955078f664d-538	Madam President, I would like Once again, I would like to point out that I have not criticised the Minister for Democracy for acting in any way like polarising myself. My criticism mainly concerns several of her fellow ministers, headed by the Prime Minister. I will return to one of the questions I ask in the interpellation, which concerns what is being done to ensure that representatives of the government, such as the Prime Minister, answer questions that are relevant. There are a number of examples where I, but also other Members, have asked interpellations or written questions addressed to the Prime Minister concerning the performance of his duties but where the Prime Minister simply does not answer. He throws it over to another minister, who will answer those questions. This, I would say, is a democratic problem, given that there are several occasions when the questions are relevant to the Prime Minister, who is the one who is leading the work of the government. The question we are debating here today, I would have liked to have put to the Prime Minister if it had been possible, given that it largely concerns the ministers of the Swedish Government and how the ministers act. Again, I do not criticise the fact that there are differences of opinion in Sweden, serious differences of opinion, or criticism of the views of other parties. It is something very healthy and something that is good in a democracy, and that is something we have always had. In view of this, I would also like to stress the importance of distinguishing between the subject and the person. One should be able to have tough debates but without lies and without inciting and so on. This is something that I know the Minister has also highlighted in the past. Last but not least, as recently as last autumn, one of the government's ministers was dotted with lies. Yet we now see the same tendencies. You lie freely. Although this does not directly concern what the Minister for Culture is working on in everyday life, it still concerns the government, and given that the Prime Minister rarely comes here to answer questions himself, unfortunately it lands on the Minister for Culture to do so.
i-99f77955078f664d-545	Madam President, I would like Markus Wiechel talks about how important it is to stick to the truth, not to use excesses and superwordes and the like. I can do a general reflection and think that for those who look at the political debate it is very strange that the Swedish democrats use that rhetoric. I see for myself what is on the Swedish Democrats' website and in the Swedish Democrats' social media and how to package messages. I would have a lot to object to if I were to go in and exemplify several of those statements. I also find it remarkable that Markus Wiechel draws parallels in his interpellation between the rhetoric of the government, the Prime Minister and other ministers and Donald Trumps. That, if anything, is well a senseless exaggeration and a comparison that I see as almost rude. Having said that, Madam President, we see that democracy in Sweden is strong. It is affected by a variety of things. There are many aspects of the policy of the Swedish Democrats that I believe are in danger of weakening our democracy in the long run. It is a debate that I believe we must be able to take without having the reports thrown at us. We need to distinguish between differences of opinion and to foment harmful polarisation. I have stood here several times, Madam President, talking about threats and hate online. Here, too, I find it striking that all of the interpellations on the part of the Swedish Democrats have been about having the right to express oneself and say what you want rather than pointing out the threats that actually exist against our democracy linked to threats and hatred and that people are silenced. I find that remarkable.
i-99f77955078f664d-550	Madam President, I would like I am the first to regret all the totally unacceptable comments that have been made, not least on social media. I know that the Minister for Culture has been exposed to severe, unacceptable attacks by various people. But it is actually another debate that I would be happy to take on another occasion. This mainly concerns the role of the government in the increasingly polarised political climate that I and many others experience. It is no wonder that I draw parallels to the United States, where we have seen how lies have been used in the public conversation to kick against political opponents. Not only lies – sometimes people have been incited, which can have devastating consequences. This is not something that I or my party are behind at all. After all, the Prime Minister went so far as to warn in SVT's 30 minutes programme that democracy could be at stake if the Social Democrats lost the elections. That's how I and many others interpreted his statement. That is an amazing statement. In this way, to discredit one's political opponents and the democratic and legitimate opposition in a country, it belongs in pure dictatorships. I am not saying that Sweden is a pure dictatorship or even close to it, but I say that such statements belong in such countries. The fact that references to, for example, the Swedish democrats and terrible ideologies that used to exist is also something that I have lamented and find deeply unworthy for all these years. I could line up more examples, but I don't have much time. Finally, I would like to thank the Minister for this debate and to say that I hope that her fellow ministers will reflect on the future.
i-99f77955078f664d-556	Madam President, I would like I note once again that Markus Wiechel, in his closing speech, is doing exactly what he accuses the government and my fellow ministers of doing. There is no one who has declared the opposition illegitimate. This is something that is repeated by the representatives of the Swedish Democrats. There is nowhere where the Prime Minister has said that our democracy is in danger. On the other hand, the Prime Minister, and I and several of my colleagues, have pointed out that there are elements of the policy of the Swedish Democrats that would be negative for our democratic development if they had an impact. That is something that I think we need to be able to discuss without getting that kind of attack. Having said that, Madam President, our democracy in Sweden is well worth protecting and strengthening for the future. Many parts of this are included. This year, democracy in Sweden celebrates 100 years, and the government has given a variety of authorities the task of carrying out democracy-enhancing efforts during the year. Part of this is about the democratic dialogue, but it is also about how we strengthen democracy and make more people feel involved in it. I believe that we, as prominent politicians, have a particular responsibility to hold a factual and respectful conversation. It will ultimately be the small actions and choices of all of us that determine the tone and climate of the democratic dialogue. Having said that, we should not underscore the fact that there are differences of opinion and great ideological differences. I will continue to debate against the Swedish Democrats about the ways in which I find their policies detrimental to our country.
i-99f77955078f664d-562	Madam President, I would like Edward Riedl has asked me against what background and what facts I state in the media that the support for events has been produced by the government and a result of an agreement between the government and the January parties. Edward Riedl has also asked whether I can explain the reasons and initiatives on which the support is now coming into place. On 1 April, the Government decided on an additional amending budget with proposals for the introduction of support for organisers of events involving the State representing part of the financial risk if the event cannot be carried out or has to be largely limited as a result of restrictions on events due to the proliferation of covid-19. The bill shows that the new event support is one of the measures the Government intends to take in accordance with the Riksdag's announcement that the Government should urgently return to the Riksdag with proposals for guarantee support for culture and sport. Like all budget-related proposals during the term of office, this proposal is the result of an agreement between the government parties, the Center Party and the Liberals, as indicated in the communication of the support. The support also requires the approval of the European Commission before the government can decide on the introduction. Provided that the Riksdag decides in accordance with the Government's proposal, the Government will return to the detailed regulation of the support. As I said earlier in this House, I am pleased that there is a broad consensus on the importance of living cultural life, a strong sports movement and a strong community life throughout the country. I and the government also welcome the Moderates' commitment to these issues, not least in terms of event support. The government has had dialogue with stakeholders during the period of the crisis. The Government is constantly reviewing the design and development of the measures and has taken note of the needs of the event organisers and suggestions for further measures. The restrictions and general advice imposed on covid-19 have had a negative economic impact on, for example, the cultural sector, the sports movement and civil society. For this reason, the government has provided specific crisis support to culture, sport and civil society in addition to general support for jobs and entrepreneurship. Crisis aid has been of great importance and has contributed to the survival of these activities. I look forward to continued dialogue on these issues.
i-6PApoBVm6eS9AegA1kzz8z	Mr. Old President! Thank you, Minister, for your answer to the interpellation. Let me start by saying that I am very pleased that we have received this support on the ground. Now we can actually ensure that large parts of Swedish culture and sport and large parts of Swedish civil society can survive this pandemic. It is therefore important that we have come as far in this work as we have done. It's about Vätternrundan, Sweden Rock, Youth Cups, Scout Camps, Musicals, Festivals, Theatres and a lot more. We will now have an extraordinary amending budget, which we will decide on next week, on the table here in Parliament. There is event support with which the Riksdag has ordered. Last summer, Mr. Age President, much of the Swedish sport and culture desperately began to get in touch with politics. What they said to politics was that you have spent a lot of money and that you have difficulty surviving when you cancel this kind of arrangement. There was a conversation – probably between all parties and the different parts of cultural and sporting life. As a result, we held talks in the autumn. By Christmas, when it was obvious that the pandemic would continue, the Moderates deepened the conversation with a large number of these actors. We produced a proposal for event support. We looked at how other countries in Europe started to design similar aid because they had similar problems. We sat down with the Swedish culture and sport and looked at what we can do based on the Swedish conditions and what such support should look like in Sweden to work here. On behalf of the Moderates, we made such a proposal and put it on the table of the Committee on Finance. We received the support of the Left Party and the Christian Democrats quite quickly, and I have thanked both parties for that. They also contributed, I would say, with further input to improve the proposal. The Swedish Democrats also concluded. This meant that the whole opposition was united, and both the old president and the minister know that it meant that there was a majority for the Moderates' proposal for new event support. With this in the back continued a processing process. I also had an interpellation debate with the Minister for Culture in this House. I extended a hand, both in this House to the government and to the government representatives in the Finance Committee. I said, please connect! Help improve the proposal! Now make sure that we get this in place and can save important parts of Swedish cultural and sports life. Not everyone may care about everything, but most of us actually care about any of this. We want those parts left after this crisis. The day before the decision, Mr. Old President, the four January parties joined and said that they also supported this. It pleased me very much. I have been one of those who have been working hard with the actors of culture and sport to come up with this proposal. It was very gratifying, Mr. Old President, that more people joined. We then got a consensus in the Riksdag for what the government would return with. Let me say, Mr. Old President, that I was a bit angry and disappointed – it is rarely I get angry, but then I was – when the Minister for Culture went out to a press conference on 1 April and had it suggested that it was the government that had done this work. Communication from the government's website also made it clear that it was the government that had done this job. This, Mr. Old President, is simply not true. What is true is that the four January parties joined afterwards. What is true – and I have also said this repeatedly in debates on this – is that the Minister for Culture and the Government have done very well in terms of culture and sport. Money and crisis support has been made available, and that has been a good thing. I have also said this, Mr President-in-Office, because I think that we should stick to what is true. On 1 April, the Minister for Culture, I think, did not really do what is worthy of a minister when she suggested that something had been done that had not been done and taken credit for the work of others. Certainly, Mr. Age President, I felt a little sting because I had spent many hours on this, but above all I felt my anger that day for all those in culture and sport who had put so much effort into helping the Moderates to bring this out. The government trying to take credit for all their work, I didn't feel good. When we called the various media that the government, or the Minister for Culture, had had at the press conference, they kept saying: This is the government's work and nothing else. We had to explain and try to get another picture. Some media did corrections, others did not. Mr. Old President! I do not think – and that is why I asked these questions to the Minister for Culture – that you should take credit for work as others do. I think you should stick to what's true, right and right. I have tried to be fair in this debate. I held out a hand during the time we drew up the proposal, and I think that the government should have been able to do something similar.
i-99f77955078f664d-580	Mr. Old President! If I am going to start with what I understand Ed ward Riedl is upset about, it is about that the government or I in this particular communication did not point out that the Moderates have been a driving force in the work of the Finance Committee and in the connection to the announcement. I have, Mr. Old President, no problem with saying that. It hasn't been a secret. I am pleased with Moderates' overall commitment to culture and sport, which has not least been very clear lately, and how they have worked on the issue of event support in the Committee on Finance. I myself, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have had a lot of dialogue with the event sector and have taken note of their proposals for event support. And I know that the Moderates have been a driving force in this matter. Mr. Age President, as with all budget-related proposals during this term of office, the government now needs to take responsibility for what is being presented. In substance, this bill is negotiated between the government, the Center Party and the Liberals. That is simply why I expressed myself in this way. After all, it is not customary for the government to make a proposal and say that it is someone else's, but we need to take responsibility for it. How this was then expressed in communication is by no means a sign that I or the government do not pretend that there is a commitment to this issue from the Moderates or other parties in the Riksdag. I would also like to emphasise that communication on the proposal for event support does not differ from other occasions when the government has developed measures in accordance with announcements. As it says in the bill, this is part of what we will then see as an answer to Parliament's announcement. We highlight the support for events and how the rest of the support for culture and sport should be seen as part of this. After all, the announcement has not yet been finalised. I would like to come back to the debate that I and Mr Riedl had in this House a few months ago, which I very much appreciated. What I said then and think is good is that there is now a common understanding and understanding from the parties in Parliament that culture, sport and the broad event industry have been hit very hard by the pandemic, that several different types of efforts are required, that there is not only a solution that suits everyone and that there is a need for support here and now to be able to start production but also that the guarantee support fulfils such an important function. Mr. Old President! The Government Office is now working intensively to get this proposal in place as soon as possible. There is now a dialogue with stakeholders in the event sector. We are, of course, also trying to see what the intention was from the Committee on Finance so that we can land as right as possible. At the same time, we have a challenge – I know that Edward Riedl also knows – with the limits of the European Commission. We are now trying to create support that will be as accurate as possible for this sector. Of course, I look forward to further discussions on both this proposal and on how to continue to support our cultural life, our sports movement and our event industry forward.
i-99f77955078f664d-588	Mr. Old President! What the Minister for Culture is talking about, how the government expresses itself, has been a recurring issue. I put this interpellation precisely because the government has consistently expressed itself in such a way as to try to take credit for work as others do. With regard to the proposals made by the Moderates during this crisis in terms of support for individual companies, partnerships, limited partnerships and so on, the government has consistently resisted, stalled and tried not to get them in place. Once it gets to the point where it gets that way, the government says: "We are the ones who have done this work. Mr. Old President! I think it's a bad thing, if I'm to be honest, to say that you've done something someone else has done. The Minister for Culture is also Minister for Democracy. I have heard her in the debate here before and just want to agree with much of what the Minister for Culture has said about how important it is to stand up for the really important values of Swedish democracy. One of them is that you should try to keep as much as you can to what is true, right and right, and I think that the government itself should do in communication and not take credit for work as others do. That's why I put this interpellation. I also appreciated the debate that I and the Minister for Culture had last. And I don't doubt – as I said at the time – that the support that the government has developed has been good. But they are not enough, and I think we agreed on that. Our proposals complemented the support that the government had developed. The difference, Mr. Age President, is that I confirmed the government for this work that I thought they had done well, while the government is trying to say that they have done what others have done. I think it is an evil; I do not get away from that. If we are to have a respectful cooperation on these issues, which I hope we can have in the future, I think it is a bad way of dealing with representatives of other parties to work in that way. The work on the event support is now under way, and I hope and believe that we have exactly the same ambitions. On the same day that the Minister of Culture had his press conference and told us that the government had developed something that they had not done, the Secretary of State from the Ministry of Enterprise called and wanted the Moderates' help with the details of the proposal. Of course we helped with that, because we want this to be good, just as I assume the government wants it. I appreciate a good debate. It can be tough, but I think you should stick to what is true, right and right, and I think that is values that also a Minister for Culture and Democracy should hold high. With this, I have said a question on the basis of what was presented on the proposal itself. The Moderates had proposed to set aside 31⁄2 billion, and the government was pushing it down to 3 billion, at least at the press conference. I hope the government is thinking about this. This is a right-based support, so if the money runs out, you have to add more money anyway. My thinking is what kind of calculation model the government uses to remove money from the basic proposal. The Swedish proposal for support is more comprehensive than the proposals that have been made in the rest of Europe – perhaps the Netherlands and Germany are the most similar. Here it covers a part of civil society, the Scout Movement and more – both culture and sport. With what calculation models do you think it will be cheaper than the aid that covers less? This is a question that the Minister for Culture is also happy to answer.
i-99f77955078f664d-599	Mr. Old President! I have great respect for Edward Riedl's commitment to these issues and the role he played in the Committee on Finance in pursuing this proposal and also assisting in dialogue on details. Once the Government makes a proposal, of course, we want it to be consistent with the intentions of the Riksdag in the announcement. There are many good reasons why we should have a dialogue on these issues, not least so that we can get as good a proposal as possible. But Edward Riedl makes it seem that I have lied about this in various ways. He's talking about lies and we're gonna stick to the truth. Here I would like to reiterate that we, as a government, must, of course, be able to emphasise that this is a proposal that we put forward in a budget proposal that has been negotiated between the government parties, the Centre Party and the Liberals, because that is true. It should also be seen as part of a response to the announcement. It's in the bill. I know that, at least with some of the media, I have talked about this initiative in committee. As Edward Riedl knows, the ideas about such initiatives can come from a great many quarters, civil society and more, when the government presents budget proposals. I just want to make it clear that I have in no way spoken untruth. Then I have no problem either in the speaker's chair, in the media or in other contexts highlighting Moderates' commitment to these issues or the fact that an initiative was taken in the Committee on Finance which led to an announcement. However, when the government presents a budget proposal, it is not customary for us to communicate the origins of the proposals. However, it is no secret that the Moderates have been driving this, and I very much appreciate the commitment. So to the proposal itself. In order to get our event sector back on track, it is important both to support production here and now and to provide guarantee support. The calculation behind the fact that it landed in 3 and not 3 1⁄2, as the sketch was, is that there is still a question of when this proposal can come into force. We are now working intensively to get it in place as soon as possible. The details are not finished, but we will be able to present them once the proposal has been drawn up. It is also, of course, about what information we receive from the European Commission. It was also an assessment based on what we thought the scope needs to be on event support and that we need continued support here and now. It is also stated in the budget proposal that that part of the aid should also be seen as a response to the announcement. At least that's how the government sees it. Now, not least, the Ministry of Industry is working on this issue. I am pleased to hear that there has been contact and talks about this. The Department of Culture is, of course, closely involved. As I said at the press conference, there are challenges, not least linked to the limits set by the European Commission for state aid. There is a risk that it will put a little stick in the wheels, so here we must continue to see how we can get to grips with this issue.
i-99f77955078f664d-607	Mr. Old President! I do not think I have used the word lie, as the Minister of Culture says. I've said that I think you should stick to what's true, right and right. But perhaps the Minister of Culture perceived a hint. My point is that you say you've done something you haven't done. You can use whatever words you want, but that's what the government and the Minister of Culture did. What I was trying to say is that you shouldn't work that way. All the media reported that it was the government that had produced this, even if someone else had produced it. Then you don't stick to what's true, right and right. Contrary to what the Minister of Culture said, the only place I can even imagine is that the government admits that it is not the government that has made this proposal itself. It refers to doing so in response to the announcement. In the Government's press release, which is available on the Government's website, there is no indication that it would have to do with an announcement from the Riksdag, that the Moderates have produced the proposal or that culture and sport have been involved. None of this is traceable in the press release. At the press conference the Minister of Culture had no media as far as I could see that understood what the Minister of Culture said she said. What they understood was what was in the press release and what the Minister of Culture said: that the government has done the job. Mr. Old President! It is simply not true and an evil that the government should end up with. Thank you for the debate.
i-99f77955078f664d-613	Mr. Old President! Let me be clear again. There is nothing in the government's communication in this case that differs from how the government communicates when the government in other ways works out proposals that have the purpose of fulfilling an announcement. The government also needs to take responsibility for this proposal. As Minister of Culture, I will not be able to refer to the Moderates or Edward Riedl when I answer for the concrete support model and how it will then be applied and function. Mr. Old President! There has been intensive work in the ministries, and I and others have also engaged in dialogue with representatives of these sectors in order to be able to screw up support and develop new, more effective support. Let me conclude this debate by repeating that I am very pleased with the commitment of the Moderates and Edward Riedl to these issues, not least with regard to the support of events. I hope we get it in place as soon as possible. I am convinced that it will be an important component for culture, sport and events in Sweden to be able to reopen in a contamination-proof way and for us to avoid that too many companies and associations perish due to the pandemic. I take note of something that Edward Riedl said when he looked back on last year, and that is that the pandemic has been going on for a very long time. Tired activities are now burning with the desire to get started again. I am absolutely convinced that we will stand in this Chamber more times and talk about the need for support for culture, sport and the business of events. This crisis has struck very hard and will have an impact on the future, and that is why we need the commitment of all the parties in this House to support these activities to restart and develop after the pandemic. I look forward to further debates.
i-99f77955078f664d-619	Mr. Old President! Alexander Christiansson has asked me what the government intends to do to make it easier for small businesses to participate in public procurement. One aim of the procurement rules is for the public sector to benefit from competition and make the best use of public funds. Contracting authorities can do much above all in the preparation phase to increase the participation of small enterprises in procurements. The number of tenders per procurement has increased and is now 4.5 per tender. Av the companies that submitted tenders in 2019 were 36 per cent micro-enterprises, 34 per cent small enterprises and 11 per cent medium-sized enterprises. One of my priorities is to improve the conditions for smaller companies to participate in procurement. The contracting authority was therefore asked in this year's regulatory letter to report back on the measures taken by the Authority to facilitate the participation of ideas-based organisations, small enterprises and social enterprises in public procurement. The Authority shall also analyse the measures and propose any further measures. In order to further simplify the procurement procedure, work is under way in the Government Office to implement parts of the so-called simplification investigation proposal. The investigation's proposal aims at fewer and more flexible rules in existing legislation, which makes it easier for SMEs to submit tenders. In particular, the mandate is to increase the opportunities for dialogue between contracting authorities and suppliers in order to reduce the risk of unnecessary misunderstandings.
i-99f77955078f664d-624	Mr. Old President! I thank the Minister for his reply. Public procurement can be perceived as a bit complicated for many. For me, it's complicated, and I've still made some offers in my days. It is linked to laws and regulations that for most people are difficult to navigate in, especially if you do not work with public procurement in everyday life. Curiosity in this context is that about 60 – 70% of the law is EU law, which does not make it any easier. It is often said that public procurement has a turnover of more than SEK 700 billion per year, and that is certainly true – although you can get some different answers depending on where you look for information. According to the Swedish Competition Authority, which has made the calculations, it corresponds to about SEK 80 000 per inhabitant, young and old, for which the public sector buys products and services annually. It can be said that public procurement affects every individual citizen on a daily basis without us actually thinking about it. It is about public transport, healthcare, care, office supplies, consulting services and food in retirement homes and schools to take a few examples. Increasing competition by opening up more companies to participate in the tendering procedure is central to public procurement, not least in order to ensure that citizens' tax revenues are used with respect but also to improve the quality of the products and services that the public purchases. Good business benefits us all. The Minister's reply shows that contracting authorities can do more, especially in the preparation phase, to increase the participation of small companies in procurements, which is a picture I fully share. Mr. Old President! As the Minister also mentions in the reply, the Procurement Authority was asked in this year's regulatory letter to report back on the measures taken by the Authority to facilitate the use of ideas for organisations, small enterprises and social enterprises in public procurement. In this context, the Authority shall also carry out an analysis of the measures and propose any further measures. That sounds great. There are plenty of proposals that would simplify for small businesses, but in my opinion communication is the key. There is sometimes uncertainty among the country's purchasers about what to do and what not to do, such as uncertainty about how to engage in dialogue with suppliers, which in itself is quite damaging. The municipalities have work to do on the dialogue between purchasers and suppliers. There is no doubt about that. Small entrepreneurs make up 96% of the country's businesses, and the more they can be included in public procurement, the better it is for everyone, not least for growth, job creation and innovation. That is why I believe that the perspective of small businesses must be given priority in the process of change that is currently under way. That is also how I perceive the Minister's answer. We must not forget that small businesses create four out of five jobs and that 30% of the tax revenue for municipalities comes from small businesses. To my question, can the Minister explain why there is sometimes uncertainty among purchasers? Is it a lack of knowledge, or can there sometimes be a fear of doing wrong? I would also like to ask: what kind of measures does the Minister hope will the investigation lead to in order to simplify the situation for small businesses?
i-99f77955078f664d-634	Mr. Old President! Indeed, procurement is of great importance to us as a nation in various ways. It has to make growth-promoting jobs. I don't think everyone always realizes the importance of that. I think we are up to about 800 billion in public procurement. We are pleased to see that smaller companies are increasingly being added when it comes to submitting tenders. I believe that communication and dialogue between contracting authorities and those submitting tenders are of great importance because there needs to be a timely dialogue on the conditions and also an opportunity to discuss what the direction is and what has been specified. I feel that many have found it difficult, not least in the simplification investigation and even when we have worked with the Appellate Investigation. Contractors mention this. When you look at it more closely, you can see that the Procurement Authority has a very special role in providing support and guidance. They have a number of different networks and arrangements. I think they had about 300 such activities last year. This, I believe, is important in moving the positions forward. Although European law is of great importance, there is much we can do within the framework of national law. One of the biggest issues that I think you need to work on is skills development and the issue that procurement issues also belong at the management level of authorities, municipalities and regions. Therefore, I have given a mandate to the Procurement Authority to create appropriate procurement organisations, for we shall see this as a strategic issue. This will identify shortcomings in the organisation's own organisation in terms of ensuring that tenders are submitted with more participants. This is what we want to do. We want to encourage more people to participate in the procurements that exist. Given the major areas of development we have in our society and what we want to achieve in politics, procurement is indeed a tool for this. With the proposals that the simplification investigation is now putting forward, I believe that the time processes and their reduction in procurement, court proceedings, transparency, transparency and the role of the Competition Authority in this are important factors for achieving better procurement.
i-99f77955078f664d-639	Mr. Old President! I am pleased with the Minister's reply. Let me make it clear how I see it. The picture I have fits well with the one given by the Government. My view is that there is a high level of competence in large purchasers. However, the further down in the size of procurement, the more skills are narrowed. This applies to both the contracting official and the supplier – both sides of the table – as I see it. There, the lack of statistics and transparency are obvious problems, particularly linked to direct procurement, which constitute the majority of procurements. Here I believe that a user-friendly tool is needed to make it easier for both purchasers and tenderers. Transparency in terms of who procures, who has been given the assignment and what amount is central to counteracting shortcomings and, at worst, corruption. The complexity of the public procurement system is also demonstrated by the fact that there are a number of law firms that are largely able to make a living helping companies in the procurement process. That says a lot. Worse still, there is a growing number of companies that make appeals and thus delay and increase public procurement. This is for me an example of a dysfunctional system in need of proper raptures.
i-99f77955078f664d-643	As I see it, these issues are being worked on in the longer term in our neighbouring countries. In Norway and Denmark, for example, there is a master's degree for all purchasers. There are many other countries too. In Denmark and Norway there are also goals for how many doctoral students you should have, but in Sweden we have hardly any higher education at all in the field, if I have not misunderstood it. Feel free to correct me if I'm wrong! Since such a large part of taxpayers' money is spent on public procurement, I believe it is essential that the minimum level of knowledge is raised. With increased skills, awareness of how small suppliers operate and how they should be addressed will increase incentives for more bidders. A number of years ago, the Gothenburg City Budget stated that social considerations should be taken into account in procurements, including gender theoretical competence. This means that a supplier must have education in gender theory or gender studies or have carried out projects that have been permeated by a gender perspective. For me as a Swedish Democrat and Social Conservative, it is important that political governance does not affect our public affairs. Political detailed governance in public procurement risks being abused, which means that purchasers do not do what is most profitable for taxpayers, but instead follow their ideological conviction in the procurement process. Such behaviour, I mean, must be counteracted. In my opinion, inappropriate environmental requirements, gender certifications or the like are not part of public procurement. Here comes the question of official responsibility, which I think is central to the issue. In April 2018, a unanimous parliament decided that an official's responsibility with extended criminal law would be reinstated. Only more than two years later, in May 2020, the government announced the establishment of an investigation to investigate whether an official's responsibilities with extended criminal law are really needed and, if so, what necessary constitutional proposals are to be made. The assignment shall be presented no later than 12 November 2021. I cannot interpret this delay in any other way than that the government has a reluctance to overcome government activism, carelessness and corruption of friendships in authorities and administrations. What is the Minister's view of political governance in public procurement, and what is the Minister's position on official responsibility?
i-99f77955078f664d-649	Mr. Old President! I would like to emphasise that my political ambition and the government's political ambition in the procurement process is to focus more on the good business and less on law. That is why we are making proposals on how to achieve this through simplified regulations, by ensuring that we have a better review process and also – there I really differ from Alexander Christiansson in political terms – through public procurement, which is an excellent tool for implementing the policy objectives we have. We want society to develop. We want a sustainable society where environmental requirements can be reconciled with, for example, gender equality. These are success factors. It is interesting to see that companies are increasingly adopting this and seeing that it is something that they want to develop and be part of. When I was a municipal councillor in Linköping, I worked very much with smaller companies in networks where we had dialogue about how to participate and how to achieve this. That is exactly what I think we need to do in a number of areas. We need to listen to the smaller companies in order to find out what they see as obstacles in order to be able to move forward in terms of procurement and the submission of tenders. Then I think the law is of great importance. There may be other things, too. But it is important to listen to it. Similarly, companies know, of course, that there are political preconditions to take into account – the social goals we have. It is the objectives that are decided here in Parliament that apply. It is, of course, the case that procurement is then one of the tools to use. The competence issues are very interesting. I believe that we need to ensure at all times that we have competence at all levels on these issues. It works today so that there are many internal training courses. The municipalities do some things, and together they also try to raise levels. I think it is also interesting to consider in the future whether more can be done in the field of higher education. There is absolutely no door that the government closes. On the contrary, we need to think about it and then come back with proposals. But that is not something I can comment on especially now. We should not be afraid to point out that political governance is of great importance in relation to our authorities and also to put forward proposals that mean that we are clear in what this should look like, also show us the legislation that exists today. Investigations have been set up, and I have no further comment on what concerns civil servants' responsibilities. An investigation is working on it. Then we'll have to get back to that.
i-99f77955078f664d-657	Mr. Old President! It is about public money – taxpayers' money. From this point of view, I believe that political detail can be used incorrectly. That's my point. However, I note that we may not have quite the same picture of this. Official responsibility may also not be an alexander to the problems that exist. It should be made clear that the basic problem is governance and administrative culture. For a number of decades, Swedish administration has moved from so-called regulatory control to target management. Officials are expected to realise politicians' visions – not to follow detailed rules. It is a problem for me and the Swedish Democrats. However, as I said, public procurement is a large and complex area which requires confidence precisely because it is a matter of large amounts of taxpayers' money. Obviously, there is much to do to include, engage in dialogue and improve the deal, and that work I will be happy to follow in the future. Otherwise, the risk is that public procurement will be used precisely for political detail management as an ideological tool. The risk is that those who are best at procurement will win the contracts instead of those who actually have the best product and service. It is not so optimal from the point of view of taxpayers. I cannot put any more pressure on the Minister on the issue of official responsibility. Nevertheless, it would be interesting to hear the Minister's own position on the issue of civil liability. I'll settle for this.
i-99f77955078f664d-661	Mr. Old President! D an issue in which we absolutely differ, Alexander Christiansson, is the view on the use of tax funds. For me, it is obvious that they should go to companies that have the right conditions, that they follow very much of what is about confidence in how we use our tax funds wisely. Then it is also about the social goals that must be achieved, for example, in terms of climate change and conversion. Here we have so many smaller companies that have ideas about this. What I really believe is the success of us as a nation is cooperation between industry, businesses, politics and also academia in this regard. Then procurement has a very special role to play. It is a good tool for achieving this transparency and transparency. Then it is also a matter of working with supervision as the Competition Authority does. I look forward to seeing that we can produce even more good procurements and models that can be used in many ways and that this is requested both among suppliers and among bidders. This is indeed both a national, a local and a regional issue. Then, of course, I think that we need to continue to have a discussion on how the management policy works and on the responsibility of the authorities vis-à-vis the policy. As Minister of Civil Affairs, I find administrative policy very exciting.
i-99f77955078f664d-665	Mr. Old President! Alexandra Anstrell has asked me what measures I have taken against honour-related violence and oppression and when I expect these measures to have an effect and give a Sweden without honour-related violence and oppression. Furthermore, she has asked whether I am going to take any initiative to allow all children to dress as they want and not because of cultural and/ or religious pressure and whether I am going to take any initiatives to set up an investigation with a view to imposing a veiled ban in pre- and primary school. Honour-related violence and oppression is a serious social problem that brings great suffering to those who are victims. The work against honour-related violence and repression is a high priority for the government, and in 2016 the government decided on a national strategy and a targeted action programme to prevent and combat men's violence against women and honour-related violence and repression. The Government intends to present a new integrated action programme to prevent and combat men's violence against women and honour-related violence and repression for the period 2021 – 2023. During its term of office, the Government has taken several measures against honour-related violence and repression. On 1 July 2020, a new crime, child marriage crimes, was introduced, which can give prisons a maximum of four years. At the same time, a penalty for crimes of honour was also introduced. An exit ban was also introduced to protect children from being taken abroad to enter into child marriage or genital mutilation. Among other things, the report 'A special offence of honour' (SOU 2020:57) proposes the introduction of a special offence of honour. The report has been referred and is now being prepared in the Government Office. Strengthened competence and effective cooperation between responsible authorities is essential to combat and prevent honour-related violence and repression and to ensure that victims receive the protection and support to which they are entitled. The Government has therefore decided on a special initiative to increase its competence in honor-related violence and repression, and SEK 180 million will be allocated for this purpose in 2021. The Government decided in December 2020 on an agency-wide mission, under the coordination of the National Competence Team against Honorary Violence and Suppression at the County Administrative Board in Östergötland County, to the Swedish Crime Victims Agency, Linköping University (Barnafrid – a national centre for knowledge of violence against children), the Swedish Police Authority, the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare and the Swedish Public Prosecutor's Office, to develop in 2021, among other things, a public authority-wide guidance for staff in social services, health care, the school system and the police to prevent and prevent children from leaving the country from being married away, being married or subjected to various forms of honorary violence or coercion. In addition, the Government has instructed the County Administrative Board of Östergötland County to prepare the establishment of a national cross-sectoral centre of expertise against honour-related violence and repression. The tasks of the National Centre of Competence shall include: To support municipalities and regions in their work to identify the occurrence of honour violence, plan activities and implement, monitor and evaluate quality-assured practices and methods to prevent honorary violence and offer support to individuals vulnerable To regularly investigate the extent of honorary violence in Sweden and the development of society's efforts in this area. The rights contained in the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, the Convention on the Rights of the Child, which, since 1 January 2020, applies as Swedish law, are interrelated and must be interpreted in relation to each other as a whole. All children must have their rights satisfied. The school meets all children and young people and therefore has a unique opportunity to make a difference. The school should actively and consciously promote students' equal rights and opportunities, regardless of gender. That staff working at school have an obligation to report to the Social Welfare Board if they suspect that a child is suffering ill is already clear, and it is important that all staff are aware of their own responsibilities. In order to develop the work in school to prevent and combat honour-related violence and repression, the Swedish National Agency for Education has been awarded SEK 11 million for 2021 to strengthen the systematic work against honor-related violence and oppression within the school system, including preschool, through knowledge-raising efforts and support to various staff groups within the school and preschool. The assignment must be presented by 4 February 2022. Furthermore, the school's mission in respect of honor issues has been strengthened as the Government decided in February 2021 on curriculum changes in the field of knowledge currently known as sex and cohabitation. The changes in curricula shall apply from autumn semester 2022. For the government, it is a priority to strengthen children's rights and combat violence against children, including all forms of honour-related violence and repression. Freedom of religion is a human right, but the right not to be subjected to violence is just as clear. Freedom of religion can never be used as a reason for violence against children. Violence against children can never be accepted, and all people in Sweden should be able to live their lives free from oppression.
i-99f77955078f664d-676	Mr. Old President! Thank you for your answer, Minister. A future Sweden needs an extended policy for freedom – a freedom for all, where both women and men have the opportunity to choose their own life. Then we need to stand up for equality every day, and we need to stand up for freedom every day. I think the obvious starting point is that each individual himself decides over his or her body and sexuality, his or her clothing and so on. The problem today, however, is that this in Sweden has developed parallel societies where some of the Swedish population live in freedom and equality, while people in other areas are restricted and denied their human rights. In some localities, women and girls are subjected to harassment because they do not follow established rules on dress, lifestyle, who they meet, and so on – rules that have been set up in their area. Mr. Old President! So we have girls and women around Sweden whose life choices are limited by their family and relatives. They must not dress as they please, they must not move freely in society and they must not marry anyone they want. It's been 19 years since Fadime ahindal was killed by her own father... shot in the head at close range... because she had met a Swedish man and wanted to choose for herself who to marry and who she wanted to love. Fadime said during his speech in this building, in the Swedish Parliament, that we should not turn our backs on these women. But I would say that in these years we must have turned our backs on a great many girls and women. Mr. Old President! I think that many things have been done, as the Minister lists, and yet we can see around Sweden that the repression of honour is increasing. Then you have to ask yourself: are we doing the right things, and are we doing enough of the right things? The veil is basically a symbol of female oppression. Covering hair and body is made so that girls and women do not arouse desires in men. Women who are under pressure of honour testify that the demands to cover their body and hair are part of the oppression itself. We Moderates want to investigate a veiled ban in preschool and primary school. We think it is better that it is society that takes the fight for these children – for these girls and women – than that the fight should be taken in each individual family. At Question Time on 25 March, the Minister stated that it is the government's intention to ensure that every child in this country has the right to dress as it pleases – without coercion, without oppression and without threat of violence. After that, I chose to write this interpellation, because I wonder: How will the minister ensure this? Obviously, we are not doing the right thing today. What further measures are needed? In fact, Mr President-in-Office, this is not an answer to me. The question is: why should we allow a symbol that violates half the world's population? For we must not be so tolerant as to tolerate the intolerant. If we have men who can't keep their fingers in check because a woman isn't covered – because she doesn't have a veil – they should be the ones who stay at home.
i-99f77955078f664d-685	Mr. Old President! On the last point, I agree 100% with the honourable Member. Honour-related violence and repression are unacceptable and must be vigorously combated. Violence and repression are incompatible with equality between men and women and girls and boys, as well as with the rights of the child and the rights of LGBT people. Society must act decisively against all forms of oppression of honour. The government has acted and will continue to act against honour standards, honour repression and honour crimes. On the issue of veils, the starting point is that girls and women should be allowed to decide for themselves what they are wearing. The state should not force the veil from those who wear it voluntarily, and it should not be forced upon anyone. No one – least of all children – will ever wear a veil against their will. Controlling children's and pupils' choice of clothing can in many cases be expressions of honour-related violence and oppression, but it is not in any case. The fact that someone wears a veil is not a single indicator of whether or not it is under pressure of honour. In the important work to catch children who are being oppressed by honour, we cannot carelessly or believe that there are shortcuts, but we must do a solid job to break with the pressure of honor for real. The school meets all children and young people and therefore has a unique opportunity to make a difference. All staff working at school are obliged to report to the Social Welfare Board if they suspect that a child is ill, and it is important that all staff are aware of their own responsibilities. The government has commissioned the Swedish National Agency for Education to work on this particular issue. The Swedish Agency for Education will strengthen the systematic work against honour-related violence and oppression within the school system through knowledge-raising efforts and support for various staff groups within the school and preschool. Then there is pupil health, which is the professional group in school mentioned in the action plan against genital mutilation and in the assignment to the National Board of Health and Welfare to further develop knowledge support. With a combined enhanced knowledge of these issues, student health can support other professional groups in school. In order for vulnerable people to receive the support and protection they are entitled to, it is also important that professionals throughout society have access to the right information, tools and skills regarding existing legislation. The Government has therefore decided on a special initiative to increase its competence in honor-related violence and repression, and SEK 180 million will be allocated for this purpose in 2021. Mr. Old President! These are measures that, together with many others, will make a real difference in combating honour-related violence and repression. These are balanced, concrete and effective measures, but many of these measures remove the right-wing parties from their budgets. I find it worrying that the opposition is prepared to cut back on and back on the measures in force so easily that it actually makes a difference in the work against honour oppression and instead focuses on symbols, which has a bad and unclear effect and strikes at whole groups. The government will continue to take strong action to fight at all levels the repression of honour.
i-BW8Q9TMdLqv92phD2FTeXG	Mr. Old President! Thank you for the clarification, Minister. The veil is actually not a common garment like the jacket or trousers I wear, but the veil is a symbol of visible oppression. Then you have to act on that, too, I think. On April 13, 2021, Dagens Nyheter reported that the City of Gothenburg has recently conducted a study showing how criminal family networks use forced marriage to increase their power. Klaner forces people to marry people they do not want to marry — suitable people in other families. It's all about expanding the clan's territory. In DN on April 7, a woman tells of her life as a marriage marriage and that she finally got free. She talks about how it was to come to Sweden as a fourteen-year-old, with a man she was engaged to. He was 23. They had fled the war in Iran and had been in Sweden for only a few months. She tells me about social services meetings. Every time the social secretaries asked her something, her husband answered, which she had to marry. All she wanted was for someone to talk to her, see her, but it never happened. She had a desire to be seen, to meet someone alone to dare talk. It could have saved her 18 years of suffering. It could have saved her a life in a forced marriage with constant surveillance, mental abuse and rape. It was many years since she came to Sweden. But last 2016 was the study Are you married? by the Finnish Immigration Service which identified 132 children who provided information on their marriage. Everyone was then or had been a child without a guardian in Sweden. Four of them had reached the age of 18. But there is probably a rather large number of children who have been forced to marry as children. Despite the fact that Sweden has introduced law enforcement measures against forced, child and polygamy, it is clear that more measures are needed. What does the Minister intend to do about this? The Minister has referred to the fact that the National Agency for Education has received EUR 11 billion and so on and at that it is important that all staff are aware of their own responsibilities, if I quote the Minister's right. The initiatives that go to the Swedish National Agency for Education will never be provided by educators in Jordbro. They're not getting any development out of it. It says there's going to be a development at the National Agency for Education. But time passes. Children are exposed to horrors that we do not want, nor in other vulnerable areas. Mr. Old President! Last year, a 20-year-old was murdered with about 90 stab wounds on a bus in Kiruna. Now the guilty man is convicted. The sons who were present have been sentenced to closed juvenile care. Now the district court writes that a motive for the crime has been to preserve a person's or a family's honor. During the time that killed Reza Hoseini, he was very worried. He turned to the police and social services and claimed that it was about honor. Yet it was judged that it was not about honor. So it was last year. When the negative development in Sweden is so rapid, when so many people are exposed, when you make efforts but they do not lead to the desired result: What efforts does the Minister and the Government intend to take? When can we see any results in the right direction?
i-99f77955078f664d-702	Mr. Old President! I shall begin by saying that what the honourable Member describes is precisely the terrible consequences of honour-related violence and repression. The stories of the response from the police, social services and the school point to exactly what the government wants to get through by investing the money we now invest in providing guidance, support and the opportunity for better education so that people can get the right treatment. We shall be able to capture the children and women who may be suspected of being subjected to honour-related violence and oppression. Just telling children at school that they are not allowed to wear a veil will not make that difference. The woman whom the honourable Member cites as an example was not likely to have been treated differently because she did not wear a veil. What we see in parallel in society, however, is how women are attacked on the city, on the bus and at their workplace because they wear a veil. If we are really going to deal with honour-related violence and oppression, we need to go to oppression. When a staff member of the school meets a child who may be suspected of being the victim of honour-related violence and repression – whether it is because the child is wearing a veil or a completely different signal – a report of concern shall be drawn up for this purpose. This applies regardless of whether the child has a veil or not. If we are serious about breaking with honour-related violence and repression, we must get to that very thing and not just the veil. The government is working and will continue to work every day to break with honour-related violence and repression. No child should be married. No child should be subjected to controls when it means living in the oppression of honour. No child should have to control a sibling who lives in the oppression of honour. We must respond to this with common strength every day. This is precisely about dealing with and meeting, catching up and supporting the people we see caught up in the violence of honour and repression. We need to put all our strength there so that every child, every youth facing that oppression, receives the support they need in school, social services and the police.
i-8qK7xdTabbYthpE2cvWWJd	Mr. Old President! Thank you, Minister, for your answer. The minister says to go to oppression. I mean, the veil is part of the oppression. That means the people I've been in contact with are part of the oppression, that they have to wear it. I think that it is quite a question of the Minister to suggest that we Moderates would think that the only solution is a ban on veils. Of course, it takes a palette of things. But we believe that this is an important part of the process of repression. In our schools and preschools, children are to be raised as democratic citizens. According to the Education Act, education must convey and anchor respect for human rights and the fundamental democratic values on which Swedish society is founded. Then I think that we must be extremely clear that Swedish law and human rights apply to everyone, that there are no exceptions no matter who you are and where you come from, no matter what religion you have or what culture you come from. It is strange that we allow oppression of little girls who are forced to cover their hair and walk in comprehensive clothing. It sexualizes girls at an early age and places responsibility for the husband's shortcomings on them, little girls or women. Wouldn't the Minister agree that it's very strange? Freedom and responsibility to be able to influence your everyday life and to support yourself is the foundation of equality. We Moderates want to reach a society where all people are given the same opportunity to reach their full potential. Then we need to stand up to the oppression of women and never ever accept the parallel societies that we see have emerged throughout Sweden. They spread out, not only in my municipality of residence, Haninge, but throughout Sweden. Wouldn't the Minister agree that it would be better if society took the fight instead of every single girl having to take the fight in her own family?
i-99f77955078f664d-714	Mr. Old President! Freedom of religion is a human right, just like so many other human rights. Even expressing religion is a human right. It is also a right for children under the Convention on the Rights of the Child. On the other hand, being forced to express religion is not something that any child should be subjected to. As I said in my answer, it can never be used as an excuse for violence against children. However, children who choose to express their religious affiliation have a right to do so under the Convention on the Rights of the Child. On the other hand, that children are forced to bear a religious symbol and live in honour and violence, society should never ever accept. No, I think we should never accept that girls are forced to live under honorary oppression or be forced to wear a veil. On the other hand, I am prepared to defend their right to choose to wear a veil. What we need to ensure is that the school is able to see the difference and offers those girls who need help out of honor-related violence and oppression the help they need, but also accords the girls who choose to wear religious symbols the same right to the veil as Jewish girls have to the David Star or Christian girls have to the cross.
i-99f77955078f664d-718	Mr. Old President! With reference to a previous question, Ludvig Aspling has been asked during the Parliamentary Question Time about the link between the increase in the pressure of honour and the fact that many people have moved here from countries where honor is a cultural norm, and whether I will do anything to improve knowledge of such problems. The work against honour-related violence and repression is a high priority for the government, and in 2016 the government decided on a national strategy and a targeted action programme to prevent and combat men's violence against women and honour-related violence and repression. Society must act decisively against all forms of oppression of honour. We can never accept that people are not allowed to choose for themselves who to marry, children's marriage or that people are subjected to violence and oppression because of standards of honor. The interpeller has asked about the link between immigration and honour repression. Honour-related violence is partly linked to migration in the sense that it is a cross-border problem and that honorary standards exist among people who are born abroad, have a foreign background or have roots in another country. At the same time, the majority of young people with foreign background report that they are not exposed to honour-related violence and oppression. Honorary standards can also exist among people who have long lived here. Exposure to honour-related violence and oppression can also be a reason to flee to Sweden. A disappointing observation from the municipal surveys 2017 – 2018 is that young people living under honorary pressure do not necessarily feel they need help, do not dare to seek help or do not know what help they can get. Society must actively work to detect honour-related violence and offer long-term support to those who expose their vulnerability. During its term of office, the Government has taken several measures against honour-related violence and repression. On 1 July 2020, a new crime, child marriage crimes, was introduced, which can give prisons a maximum of four years. At the same time, a penalty for crimes of honour was also introduced. An exit ban was also introduced to protect children from being taken abroad to enter into child marriage or genital mutilation. Among other things, the report 'A special offence of honour' (SOU 2020:57) proposes the introduction of a specific offence of honour. The report has been referred and is now being prepared within the Government Office. Strengthened competence and effective cooperation between responsible authorities is necessary to combat and prevent honour-related violence and repression and to provide victims with the protection and support to which they are entitled. The Government has therefore decided on a special initiative to increase its competence in honor-related violence and repression, and SEK 180 million will be allocated for this purpose in 2021. In the regulations for 2021, the Government has decided on assignments to several authorities with a focus on stopping honour-related violence and oppression including child marriage, forced marriages and genital mutilation. Among other things, the Swedish National Agency for Education was tasked with strengthening the systematic work against honour-related violence and oppression within the school system. The Government also decided in December 2020 on an agency-wide mission, under the coordination of the National Competence Team against Honorary Violence and Suppression at the County Administrative Board of Östergötland County, to the Swedish Crime Victims Agency, Linköping University, the Swedish Police Authority, the Swedish National Board of Social Affairs and the Swedish Prosecution Authority, to develop in 2021, among other things, an authority-wide guidance for staff in social services, health care, school services and police to prevent and prevent children from leaving the country from being married away, sexually stymised or subjected to various forms of honorary violence or coercion. The Government has instructed the County Administrative Board of Östergötland County to prepare the establishment of a national cross-sectoral centre of expertise against honour-related violence and repression. The national competence team will develop into a national competence centre, and the Centre's tasks will include supporting municipalities and regions in their work to identify the occurrence of honour violence, planning activities, and implementing, monitoring and evaluating quality assured practices and methods for preventing honour violence and offering support to individuals who are vulnerable. In addition, the extent of honour violence in Sweden and the development of society's efforts in this area will be regularly investigated. Everyone in Sweden, both children and adults, must, regardless of gender or sexual orientation, be able to live a life in equality and with freedom for the individual. Society needs to act hard against violence and repression, clearly uphold and convey fundamental values while being open. A feminist government can never accept that people in Sweden are subjected to honour-related violence and oppression, and combating this problem is of paramount importance. Much has been done, but we need to do even more to combat the unacceptable violence of honour and the standards that uphold repression. The Government intends to present a new integrated action programme to prevent and combat men's violence against women and honour-related violence and repression for the period 2021 – 2023.
i-99f77955078f664d-730	Mr. Old President! During the Parliamentary Question Time a couple of weeks ago, I asked Märta Stenevi if she believed that the fact that so-called honorary oppression has become very common in Sweden has something to do with the fact that many people have moved here from countries where notions of honor are cultural norm. The answer I received from Märta Stenevi at that time was a no. She sees no such connection. Today, I have asked the Government to come to the House to tell her what the authorities and civil society are saying about this. The reason why this is important is, of course, that if we cannot properly analyse the background of the problem, we cannot solve the problem either. In order for it not to be possible for Märta Stenevi to dismiss the information, I have only chosen sources that the Ministry of Justice itself used in one of its proposals from last year. To begin with, JD refers to the map Married against her will from the National Board of Youth, which shows that it is a significantly higher proportion of girls and boys who have restrictions on the choice of future partners in religious families with foreign backgrounds than in other families. The report also identifies girls with backgrounds in the Middle East and North Africa as particularly vulnerable. A mapping of honor-related violence and oppression from the organisation Girls' rights in society states that – I read on page 9 – On page 10, it also says that the most obvious difference that emerges in the material is that between young people with parents born in Sweden and young people with parents born abroad. ..................................................... Then there's the report. It's my life. from the Foundation General Barnhuset. It describes, on page 20, how the oppression of honour occurs, especially in families who have immigrated from countries where there is a traditional culture of honor and arranged marriages, families who do not accept same-sex relationships, families with fundamentalist religious beliefs and families with strong prejudices against certain groups. The last is perhaps a wrapped reference to the extreme imported anti-Semitism that we have in some places in Sweden. The mapping of girls and women in Sweden who may have been exposed to genital mutilation, carried out by the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare 2015, estimates that the number of genital mutilations in Sweden is 38,000. The largest groups have backgrounds in Somalia, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Egypt and Gambia. Risk factors that are specifically taken into account in the report are how long the family has lived in Sweden and to what extent the persons have been integrated. This is on page 8 et seq. Furthermore, we have Brå's report on the culture of silence from 2019, which deals with violence in close relationships. This is what some interviewers claim on page 46 that some foreign-born victims do not perceive relationship violence as criminal. The same may apply to acts considered child abuse in Sweden. It is not described as a question of a mere lack of knowledge, but that it is a question of norm systems. ..................................................... Mr. Old President! The list of sources that underpin my theory of why this problem has increased can be done very long. The list of sources that support the Government's theory that this has nothing to do with imported cultures is very short– I haven't found one. I hope that the Government will be able to present such a source in this House today. The fact is, however, that I do not believe that any serious judge makes any other assessment of the issue than precisely that culture and background are crucial to the development of this problem. It is now time for Märta Stenevi to explain herself. Can she find any source, scientific or otherwise, confirming the hypothesis that this has nothing to do with imported cultures?
i-99f77955078f664d-739	Mr. Old President! I have to say that I was somewhat surprised when I read the honourable Member's question, because he claims that on 25 March in Parliament's Question Time I would have answered no to the question of a link between migration and honour-related violence and repression. I had to go to the transcription of Question Time, and I have not said that. This was very interesting four minutes, but I have not put it at all. What I have said, however, is that these are things that we can never accept in Sweden and in Swedish society. It affects girls and women, but also boys and men in a way that we must oppose. Norms – destructive man standards – will need to be dealt with. ..................................................... Later in Question Time, I also said, ‘My absolute conviction is that we are not doing better' – that is to say, for these women – and by closing the border and allowing girls and women to grow up in camps in Lebanon. ..................................................... There is, of course, a link between migration and the standards of honour that we see today in the sense that women who were exposed in their own country will also be here, unless standards and values in their families change. That is why society must act decisively against all forms of oppression of honour. We can never accept that people are not allowed to choose for themselves who to marry, children's marriage or that people are subjected to violence and oppression because of standards of honor. We are working with a range of instruments to better prevent honour violence and oppression before that happens. Among other things, we do this by preventing standards of honour. It is important that professionals have access to the right information, tools and expertise on existing legislation. We are also working to better prosecute honour-related crimes after they have taken place. Last year, a child marriage offence, a new, special penalty, was introduced, which means that if a motive for the crime has been to preserve or restore honor, it should be seen as an aggravating circumstance when assessing the penalty value and an exit ban to protect children from being taken abroad in order to enter into child marriage or to be genitally stifled. More proposals are currently being prepared within the Government Office. Anyone exposed to honour-related violence and oppression has the right to support and protection. It is important that women, girls, men, boys and LGBTI victims of honour-related violence and repression receive support and protection. And it is extremely important that support and efforts are also aimed at boys and young men and that they are included in the preventive work to break these standards. The government will continue to do what is necessary to counter all forms of honor-related violence and oppression.
i-99f77955078f664d-747	Mr. Old President! I'm not saying that the Prime Minister should have said no. What the Government did was to duck for the question and not answer at all, which means that her attitude is that she sees no such connection between people moving in from countries where honor is a cultural norm and that honour oppression is increasing in Sweden. I'm thinking that Märta Stenevi will hear a little about what the vulnerable people themselves say about this. I have looked a little in the report Teacher's observations regarding the occurrence of honor-related oppression in schools. And in another report I read: I have never hated anything that I have hated my culture. I don't understand why you should suffer so much when you love. I don't understand why our parents are so old-fashioned that all they care about is the rumors about their daughter. Why shouldn't you let your daughter be happy and marry the guy she's in love with? What Märta Stenevi says to this person is about: No, I'm sorry, but in the Green Party's world, all cultures are the same, no culture is better than anyone else, and therefore it can't be the culture that is wrong with it. You are simply wrong. Apart from the fact that this is a rather despicable way of dismissing actual victims and their testimony, it is also implicitly a way of taking sides with the perpetrator and turning against the victim. What Märta Stenevi says is exactly what you can imagine the perpetrators in this situation saying, namely: This has nothing to do with our culture, clan or religious group, but this problem is as much everywhere, no one mentioned and no one forgotten. This is also part of a larger pattern. It is no secret that the Green Party always, as soon as you get the chance, takes the perpetrator's side and turns against the victims. Mr. Old President! I thought we should give Märta Stenevi a chance to answer honestly a rather simple question, again. I read this earlier: I have never hated anything that I hate about my culture. I don't understand why you should suffer so much when you love. I don't understand why our parents are so old-fashioned that all they care about is the rumors about their daughter. Why shouldn't you let your daughter be happy and marry the girl she's in love with? Does Märta Stenevi think that the person who said this has misunderstood the situation so gravely that it is not the culture that is wrong with it? What would Märta Stenevi say to this person?
i-99f77955078f664d-754	Mr. Old President! It is a somewhat absurd experience to stand and have four minutes' speech read about what I have said while the honourable Member obviously has not listened to a word of what I have said. I quoted myself a few minutes ago. Of course, there is a connection between migration and the standards of honour that we see today in the sense that women who were exposed in their own country will also be this unless standards and values in their families change. I can also quote once what I said in the Question Time that this interpellation is about: Norms – destructive man standards – will need to be dealt with. ..................................................... For the rest of my last speech, I may refer to the recording afterwards. Mr. Old President! We have a real situation. What Ludvig Aspling read out earlier is about a real person. We have real girls and women who, in my political act, both regionally, municipally and nationally, work for their freedom. Instead, I am standing in the Chamber debating with the Swedish-democratic Member on things that I have not said. I am focused on and souled by the fact that these girls will have their freedom and that these children and young people who are subjected to honor-related oppression and violence will have their freedom. Perhaps we should move on to focus on what measures we need to introduce in order to be able to break with exactly the standards that the honourable Member refers to and to which I have also referred on a number of occasions. I have told you about a long series of measures that have been introduced by the government. The Swedish Democratic Member is welcome to make proposals, and we are happy to discuss them instead of discussing wrong quotes from me from previous Question Time. Mr. Old President! I would like to remind you that in this interpellation debate I represent the government and not the Green Party.
i-99f77955078f664d-762	Mr. Old President! The Government wants to focus on action, so I can repeat what I said in my first speech: no action against this problem will ever be effective as long as it is based on an incorrect analysis of the background of the problem. That is why the Government is here today. Thus, for the first time, in April 2021, the Government now reluctantly admits that such a connection may exist. I've never heard her say that before. That is, of course, welcome. But then you can think about what has happened since Question Time just over two weeks ago. Two weeks ago, there was no such connection at all. The government refused to answer the question and talked about completely different things. Now she reluctantly admits that such a connection, i.e. between immigration and the repression of honour, can exist. What happened? I suspect, Mr President-in-Office, that what has happened is that a press assistant has informed the Government that it does not look good to stand in the Chamber and say these obviously wrong things. I hope that the Government believes that this is the case, so that she thinks that what she has been informed about is in fact true. Question number two, which I would like to come to, is this: if there is a connection like this between immigration from certain countries and the repression of honour, how is it that the Green Party is squeezing its pearls and screaming in falsified as soon as we talk about something called cultural burden? That is an important point that I would like to highlight here today. We've been talking about this connection for many, many years, and we've been receiving all-gender scolding because of it. We have been called both one and the other. Now, this very late in the day, the environmentalists crawl to the cross and say: Well, maybe this connection exists– maybe you were right, after all. We have never claimed that this would apply to all people who move to Sweden, Märta Stenevi. We have never said that it concerns a majority of all those who move here without it being a large enough minority for the problem to be worth paying attention. How can you ministers still deny that there is something that can be called a cultural burden?
i-99f77955078f664d-769	Mr. Old President! Anyone exposed to honour-related violence and oppression has the right to support and protection. It is crucial that women, girls, men, boys and LGBTI victims of honour-related violence and repression receive support and protection. Strengthened competence and effective cooperation between responsible authorities is necessary to combat and prevent honour-related violence and repression and to provide victims with the protection and support to which they are entitled. The government will continue to do what is necessary to counter all forms of honour-related violence and repression. When the Swedish Democrats have used the term cultural burden, they have described whole groups and entire cultures. This describes not only those who subject others to oppression of honour, but also those who suffer the oppression of honour. We do not agree with each other at all. It would be better if we could discuss how we most effectively oppose honorary standards and oppression rather than have discussions about whether some Swedes are net assets or net burdens for society. We should focus on how we help girls and women who are exposed to honour-related violence and oppression instead of debating the transcripts of Question Time – but I strongly recommend reading them.
i-99f77955078f664d-773	Mr. Old President! Tobias Andersson has asked me whether it is my view that white, native women will have to move in order for foreign-born women to gain power and whether I intend to take any steps to make it possible. Furthermore, the interpeller has asked me whether there is a risk that identity policy will lead to fragmentation and whether I intend to take any steps to prevent it. Mr. Old President! The goal of gender equality policy is for women and men to have the same power to shape society and their own lives. It is then, of course, all women who are referred to. However, women's participation in the labour market is lower than men's, and the labour market is highly gender-disaggregated. The Government has appointed a commission on equal income from life, which has the task of proposing measures that contribute to, among other things, the equal distribution of public support measures to women and men and equal workplaces. At the same time, efforts to prevent and combat racism and polarisation in society are important. This creates the conditions for a united and united Sweden. Racism in various forms exists as part of society's structures, with the result that people have different access to rights and opportunities, power and influence. Just as there are structural differences between the sexes, racism is also structural. These differences can interact and reinforce each other. Sweden should be a country where all people should be able to live in freedom without being subjected to racism and discrimination. Racism and discrimination must be combated with the full force of society and in all areas of society. The Government's national plan against racism, similar forms of hostility and hate crime and the Non-Discrimination Act are key tools in this work.
i-99f77955078f664d-777	Mr. Old President! In Aftonbladet's podcast The ideological question was recently interviewed Märta Stenevi based on her relatively new post as spokesperson for the Green Party. In the aftermath of the interview, one of Märta Stenevis's comments has been given wings, spread and strongly criticized. In a discussion about why many more women than men vote for the Green Party, Märta Stenevi comes into power and, as she sees it, the need for power to be shared equally. Märta Stenevi describes that it is not only men who must renounce power and positions for the benefit of others, but also some women need to renounce power in the pursuit of an equal, multicultural society. In this context, the criticised statement will be that if foreign-born women are to gain power, white, native-born women will have to move. ..................................................... Märta Stenevi seems, on the basis of this comment, to see power as a zero-sum game where some have to move in order for others to be able to take the power currently held by someone else. I believe, however, that one's self-realization and success is not limited by the fact that another has already achieved self-realization and success. This is at least true in a democracy characterised by a market economy. Here in Sweden we all have plenty of opportunities. If we achieve success, it does not happen at the expense of anyone else, then neither power nor economy is static. In Sweden, education is offered that is funded by others through the tax bill. If you then want to read further, there are favorable loan opportunities. And those who have enough drive and intellect have the opportunity to advance within academia. In Sweden you are offered to take the risk and the chance to start your own business based on the idea you believe in. If you have a good business idea, work hard and are committed to your entrepreneurship, there are no obstacles to how far you can get or how rich you can get. Sweden also offers the chance to make a career in someone else's company or in the public sector. For the competent, there are no obstacles here either. Competitive and driven employees are looking out for every employer. Sweden also offers the opportunity to participate in democracy and engage politically. And if you succeed in gaining the support of both the party and the electorate through your skills, you can represent the people in the parliamentary assemblies. All this, all these opportunities to succeed and gain power through academia, industry and politics, are possible for everyone. It would be illegal in these bodies to discriminate against someone, to hold someone back or to prevent them from reaching their full potential solely because of the individual's sex, skin colour, ethnicity or sexual orientation. One's success is not automatic either, by any natural law, at the expense of another. On the contrary, one's prosperity is spilling over on the other, and as politicians we must create the conditions for everyone to develop and succeed. Unfortunately, Märta Stenevi seems to believe that power and resources are something constant. This is certainly often the case in Communist states, not least where planned economies are applied, but this is not the case here. Why does Märta Stenevi still believe this?
i-99f77955078f664d-786	Mr. Old President! Thank you, Minister, for your answers so far! I was very surprised when I heard the statement. I was also surprised that you didn't get any critical questions from the journalist at Aftonbladet. After all, your statement can only be interpreted in two ways. Either the Minister is calling for quotas to be introduced in Sweden, or it is more of a moral position that the Minister states that something should be done. From the red-green we often hear that the Swedes do not really have their own culture, that there is nothing that is really Swedish and so on. I'm saying the opposite. If there is one thing that really distinguishes our culture, it is that we are sensitive to hypocrisy, especially public hypocrisy when someone is basically standing with his pants pulled down. There's something I'd like to ask you. I have looked at what the Green Party's parliamentary group looks like. There is not a single Member who has another pigment on his face. Well, there is one, but it came in by personal choice, not by the regular list that the Green Party had made. That person was standing in a non-elective position and running a personal election campaign to get in. I thought maybe it was a coincidence and looked at the mouthpieces ever since the party was formed. I haven't found any of the mouthpieces that have another pigment on their face. A few years ago there was an environmentalist minister with foreign background who had to resign because of participation in a dinner with a fascist party, but otherwise I have seen nothing. I went on and looked at the Environmental Party officials in the Government Office. It was the same there – pure Emil in Lönneberga. Then I thought that there had to be someone in the regions and went in and looked at Region Uppsala, Region Stockholm and Region Västmanland; then I couldn't take it anymore. I didn't find anything. I don't quite understand. If it is a moral position that you have, should it apply to everyone but yourself? There is no other party as ethnically pure as your party is. I would like an honest answer and that you look me in the eye and explain how this can happen.
i-99f77955078f664d-793	Mr. Old President! The overall objective of gender equality policy is that women and men should have the same power to shape society and their own lives. Of course, this applies to all women and all men. The problem is that it is not like that today. I shall take a very concrete example. A report from the L thanstyrelsen in Stockholm shows that Afrosvenska needs to have a doctoral programme to get into the same disposable income as a person in the rest of the population who has completed a three-year post-secondary education. It shows that Afrosvenska has around 35 per cent lower pay than the rest of the population with the same level of education and that it is five times as common that people from the rest of the population achieve management positions than that Afrosvenska with the same education does. These differences occur for Afros Swedish people regardless of whether they were born in Sweden or not. Mr. Old President! I would like to ask both of the Swedish Democratic Members whether they, just as I see that in Sweden today there is structural racism that restricts the life possibilities of certain Swedes and prevents them from enjoying their rights. I believe that Members, like me, are well aware that there is widespread discrimination and restriction of people's rights in Sweden today. At the very least, foreign-born women are affected by this. What I said in the podcast and what I meant in the quote that has really got wings is really very simple. We need to make room for more people to use their democratic rights and make their voice heard. What is happening today is that people with foreign background, other ethnicity and other skin colour do not have the same opportunities as native white people to exercise their democratic rights. The hate storms that meet my colleagues out in the country, both locally, regionally and nationally, when they have set up as politicians in Sweden are nothing like anything I ever need to respond to. It's not on equal terms. What my statement refers to is precisely this. If we want everyone to be able to use the universal and equal voting rights that we have in Sweden and if we are to be able to stand on equal terms for the 349 seats of this House, we have to deal with the racism and discrimination that the honourable Member quite rightly pointed out is illegal, but which nevertheless characterises the everyday lives of so many Swedes today. That's what my podcast was about.
i-99f77955078f664d-799	Mr. Old President! I thank Märta Stenevi for her reply. Neither I nor Mikael Strandman have denied that racism exists in Swedish society. At the same time, however, Sweden is one of the least racist countries in the world. We welcome this. It is problematic, however, that we have got ethnic conflicts into Swedish society from other regions. Rather, it adds to and increases racism in Sweden. There is also something else that is clear. Märta Stenevi explains that if you are foreign in Sweden you have less opportunities, and given Mikael Strandman's lighting just now, this is not least the case for foreign born in the Environmental Party. Again, this is an expression of identity policy. In addition to my reactions to Märta Stenevis's view of power in general, I was also upset by the identity policy view expressed by Märta Stenevi in her statement in the podcast. The statement suggests that Märta Stenevi is a supporter of identity policy because she clearly distinguishes between foreign-born women and white native women. The concept of identity policy that we all belong to different socio-cultural groups, in this case linked to skin colour, which we are expected to represent and promote without regard to other groups or our own free will, is directly detrimental to the construction of society. The fact that the Swedish Minister for Gender Equality groups people according to their skin colour and then puts groups against groups is remarkable. In my interpellation, therefore, I raised the question whether the Government and the Government see a risk of identity policy leading to fragmentation and whether the Government intends to take any measures to prevent it. In her answer, Märta Stenevi said : This creates the conditions for a united and united Sweden. This is, of course, where we are united. Racism must be combated. Certainly not through the laws of opinion, but yes, the collective strength of society must stand up against racism. Mr. Old President! It is precisely for this reason that Märta Stenevis's statement is problematic, and for a number of reasons. Firstly, the statement forms part of the racism of so-called low expectations. In other words, it is an idea that people, in this case women born abroad, are not capable of taking on life on their own and succeeding without being able, precisely because they are born abroad, to succeed only if they receive alms, shortcuts and the pre-allocation of others. It is an extremely sad and derogatory view of those involved. Secondly, quotas – positive discrimination – by someone or a group always mean that someone else suffers negative discrimination. In this case, white native women are concerned. Thirdly, there is, of course, a risk of increasing racism and polarisation if political action is taken to move the group of white indigenous women to be replaced by the group of foreign-born women. But, Mr. Old President, if Märta Stenevi nevertheless stands by her statement, the question remains as to why she herself does not take the lead, puts on the leadership shirt and shows the way. If Märta Stenevi is serious about the fact that white native women need to give way to foreign-born women in order to distribute power in society, I wonder when we can expect her to resign instead to give her power to a foreign-born woman.
i-99f77955078f664d-809	Mr. Old President! Thank you, Minister, for your answers! Let me ask you something again. The Minister says that they are subjected to so much hatred and that that's why they don't want to stand up so we can get them in. It sounded like that. But is that really so? The environmental party is still a parliamentary party. You obviously have thousands of voters and sympathizers. How come among some of these you haven't found someone with another pigment on your face that you want to hire or include in your council groups? I don't understand that. I'm from the transport industry. The managers I had at both my former and former workplace came from overseas countries. I've also worked at a lot of other companies. But I've never seen a group as ethnically homogeneous as the Green Party. You have a lot to explain to the Swedish people and your voters when you sit on these high moral horses and explain how everyone else should do it. Is this something that should only apply to others and not to yourselves? The Minister has still not given any explanation as to why it looks like this. Of course, I do not think we should have quotas. I think you should choose the person who is most suitable for the job. That is the most just thing, and that is something everyone can accept, I think. This is the case in the sports world, and I think that this should also be the case in the business sector and the public sector. I was once again very surprised when I looked at your composition. In fact, I think you should be ashamed of yourself.
i-99f77955078f664d-813	Mr. Old President! Let me start by clarifying something that I think is really clear if you listen to the podcast. It is that I do not propose any kind of quota, nor does the government. Neither I nor the government intend to discriminate against anyone. The government will continue to steer towards gender equality policy objectives so that all women and men have the same power to shape society and their own lives, and we will steer away from discrimination and racism so that more people can operate on equal terms. Because, Mr President-in-Office, it is different, and the hate storms that meet the politicians who stand in general elections and who operate locally and regionally are brutal. They're being compared to feces. They are met with anti-Semitic expressions. They are met with misogynous expressions. They are constantly confronted with hatred and threats. Women are met with hatred and threats that are sexualized. I am very pleased and grateful to hear that the Members – at least these two members from the Swedish Democrats – seem to share my absolute view that structural racism in Sweden is holding back women and, furthermore, is a major threat to our democracy. I look forward to being able to debate with the Swedish Democratic Members on how to overcome structural racism and the hatred and threats that follow in the tail of some more nationalist ideologies in the future. 100 years ago, women had not been allowed to vote for the first time. 100 years ago, this House had been intended exclusively for men. That is not the case today. I sincerely hope that we will very soon have the opportunity to welcome a different environmental-party minister from myself who has different skin colour. We're not there today. I hope, however, that we will overcome the racism that exists in society with the hatred and threats that confront female politicians and, not least, Muslim female politicians. Muslim women politicians who also choose to wear a veil are faced with a pressure that has one single purpose: to silence them, to get them to back down, to make them not use their democratic rights and to make them not take their place in society. I am pleased if it is the case that, at least with two members of the Swedish Democratic Parliamentary Group, I now agree that we need to do everything in our power to break with structural racism, which keeps women away from the place they are entitled to in society.
i-99f77955078f664d-820	Mr. Old President! Thank you again for your answer. I noted that racism is found, so also against Swedes for that matter. On the other hand, the question of whether or not racism is structural may be left to a forthcoming debate instead. I would also like to describe that it is not the case that people with foreign background in other parties are alone in suffering hatred. This also applies to our representatives and to our members with an overseas background. They, if any, have experienced this – from the left. They do not fit into the model of identity policy. They are considered to violate their group membership when they engage in the Swedish Democrats. Those of them have had a tough time in line with what Märta Stenevi describes. In my last speech, I highlighted the strange and strange fact that Märta Stenevi, as a supporter of identity policy, wants white native women to make room for foreign-born women, while she herself, given both the office and the voice of speech, holds more power than virtually any other woman in Sweden. If I had believed in identity policy, I would have asked myself whether it was racist structures in the Green Party that caused no foreign-born woman to be found among the eight white candidates as spokespersons in the Green Party or in all the positions that Mikael Strandman previously presented. I do not know what various environmental parties identify as, but it can nevertheless be said that the Swedish democrats have considerably greater diversity among both representatives and voters. The question that remains then is whether the Green Party is part of the racist structures and problems that Märta Stenevi pointed out earlier in this debate.
i-99f77955078f664d-824	Mr. Old President! When I want to counter the hatred and threats that affect politicians, especially politicians with foreign backgrounds, it very much includes Swedish democratic politicians as well. No politician in this country should have to endure this. But it is also a fact that you have a completely different pressure against yourself if you are born abroad. If you are in addition to the woman and also the Muslim and have also chosen to wear the veil, it is an enormous pressure. Then it's not a level playing field. What I have tried to say in this podcast and in the debate today is that we urgently need to combat structural racism so that more people can take their place. This applies in all parts of society. 100 years ago, universal and equal voting rights were introduced in Sweden. Today, we need to put our political power – and mine – on ensuring that all people in all groups of society have the opportunity to exercise their democratic rights to the full.
i-99f77955078f664d-826	Mr. Old President! Tobias Andersson has asked Minister Mikael Damberg if the Government sees any problems with the use of the term Islamophobia and if it intends to take any measures to avoid it in the future. The question has been handed over to me. In the National Plan against Racism, similar forms of hostility and hate crime, decided in November 2016, the Government states that the concept of Islamophobia in the Plan refers to ideologies, beliefs or values that express hostility to Muslims. Islamophobia can also affect people who are perceived to have a Muslim background. Islam o phobia– or any other form of racism– has no place in Sweden. It must be fought with the full force of society and in all areas of society. Racism, discrimination or hate crime are harmful both to individuals who are victims and to society as a whole. This leads to people being denied equal chances of life, but it also risks undermining democracy by people silencing or losing confidence in authorities, for example. Threats and harassments from unknown people in the grocery store, prolonged and repeated harassment from neighbours or threats and insulting complaints that forced Muslim students to lock themselves in the toilet – The Crime Prevention Council's report shows countless examples of how Islamophobia takes up pressure and is not limited to any particular place, time or person. For some people, such as women wearing veils, Islamophobia can be experienced as part of everyday life. The definition of Islamophobia and other forms of racism is the subject of constant development and discussion. I believe that the definition given by the government in the national plan against racism is appropriate for the implementation of the plan. Therefore, I am not planning at this stage to work towards changing the definition or use of it.
i-99f77955078f664d-831	Mr. Old President! Johan Westerholm of the editorial pages has reviewed and criticised the report Islamophobic Hate Crimes from the Crime Prevention Council. The report originates from the fact that the then gender equality minister Åsa Lindhagen in 2019 commissioned Brå to conduct an in-depth study on so-called Islamophobia hate crime, in order to gain more knowledge in the hope of improving the preventive work against Islamophobia and racism. Johan Westerholm's criticism of the report is both broad and nuanced and is based, among other things, on the fact that Brå does not indicate what form of hate crime has been studied – hate crime at individual cognitive level or as the result of a racist movement at structured macro level – and that it was initially not clear which parts of the Muslim group have been interviewed. The leadership sides have also touched on the fact that Islamophobia as a concept is not a completely unproblematic one. I will come back in my next speech to the Members' criticism of the concept, but first intend to express some of my own criticism. Mr. Old President! Let us first state that we are all opposed to racism. Racism must be combated – certainly not through the law of opinion, but surely the collective strength of society must stand up to racism, even when Muslims are affected. When I use the term racism, I refer to racism regardless of who is affected. Different immigrant groups can be exposed to or expose others to racism, including Swedes. Unfortunately, there are many who believe that Swedes as a group cannot be subjected to racism given that we do not constitute a minority group, although we actually do so in some areas of the country. Against this background, I sometimes use Swedish hostility as a term to avoid getting caught up in a discussion about whether or not Swedes can be the subject of racism. However, the government and others have increasingly begun to use different terms depending on the group involved. Aphrophobia and Islamophobia are two new favourite terms. That, in my view, is regrettable. A phobia is an intense, irrational fear of certain phenomena, e.g. snakes or cramped rooms, as the National Encyclopedia defines it. Commonly, it is also seen as a disease that can be treated through, for example, behavioral therapy. I would therefore suggest that it is possible to question the reasonableness of using these terms when, for example, one wishes to describe that it is Islamophobic that someone has said something condescending to a Muslim because it is Muslim. Does the one who said something stupid suffer from irrational fear that can be cured by behavioral therapy? Is the person limited in his or her daily life as a consequence of his or her phobia towards Muslims? Probably not. Let's take it one step further. Can a homosexual young guy who lives in a Muslim country where Islamic law applies and Islamism permeates society be considered to have an irrational fear of Islam? Or is it more rational that he, who was at risk of being killed for his sexual orientation, is afraid of the cause? Is it irrational for a Christian from Syria, who has fled to Sweden from the rise of Islamism in his home country and who has had family members and friends tortured, raped and murdered in the name of Islam, to fear that Sweden is now welcoming his perpetrators here? I do not consider that irrational. Does Märta Stenevi think so?
i-99f77955078f664d-838	Mr. Old President! The national plan against racism and similar forms of hostility and hate crime states that the concept of Islamophobia in the plan refers to ideologies, beliefs or values that express hostility to Muslims. The mission to Brå to conduct a study on Islamophobia hate crimes also states that Islamophobia affects people who are perceived to have a Muslim background. As the plan's definition of racism also covers structural racism, it can be said that the government uses the concept of Islamophobia also in the broader sense, that is, not just as a form of conscious hostility towards Muslims. Brå's report also states that Islamophobia is a multifaceted phenomenon and a controversial concept. Researchers and practitioners have had difficulties in finding a definition that captures Islamophobia in a measurable and good way. In Brå's report, both Islamophobia hate crimes and Islamophobia are defined in accordance with the definitions given by the government in the mission formulation. In addition to pure hate crime, the study highlights experiences of discrimination and negative treatment as well as negative beliefs, prejudices and stereotypes that exist about Muslims. We should always be able to criticize religion and religious practices. This is especially true when religion takes political expression. Anti-democratic, fundamentalist or violent Islamism should not and cannot be accepted in society. But the work against Islamophobia and other forms of racism must not be confused with the important work of vigorously combating, for example, violent Islamism. These two struggles can and must be conducted in parallel. Brå's report also shows, among other things, that there is a strong experience among Muslims that the political and media discourse contributes to consolidating a Vi-and-dom perspective, where Muslims are described as a unified group with common characteristics. I think we should perhaps start there – by realizing that we as politicians have a great responsibility for how we talk about Islamism, Islam and Muslims and about the hatred and crimes that affect Muslims. As politicians and leaders, we must be clear: hatred and threats to Muslims we do not accept. We must combat Islamophobia, as defined by the government in its plan. The fact that we use different concepts within the umbrella of racism is because racism against different people takes different forms. In order to overcome the racism that exists in society, we also need to be able to talk about what it looks like depending on who it is that is exposed. Nor does the plan exclude expressions of racism other than the five defined. For example, in the last year we have seen a sharp increase in racism directed against Swedish Asians. There are many types of racism. For us to be able to counteract them effectively, we need to understand how they appear and what expressions they take. This is the purpose of the definitions. Then there is an interesting word discussion. However, a definition is established which means that we can work better with the phenomenon itself. I believe that it is an appropriate definition that has been laid down in the plan against racism.
i-99f77955078f664d-845	Madam President, I would like Once again, I would like to thank Mrs Stenevi for her reply. I think that is a nuanced answer. As Märta Stenevi says, words and their meaning, origin, application and so on can be discussed for a long time. I intend to continue to do so soon, but I would first like to mention that I think it is positive to hear from Märta Stenevi that Islamism cannot be accepted in Swedish society. When, over the years, Swedish democratic politicians have criticized Islamism, political Islam, we have often had to run gauntlet after that as a consequence of various accusations. It is very welcome to hear now that the Green Party and the government are also seeing problems with the increasing Islamisation of Swedish society. But again to the highly justified criticism of the concept of Islamophobia, which ledarsidornas Johan Westerholm highlighted. According to their e-mails to the Leader pages, the definition used by Brå primarily concerns the legal framework of the concept of hate crime. The editorial pages comment in the following way:- that is, without having done an analysis of Islamophobia as sociological concepts, the authority equates this with the legal definition of hate crime, which is the definition sought by the Muslim Brotherhood. ..................................................... Why, then, does the Muslim Brotherhood strive for this? Of course, because all efforts to stigmatise, silence and, in the long run, to ban criticism of Islam and Islamism benefit them. They want special legislation and religious discounts. They want to be able to indoctrinate children in their schools that they run here today. They want to be able to receive state subsidies to finance their segregated activities as they do today. They want to be able to stand unresponsive and radicalise other Muslims as they do in mosques today. They want to be able to influence politics and administrations as they do today through religions and clans. Their wet dream is to live under an entirely own, parallel legal system – their religious legal system, which through history and unfortunately to this day is causing death, suffering and oppression. Then to use their terms, the terms that the Muslim Brotherhood seeks us to use, is to play them right in the hands. We also know that the government does not shy away from special laws and laws of opinion, given the proposals to ban extermination and racist organisations. Liberal France, on the other hand, with its long experience of fighting Islamism, has rejected the concept and believes that Islamophobia is a term created by Islamists to protect them from scrutiny and criticism. This was done, among other things, by the fact that the French Government Committee on Crime Prevention and Radicalisation stated that the term Islamophobia is inappropriate when talking about hatred of Muslims because it confuses stigmatisation of believers with criticism of Islam. This should be seen in the light of the fact that Emmanuel Macron's government was recently accused of Islamophobia by 25 Islamic groups after taking a series of measures to combat Islamism in the aftermath of, among other things, the murder of teacher Samuel Paty. How can Märta Stenevi and the government not see that, with their politics and rhetoric, they rake the manege for Islamists like the Muslim Brotherhood and thereby contribute to segregation and division?
i-99f77955078f664d-851	Madam President, I would like As I said, we can discuss the design of words, and as at least started literature scientists, I think it is very interesting. But we also need tools to be able to describe the crude, uncautious racism that affects Muslims in society. Of course, the most important are concrete measures, but since the honourable Member has now raised this issue in an interpellation debate, I would like to say that we need words to describe racism against Muslims. Of course, we can continue to discuss what that word should be, and we may have reason to come back to that later, when research has taken on it. But I would like to come back to what we actually describe with the word – the examples of how racism against Muslims is expressed. When it comes to men, it is often in the workplace that they face Islamophobia, when men with Arab-sounding names are asked to present their social values instead of their qualifications when they look for jobs. In public places, women in veils are particularly vulnerable. This can range from verbal abuse, such as women being called a ghost, or a Easter bitch, to even having the veil pulled off or hearing from strangers that all Muslims should be caged into a European concentration camp, or that all Muslims should be burned. We need to call these hate crimes and structural differences by name. Islamophobia and other racism have no place in our society. Much is being done in the fight against racism, but more needs to be done. The government will continue this work with a continued high level of ambition. Now we have strengthened the national plan against racism by SEK 10 million per year from last year. That is the biggest effort that any government has made in this area so far. The agency for support to religious communities has also reported, just recently, its mission, which is to raise awareness of the safety of mosques and Muslim assemblies in collaboration with the Police Authority, among other things, and of the vulnerability of various actors to Islamophobia and hate crimes. We will continue the very important work to combat racism in society. In this case, it is the expressions that racism takes that are absolutely the most important. I would really like us to have an interpellation debate about how we counteract the hatred that affects not least Muslim women in public places, when strange men snatch off the veil and spit them in the face. We call it Islamophobia. Yes, I would say that I think it is the behaviour itself, the racism itself, which is by far the biggest problem to deal with.
i-99f77955078f664d-857	Madam President, I would like Once again, I thank Mrs Stenevi for her reply. As I mentioned earlier, we are going to fight racism, and it is of course positive that the government is taking it seriously. On the other hand, it is worrying that Märta Stenevi repeatedly refrains from commenting on the connection of the Muslim Brotherhood to the concept of Islamophobia. This particular interpellation debate is actually about the concept. We will certainly have reason to come back to each other with regard to other forms of racism. But now we're talking about Islamophobia as a concept, and that's problematic. During the last term of office, the Ministry of Culture and the Swedish Agency for Support to Faith Society launched the website Islamophobia.se. This is made up of and operated by one of the Muslim Brotherhood's Swedish network organisations, study association Ibn Rushd, which receives millions of public funding annually. At the same time, Brå writes that as a basis for the study they have talked with representatives from Muslim associations, parishes and organisations, but they refuse to account for which. The leadership sides fear that the Muslim Brotherhood has also had a great influence on the report and thus the result. Madam President, I would like In view of this as well as many other things, it is directly obvious that the government facilitates the Islamisation of Sweden, rather than counteracting it. I would like to hear Märta Stenevi touch on this in her concluding statement: how can we take a strong stance against Islamisation rather than the cratt manege for it?
i-99f77955078f664d-862	Madam President, I would like Islamophobia is an established concept. It is stated in the Government's anti-racism plan that it refers to ideologies, beliefs or values that express hostility to Muslims and that Islamophobia can also affect people who are perceived to have a Muslim background. This was also the basis for the mission given to Brå. I have faith in the Crime Prevention Council. I have no reason to believe anything but that the Crime Prevention Council has carried out this task in the best possible way. What this mission and the report presented by Mr Brå show is the volume – it is hugely common – of hatred of Muslims. That is an enormous problem. It is a threat to our democracy. It is a threat to people's chances of living free in Sweden. It is a threat to women's equality when they hesitate to go out to public places for fear of being exposed to Islamophobia, Islamophobic hate crimes and structural racism. The government has stated that Sweden should be a country where all people should be able to live in freedom without being subjected to discrimination and intolerance. An effective and comprehensive anti-discrimination law with clear sanctions for those who do not comply with the legislation and a real means of redress for those who have been discriminated against is an important prerequisite in a society where people are treated equally and have access to the same life chances. But that is not the case today. Brå's reports on anti-Semitism, Brå's report on Islamophobia and the mission given to Brå to produce the corresponding report for afrophobia are tools for us to make visible the discrimination taking place in society. The government will continue its efforts to ensure effective and comprehensive protection against discrimination. Because racism, even in the form of Islamophobia, has no place in our society.
i-99f77955078f664d-868	Madam President, I would like Ludvig Aspling has asked me what I mean by white women moving and whether I will take any measures to discriminate against these people in the labour market or in other contexts. Furthermore, the interpellant has asked me whether I stand by the government's definition of racism, which is that people, because of conceptions of race, national, cultural or ethnic origin, religion, skin colour or any other similar relationship, are distinct from each other and that they can or should be treated in different ways, and whether I plan to clarify the statement about treating white women differently from other women. It will never promote measures aimed at discriminating against anyone. Discrimination on grounds such as gender or ethnicity is prohibited under the Discrimination Act. The prohibition covers, inter alia, the field of work. The goal of gender equality policy is for women and men to have the same power to shape society and their own lives. It is then, of course, all women who are referred to. However, women's participation in the labour market is lower than that of men, and the labour market is highly gender-disaggregated. The Government has appointed a commission on equal income from life, which among other things has the task of proposing measures that contribute to an equal distribution of public support measures to women and men and equal workplaces. I believe that the definition of racism set out in the Government's national plan against racism, similar forms of hostility and hate crime is appropriate for the work on these issues. The plan also shows that r asism exists in various forms as part of society's structures, with the result that people have different access to rights and opportunities, power and influence. Just as there are structural differences between the sexes, racism is also structural. These differences can interact and reinforce each other. The Plan and the Non-Discrimination Act are key tools for combating racism and discrimination at work and in the rest of society. I and the whole government will continue to act vigorously to combat racism in all its forms.
i-99f77955078f664d-874	Madam President, I would like In a podcast with the newspaper Aftonbladet, the Minister for Gender Equality recently made some rather strange statements. But it is not uncommon for people who are interviewed to express themselves a little quickly and that the audience may not hear what the interview subject wants to say. That is why I have asked Märta Stenevi to come here today to simply explain what she really meant. I'll quote the government. She said that if foreign born women are to gain power, native born white women must move. The first thing I wonder is why a group of people with a certain skin colour should move to make room for another group of people. The government defines the concept of racism as – I read inside – perceptions that people, because of conceptions of race, national, cultural or ethnic origin, religion, skin colour or other similar relationship, are distinct from each other and that they can or should be treated in different ways. The government says she specifically wants white native women to move. So it is not domestic born women in general, but a specific group with a certain skin colour. How can it not be a racist statement based on the government's own definition of racism? I think it fits perfectly well with this definition. The Government speaks very often of the fact that combating racism is a priority for the government and so on. Fine, that's great! If so, why not just stop saying racist things yourself? It can be a good start to live as you learn. The second thing I was going to ask is what the Government means is to move away and, above all, what coercive measures she will use against people who do not want to move. I can imagine that there are a lot of people in Sweden who are not willing to leave property or service, or whatever it may be the Government means when she says they will move, but will oppose this. In a democratic society that respects fundamental human rights, it is not the task of the state to force people to do anything but comply with the law and pay taxes. Thus, the State should not forcibly remove them or take their property because of their skin colour or give privileges to some at the expense of others. In a democratic society, all people are equal. Everyone has the same chance to fail, succeed, make their own choices and build their own future. These are obviously not principles shared by the Government, and I think that is a pity. I would therefore like to put a few rather simple questions to Minister Stenevi, and I hope she is prepared to make an honest attempt to answer. Is the Government behind the principle that some people should not be treated differently or worse than others because of their skin colour? If this is not the case, what coercive measures is she planning to take against these white women who are going to move? If racism is something that one is animated by fighting, why not start by stopping making racist statements yourself?
i-99f77955078f664d-885	Madam President, I would like As the honourable Member states, we live in a country where everyone should have equal opportunities to exercise their democratic rights. That is not the case today. I shall be very clear that I do not have and will not propose either quotas or any coercive measures. You get to be quite creative in your listening about my statement in the podcast to come up with something else. The honourable Member thinks my statement is racist. I mean, it's all wrong. On the other hand, I believe that we live in a society with a clear structural racism which means that foreign-born women and women with a different ethnic background have much more difficulty in using their democratic rights. What I was referring to in this podcast, and I think it is clear when you listen to the whole post, is really very simple: that we should support those who today do not have the opportunity to take their place in society and that we should make room for more people. More people will be able to use their democratic rights, and in order for more people to be able to make their voice heard, we will help them and make room for them. These are not coercive measures. It is not about quotas. It is only a matter of making room for women who today are unable to take their democratic rights all the way because of the structural racism that is taking place. Nevertheless, I would like to give a brief account of the government's input into some of the issues involved. The government will not promote measures aimed at discriminating against anyone. Again, I have never expressed such a thing. The overall objective of gender equality policy is that women and men should have the same power to shape society and their own lives. Of course, this applies to all women and all men. It is also the government's explicit ambition that Sweden should be a country free from racism. Racism should not be allowed to stand in the way of a society in which all people, regardless of their skin colour and background, have the same life chances. That is not what it looks like today. Today there are huge differences in the possibilities you have depending on your skin color. I previously presented the Stockholm County Administrative Board's report on the huge differences that Afrosvenska experiences on the Swedish labour market only because of its skin colour. I hope and believe – at least hope – that the honourable Member shares my view that structural racism in Sweden is holding back foreign-born women and that together we need to put all the effort into getting more people to benefit from their democratic rights and thus get more people to take their place, for example in this House and in other parts of society.
i-99f77955078f664d-893	Madam President, I would like I can make it clear that I am not the one who says that this statement is racist; I point out that, according to the government's own definition of the concept of racism, the State Council's statement is clearly racist. I'm not the one who says that. Another statement that surprises me in this podcast is the claim that power is a zero-sum game – the government expressed itself in that way – and that a person can only usurp power or economic influence, which was what the discussion was about, by taking it from someone else. Märta Stenevi is not alone in the story of claiming this. That is the basic thesis in the fourth chapter, the second part, of Das Capital by Karl Marx. I suspect that's where the Government has drawn inspiration. In this passage Marx makes one of the greatest misjudgements in the long series of misjudgements which constitute the ideological landfill called Marxism. What he claims in this section is that there can never be a dividend or an enlargement of the economic or power cake. It can never increase, but the only way to usurp power or economic benefits is to take them from someone else. I may be on a little trail, but I still think this is important. It is important to understand how serious the attitude of the State Council on this issue is, because it is precisely this part of Marxist theory that is at the root of all suffering and misery in countries that adhere to the type of economic system or power-sharing system advocated by the Government. If you are raised in one country and have worse economic conditions than others, if you feel that you do not have power over your life, the only way to do something about it is to take it from someone else, according to Märta Stenevis and Marx's theory. So this is the basis for societies based on these theories being so terribly violent. I have followed the Environmental Party's madness during the parliamentary year that has been, but even I am surprised that you choose to express yourself in this way. Such a purely Marxist analysis of power and economy I do not even know if the Left Party is doing these days. I thought this was something we had left behind a long time ago. Unfortunately, that is not the case. I can also say that no person who is the least educated in economic theory nowadays believes in this analysis. It has been relegated to the dump of history a long time ago. But somewhere inside the Environment Party office, inside the Government Office, it apparently lives on, and I find that very boring. I would therefore like to ask a supplementary question: does Märta Stenevi insist that power and money are a zero-sum game? Is that something that the Government is serious about? What does she say about the plethora of economic science, including Nobel Prizes, which deals with subjects which by definition mean that this is not true? Can the Government answer that?
i-99f77955078f664d-902	I would just like to remind you that the interpellation debates are about the duties and responsibilities of the Ministers of State. It is not, therefore, a general political debate.
i-99f77955078f664d-903	Madam President, I would like I had also intended to express a small wish that the honourable Member may very much discuss Marxism but may not have to involve me and the government in that discussion. Let us take it again: I have not expressed or expressed any opinion whatsoever that I would like a quota or any other coercive measures. What I have been discussing is about making room for more people and enabling more people to use their democratic rights. Nor have I expressed myself about a zero-sum game. I note that the honourable Member quotes a theory of an influencer on the right; it is therefore nothing that I have expressed. I would be happy to share the transcription of the podcast in case the honourable Member needs it in order to be a little more truthful in his speeches. My view of the power and opportunities of women in this country, once again, is that all women should have the opportunity to enjoy their democratic rights. All women in this country should have the opportunity to live a free and independent life, both economically and democratically. This means that we have a great need to combat the structural racism that makes it impossible. We need to combat the hate crime and discrimination that takes place every day against women with a different skin colour from the white, with different ethnicity from the Swedish, who have a different religion from the Christian. I hope that Mrs Ludvig Aspling will also share the picture of structural racism. That is a question I would like to ask the honourable Member, Madam President. Does Ludvig Aspling share the image of foreign-born women being held back today and that we have a great need to break the racist and discriminatory structures that allow not all Swedes on equal terms to benefit from their democratic rights?
i-99f77955078f664d-908	Madam President, I would like Absolutely, Märta Stenevi! I will submit a new interpellation on structural racism next week, and we will discuss the issue before the summer. I can guarantee you that. I'd like to get back to it. Märta Stenevi says she has never claimed that power would be a zero-sum game. When you say such a thing as that if foreign born people are to gain power in Sweden, other people have to move, then you say explicitly that power is a zero sum game. If it's not a zero-sum game, they can create their own happiness. However, if it is a zero-sum game, they cannot do so, and then they must take it from someone else. The government cannot wriggle on that point. That's exactly what she's saying. When one claims that power is a zero-sum game, one is into purely Marxist theory. In order not to violate the rules of the House, I can ask the question in the following way. How does the Government think that a purely Marxist analysis of power will affect the work for greater equality between women and men, between blacks and whites, as the Government mentioned, or between some other groups in the country? We can look at the examples around the world that use purely Marxist-economic power theory to govern their countries. These are countries that are often multicultural and with different ethnic groups within the borders. Gender equality is, however, in many cases absent. Can the Government explain how gender equality work will be improved in the future by applying a purely Marxist theory of power to that area of politics?
i-99f77955078f664d-912	Madam President, I would like I would ask the honourable Member to ask someone who is driving or believing in a Marxist theory of power. I am not one of them, nor have I ever expressed it. You get to be very creative to hear it in my statement in that podcast. We will need to support and help if more people are to use their democratic rights, if more people are to be able to make their voice heard. That's what I've been talking about in that podcast. We need to combat structural racism, which we are apparently going to debate later, and we need to give more women and more foreign-born people the opportunity to use their democratic rights. Men and women should have the same rights and opportunities to be active citizens and shape the conditions for decision-making. Women and men must have the same opportunities and conditions in matters of paid work that give economic independence for the rest of their lives. We need to ensure that this applies to all women, Madam President, not just those women who otherwise have favourable conditions. This also applies to foreign-born women and women living with the discrimination that takes place in society. A hundred years ago, universal and equal voting rights were introduced in Sweden. Then this hall was full of men only. Today, we need to work hard to ensure that all people in all groups of society have the opportunity to fully enjoy their democratic rights. That's what I've been talking about in the podcast, and that's what I'm going to stand for and work for and what the government will work for. Then I hope that the honourable Member will find someone else to discuss Marxist theory of power with. I can recommend Henrik Jönsson.
i-99f77955078f664d-915	Madam President, I would like Ann-Christine From Utterstedt has asked me on what grounds I have come to the conclusion that quotas based on skin colour and country of birth should be implemented and how I intend to implement the idea of quotas based on skin colour and country of birth. The interpellant has also asked me whether I believe that quotas based on colour and country of birth will contribute to an integrated society and, if so, on the basis of which I base my opinion. Furthermore, the interpellant has asked me whether I believe that quotas based on skin colour and country of birth will contribute to a cohesive Sweden and, if so, on what basis I base my opinion and whether I intend to promote quotas for foreign-born women to some particular positions of power and, if so, which. Furthermore, the interpellant asks whether I believe that Sweden as a country will benefit from the fact that white, native-born women hand over power to foreign-born women and what basis I base my opinion on, and whether I believe that a female quota based on skin color will contribute to our Swedish society becoming more equal and, if so, what I base my opinion on. Finally, the interpeller has asked me how I intend to ensure that the anti-discrimination law and its letters on discrimination on the grounds of ethnicity are not circumvented if more power is given to foreign-born women through quotas. Madam President, I would like Discrimination has no place in Sweden. It must be fought with the full force of society and in all areas of society. Discrimination on grounds of gender or ethnicity is prohibited by the Discrimination Act and applies, among other things, to working life. All employers are obliged to work to promote and prevent discrimination and in other ways to promote equal rights and opportunities regardless of gender and ethnicity. I have not proposed the introduction of quotas on grounds of ethnicity or skin colour.
i-99f77955078f664d-919	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his answer, although it was very brief. The environmental party is a small party in the Swedish parliament with great power in our government – in this case in the form of a minister for gender equality. The Green Party has great power over the everyday lives of Swedes. It is quotas, it is gender ideas and divisions in the country, and this will continue as long as the Green Party has influence. My questions to Stenevi, as the Minister repeated, have their origins in a podcast interview where Stenevi discusses power structures. The day is finally here! As I have been waiting to stand here in the speaker's seat with the Minister to discuss. Now the Minister will finally be able to tell all Swedish white native born women, including, I suppose, Märta Stenevi herself, how to be elected away from positions and where to be displaced. In the interview in the podcast, Stenevi has said that if someone is to gain power, someone else must give it up. If a new group is to gain power in society, some other group will have to share. If foreign born women gain power, white native women will also have to move. How does Stenevi mean that the selection of white native born women should be done if this is not to be done by quota? It is precisely with the help of gender quotas that the Green Party and the left have spent many years getting more women in. How does Stenevi mean that the government will manage to bring in more foreign-born women, that white Swedish women should move, if this is not to be done by quotas? Stenevi divides the population into a we and a judgment. The idea is that we as individuals should be treated differently depending on the country in which we were born and depending on our skin colour. This is something that we in my party tend to be accused of but have never engaged in. But here we see a government party dedicated to exactly what you accuse others of doing. This is a nasty view of society, and it shows that the government with Stenevi at its head has learned nothing from history. Märta Stenevi is not just any citizen. She is Minister of the Swedish Government. She will have to answer for statements as she does. In this case, it is a statement that has been made in mysmedia, at the home level of the Green Party, without any difficult supplementary questions. This means that we members of the Swedish Parliament may ask supplementary questions about what the Minister really means when journalism is unable to do so. Madam President, I would like Märta Stenevi is guilty of white, Swedish, native born women. How will the minister behave to move us all? Or how much of us are going to move in order for others to come?
i-99f77955078f664d-928	Before the debate progresses, I would also like to remind you that it is about the government, which the Minister is responsible for here, so that there is no general party debate.
i-99f77955078f664d-929	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to thank the honourable Member for the question – I think it is nice that she has looked forward to the debate – and say that, of course, Members of Parliament should ask questions. I also realise that, of course, I have to answer for my statements. That's why I'll be super clear right away. I think I was already in the previous interpellation debates, but I will be again. To both Ann-Ann-Christine From Utterstedt and any other Swedes who may listen to this: I do not propose quotas. I do not propose any coercive measures. I have talked about that if everyone is to take their place in society, we must break with structural racism. I believe that both the indigenous women and the foreign-born women who listen to this and all the others who listen to it agree that we are not playing on equal terms in society today. I have no desire to divide the population into groups, but I have a strong desire to highlight the division and unequal conditions that we currently have in society and which we now have to take advantage of our democratic rights. It is a foundation of my political commitment to smooth those differences and to break discrimination and to break the racism that affects foreign-born women in Sweden today so that we in this Chamber also make it possible for foreign-born people to take their place. That's what I've been talking about and nothing else. Then there is a whole series of questions about quotas in the honourable Member's interpellation, Madam President, but all those questions fall on the fact that I have not proposed any quota or coercive measures. That is my, I hope, extremely clear answer to Mrs From Utterstedt and to everyone who listens to this broadcast.
i-99f77955078f664d-935	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much, Minister, for your answers so far! I note and note that the Minister says that no quota should take place. This means that it also applies to gender. There will no longer be any quotas for company boards. This means that this work on gender equality, which has been devoted to so many years, is now over. We welcome this in the Swedish Democrats, I have to say, because we are not in favour of quotas. We believe that quotas mean that, as an individual and as a human being, you must not show your strength, knowledge or competence to a particular task, but you are appointed on the basis of your gender. We do not think that is fair and proper. It also gives rise to uncertainty, am I absolutely convinced, in the individual who has been appointed on a mission or a post: Have I come here because I am competent and have the right personal qualities, or am I picked just because I have a certain gender? But then the Minister has been clear: no quotas in the future, whether in terms of gender or skin colour. This is interesting. If you look at the Green Party – it is indeed the case, Madam President, that the Green Party is part of the government, and Märta Stenevi is an environmental party and minister responsible for gender equality – and gets to know Märta Stenevis's thoughts you find that on the one hand, gender is a social construction that is completely irrelevant. We're supposed to be sexless. We shall belong to what we want – whether it is a man or a woman or whatever it may be is completely uninteresting. But on the other hand, gender is crucial to achieving equality in society, because according to the Green Party's way of thinking is not achieved until there is a clear gender equality, for example, on a company board. The way I think, this is what's causing the reverse. It's just the opposite. Competence and suitability are completely set aside. We believe that a board of six will be appointed – three women and three men, according to Stenevi. It's crystal clear. But we're playing with the idea that three women have been appointed. So there are three more places left for men. Then comes a fourth woman with the right skills and personal qualities. But no, unfortunately, she does not get that place because now there are three men to be appointed. This reasoning falls on its own absurdity. That is why I, as a Swedish democrat, am totally opposed to quotas. In Sweden you have the opportunity to get very far whether you are a man or a woman. We have the right to education, we have the right to parental leave for both sexes and so on. This view of individuals, that we should be seen as belonging to a group rather than as unique individuals, I don't like to express myself simply. I think we should be seen as unique individuals who have our personal suitability for different positions and locations.
i-99f77955078f664d-945	Madam President, I would like First of all, there is no quota for company boards today. I hope the honourable Member knows that. There is an announcement in Parliament, and the government will not bring forward such legislation. I have also made it clear here today that that is not what I am talking about in this podcast and that there are no such proposals. When it comes to meritocracy, to get assignments and opportunities based on their knowledge, there is nothing to counteract meritocracy as effectively as discrimination. We see that Africans need to have an extremely high level of education in order to get even the same salary as people with significantly lower education. It's not meritocraty. It is not getting opportunities based on your individual knowledge and skills. This is discrimination, and we are working against it. The whole purpose of highlighting this is precisely to be able to counteract it. I have no desire to divide the population into any groups, but I have a very strong desire to highlight the distinctions that are taking place so that we can counteract them. Do I want to show the structural inequality between men and women, which means, for example, that the representation on company boards is now worse than it has been before and that we are lagging behind our Nordic neighbours when it comes to representation on company boards? Absolutely, I want to highlight it! Do I want to highlight the structural racism which means that people, because of ethnicity, skin colour, descent or religion, find it more difficult to find a job, more difficult to get into society and more difficult to use their democratic rights and are subjected to an enormous amount of hatred and threats? Absolutely, I want to highlight it! Am I standing up for the rights of transgender people to identify themselves? Any day now! However, I thank Mrs From Ann-Christine for her view on this. In this room, I represent the government and my work as a minister. We will not put forward proposals for quotas. However, I would like to make it extremely clear that we will continue to combat structural inequality and structural racism and that we will protect the rights of LGBT people regardless of what the honourable Member feels and thinks on this issue.
i-99f77955078f664d-952	Madam President, I would like I note that the Minister slipped into LGBTI. I haven't been there. The Minister also said that she is not talking about quotas and that this interpellation is therefore not really relevant. But let's put it aside. I still believe that the Minister is guilty of the answer to Swedish, white and domestic born women. I do not think the Minister has managed to convey an answer to the question what she really meant in this interview when she said we should move. That is what the Minister said; you can listen to it afterwards. I would appreciate it if a minister in the Swedish Government were really clear to the Swedish people by what it really means. As far as discrimination is concerned, there is also discrimination against Swedes. We may not be in full agreement on this – the Minister will have to answer for it – but I certainly believe that there is such discrimination. I would just like to touch on the desire to work, for example. I note that there is not really any discussion about the will to work, to be on company boards and things like that. That will may not be in everyone's hands, and it should not really be imposed on those who do not want to. I do not think we will get much further in this debate. However, I would be happy to come back to you with some other issues relating to this work, which I believe is quota work. I'll put an interpellation in another way, and we can continue to discuss these things then. What I can see is just a double standard without its like from Stenevis's side, with moral pointers about how others should live when you may not live that way at all. You don't live the way you teach.
i-99f77955078f664d-958	Madam President, I would like 100 years ago, no woman in Sweden had voted in a parliamentary election. The universal and equal suffrage introduced at the time was, among other things, the result of the persistent and sustained struggles of several women's organisations. Today there are more women's struggles to take. This government is working hard against men's violence against women and for women's economic independence. But the fight today is also about the inclusion of all women and the fact that all women today cannot fully exercise their democratic rights. As a woman who is involved in politics, I definitely get my fair share of criticism, threats and hatred. But that is nothing compared to the waves of hatred and direct threats that my female Muslim, Jewish or racial colleagues receive at local, regional and national level. The hatred of women is gross, and the threats are often sexual. Hatred has one single purpose, and that is to silence — to frighten and stop women from taking their place in society. This is racism today. If more people are to use their rights, racism must be countered and discrimination combated. It's meritocraty, not quota. We cannot close our eyes, because then we do not have a democracy on equal terms. Then we do not have a society where everyone can engage politically and expect equal treatment. This cannot be accepted by me and this government. The women's rights campaigners 100 years ago ensured that we women today have the right to vote and that today I can stand here as a women's minister in a government. I will not stop fighting until all women, regardless of their skin colour, can fully exercise their democratic rights, because no woman is free until everyone is free. With this, I hope I have answered Mrs From Utterstedt's question.
