i-309cc584c87a38be-4	Madam President, I would like Lars Beckman has asked me whether I think it is important that the toxic tunnels should be taken out of the Baltic Sea and what government tasks I am prepared to give to the responsible authorities to begin the work. Furthermore, Lars Beckman asks me if the government in regulatory letters has instructed the responsible authorities to begin work on the identified poison tunnels for 2021. Finally, he asks me what the government's assessment is that it will cost to take up the poison barrels and what budget the government has set aside for this in 2021. The treatment of environmental toxins both on land and at sea is a priority for the government, and major efforts have been made in recent years to speed up the process of clean-up. However, I would like to emphasise that it is primarily the one who has carried out the activity and caused the pollution that will pay when a polluted area needs to be addressed. In some cases, it may also be the property owner who will pay, and sometimes responsibility can be shared. The decontamination allocation and the State contribution are available to ensure that highly polluted sites are decontaminated if there is no one who can be held responsible for the costs. The decontamination grant has never been as big as it is now. For 2021, the clean-up allocation amounts to over SEK 1.1 billion after the Government added an additional SEK 350 million to the budget proposal for 2021 to reduce the spread of environmental toxins at sea and in nature. There are over 1 100 contaminated areas around Sweden that pose a very high risk to human health and the environment, i.e. risk class 1. This is therefore the same risk class as the dumped poison barrels. In addition, we do not know how many contaminated sediment areas exist in the Swedish sea and water. The Government has therefore commissioned several authorities to work in 2019 – 2023 to improve knowledge about contaminated sediments. This is also expected to provide better knowledge of the pollution situation in the Baltic Sea and of the dumped toxic tunnels. A basic principle is that the polluted areas that pose the greatest risk to human health and the environment must be addressed first. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has therefore developed a national plan for the allocation of funds to ensure that after-treatment measures are implemented in the most priority areas and that the grant can be used as efficiently as possible. I share Lars Beckman's concern about the pollution situation in the Gulf of Sundsvall. In the Ndustries in the area, large amounts of mercury have been released into the sea for many years. Mercury is combined with high levels of dioxins, PAH and heavy metals in high concentrations in fibre banks in connection with the large industries. In addition, we also have the dumped poison barrels, where only a fraction has yet to be identified. However, I would like to clarify some important aspects. Investigations must be carried out before there can be a question of when or how to correct poison tunnels. It is a starting point for all clean-up work. It is also not possible to estimate the cost of the measure before the investigations have been carried out. In order to be eligible for State aid, there should be no one who can be held liable for the costs. As responsibility is still being investigated, no application has been submitted to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency for grants to be able to take up the barrels. Therefore, although I think that the issue is at least as urgent as Lars Beckman thinks, the investigations, the prioritisation process and the liability investigation must take their course. Moreover, it is up to the responsible authorities to assess which areas are the most prioritised, both in order to address the areas with the greatest risks first and in order to use the tax resources that have been set aside for clean-up effectively.
i-309cc584c87a38be-12	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Today's intervention is really about environmental policy. It is about one of the most toxic things there is, namely mercury. It's almost a tragedy, with barrels of concrete crumbling. Every minute that I and the Minister for the Environment and Climate, as well as the Deputy Prime Minister of the Swedish Government, are standing here crumbling the barrels. You might think, Madam President, that you would have had a slightly better answer. Clean water should be the most important issue for each minister for the environment and climate change. Clean water should be the government's priority. Then you might find it a little strange that the Government's answer refers to years of investigations to be done, while the poison barrels are crumbling. Strangely enough, a few decades ago it was perfectly legal to dump barrels of hazardous waste in open water. So this happened with the good memory of the authorities. Just as the Government describes, there was a business in Sundsvall where different things were made and then went out and dumped waste. The dangerous thing here is that we do not know where these 20 000 barrels of ten tonnes of mercury are. There's been an investigation going on for many, many years-- I think you're up to 14 to 15 years now-- trying to demand responsibility. In a newspaper article in Expressen, one of the lawyers at the County Administrative Board notes that 22 can be experienced with difficulties all the time. In this case, then, it is conceivable that the investigations will continue for another 14 years. Or, as the Moderates and I advocate, you have to pick up or isolate the toxic tunnels with ten tons of mercury that are dumped between Sundsvall and Gotland. There is another problem. There are many ideas about expanding wind power after the coast in Gävleborg, for example. One cannot even imagine the environmental disaster that would result if offshore wind power were to be built in areas where there are ten tons of mercury in dumped concrete poison bins. It could be Sweden's greatest environmental disaster through all times, Madam President. We can't have that. So what we want is for the government to show decisively that there are ten tons of mercury dumped between Sundsvall and Gotland. It would have liked the government to take a strong stance and instruct its authorities to first identify these poison barrels so that we know where they are and, secondly, to allocate resources to take them up. After that, Madam President, there is every possibility of investigating cost liability if that is the case. We need to address one of Sweden's biggest environmental problems, one of the problems that can cause the most damage in the Baltic Sea. It would be a disaster if ten tons of mercury came into the water.
i-309cc584c87a38be-21	Madam President, I would like I very much welcome Lars Beckman's perhaps somewhat recent interest in environmental issues. It is welcome that more people than the Green Party think that the environmental issue is real and that it deserves to be prioritised in Swedish politics. It has not really been my memory that the Moderates have fought against the environmental degradation that has been going on for a long time in Sweden. On the contrary, the experience I have had since I have fought for good environmental regulation for many years in Swedish politics is that the Moderates have rather been on the opposing side, those who have been against harsh environmental regulation, strict environmental requirements and a priority in economic terms to do what is necessary to overcome old environmental sins and debts. It is gratifying that we have now invested a great deal more than any previous government has done in getting clean water and a good marine environment and cleaning up contaminated areas. It's a little bit as they say in the United States, namely to put one It is not enough to stand in the speaker's chair and talk, but you actually have to do the job. We must ensure that money is put forward in order to actually achieve clean-up. I am proud that the government has significantly increased funding for marine and aquatic work and for the clean-up of contaminated areas. I note that this did not happen during the time of the Moderates in government. No one increased the appropriations for the clean-up of contaminated land during that time. Obviously, this was not an important issue for Lars Beckman's Moderates. It is also interesting, and worth discussing, how the Moderates have acted during the time when the Green Party has carried out large, substantial increases in funding for marine and aquatic environments and for the clean-up of contaminated areas. Since Lars Beckman is so upset and indignant that it is not done enough, have the Moderates invested more money? Have you ever wanted bigger bets? The answers to the questions can be examined by anyone listening to the debate in the Moderate Budget Movements. That's no. Over all these years, the Moderates have consistently wanted to reduce the clean-up effort. If it were to sum up what had been achieved, if the button presses of Moderates and Lars Beckman in Parliament had produced results, over the years it would have been SEK 1 billion less to clean up contaminated areas. You have to meet your priorities. If the Moderates and Lars Beckman in the budget after budget have cut back on the appropriations to clean up contaminated land, you have to stand here in the pulpit and be honest with the consequences of politics. Then you cannot pretend that you would have done more in the area of clean-up. Of course, less has been achieved with less money. There would have been more poison barrels around Sweden that would not have been taken up if the Moderates had been allowed to decide. Unfortunately, the Moderates have had to decide on the budget on two occasions, namely 2014 when, together with the alliance parties, a budget was voted through and 2018 when, together with the Swedish Democrats, a budget was voted through. On both occasions, the result was a cut in money to clean up and instead priority was given to tax cuts. This may be the priority of the Moderates, but then Lars Beckman will have to take responsibility for it when he is standing here in the speaker's chair. One cannot pretend that the Moderates want to do more than the government when, concretely, time after time, it appears that the Moderates want to do less. I also think it is important that we stick to some basic principles in environmental work. One such principle is that the polluter should pay. If you have released environmental expenditure, you should also take care of the cost of the environmental problems you have caused. Now court work is under way to get the person who made the emissions and make them pay. Does Lars Beckman think that anyone who has released the toxins should be free of responsibility?
i-309cc584c87a38be-29	Madam President, I would like For four minutes Per Bolund now stood and talked about anything other than what the interpellation is about – about anything other than the question I have put to the Government, namely how ten tons of mercury should be taken up from the Baltic Sea. I understand that Per Bolund does not want to talk about it because the Green Party is ashamed after being in the government since 2014. It was even the case that Per Bolund's predecessor said that the Green Party was formed because it wanted to clean water. Then the Green Party has joined the government, and what have they spent their years on? Yes, subsidised electric bicycles have been used. It does not help in the matter of mercury. You're going to introduce taxes on clothes. It does not help in the matter of mercury. A meaningless tax has been introduced from an environmental point of view, namely taxes on plastic bags. It does not help in the matter of mercury. The list can be made as long as possible. But I'm gonna get Per Bolund right on one thing. I am disappointed with the Center Party, which in the bourgeois government was responsible for the matter. Of course, the Center Party should also have done more on the matter – absolutely. That's where I want to get Per Bolund right. I hope that everyone who looks at the debate will read the Moderates' budget. So we have set aside more money than the government to clean up water – because we believe that the environmental issue is real. We are debating environmental issues that exist for real. What, then, is the reality, Madam President? Well, the reality is that there are 23 000 barrels dumped between Sundsvall and Gotland containing ten tons of mercury. The reality is you don't know where the barrels are. The reality is that when geological studies have been carried out on the barrels found, it has been found that the concrete mixture has begun to crumble. Every second, every minute, every hour, every day, every week, every month, and unfortunately, Madam President, every year that the Green Party and the government have the responsibility, nothing happens. In the answer that the Government read out, we talk about surveys that will run between 2019 and 2023 – suitable enough the year after the election. But, Madam President, the problem is well known. It is just as the responsible person at the county administrative board says to Expressen, namely that it can be perceived as a 22th step with difficulties all the time. This is what happens when you have an environmental and climate minister who had the chance to come to the Chamber today, put his foot down and send a clear signal to the authorities and others that ten tonnes of mercury will obviously be taken out of the Baltic Sea. It is one of Sweden's worst ticking environmental bombs, unfortunately together with other areas. It is just as the Minister for the Environment and Climate Action said in his reply, namely that there are more contaminated areas in Sweden. But then the solution cannot be to do nothing. I have Googled before the debate, and I have tried to find some articles from some environmental party that take the issue seriously and do something, but it is difficult to find. However, you will find other things that the Environmental Party is involved in, such as plastic bags. Environmental issues are far too important to be devoted to symbolic policies. In fact, I believe that those who live in Sweden expect a government to resolve issues that are important to those who live in the country. When will you act on the matter, Per Bolund?
i-309cc584c87a38be-38	Madam President, I would like I had hoped that we would be able to agree that the issue is too important to keep up and to try to confuse the debate. Standing here like Lars Beckman and pretending that action in one area means that you can't take action in another area is just nonsense. Of course, the Green Party has the highest ambitions in Swedish policy to address all our environmental problems, and this concerns the clean-up of contaminated land, where unfortunately we do not have the support of the Moderates in this work, and that also applies to the other environmental problems, not least in the area of clean seas and our marine environment. When we see the plastic pollution and microplastics in our seas, when we see warnings about more plastic than fish in the sea in a few decades' time, we take them seriously and act. But the Moderates stand by the sideline, screaming and fighting against all the environmental reforms being developed. This, of course, is the choice of the Moderates, but you cannot stand in the speaker's chair and then be indignant and pretend that you want to do more when you repeatedly show that you want to do less. The Moderates were responsible for economic policy during the eight years of the Alliance. It is the Moderates who are responsible for the budget movements that are raised in the Riksdag. When you vote against the government's budget, which includes increased spending on remediation appropriations, you have to take responsibility for it even when you are in the speaker's seat. We are proud of the work that has been done, and we have achieved a great deal. We have achieved more than any other government in virtually all areas of the environment. This also applies to the clean-up of contaminated land. So far, we have decided on measures for over 2,700 objects around the country, some of which have been financed in whole or in part by the state. It is because we have increased the money considerably and greatly for the clean-up of contaminated areas. When we took over power, this was a low priority area with far too little resources. Now we have increased the funding to over SEK 1 billion each year in order to clean up contaminated land, and it is clear that it makes a difference. This means that we can now clean up land at a rate that you have never had before, and I am proud of that. Therefore, I am quite upset when I hear Lars Beckman's hints, which are completely devoid of reality and have nothing whatsoever to do with reality. To say that we do nothing when we do more than any government has ever done is a falsification of reality, and I think a Member of Parliament should be too good for that. I also think that Lars Beckman's question raises an interesting discussion: who should decide where to do clean-up first? What is most prioritised, and what is further down on the list? You can have a system in which MPs are to stand in the speaker's chair and decide that, outside my summer house, my area that I care about, my sea area that I love, where is the most important thing to do things. However, I am pursuing a policy in which I want us to clean up all areas of Sweden. We will settle and deal with the environmental debt that we have worked up for a long time in Sweden. But it will be done in turn, and we will listen to the experts who have the best knowledge of where the environmental toxins are most dangerous and where they pose the greatest risk to health and the environment. I think it's a good order. We give priority to spending more and more resources every year to clean up. We are giving more and more opportunities to our authorities to decide how to use that money and to put the money where it is most useful. But Lars Beckman has discovered an environmental debt that he thinks is engaging and important and thinks it should go ahead of everyone else. Then let me ask you, Lars Beckman: Why do you think the environmental debt that you have discovered and suddenly interest you in is more important than the areas that the other 348 MPs in this House love and want to protect? Is it not better to allow our authorities, who have the expertise, to decide which environmental sins should be addressed first?
i-309cc584c87a38be-49	Madam President, I would like Let me remind the Minister for Environment and Climate again: the Moderates spend more money than this government does, because in this matter it actually takes money. You can't take 10 tons of mercury out of the water without money. But, Madam President, the Green Party has shown no commitment to clean water. That's the truth. The truth is, Madam President, that we have been dealing with subsidised electric bicycles, taxes on plastic bags, taxes on clothing, taxes on electronics – I do not know what everything to tax. But environmental issues have shown no commitment – unfortunately. I'm sorry about that. The answer can never be that there are so many contaminated areas in Sweden, so we do nothing. That cannot be the answer to the question, Madam President, when the Government is standing here wondering why ten tonnes of mercury in the Baltic would be the most important. That was the question that was asked me. I'll have to ask the Government, which is actually Minister for the Environment and Climate in Sweden, to read a little about mercury. Learn how much a gram kills! Here we are talking about ten tons of mercury. It is quite correct that the Minister for the Environment and Climate Action says: It needs to be cleaned up much more in Sweden. But then maybe that's what we should show some commitment to. Perhaps that is what we here in Parliament should fight for together – clean water and clean air – instead of introducing meaningless symbolic taxes like taxes on plastic bags. It is terrible that there are concrete barrels that are crumbling. Even during this 20-minute debate, where the Government has spent all its time talking about Moderate politics instead of talking about how the poison barrels will come up, they crumble. This is an environmental debt. This must be resolved, Madam President, and I very much hope that we will. I come back with many interpellations on this issue, because we need clean water.
i-309cc584c87a38be-56	Madam President, I would like Thank you for that final statement. I very much hope so, because if there is something we need, it is more environmental debate and discussion. Then I also have a chance to show once again, time and again, that with the Green Party in the government there is more investment in all environmental areas than it has been invested in under any previous government – copiously much more than when Lars Beckman's Moderates were those who designed economic policy. Unlike Lars Beckman, I am a biologist and have studied ecotoxicology, so I think the tone should perhaps be a little more respectful in this debate. I also think that Lars Beckman should have respect for the fact that there are 1,100 contaminated areas that have the same risks to health and the environment as the area of poison barrels that Lars Beckman has discovered. I think it is irresponsible for a moderate Member of Parliament to stand here and pretend that the Green Party has no commitment. I think anyone who sees this debate can go in and see that the Green Party has committed itself to the marine environment, organised global environmental conferences and invested more resources and measures for the marine environment than any previous government. This shows the level at which Lars Beckman chooses to put this debate. I think it is rather sad, Madam President. I also think we can see that, with Moderate policies, many fewer of the 1 100 contaminated areas could have been addressed because the Moderates have consistently, in the budget after budget, reduced the clean-up measures. Lars Beckman actually has to take responsibility for the policy pursued by the Moderates, i.e. less environmental work with Moderate politics. There will be fewer sanitized areas. There will be more poison barrels that remain and leak if the Moderates decide, and I think that those who listen to this debate have reason to think about that. The Green Party takes pollution and environmental issues seriously as they deserve. This means that we spend more resources on it, and now we have the opportunity to remedy the clean-up. But we also believe that it is an important principle that the polluter should bear the financial responsibility for pollution. And we think that the experts, that is, our authorities, should decide where we should make the efforts first – not members of the Swedish Parliament.
i-309cc584c87a38be-63	Madam President, I would like Alexandra Anstrell has asked me how I intend to strengthen private ownership of the forest and on what measurements I base my statements that Sweden must double the amount of protected forest. She has also asked me about the work of protecting forests in Jämtland, about compensation for municipalities for lost tax revenue, when forest owners can expect more communication from the County Administrative Board and whether I intend to appoint a national coordinator to contribute to a more constructive and results-oriented dialogue between forest stakeholders. Initially, I would like to emphasise that the protection of valuable natural areas is an important part of meeting several of Sweden's environmental objectives, together with forest owners' voluntary provisions and environmental considerations in forestry. It is my clear ambition and the government's clear ambition that protected forests should not be harvested but should be preserved, either through formal protection or through voluntary provisions, and that environmental considerations in forestry should increase. Forest policy is based on two equal objectives: the environmental objective and the production target. It is possible and desirable to develop both of these elements. According to SCB's official statistics on forest land, 6% of the productive forest land is formally protected, 5% is estimated to be voluntary provisions and 2% is estimated as consideration areas. Improductive forest land that does not overlap formally covers 11% of Sweden's total forest land. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, Skogsstyrelsen and the County Administrative Boards are responsible authorities for formally protecting forests, and inventory of high natural values is an important part of this work. With regard to the establishment of nature reserves, I would like to emphasise that it is a fundamental principle that agreements with landowners are made on a voluntary basis. It is important that the authorities make every effort to have a good dialogue with landowners so that the process of protecting nature is as good as possible. Landowners have the right to compensation, for example, when an authority decides on a nature reserve or forms a biotop protection area and ongoing land use is significantly hampered. The reduction in the market value of the land plus an additional 25 per cent is equivalent to the reduction in land value. The owner may also choose to sell the land at market value. The government is working to implement the material political agreement that was reached in January 2019 between the Social Democrats, the Environmental Party, the Center Party and the Liberals, the so-called January Agreement. As part of the work, the Government decided to set up an investigation that was commissioned to explore the possibilities and propose measures to strengthen ownership of forests, new flexible forms of protection and compensation for forest land protection and how international biodiversity commitments can be reconciled with a growing circular bioeconomy. The report of the report "Strengthening property rights, flexible forms of protection and nature conservation in the forest" (SOU 2020:73) was submitted to me on 30 November 2020 and has recently been sent out for consultation. As this proposal is prepared by the Government Office, I do not wish to precede the preparation process.
i-309cc584c87a38be-68	Madam President, I would like In the Forest Investigation report there are proposals to protect a 100 km long forest belt along the mountain chain. The Minister has stated that he fully supports this. What is not included in the Forest Investigation, however, is no basis, a general measurement rule for how to calculate the proportion of protected forests compared to the share in other countries. Now the Government has commissioned the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency to report what types of protections for valuable nature are reported and compare this with other countries, which is appreciated. But wouldn't it have been clever to know how to measure before the Forest investigation began? Now we have a forest investigation that is reported and out for a referral, which has neither floor or ceiling. For me, it is a mystery how one can want to protect more forest without knowing the calculation model. You don't know the base, you don't know the final target, you just want to protect for protection. It is not possible– then we will never reach our climate targets, because the forest is needed to make a transition to fossil-free. It is also a mystery to me that the Swedish Forest Investigation Office emphasises that more forest should be protected and proposes that forests should be protected on the grounds that it is coherent ecosystems, when in many cases there is already a grid of forest roads and other things. It is also a mystery to me when the Minister says that provisions should be voluntary, when the Forest investigation says:.The only realistic way to carry out a reform of this order of magnitude, with so many landowners (about 7 300 individually owned properties) is in a concerted and planned way. What, then, will apply? Madam President, I would like So we are talking about 7,300 privately owned properties, which are not state-owned but are actually owned and operated by someone. Here, therefore, the Green Party and Per Bolund want to ignore the fact that someone owns and uses forest land, which may have been used by families for several hundred years, and now protects it on totally unclear grounds. Or can the Government promise these 7,300 people that this will only be done voluntarily? In the January agreement, Mr President, Mr Värna is in favour of strengthening private ownership of forests, with item number 26, and I have therefore asked Minister Bolund a fairly direct question: how does the Minister intend to work to strengthen private ownership of forests? In fact, Madam President, I do not get any answers. I have also asked the Minister for the Environment and Climate Change on what measurements he bases his statements that Sweden must double the amount of protected forest? Here's an answer. Reference is made to statistics from SCB that emerged after the Swedish National Audit Office in 2018 in a report observed that we do not know how to calculate the proportion of protected forests. In order to enable a transparent and comparable follow-up and reporting of the objectives to the Riksdag, a greater consensus is needed on the areas to be credited with formal protection and voluntary provisions, as well as an increased coordination of statistics. ..................................................... The statistics Bolund refers to came in the report on statistics on formally protected forest land and so on. But, Madam President, it also lands in the following: It requires political decisions on a new mission to analyse how statistics should be valued. ..................................................... So we can see that we still do very different things in different countries. Wouldn't it be good to have a greater consensus and a more general measurement? Otherwise, the measurements will not be comparable.
i-309cc584c87a38be-78	Madam President, I would like It is a little strange to hear from the speaker that we would somehow ignore property rights. Ownership is a constitutionally protected right in Sweden. There is no party in Sweden that I know that questions this. Of course, our work to protect valuable forests is also based on respecting people's property rights and working together with forest owners. This is also happening in the vast majority of cases, which I welcome. I think the Moderates paint a little bit of a conflict that doesn't have to exist. We know that in the vast majority of cases where land is set aside to protect valuable nature, this is done in good agreement between authorities and landowners, and all parties are ultimately satisfied. That is, of course, the way we strive for this to happen, both now and in the future. I am a little worried about Alexandra Anstrell's entry into the debate. She describes it as a mystery that we should protect more land and do not understand the reason, and she claims that we should protect for protection. Sadly, the debate that has been going on has not been followed, nor has it clearly taken up the knowledge we have that we are in an extinction of species at a global level, where more and more species are threatened and are at risk of disappearing from the face of the earth. A species that is extinct disappears for good; it never comes back. If we have lost biodiversity, we know that it is lost forever. This means that we all, every human being on this planet, have a huge responsibility to do what we can to stop this development – to reverse the development that means that more and more species with which we share the planet are threatened and are in danger of disappearing. We know that a large part of our species here in Sweden is unfortunately threatened; it also shows the red lists. For example, there are 1 000 forest species on our red lists and are therefore threatened to varying degrees. Unfortunately, we also see an increase in the number. There are more species in the forest that are threatened now than a few years ago. This means that we have a responsibility to act. We need to face up to developments. To do nothing but pretend that biodiversity is not of crucial importance to humanity is, I think, a position in this debate that is difficult to accept and, frankly, very dangerous. We know from the knowledge we have built up that humanity for our survival is wholly dependent on the ecosystems on the planet. It is about pollination of the food we have on our plates and about how to get clean air to breathe and clean water to drink. For me, this is a basic knowledge that you have to have when entering this debate. We have a huge challenge in terms of biodiversity, and we have a responsibility to meet that challenge. Therefore, I am also proud that the Green Party has consistently, all the time, worked to set aside more money to protect valuable nature and ensure that we prioritise that area in Swedish environmental work. This also produces results. Since 2014, we have established or expanded over 1 000 nature reserves, precisely to protect the most valuable natural areas and thus also the species present in these areas. But we are not finished; we need to do even more. This is also clear when we look at the international commitments that Sweden has signed and sees that we are not meeting them. So we need to increase knowledge of nature's values and of the threat that is now above biodiversity – how many species are actually at risk of disappearing from our planet and our country. We also have a responsibility as a country to ensure that we do what is necessary to halt development and increase biodiversity. This is also part of the Forest investigation. We are now waiting for referrals to come in so that we can take the work further.
i-309cc584c87a38be-89	Madam President, I would like The Green Party may have the best name for the environment, but the Moderates have the best policy. Unfortunately, I cannot thank you for the answers, Madam President, because I am not getting the answers I am asking for. I am not getting any answers to the question of forest protection in Jämtland. Nor do I get any answers about how municipalities where forestry is to be closed down are to be compensated for lack of tax revenue and employment opportunities, nor about when worried forest owners can expect any form of communication or dialogue. The Minister says that protection should be voluntary. At the same time, the government's investigation suggests the opposite when it comes to mountain forest. I don't understand how this is connected. In Jämtland, an inventory of so-called calcareous forests has been carried out. It has been found that in these calcareous forests there is a rich and interesting flora with many protective soil fungi and vascular plants. A large number of potentially interesting areas are identified based on geological map material and interpretation of aerial photos as well as a lot of field visits in summer and autumn 2018 and 2019. In total, approximately 10 700 hectares were visited in 1 750 inventory areas. The inventory has taken place without contact with the relevant landowners. The dialogue that Minister Bolund is talking about, therefore, does not exist. In view of the millions spent on inventory, a certain amount might have been spent on communication and on sending information to the relevant landowners before the field inventory was carried out. Perhaps it would have been with better information throughout the implementation of such a project. Then maybe we'd heard less angry voices. There are questions about what really applies. Is the information already provided to landowners at the first meetings only information about what is happening, or are these surveyed areas soon or already subject to logging restrictions? It should be clear how much of the identified objects are deemed to be affected by logging restrictions. Finally, there are many questions about this with compensation. As Minister Bolund said, property rights are enshrined in the Earth Code. Then, of course, forest owners want to know what the possibility of compensation is and when one as a forest owner can expect to receive any compensation. Is it the Minister's intention that the forest protection work should be done in the way it has done in Jämtland? Is this what Minister Bolund means by having a good consensus, that is to say that it is done without communication? In the specific case of Jämtland, when does the Minister think that forest owners with calcareous forests can expect more communication and information from the government's extended arm, the County Administrative Board? I have also asked the Minister the question: if most of the forests in Åre, Krokoms and Strömsund municipalities are protected, how does the Minister intend to compensate these municipalities for the lack of tax revenue from those who previously worked with the forests of those municipalities? I listen and listen, but I don't actually hear any answers to that question. Madam President, I would like One of the proposals in the Forest Investigation report is for the government to set up a national coordinator, who will create dialogue instead of conflict between forest stakeholders. I have asked Minister Bolund about this, but I do not get an answer to that either. Should I interpret it as the minister doesn't care? If you're going to protect more forest, you need to have a dialogue. The good consensus that Minister Bolund is talking about does not really exist. When's it coming?
i-309cc584c87a38be-101	Madam President, I would like I welcome Alexandra Anstrell's questions and the commitment to this debate. At the same time, I expect Alexandra Anstrell to have respect for how issues are dealt with in Swedish democracy. That is to say, we raise a question, set up an investigation and let it make a proposal, then we send it for a referral and wait for what the referral bodies answer. We then take care of the referee and prepare it, and then we can come forward with political proposals. Now we're in the middle of that process. Then I hope that Alexandra Anstrell understands that there may be a point in waiting until the consultation bodies come in with their views on the proposal of the Forest Investigation. This applies, for example, to the proposal to have an institution, a coordinator, to coordinate between different interests in forestry policy. It is, of course, a proposal which is included in the Forest Investigation report and which is now also being referred, and we are waiting to get a response to it. At the same time, I think it is important that we note that there are many different values in the forests that we need to weigh against each other. As I said in my response to the interpellation, we have double goals. We have both an environmental goal and a production target, and they are equal in Swedish politics. If we look at the environmental objective, we can see that there are still huge challenges to be faced. We are not on the way to achieving the national environmental objective of living forests that the Swedish Parliament has supported. In fact, we are not making the necessary efforts to achieve that objective and to ensure that we have a good situation with regard to biodiversity in Sweden. Progress is going the wrong way. We also have a responsibility to face this, but I do not hear any comments from Alexandra Anstrell and the Moderates on how to face that development. On the contrary, we have seen that the Moderates do exactly the opposite when they formulate their economic policies. That is to say, we are making substantial cuts to the money that is being spent precisely to protect valuable nature. I do not share Alexandra Anstrell's description of how forest protection is done in Sweden. I follow the developments and the work, and I see that in the vast majority of cases this is done precisely in concert and in good dialogue between landowners and authorities. By also allocating resources to the budget, so that there is money that our authorities can use to formally protect forests and replace landowners, there is precisely the possibility of finding this consensus. However, when the Moderates in the budget after the budget make huge cuts in the money available for the protection of a valuable nature, that work is made more difficult. This makes it much harder to find consensus. Something's bothering me. I would like to hear Alexandra Anstrell explain how to combine less resources to replace landowners with a good dialogue and ensure that the valuable forest is actually protected. I share Alexandra Anstrell's view that communication is important. It is also something that I know our authorities take very seriously. There is plenty of information about how protection of a valuable nature takes place in Sweden. There is a strategy on how to prioritise, which areas are prioritised and how to formally protect soil. There are also great opportunities for landowners to be active themselves and, for example, voluntarily set aside land, which is also happening, much because they have certifications that also require them to set aside land. It is also possible to report land to the authorities themselves if it is considered to have particularly high values. In this way, a dialogue can be initiated with the authority to see how it can be protected and how it can be remunerated as a landowner. I think it is fantastic to see what enormous responsibility many forest owners also take to protect the environmental values in their forest areas. This is something that I would like to continue to cooperate with Sweden's forest owners about.
i-309cc584c87a38be-110	Madam President, I would like In Haninge, where I live, we have a national park, 21 nature reserves and several other protected areas, such as biotop protection areas and natural monuments. What forest does the Minister want to protect when there is twice as much to be protected, and on a voluntary basis? Report after report calls for better statistics. Most of the nature that the countries of the EU report as protected is under landscape protection, which allows agriculture and forestry, but in Sweden they mainly describe forms of protection where agriculture and forestry are prohibited. The decision on Aichimål number 11 from the CBD meeting in Nagoya means that the world's countries will preserve 17% of the land and freshwater area. The objective leaves a great deal of flexibility as to what can be included in the preserved nature. In Sweden, LRF has produced a report called Swedish Nature Conservation from an international perspective. It is estimated that Sweden protects 22.2 per cent, according to the government's definitions, excluding beach protection. This goes beyond the 17% Nagoya target and the 20% national target. Yet the minister says we should protect twice as much forest. What forest are we supposed to protect? On what measurements is it based? The Minister refers to a measurement which in itself concludes with the need for better statistics. Why wasn't the assignment in the Forest investigation to first land on the question of how we measure the proportion of protected forests that are comparable internationally before it was submitted to protect more forests? Or has it always been the ulterior thought of the Minister and the Green Party that as long as no one really knows how to measure, we should hurry to protect more – not because more biological or genetic diversity is needed right there, but for the sake of protection? I agree with Minister Bolund that the environment must be handled properly, but I think we have very different ways forward. I'll take my responsibility. The question is whether Minister Bolund is prepared to assume his responsibilities.
i-309cc584c87a38be-116	Madam President, I would like I think it is good that we have had this debate. I thank Alexandra Anstrell for her interpellation. I also think that it has highlighted how important it is that we have a broad view of forestry policy and that there are many urgent objectives that need to be agreed. We need to find ways to make them all come true. From the Green Party and the Government, we want to see the use of Swedish forests. We think that the forest has a great value when it comes to, for example, being able to replace fossil fuels and fossil products and thus also doing a great climate benefit. We know that forests are also an important sink for carbon dioxide as well as for us to be able to absorb carbon dioxide and reduce our climate impact. But we also have a huge challenge in terms of biodiversity. We have a huge challenge in terms of the animal and plant species with which we share this planet and our nature. I'm afraid we're heading in the wrong direction. We have an impoverishment of biodiversity, which is the basis for our own existence and for us as human beings to feel good and be able to get what we need. That is something that I hope Alexandra Anstrell will also take seriously, because we must take this seriously. It is amazing to see how the Swedish people have now been out in nature and experienced the value of outdoor life, being able to breathe fresh air and enjoy the Swedish nature. There we also see a great commitment from the Swedish people to protecting the hugely valuable areas that we have. A large majority of the Swedish people think it is important to protect valuable nature, to allocate resources to it and to prioritise the work to protect animal and plant species with which we share this planet. I can only regret that the Moderates are making a different priority. In one's economic policy, one chooses that every time one has the chance to cut back on money to protect valuable nature. This is not the way to resolve the conflicts that sometimes exist in the forest area. In fact, we must devote more resources to protecting the most valuable natural areas.
i-309cc584c87a38be-122	Madam President, I would like Jessika Roswall has asked me, on the one hand, what reasons I think the government has for postponing the government decision for an indefinite period of time, and, on the other hand, whether the government chooses not to make a decision in the near future – if I and the government have any other plan for the disposal of nuclear fuel when the interim stock is soon full. I would like to begin by repeating what has been said in previous questions and interpellation responses regarding the application for spent fuel disposal. The application submitted by Swedish Nuclear Fuel Management AB, SKB, for permission for the construction, holding and operation of a nuclear facility for the final disposal of spent fuel and nuclear waste concerns a coherent system. The system comprises three elements: the capacity expansion of the central intermediate spent fuel storage facility, the Clab, a facility for the encapsulation of spent nuclear fuel for final storage, the encapsulation facility, the Clink, and the actual repository. This coherent system is a major and complex issue. The application is one of the largest environmental issues in Sweden ever and a major infrastructure project. The Government's task is to examine the application in its entirety. A question raised in the Government's examination of the application is whether the complement that SKB submitted to the Government on the basis of the Court's opinion concerning, inter alia, the protective capacity of the copper capsule requires additional consultations with other countries under the Environmental Code, a so-called Espoo consultation. The Environmental Protection Agency, which is the authority responsible for conducting consultations with other countries in accordance with the Environmental Code and the so-called Espoo Convention, was therefore asked to inform the Government Office of whether or not complementary consultations are required under Chapter 6. Paragraph 33 of the Environmental Code. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's reply was received on 12 February. In its reply, the Authority states that it intends to hold consultations with Poland and Germany concerning the additionality received. The Swedish trawl safety authority has recently published its analysis of SKB's report on the research known as long-term test of buffer materials, the so-called LOT trials. The government will now take part in the Radiation Safety Authority's review. Thus, the government's examination of completion cases is still ongoing. The cases under both laws are dealt with together in the Government Office. I do not want to anticipate the government's decision, nor can I judge when the matter will be decided, but the report is a priority.
i-309cc584c87a38be-126	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister for the Environment, for your answer. This kind of debate on the application itself could be opened using the method chosen by the SKB, because this is of great importance on the substance of the matter. But as everyone here knows, this is not the first time that the repository has been debated. The question is not new to the government either. The application was made in 2011 and has been on the government table since 2018, but as the Minister knows, the issue is older than that. My point is that it does not matter that we have a new Minister for the Environment in place, although this is perhaps the first time the Minister for the Environment has debated this issue in an interpellation debate. The reason why I am putting this interpellation now is that the statements made by the Minister in the media on a number of occasions show that the government is completely devoid of a timetable and also provides unclear information as to whether it intends to take a decision. Now I heard the Minister say that it is a priority, which is a good thing, but the statements I have heard are really worrying. I will not go into the method, but let me nevertheless say that it is investigated, scientifically tested in length and cross-section, not only by SKB but by the Radiation Safety Authority, SSM, and by international groups. The Land and Environment Court has examined, SKB has supplemented, the Riksdag has taken a decision on clarification regarding responsibility after closure and SSM has reviewed SKB's LOT attempts, which Per Bolund raised and which his representatives have raised in different contexts. They are ready, and they are also investigated, not only in length and breadth, but also with great transparency, where several environmental organisations have had insight into the tests. The SSM has again taken a decision in which the application is approved. Espoo consultations are ongoing, and it is expected to be completed in a few months' time. I interpret the answer as saying that when the Espoo consultation is completed and we have the results of the LOT trials, we are ready to make decisions. But what is it that causes the Minister to make these statements? What are you waiting for to make a decision? The question is bigger than a disposal in Östhammar municipality. It is about intermediate warehouses in Oskarshamn, Clab, which we know will be full. It's not news, it's been known for a long time. It is, as the Minister said, a whole, absolutely! But it requires the government to make decisions before the summer. Madam President, I would like On election day 2018, Per Bolund hit the big drum and announced that the Green Party is indeed the party that thinks about the future and on future generations, the party that relies on research and that actually dares to stand up for the environment and climate, even when it blows. One statement that has been heard many times from the Green Party, especially from Per Bolund, is that we should protect our environmental responsibility and not shovel it over to future generations. I don't think Per Bolund thinks he was misquoted now. But, as you know, actions actually speak louder than words, and I do not think that the Minister for the Environment is living up to his words as far as the repository is concerned. The Minister for the Environment does not seem to want to set a timetable, and he does not take responsibility for not shoveling the issue over future generations. It goes without saying to me that the generation that has benefited from nuclear power should also take responsibility. The technical solutions exist and are scientifically studied – comprehensively studied, with a rigorous risk analysis that according to SSM means that it is considered that the application can be supported by a significant margin. So, Madam President, my question to the Minister for the Environment, as many others have also asked, is once again: when will the government make its decision, and what is the government waiting for?
i-309cc584c87a38be-136	Madam President, I would like With the announcement in October from Östhammar municipality, all the information is now in place to be able to take a government decision regarding final disposals in Forsmark and extended interim storage in Oskarshamn. However, long-term security is the fundamental issue. Now all the expert units have spoken out, and yet the government is not making any progress. Is it something that some expert authority or court has missed? This is, of course, a big and complex issue. It is one of the largest environmental cases – probably the largest – in Sweden ever and a major infrastructure project. A positive decision would thus be the start of one of Sweden's largest and most important environmental protection projects and launch investments of approximately SEK 19 billion, generating approximately 1,500 jobs. There are quite a few jobs, especially in rural areas and especially now, in the middle of a coronapandemia where many would need a fresh start. The whole of Sweden needs a fresh start. Every year that goes before the decision to get started, SKB costs SEK 800 million, according to sources at SKB. That's $2 million a day. The Minister refers to the Radiation Safety Authority's review of LOT, but it is linked to SKB's research activities and is not part of the investigation of the final repository. SKB's research programme – the FUD programme – has reviewed and recommended the Government to approve, and the Government approved the FUD in 2019 as late as December 2020. It is good that Minister Bolund sees the issue as a priority, but if time is allowed without giving us any timetable – what is the priority? I wonder if there is a timetable, and what is the tempo of the matter? We do not know and cannot possibly know what the world will look like in 100,000 years' time. We can only do something based on what we think is best and right today.
i-309cc584c87a38be-144	Madam President, I would like I thank Mrs Roswall and Alexandra Anstrell for this. This is an incredibly large and important environmental issue. I appreciate that we can have a discussion about it. As noted in this debate, this is perhaps the biggest environmental issue ever dealt with by a government. That's a good thing, too. This issue is a major and complex environmental issue. It is an issue that concerns one of the most dangerous substances known to man – highly radioactive waste. We have been able to see through history many times with quite great horror what happens if such materials are not handled properly. Let us not put ourselves in a situation where this material risks coming out and affecting the environment and human health. It is a situation that no individual deserves to be put into. It is also a decision that covers completely different time frames than we usually deal with in politics. We are used to dealing with decisions that have an effect in a week, a month and perhaps during a term of office. Sometimes it is about ten years or even a hundred years, for example when you talk about infrastructure planning. This is a decision covering a period of at least one hundred thousand years. It is a huge period of time and, of course, we have a responsibility for the effects throughout this period of time. So we cannot be content with a solution that works for a decade, a century or a millennium, but we must be able to ensure that this solution actually works throughout this enormous period of time. It is a responsibility to carry out this test. And it is the government that, according to the legislation that we have, is going to do this test. We also intend to take this test seriously. We have had a long process, and we have all been able to follow it. It is not uncommon for us to receive applications for permission to the government that has had long processes and where a solid work has been done before. However, it does not deprive the government of its responsibility to make a thorough trial and to actually weigh all issues against each other. It is also the responsibility of the government when it comes to redress under the legislation that we have. The government will take this issue seriously as it deserves. So do we. We have also had a situation in which the Land and Environment Court of Appeal did not approve the application that came in, but it stated that there was a need for further answers to a lot of absolutely crucial questions. It is clear that this type of analysis and work also requires both great effort and that we allow it to take the time it takes to get the answers that we actually need to guarantee the Swedish people what they deserve, that is, that we can guarantee that this deadly material can be kept separate from the environment and from people for at least a hundred thousand years. There we have had processes that have been going on. Among other things, we have recently received additional data from the Swedish Radiation Safety Agency. Of course, the government is now taking in the information that comes in these documents, just as we take in information from all other sources. However, I do not think it is strange that we also need to spend time and resources analysing these proposals and also to see if there are any further questions that need to be answered. I think it is irresponsible to demand, as is sometimes heard in this debate, that we take decisions from the government before the proceedings are concluded. Sometimes there is a requirement for us to make decisions before we have even received evidence from the responsible authorities. I hope that the debaters present in this House are prepared to refrain from this kind of handling.
i-309cc584c87a38be-153	Madam President, I would like What made me worried when I had my little point that we have a new Minister for the Environment in place was exactly what Per Bolund said about the government taking responsibility for this process. I believe the investigation has been going on for quite some time and has been on the table with the government. What worries me is when the Minister uses these words. I believe and assume that we still agree that we have a law that says that those who operate nuclear power plants are obliged to take care of the waste – they are obliged to pay for it – and we also have SKB for that. Then we also have laws and rules on how the trial should be conducted. I believe that these investigations have been tried in length and contrast, as I said in my first speech. You can feel a little messy. I live in Uppsala County and have been following this issue for quite some time. Nevertheless, I would like to know more clearly what further additions or other things the government is waiting for. As I said, the SSM has carried out extensive reviews of the applications and tests. It is said that they confirm and reinforce previous conclusions that SKB has reliably and adequately demonstrated that the location and method meet the very high requirements of the final customer's long-term radiation safety. I share Per Bolund's view that this is not a decision of any kind, but it is an obligation. It deserves a proper investigation. Of course I agree with that. However, I believe that we must also rely on what the authorities say and on the audits and tests they have carried out. It is, as I said, nothing that has been done in a short time. This is clear and transparent. I still miss what else you want to hear. I felt that the first answer given by Per Bolund today was about the Espoo consultation and evaluations of the LOT trials. The Espoo consultation is on the way, and the LOT trials are available. The Minister for the Environment says that it is irresponsible not to do this thoroughly. That is absolutely the case, and I definitely think it is done. But I also think it is irresponsible for a government not to be able to tell us what the timetable is and what it requires. It is also irresponsible, as I said in my first speech, not to take responsibility for their generation's waste. We should also be aware that it is not clear after the government's decision. Further permit processes are added. But they can't get started until we have a decision from the government. And it's urgent, as we know. This decision needs to come before the summer in order to cope with the whole that Per Bolund is also talking about. Again, what is the government waiting for, and when is the decision coming?
i-309cc584c87a38be-163	Madam President, I would like Could it be that what makes this matter so long is that it is simply also an uncomfortable issue to get through, that this nuclear waste is hurting for the Minister and the Green Party? In the past, it has sounded to the government like working intensively on these issues. Now it sounds like the government is looking at this intensively. What, like Mrs Roswall, about trusting the expert authorities in this matter when we are going to do so in so many other matters? Has the government not been thorough with the reading before? So this issue has been on the table for 47 years, since 1973. That was the year before I was born. During this time, however, a great deal has happened around us. SEK 2.2 million a day costs this. How many SEK 2.2 million is this going to cost? But it's not just about money. It is a question of sitting with this waste on the knee. We have this responsibility. It's like you can't make it go away. We need to take responsibility for this waste to be taken care of. It's getting full. What else would the alternative be? Does Minister Bolund have an alternative to this decision? It does not matter whether you like nuclear power or not, or whether you think we should have nuclear power in the future or not. We need to take responsibility here and now. It is a matter of taking political responsibility for this waste, and that responsibility needs the government to take and at least give us a timetable for when the government intends to take this responsibility.
i-309cc584c87a38be-168	Madam President, I would like I'm a little surprised when Jessika Roswall is worried when I say that the government will take responsibility. As a Member of Parliament, I would be more concerned if the government said it would not take responsibility. It goes without saying, I think, that we will take the responsibility that this issue really deserves. This is an extremely serious issue that we are talking about. It is a potentially very serious environmental problem if we do not manage this hazardous waste in the best possible way. I am, of course, behind the legislation passed by the Swedish Parliament, which also clearly states that it is the generation that has used nuclear electricity that also has a responsibility to take care of the waste generated by this nuclear power production. It is, of course, also in this way that the government is examining this issue. I would also like to emphasise very strongly, as the issue has now come up in the debate, that this is an unpolitical test. This means that we do not take into account political positions, either for or against nuclear power or other political positions. Instead, the Government has to examine the application according to the legislation that exists in Sweden and that the Swedish Parliament has supported. That's why I have to say that I'm a little worried about the attitude of the Moderates. Would the Moderates act differently? Would the Moderates, since they are in favour of nuclear power, handle the application in a different way from what the current government is doing? Does this mean that the Moderates would not even look at the application because they are in favour of nuclear power and therefore simply tick the box without taking a stand? I sincerely hope that this is not the case, but I hope that the Moderates in the corresponding situation will take this issue seriously. Although one can talk widely about that there have been 40 years of trial, this is a technique and an activity that mankind has not seen before. We have never done similar things, and so there is no experience that we can build on or that allows us to establish exactly what is working or what is not working. It is also important to point out that the application was submitted to authorities and courts in 2011 and that the authorities and the court after that had had a solid job in examining the application. When the Land and Environment Court then examined the question, it concluded that there are still major and important issues to which there was no answer. In this situation, I think it is directly irresponsible to demand that decisions be taken. Of course, we must be able to answer the questions raised during the process. An example of such a question is who is responsible for the detention after it has been closed in the future. There was no answer to that question, and it forced us to produce new legislation – which also had to be clubbed by the Swedish Parliament. So, step by step, we are responding to the questions that come up in the trial, and I think that is the way in which the government has a responsibility to act. I hope that all governments will take corresponding responsibility in this process. It is also important to listen to all voices, not only to those who sing a song that suits your own purposes, and so does the government in this trial. For example, we have a Nuclear Waste Council, which consists of leading experts who help the government to do the test. They have raised important questions about, for example, the copper capsule that should be part of the protection around this hazardous, highly radioactive waste. Will the capsule hold, or is there a risk of corrosion? How long will it last? They have also raised questions about the iron closure that lies inside the copper capsule as well as questions about pre-splitting and other problems. Of course, as a government, we have a responsibility to listen to these questions, voices and experts that we have said will help us in this trial. Of course, the Green Party and the Government are examining the issue in accordance with existing legislation. We give priority to the issue, and we will do what is necessary to enable us to make a decision that gives security to the Swedish people.
i-309cc584c87a38be-177	Madam President, I would like I refrain from commenting on such an unserious attack as the Moderates would not seriously consider the issue of final disposal. I had higher thoughts than that about Per Bolund, I'll say. Of course, the Moderates would do an unpolitical test, and that is precisely why I hoped that we could somehow come to an agreement. We know that we do not like nuclear energy, but we do have a waste to deal with. Madam President, I would like I have one more point I would like to make in the debate, and that is something that both of these municipalities have raised clearly when we have met them in different contexts. It concerns the issue of trust. As I said, this issue is not new, but has been threshing up for many years, and in the municipalities in question a great deal of knowledge has been built up on the subject. In both of these municipalities, confidence in both intermediate storage and disposal is high, not to say very high. But as Municipal Spangenberg Spangenberg in Östhammar usually says, trust is a fresh product. Do not squander that trust and the broad democratic process and anchoring of this issue! It's a piece of advice I'd like to give. Basically, as I said, I hope that we agree that we should take responsibility for the nuclear waste that exists and that our generation has produced. However, the government really must take its share of the responsibility and not delay it because it is unable to make a decision. In my first post I mentioned the different steps that Per Bolund is now taking. I am not in any way against them, but I think they have been good. SKB has also made the necessary additions. But in this type of decision there will always be some uncertainty, and it cannot be investigated indefinitely. The time has come for decisions. I have asked what further things the government is asking for. The Espoo consultation will be ready in the near future, and the government should be able to make a decision. I repeat my question once again, what is it that we are waiting for and when we can at least have a timetable for the decision.
i-309cc584c87a38be-182	Madam President, I would like I'm having a bit of a hard time understanding the upset. I asked a question in connection with Alexandra Anstrell's question as to whether we took political consideration in this trial. My statement was that we don't. Since the question was asked by the Moderates, I asked back whether the Moderates would take political consideration in such a trial. I find it hard to understand the great upset about it. On the other hand, the government does the test according to all the rules of art. We make it according to the legislation that is in place and that the Swedish Parliament has supported. We also make it in communication with and feedback to not only SKB, who has made the application and where there is an ongoing dialogue about the trial with the government and the Government Office, but also the authorities and the court that have examined the matter before us. After all, the Court has asked important and decisive questions, and we have a responsibility to give answers to them. We take this step by step, and we also take in the views of the authorities. After the authorities' comments have been received, we will analyse them in the way that I actually think each government has a responsibility to do. These are still ongoing processes, which is why it is not possible today to say exactly when a decision can be taken. We need to wait for the reports and the work of the authorities and then weigh the material together before we can take such a position. It is incredibly important that we can analyse the information that comes into the Government Office, because we have the responsibility to do so according to the legislation in force. We intend to take this seriously. I would like to reiterate that it is an extremely large environmental test we are carrying out and that it is an extremely important issue. This is a deadly material, and our generation has a responsibility to keep it separate from the environment and people for a hundred thousand years. It is an issue one cannot allow oneself to be stressed through by talk that it costs money or that we have other considerations to take. We must ensure that there is security in the custody, and that is what we do on the part of the government.
i-TjEqYcputmMk9YYxVFb1p7	Madam President, I would like Momodou Malcolm Jallow has asked Minister Märta Stenevi if she intends to act urgently to strengthen the protection of right-of-occupancy associations, whether she intends to improve the situation of right-of-occupancy holders on the basis of the proposals in the report "Strengthening consumer protection in the right-of-occupancy market" (SOU 2017:31), and when she intends to carry out a review of the provisions of the Right-of-occupancy Act and other relevant regulations, and to come back with legislative proposals to strengthen consumer protection in the right-of-occupancy market. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. I am aware of the information on abuses that has occurred and, of course, take them very seriously. For the government, the protection of right-holders is a priority and something that we take very seriously. It should be safe to both live and invest in a right-of-occupancy apartment. The government has recently made it easier for members to gain insight into the housing association if they suspect that there are abuses. A tenth of the members can now request a special auditor or a minority auditor to be appointed by the Swedish Companies Registration Office without requiring the matter to be discussed at an association meeting. The independence and transparency of the special reviewer has also been strengthened. The Government has also commissioned an investigation to propose a public register of right-of-occupancy apartments. This would have a major impact on the security of right-of-occupancy holders and right-of-occupancy buyers. At the request of the Government, the 2017 report by Momodou Malcolm Jallow has proposed a strengthening of consumer protection. Several of the proposals contained in the said report relate to the shortcomings highlighted by the Swedish National Audit Office, which are also covered by the Riksdag's announcement. However, on a number of points, the proposals need to be supplemented in order to provide a basis for the development of new legislation. Work is under way to develop proposals to strengthen consumer protection in the right-of-occupancy market. The proposals in the 2017 report are included in that work. The possibility of adding new proposals is being explored. However, the planning of the Government Office has been strongly influenced by the pandemic outbreak and some legislative projects have had to wait. The Government will return to the Riksdag when the preparation is completed.
i-JpdcigiaPE2WAzJpNij7J5	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Morgan Johansson, for your answer! For many people the purchase of a tenant-owner is the biggest business in life. It must therefore be safe for the individual consumer to both buy and live in a right-of-occupancy apartment. Today, however, there are major shortcomings in consumer protection in the right-of-occupancy market, both for existing right-holders and for buyers of a right-of-occupancy apartment. In recent years, numerous revelations have been made about housing associations that have been hijacked and exploited for the benefit of individuals. The economy has been driven to the bottom, and the residents have had to pay the price through both neglected associations and neglected properties. In practice, the value of individual dwellings has been completely wiped out and sales of them have been made impossible. A particularly noted case is two tenant-owner associations at Rosengård in Malmö called the Chinese Wall. The indebted associations have in a series of attentive reports been reviewed by the media. The Chinese Wall has come to illustrate the almost outlawed state in which individuals who own a share of a right-of-occupancy association can be placed. Madam President, I would like After the associations have been hijacked and drained of so much money that they are threatened with bankruptcy, the properties are now in such a catastrophic state that Malmö Municipality decided to make a collective complaint for the over one hundred children living in the houses in question. Madam President, I would like For rightholders, there is little hope for a brighter future – not with today's legislation, or rather a lack of it. If this is something that the media's reviews have shown, it is precisely the great flaws of the law. There is a lack of responsible authorities when housing associations collapse, and residents cannot get help from anywhere. That is why I put this question to the minister responsible. The Left Party has supported a committee initiative that has been supported by the Riksdag. The Parliament supported this committee initiative and addressed an announcement to the government that the government should come up with measures, but nothing happens. The Left Party has also, not long ago, submitted a follow-up motion in response to the Government's letter on the Swedish National Audit Office's report on consumer protection when purchasing newly produced housing rights, but nothing has happened. Despite the announcement by Parliament that I mentioned just now, the government has not yet come back with proposals that strengthen consumer protection. Madam President, I would like Morgan Johansson says that the protection of right-of-occupancy holders is a priority. It's hard to believe. Morgan Johansson highlights the small legislative changes that the government has actually made in this area after the media began to pay attention to the problems of the Chinese Wall. Of course, it is good that these have been implemented, Madam President, but that is not what we are here to talk about today. That is all that the government has not done that I want to talk about today – all that we are still waiting for the government to do. It has now been four years since an investigation was presented that could actually improve the situation. The government has therefore already prepared the issue for four years. Four years ago the problems in the Chinese Wall were not even new; already then this had been going on for several years. In fact, the Environmental Administration in Malmö sounded the alarm about abuses in the houses already in 2014. I have been involved in the matter for several years, and I wonder what kind of work Morgan Johansson is doing. How can it take so long to find a solution to this problem?
i-309cc584c87a38be-204	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to say that in most cases it is a very good form of ownership to have a right-of-occupancy apartment and to be part of a right-of-occupancy association. It's a very good form of housing. In addition, it is democratic; the property is owned and managed jointly. I myself have lived in a right-of-occupancy apartment in a couple of rounds and have also been on the board of a right-of-occupancy association, so I think I know about how it works. My experience – and I know that this is also the experience of the vast majority – is that housing associations are basically good forms to live in. This, of course, is no guarantee that you cannot be fooled, for it happens in many respects and in many cases. In the present case in Malmö we have the unusual arrangement that an individual operator owns or controls – has a majority – of the votes in the association. This means that this operator can fully control the association. Having read me into this case, I can say that there is a lot that I wonder about when it comes to this approach and how it looks. For example, I read that neither annual reports nor tax returns have been submitted for several years. I cannot comment on this further as Minister of Justice, but it must be a matter for the law enforcement authorities to deal with. It's up to them. I simply note that this is the case in the present example. What I can do, however, is try to take steps to prevent similar events from happening again. In my interpellation response, I pointed out that, since 1 January of this year, we have had new legislation in place that reinforces the minority's rights in an association. Since 1 January, a tenth of the members of an association may request directly from the Swedish Companies Registration Office to have a special auditor or a minority auditor appointed without a general meeting being able to stop this. In the past, the general meeting had to be attended, and if there was then an actor who controlled the majority of the general meeting, this actor could block such efforts. However, since 1 January, a tenth of the members of the association can go directly to the Swedish Companies Registration Office and request a special auditor or a minority auditor to be appointed. We have also strengthened the reviewer's right to transparency. In this way irregularities can be revealed earlier if one suspects, for example, that one of the members of the association shoes themselves or tries to plunder the association. So this is a way of discovering this and sounding the alarm about it at an earlier stage. Now I will not speculate too much, but if this legislation had been in place before – now we have it since 1 January – this type of irregularity might have been discovered earlier. However, it is based on the fact that the members of the association know about their rights and know that they can use this type of techniques. Since before, a board member who damages the association may be liable for damages. It is sufficient that one tenth of the members do not vote in favour of discharge in order for the issue of damages to remain open. There is therefore a minority protection, and this has recently been further strengthened. When it comes to the purchase of newly produced dwellings – this is the second part of Malcolm Jallow's interpellation and is related to the Swedish National Audit Office's report – the 2017 investigation proposed a number of measures regarding consumer protection in so-called pre-contractual agreements. It is about the right to withdraw from contracts in the event of substantial changes. It is also a matter of specifying the final cost of the house before you can let apartments with a right-of-occupancy apartment. We are working on these proposals now, and I can say today that we will be able to go to Parliament with them during this parliamentary term.
i-309cc584c87a38be-214	Madam President, I would like I am pleased to hear that proposals will be made during this parliamentary term and, of course, we welcome the measures that have been taken with regard to minority protection. But they are not enough – these measures are far from sufficient to help the people who live in the Chinese wall today. In his reply, Morgan Johansson used the coronapendemin som m an excuse for delaying legislation. The Minister said that the planning of the Government Office was strongly influenced by the outbreak of the pandemic and that some legislative projects had to wait. But for families living in the Chinese Wall, it is not a legislative project that can wait, it is about their lives – nothing else. My guess is that the outbreak of the pandemic has been much heavier, harder and harder for the families in the Chinese Wall than for the government's work. If there is something the pandemic has taught us, it is surely that we can make decisions faster than usual when needed. The Pandemin has shown that governments all over the world can work shockingly quickly when needed, but for the more than one hundred children living in miserable conditions in the Chinese Wall, the change has been far too slow. When, Morgan Johansson, are we going to tell the kids in the Chinese Wall that a solution is coming? What concrete measures can we hear from the minister responsible today? What can we say to these children? When will we not have to tell these children and their parents that the government is preparing the question? We have heard that many times since 2017. This legislative project is, in fact, about the lives of over a hundred children. For me, this is important, and we have the Convention on the Rights of the Child as a law in our country. It's about a lot of children living in catastrophic circumstances. They have very bad and that we could have already helped, sooner than now. Instead, they have been forced years and years into hijacked, neglected homes that lack heat and ventilation and are affected by moisture and mold. There are constant power outages, broken out environments, rats and so on. It is very serious that over a hundred children live under such terrible conditions without the government and the minister responsible taking the necessary measures to enable these children to live a decent life. The fact that the municipality even had to do something as drastic as a collective complaint to social services sends a signal that the government should act directly. It's not just about the parents, it's about over a hundred children. When are we going to be able to tell these children that the misery is over because the government will take the necessary measures? What concrete measures does Minister Johansson intend to take?
i-309cc584c87a38be-224	Madam President, I would like A right-of-occupancy association is a privately owned property. Those who live in the property own it together. If the property is to be renovated, in order to remove, for example, mold or other, the board of directors or the general meeting of the housing association must make such decisions and finance these decisions. It may be done through bank loans by the association or through private loans. That's how ownership works. Society has no basic responsibility for how private property is managed or mismanaged, but it is those who own the property and are part of the association who are responsible for their property. Here, the facts are such that an individual operator has apparently been able to control the association completely. Like I said, there's a lot to wonder about. How has this been done, and why has no one reacted to the failure to submit annual accounts and tax returns for several years? But it must be up to the law enforcement authorities to investigate this. What can I do? I can try to change the legislation so that this does not happen again, and we have just made such a change. As of 1 January 2021, we have given the minority the opportunity to request a review by a special reviewer or minority auditor to review the economy and perhaps discover whether an individual actor is abusing his position, cheating, tampering or looting the association. Now you can discover these things in time so that it doesn't happen again. Had the rules we have been in place today when this was rolled up, which is a long time ago, long before we had responsibility for this, this might have been avoided. But now we have it in place since 1 January, and it makes the risk of this happening in other associations less. However, it requires that you know your rights and make use of them. It was a question of how to detect abuses and what to do when individual actors abuse their position. Momodou Malcolm Jallow's second question concerns the Swedish National Audit Office's report and the 2017 investigation. In particular, it focuses on what is called a pre-contractual agreement and applies to newly produced dwellings, i.e. where some money is spent in a right-of-occupancy apartment while the construction project is in progress. What rights do I have if the construction, for example, drags on or becomes much more expensive than it was said? It is a question of consumer rights at that stage. This is a proposal to be able to withdraw from an agreement if there are significant changes during the construction period and that you should be informed in time of what the property should actually cost. The rules need to be tightened up, and we've been working on that since the investigation. We will be able to go to Parliament with this bill during this parliamentary term. Momodou Malcolm Jallow asks why it has taken so long and why I bring up the pandemic. Because this is one of many legislative projects that we have had to postpone. But if the Left Party allocates more money to the Government Office in the future, and I hope the Left Party will, we will be able to bring forward legislative proposals more quickly. We'll see about that in the Left Party budget.
i-309cc584c87a38be-233	Madam President, I would like Some measures have been taken, such as minority protection, and that is a good thing. Morgan Johansson says that housing associations are privately owned associations and that society has no fundamental responsibility. I disagree. Society has a fundamental responsibility for those living in these right-of-occupancy associations; they are people. Note that Morgan Johansson did not mention anything about the children who live there and who I have talked about. These children suffer and live in terrible conditions. They're important in the equation. In Sweden we have a tradition of acting quickly when children get hurt. What is it that makes us not act now? It's about over a hundred children. It is important to take this into account. To say that this is privately owned and therefore we do not act– I do not buy it, Morgan Johansson. It is important that we make the positions we have always taken on children here, especially since we have the Convention on the Rights of the Child as a law. If it had been a rental property, it could have been forced to manage it. But you can't do that with a housing association. It is therefore important to review the possibility of forced management in any way if a housing association is mismanaged. Those people who have invested all their savings should not have to suffer because of mismanagement or lack of legislation to protect their rights. I hope Morgan Johansson will act quickly this time.
i-309cc584c87a38be-239	Madam President, I would like Basically, you have responsibility for your own property. If you own a right-of-occupancy apartment, it is your property, and so you manage it together with the others who live in that right-of-occupancy association. The children have parents, and the parents are responsible for their property and for ensuring that the property is well managed with other parents in the housing association. This is a special case where an individual actor has been able to control the entire association and had 76 per cent of the votes at the general meeting. There have also been links between those on the Board of Directors and those who perform management tasks for the Board. In addition, no annual accounts or tax returns have been submitted for several years. It outlines a background to what this particular case is really about. Basically, however, one has responsibility for one's property and that it is managed in a good way. Now we have increased the possibilities to expose such irregularities in time. Minority has been given greater protection by providing an audit and an audit of the economy of these associations. This is an important measure. We are moving forward on the issue of newly produced dwellings. I do not rule out the need for us to do more to tighten up the rules on how the statutes of such associations can actually be written, that is, whether we should have a system at all that allows a majority to be transferred to an individual operator. The experience of what we see with the Chinese Wall simply shows that it can lead to a complete error. I do not, therefore, rule out the need for further action. It is also a discussion that we have had with the central organisations of housing associations. We will continue that discussion.
i-309cc584c87a38be-245	Madam President, I would like Amineh Kakabaverh has asked me whether I and the government are prepared to set up an investigation to identify the extent of the issuance of so-called innocence certificates and the carrying out of so-called virgin op erations. She has also asked me whether, if so, I and the government are prepared to give such an investigation in directives to propose new legislation which could also include criminalising the issuing and execution of so-called virginity certificates and controls. As I and my colleagues have previously emphasised, all forms of honour-related violence and oppression are unacceptable in Swedish society. For this reason, the government has taken several measures to combat honour-related violence and repression. Some of these measures are criminal offences, such as a special child marriage offence, a penalty for crimes with honorary motives and an exit ban to protect children from being taken abroad to enter into child marriage or genital mutilation. In addition, the report of the Honorary Crime Investigation proposes to introduce a special honorary offence. The report has been referred, and the proposals are now being prepared in the Government Office. However, criminal law measures are not enough, but an important part of the fight against honour-related violence and repression is to ensure that knowledge of honor-related violence and repression is available in both the judicial authorities and the health services. As I have previously pointed out, the Swedish Police Authority and the Swedish Prosecution Authority have therefore developed new and updated methodological support on honor-related crime. In addition, competence enhancement efforts have been carried out for pre-trial investigators and other decision-makers within the Police Authority. In addition, every public prosecutor's office now has special honorary prosecutors. The Government has also commissioned the National Board of Health and Welfare to provide social services and health care with in-depth training on honour-related violence and repression including genital mutilation. As Amineh Kakabaveh mentions, in 2018, the National Board of Health and Welfare also produced a newsletter that makes it clear that virginity checks and certificates of innocence are incompatible with Swedish law. Among other things, to prevent private clinics from performing so-called virgin surgery, in December 2020 the government handed over the bill Act on aesthetic surgical procedures and aesthetic injection treatments to the Riksdag. In the bill, the government proposes a new law that significantly tightens the rules by revoking doctors who perform intimate surgery and do not meet the requirements of the Patient Safety Act for science and proven experience. With regard to the question of whether I and the Government are prepared to set up an investigation to identify the extent of the issuance of virginity and the performance of virginity and acts of innocence, I would like to point out the following: as the then Prime Minister pointed out in January of this year, the Government must be open to considering new legislation in the fight against honour-related violence and repression, including virginity controls and operations. Therefore, the Government Office is now considering whether there are grounds for a review, in any form, of the existence of virginity controls, virginism and innocence. In such a review, consideration may also be given to the need for new legislation regarding the performance of virginity checks and operations and the issuing of virginity certificates. Every girl and woman has the right to control their body and their life. We can never accept that honorary standards such as these take hold in Swedish society. Honour-related violence and repression must be combated, and this will continue to be a top priority for the government.
i-EPxPrP4X7zTDSDR2PuH8Bj	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Justice Morgan Johansson, for your answer! It is gratifying that the government is now open to investigate further the extension of so-called virginity controls and operations. The reason for this debate is that what I have been raising in this House for many years, on the one hand, standards of honour and, on the other, crimes of honour in the collective, has spread and has today come to certain institutions, authorities and health services. Many private clinics also earn quite a lot of money from this. It is a question of human rights violations. A woman's body must be owned by herself and not by relatives or others. I believe that for those who do so in many ways, it can be a matter of co-crime. The forthcoming bill on aesthetic surgery referred to by the Government is about other things. I also want to regulate that business. There must be strong patient protection. But I believe that this law will leave a great deal of room for interpretation. It's about so-called hyphenical surgery, virginity checks and certificates that I want to be banned by law. When it comes to virginity checks and certificates of innocence, I mean that Swedish society should have zero tolerance. Honorary oppression, culture of honor and norms are not about intimate surgery and not about aesthetic procedures. These are brutal collective and oppressive structures and mechanisms. It should be visible and emphasised in the legislation. It should form part of the criminal harassment that the Minister mentions in his reply and which I have been demanding for so long. Unfortunately, this is not the case today. The person who carries out so-called virginity operations and issues virginity certificates helps to maintain this and is to some extent an accomplice to honour crimes. The idea of women's innocence and chastity is at the heart of the culture of honour that exists in Swedish society. We must fight it. We must be very clear that older patriarchal structures and mechanisms should be removed. The Minister's answer is good and comprehensive. It is gratifying that in recent years the Government has fought and produced various legislative proposals, which have also been voted through in the Riksdag. But this question is very important. I want to know what the Attorney General thinks. Can the Minister explain how such legislation would work? Will it really be the same? Is the issuing of virginity checks, certificates of innocence and virgin surgery equivalent to aesthetic surgery? It's not supposed to be like that.
i-309cc584c87a38be-259	Madam President, I would like The government certainly shares Amineh Kakabaveh's commitment to this issue. That is one of our top priorities. This shows, not least, the changes in criminal law that we have made in recent years. Last year, we pushed through a penalty base for honor crimes. We pushed through the possibility of imposing an exit ban on girls and women who are at risk of being taken abroad for marriage or genital mutilation. Just a few months after the entry into force of the exit ban, it had already been applied 14 times. So it has had an effect and is very important. We also tightened and increased the basis for criminalising child marriage crimes and lowered the thresholds there. It will now be easier than before to judge for child marriage crimes. With regard to controls on innocence, I would like to begin by clarifying criminal law itself. A so-called virginity control may well constitute a sexual abuse in the sense of the law. If that's the case, we're talking about rape. Making such a check on a girl under the age of 15 could well be judged as rape of children. A child cannot consent to sexual acts. The Supreme Court has also ruled that the intention of an act does not need to be sexual in order for it to still be a sexual violation. For example, it may involve inserting fingers or objects into a girl's genital area. Thus, even if there is no sexual purpose, it is enough for it to be considered a sexual abuse. This means that you can be convicted of rape of children, for example. It's important to say. Of course, if you are over 15 years of age, you can formally give your consent to such a check. However, if you find yourself in a particularly vulnerable situation in the sense of the law, for example because you are under strong pressure from your parents or from the environment to do so, there may also be sexual abuse in the sense of the law. In that case, those who carry out such a control may be convicted of rape. In a situation such as that of fellow workers, the parents could be judged for aid in carrying out this crime. It is important to say this. It is an important signal both to the adults who maintain this kind of oppression of honour and to the children and young people who want to free themselves from this oppression – this is the case. No one has the right to force someone to have a virginity check, and those who do can still be sentenced to long-term prison sentences, because this is a serious sexual abuse in the sense of the law. It is important to make it clear that this is what criminal law is like for this type of control. In addition to this, I would like to highlight the legislative proposal submitted by the Government to Parliament in December to tighten up the rules governing private practitioners who perform intimate surgery. It is not because we equate intimate surgery with sexual abuse or something like that, but it is simply a matter of making it easier for the companies that carry out this type of checks to withdraw the medical authorisation. Of course, it is quite clear that such controls do not meet the demands of patient safety for science and proven experience and that they are incompatible with Swedish legislation. Then it must also be easier to withdraw the identification of those who carry out the checks. The new rules will enter into force on 1 July after consideration here in Parliament. This is what we have done and are about to do. However, I do not rule out the need for us to do additional things to get to those who engage in this and to push girls and women into this type of control. I would like to look further at this issue, including criminal law.
i-309cc584c87a38be-266	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his explanation. We agree that there should be no room for any doctor or anyone else in health care to exploit gaps in the law and make money out of vulnerability. It's the girls' vulnerability you take advantage of. But I have a concern as to what interpretation space will exist in the law. No one has yet been convicted of having committed a sexual act or a sexual offence in connection with virginity checks and so-called mundane operations. As far as consent is concerned, there are also problems with the scope for interpretation. I have supported many girls who have turned to me and said: What do you think, Amineh, should I do this? No, I say. The doctor should report your family right away, because this is blackmail. This may be about a girl who is 20 years old and says: Both my family and my husband's family want me to provide proof. It's the only way for me to be free, and then I have to agree. This is really about much more than talking about sexual abuse. But it's true that it is, and I want it to be that way by law, because no parents should be able to do this. I would also like us to combat effectively all the communities and associations that maintain this. You shouldn't try to legitimise them with tax money. For example, in one case a priest and the priest's wife helped out and said that this is important for maintaining culture. This is so much more than just that this is happening. Consent will always exist. If there is consent, a great deal will be opened up in the law. IVO has not had a single confirmed case of withdrawal of medical authorisation or the imposition of a fine. That is why I think it is important to be very clear, just as the Minister is on the subject. In fact, I think that the investigation that is coming is very important in terms of intimate surgery for minors. This is indeed to be punished, and there should be regulations. I'm all in on that. But this is a completely different aspect and a completely different piece of legislation. There are quite different structures in which the honorary context prevails. It's very good if you're clear in the upcoming investigation. As the Minister says, it should be seen as sexual abuse in the sense of the law. The doctor will be fined, jailed or suspended. It's very important. The President of France has also made such a proposal.
i-309cc584c87a38be-271	Madam President, I would like It is true, as Amineh Kakabaveh says, that none of these cases have yet been tried by the Supreme Court. On the other hand, it has tried other cases where it has been concluded that it does not have to be a sexual purpose for it to be considered a sexual violation. That is what we know about the legal situation so far. From this it can be concluded that it may well be considered rape of children if, for example, this is done without consent to a girl under 15, that is, against her will. In fact, if an adult is in a particularly vulnerable situation, such as being pressured by his surroundings, by his family or by his parents to do so, there may also be sexual abuse and thus convicted of rape. That's exactly what I'm saying. As Minister of Justice, I do not want to go too far ahead; I know that these particular cases have not been tried. However, according to what we know about the legal situation so far, it could be considered a sexual abuse. I think it is important in itself to signal this, which I was talking about earlier. Every girl or young woman should know that no one has the right to push her to this. No one has the right to do this against her will. And it is not only the one who makes control that can be judged for abuse, but those who force it can be fellow perpetrators. This is an important signal both to those who are at risk of being exposed, so that they know their rights, and to those who may be in the background and pushing, so that they know that they become accomplices of an abuse. So much for criminal law! However, we are following this closely, and it may well be that we need new government missions and further review of criminal law in this area in order to ensure that it really becomes crystal clear what is going on. I'm not ruling that out. But that is the direction we must take. When it comes to the control of these doctors and the intimate surgeons – it is primarily private practitioners – the meaning of the legislation now on Parliament's table is that from 1 July it will be easier to withdraw the medical credentials of the doctors who lend themselves to this type of controls. I think that is also an important signal that this is something that we absolutely should not allow. Then comes everything else. I told him about what we did last year with the penalty for crimes of honour, the ban on exit and the child marriage crime. What we're working on now is creating a special honorary crime with our own crime rubmentation. Then we want to work in the same way as we did with women's peace legislation 20 years ago. You could put together a series of crimes that may not, by themselves, give rise to such high penalties. But when they are carried out systematically and are part of a violation of a person, one should be able to put it together and those who carried it out should be sentenced for a particular offence of honour and then with a particularly stricter penalty scale. We did this with women's peace legislation 20 years ago. This meant that we got the penalty scales up considerably for men's violence against women in relation to what it was like in the 1990s. There we now have much stricter scales of penalties for those crimes. I hope that we will see exactly the same development as we are now introducing the honour crime with our own scale of punishment and their own criminal harassment and going forward with it. There we come with draft legislation first to the Law Council and then to the Riksdag, we hope, during the year.
i-309cc584c87a38be-280	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much, Minister, for the answer and the statement! As far as the honourable Member's report is concerned, I have been one of the bodies who have written referrals. It does not say so much that there is a lot of legislation that will be brought together in the same box. It will not help any of these girls or the individual cases that are vulnerable. I would like to emphasise once again the difference between aesthetic surgery and so-called virgin surgery. It's not the same. I don't want patient safety for them. I want to get them out of here completely. There are two very different things we mean. We'll never get rid of any beauty surgery. But I want to get rid of all the virginity checks and mechanisms. I believe that I and the Minister are in complete agreement on this. I welcome all the steps and initiatives on these issues. My problem is that the interpretation of the law is about consent. It is not easy to interpret whether there is consent when you have collective control. It's about the girls I've been in contact with myself. If there had been someone else who had not known the mechanisms, they would say: What is wrong with it? That's good. She's safe. We won't have that. I hope that this will be taken into account and that it should not be equated. I am pleased that there is an opening for having another investigation and doing a further investigation on this issue. I hope the Minister can promise it will be as soon as possible.
i-309cc584c87a38be-287	Mrs. Old President! I absolutely share that ambition. This applies, in particular, to those carrying out such checks. Amineh Kakabaverh says we want to get rid of them completely. Of course we want to. I certainly do, too. I believe that the legislation that is now before Parliament makes it possible to take medical credentials from those who carry out such checks. After all, it's important. Amineh Kakabaveh mentions the question of a future legislation with honorary crimes. We're working on it now. There we take from the consultation bodies comments on what it should ultimately look like. Our ambition is that it will have the same effect as the legislation on women's peace 20 years ago. We were able to raise the scale of penalties when it comes to men's violence against women. I not only hope but also want it to be so with this part. It is an important signal to the outside world that it is crimes that we are looking at with great seriousness. Nevertheless, it is important to say that no one can force anyone else to carry out such checks. If you do, the person carrying out the checks can be guilty of serious sexual abuse. Anyone who forces someone else to do such a check can become an accomplice to serious sexual abuse. In both cases, these are crimes with serious penalties. I think it is important to say this to everyone with whom Amineh Kakabaveh talks. In fact, that is what criminal law looks like and can be interpreted. Since then, the Supreme Court has not examined such a situation. However, all we know about the legal rules and the legal situation at the moment is that these may well be acts for which very severe penalties can be imposed. It's important to say. Then I will be happy to look into this and I will continue to follow this issue closely. Additional assignments to authorities may be necessary in this case.
i-309cc584c87a38be-294	Mrs. Old President! Jonas Andersson i Skellefteå has asked me if I believe that Sweden has been at European minimum levels since the crisis and if I otherwise take any steps to change this. In 2016, the Temporary Migration Act was introduced, which strengthened the legislation in order to bring it in line with the minimum level of EU law, among other things. The background was that the number of asylum seekers who applied to Sweden in 2015 was record high. The strain on the Swedish asylum system was great, and other central functions of society were also heavily burdened. The Temporary Act was one of several measures aimed at taking control of the situation and significantly reducing the number of asylum seekers to Sweden while improving, among other things, the capacity of reception. In addition, border controls at internal borders and identification checks were introduced. Overall, the measures contributed to fewer asylum seekers coming to Sweden in the coming years. The number of asylum seekers fell sharply in the years following the refugee crisis and has fallen further as a result of the pandemic. In 2020, Sweden had the lowest reception rate in 20 years. As regards the number of residence permits granted to relatives of former asylum seekers, this number has also decreased to 5 500 in 2020, which was the lowest since 2011. Within the Government Office, work is now under way to develop the rules that will be in place when the temporary law expires in July this year. The starting point for this work is the report by the Migration Committee on a sustainable migration policy and the accompanying proposals. Within the framework of this work, I work to safeguard the right to asylum and to ensure a future effective, legally secure, sustainable and humane migration policy.
i-309cc584c87a38be-299	Mrs. Old President! Thank you, Minister, for this somewhat astounded answer! It is no secret that the coronapandemy has had worldwide consequences and that the movement of people between countries has been greatly reduced throughout the world. The fact that in 2020 the number of asylum seekers was the lowest in 20 years is correct. But we all know that the reason is spelled Corona, something that Minister Johansson himself has acknowledged before. We are also all well aware that the EU has paid many billions to Turkey's despot to stop the flow. We know the obstacles along the borders of Hungary and Croatia. We have seen the pictures of the fortified Greek border, and we have heard how the Italian Government has done everything to stop illegal migrants crossing the Mediterranean. It is perhaps no wonder that fewer asylum seekers today reach all the way to Sweden. But how does this relate to Swedish migration policy? You might ask yourself that. The answer is, of course, not at all. Should other countries be as irresponsible as the Swedish government, we would be standing there with our pants down again. The fact is that the Swedish Government has not taken a single measure to reduce asylum-related immigration since the introduction of the temporary law five years ago, in a panic. On the contrary, the temporary law has been liberalised on several occasions. Exemptions and special provisions have been created for people without protection. Supply requirements have been reduced. Border controls have almost disappeared, and the ID checks expired in December 2018. The Red-Green Government has since fought hard during the summer and autumn to ensure that the Migration Committee achieves a really watered-down result, and that was quite successful. There were even more exceptions to the supply requirements. More people will get PUT directly, more will be allowed to stay because of distressing circumstances and more legal paths will be opened so that more can immigrate to Sweden. During the winter, new proposals have been made in the same direction: it will be easier to bring in partners with whom you have never had a proper relationship, even more will be exempted from the supply requirements and virtually everyone who has waited a long time for decisions will be allowed to stay for humanitarian reasons. The only logical conclusion that can be drawn from this, Madam President-in-Office, is that when the pandemic finally begins to be over and when people start moving across the border again, this will very much apply to Sweden as well. There is absolutely no indication that Sweden will remain at last year's levels of asylum-related immigration. The truth is that unlike other EU countries, Sweden is still just as open as it has been in the past. We have still granted around 100 000 residence permits a year since the crisis, just as we did the years before 2015. Just before the pandemic, Sweden was the fifth largest host country in Europe for asylum seekers. Mrs. Old President! We are now getting closer to what the interpellation is actually about and what the Minister has, in fact, completely avoided answering, namely the question of European minimum levels. In a reply to a written question on 3 March, the Minister states that the government has not claimed that immigration is at the EU minimum level but that the law was strengthened in 2016 with a view to adapting it to the minimum level of EU law, among other things. To be honest, this is making me a little perplexed. Does that mean that the minister is happy to adapt the law but then ignores the outcome? What does the government really want? Personally, I think that the European minimum volume of those who actually come to Sweden is the most important thing. Does the Minister really think that the government has taken all the steps that can be taken to be at the minimum levels permitted by EU law?
i-309cc584c87a38be-313	Mrs. Old President! There was so much in this post that is just straight up the walls. To begin with, Jonas Andersson says straight out: Border controls have almost disappeared. Could he stand for it in his next post? Go down to Lernacken at Öresund and ask the police who stand there and do checks if the border controls have almost disappeared! That is not the case at all. We have had the border controls since 2015. We have border controls now too. We have even reinforced border controls in connection with the pandemic. We reject a large number of people every week who are not allowed to enter Sweden. Does Jonas Andersson support this in his next speech – that border controls have almost disappeared? In that case, it is a parallel reality in which Jonas Andersson lives. Then he says that the humanitarian basis should mean that anyone who has waited a long time for a decision may nevertheless stay for humanitarian reasons. That is not the case at all! The humanitarian basis does not cover those who have a final rejection. Nor does it cover those who are illegal here, but it covers those who have had a residence permit here for a very long time and have had a special connection with Sweden. They may have been here for eight ten years, they work, they pay taxes and they have family here in Sweden. We're saying they'll be able to get a temporary residence permit extension. But it is not a question of having to wait a long time for decisions. That is also completely wrong. We brought migration legislation down to the EU minimum level in 2016. It was one of our actions. Then why did we do it? Well, to take control of the situation. We had a situation in 2015 when there was 163 000. There was 10,000 a week. It was impossible to handle. Then we introduced the ID checks, and then we introduced the border controls – that was 12 November 2015, I remember that very well – and, as I said, they have not disappeared. Then we also introduced the temporary law, which we have had in place since then. The background and the lesson, of course, was that one cannot have legislation that is too different from the rest of the EU. Jonas Andersson goes on to say that I don't care about the outcome. Oh, my God. Look at the outcome and how it turned out! Since then, the number of asylum seekers has fallen by over 90%. And this is not just a consequence of the pandemic, because the number of asylum seekers fell sharply already in 2016. It then remained at low levels in 2017, 2018 and 2019. Then it fell further in 2020 as a result of the pandemic so that we now have the lowest number in 20 years. However, as early as 2016, the number of asylum seekers fell sharply. What are minimum rules, and what are Sweden's rules in relation to the rest of the EU? It is sometimes difficult to compare with the rest of the EU, but I can only say that Sweden has much stricter rules than the vast majority of other countries have with regard to migration policy. Just take the length of your residence permit! They are in Sweden three years for refugees. We do not need to go very far out in Europe to find much more generous rules. Five years have Belgium, Bulgaria, the United Kingdom, Italy, Spain, Portugal and the Czech Republic. So they have five-year residence permits. France has a ten-year residence permit. Hungary, which is usually Sweden's favourite country, has three years for alternative protection. In Sweden we have 13 months. Hungary thus has more generous rules for those in need of subsidiary protection than Sweden has. I stand for the fact that we took down the legislation and adapted it to the minimum level of the European Union and to the international conventions that were in place precisely to deal with and cope with the situation. Mrs. Old President! Jonas Andersson should not stand and spread any kind of picture that this has not had any effect, because it is completely wrong. Sweden is now on a level and is in a situation where we are able to handle this. Nor does anything indicate that we are going to be in a new refugee crisis, but rather the opposite.
i-309cc584c87a38be-324	Mrs. Old President! Thank you, Minister, for your answer. It's great that Morgan Johansson wants control of the situation. Then it should also be quite easy to answer a straight question. When Morgan Johansson talks about Europe's minimum levels – is it the government's ambition that Sweden should be at Europe's minimum levels also in terms of the outcome, i.e. the volumes? That is a question that I think the Minister can take with him now. The fact is that neither legislation nor outcome at the moment is close to any European minimum levels. It is quite easy to prove by looking at the figures available. Let us therefore look at the outcome and not at the intentions. It is true, as mentioned earlier, that the number of asylum seekers in Sweden has decreased. But if you look at the figures in Europe, you can see that the root cause is there, and not here. The number of boat migrants has fallen by nearly 95% in Italy and by nearly 93% in Greece. So we owe our figures to Italy's coastguard and Greece's tough border guard. But what about the neighbouring countries – can we keep their levels? It would be reasonable, even if Sweden's integration debt is sky-high compared to theirs and interest is paid daily in the form of exclusion, overcrowding, declining school results, shootings, blasts, humiliation robberies, moral police, a growing shadow society, etcetera. The figures should be much lower for us than for our Nordic neighbours. But no, it's not like that. Last year, Sweden received twice as many asylum seekers as the rest of the Nordic countries together. We received six times more per capita than Denmark, where Morgan Johansson's Social Democratic sister party in the government has now decided that the target is zero asylum seekers. In Denmark, instead, we are talking about greatly increasing repatriation efforts and that it is beginning to be time for Syrians to return to safe parts of the country. Denmark is probably at Europe's lowest levels, Madam President. Sweden does not, no matter what the Minister thinks or feels. Sweden is also at the top of the EU's list of other immigration countries. In fact, Sweden has never been without a medal when it comes to family immigration in the last ten years. In 2019 we received silver, with more than three times as many issued permits per capita for family migration as Denmark. In 2018, we won gold, as well as in 2017. The figures for 2020 have not yet come from Eurostat, but does the Minister really believe that Sweden for the first time in these years is not on the top list? The Minister has, as I mentioned, created more exemptions from supply requirements. In fact, the only type of immigration where Sweden is below the EU average is labour migration, with underpaid pizza bakers and taxi drivers surviving at SEK 13 000 a month. Another fundamental element of migration policy, namely citizenship, can also be looked at. Since the Red Green Government seized power in 2014, the number of foreigners who have become Swedish citizens has increased sharply. Last year, more than 80 000 people were admitted to Swedish citizens, in principle without any demands at all. The government has been in power for seven years, and not a single change has been made to tighten the requirements. How does the Minister think that the ability to get a Swedish passport quickly and easily affects the minimum levels? For return cases, the development is almost tragicomic. The Swedish National Audit Office showed last year that costs have increased by 40 per cent while the number of cases closed has decreased. There is a lack of governance, legislation and resources, while all amnesties and loopholes of the government are creating new conflicts and encouraging migrants to become part of the shadow society. How well does it make sense to bring the laws in line with the minimum level of EU law, among other things?
i-309cc584c87a38be-337	Mrs. Old President! I note that in this speech Jonas Andersson did not dare to stand up for what he said in his first speech, that is, that in practice there were no more border controls. Everyone knows that it is exactly the opposite: border controls are still in place, and they have been strengthened in recent years. Then there were a lot of other things in his other post that you just wonder about. No, Sweden is not top in terms of asylum immigration in the EU. We did it once. When I took office in 2014, Sweden received 12% of all asylum seekers who came to the EU. Today that figure is 3%. We therefore receive 3% of asylum seekers who come to the European Union. Sweden's population is about 2% of the EU's, and our GDP is barely 3%. We therefore receive roughly the proportion that we are to receive, that is, the proportion that corresponds to our country's size. We do our part, and I think that's good. Jonas Andersson highlights Denmark. Yes, they have lower numbers in terms of the number of asylum seekers, but they do not have lower figures in terms of the percentage granted the residence permit. It's the other way around. In Denmark, 35% of applicants are granted residence permits. In Finland, the figure is 38 per cent. Does Jonas Andersson know what the number is in Sweden? It's at 24%. The share of residence permits granted is therefore higher in Denmark than it is in Sweden. It may be because of many different things. This may be due to legislation, but it may also depend on which groups are seeking their country. But the image that Jonas Andersson is trying to put out that our legislation is much more generous than that of other countries is simply wrong. That is why, in order to control this, we brought our legislation down to the minimum level of the European Union. Then there is another perspective here. For the Swedish Democrats, immigrants are always a problem, something we should not have in Sweden. They should only be out of Sweden – that is the basic attitude of the Swedish democrats. And it doesn't matter how many there are. If there is 1 000, if there is 10 000, or if 50 000 comes, then the Swedish Democrats will have no part to play. Through all times, it has been the constant entry of the Swedish Democrats into the discussion that foreigners should be kept away from Sweden. They will not be allowed to come to Sweden. It is basically a racist view. We know that this is in the DNA of the Swedish Democrats, and it is coming out all the time. I say that we also need to look at the overall picture of this. When the Swedish Democrats constantly highlight the problems that may exist with immigration, I must point out that there is an enormous amount that enriches our country as a result of immigration. These are the very times we're reminded of. 34% of all doctors who work in Sweden during the pandemic were born abroad. Thirty-nine per cent of all nurses working in our medical care were born abroad. Over 1 million employees were born abroad, people working in industry, construction, trade and welfare. Sweden would not last a single day without the immigrants who go to work every day to work for your country and for my country together. That is exactly what is the difference in perspective. While the Swedish Democrats never miss an opportunity to crack down on and question immigrants as a group, I say that, in order to retain some sort of decency in the debate and not to point out groups in the way that the Swedish Democrats constantly do, they must also be prepared to say that all the people who have a different ethnic background than the Swedish and who work and work for our common country are welcome here and are part of Sweden.
i-309cc584c87a38be-346	Mrs. Old President! I do not know if Morgan Johansson is the right person to talk about decency in any debate at all. But why don't we let go of that part so Morgan Johansson can explain his politics instead. I would like to hear the government's view on this: are we at a minimum level, are we going down to a minimum level or does the government not care at all about this? What does Morgan Johansson mean when he talks about minimum levels and volumes? It can't be that hard to explain. Unlike the government parties, the Swedish Democrats are straight and clear about what we want: we should have Europe's lowest levels, both in terms of alignment with EU law and in terms of the actual reception. I can give Morgan Johansson some tips on what he could do to really adapt the migration law to the minimum level of EU law. Asyline migration should be as close as possible to zero. The door must be closed for anyone who wants to shop for asylum. Sweden must simply become unattractive as a final destination for people who have passed tens of safe countries. The demands for family migration must be tightened across the board. No one should immigrate at the expense of taxpayers to land in poverty and exclusion. Labour immigration needs to be reformed. We can no longer hand out work permits to pizza bakers and waitresses who work for $15,000 a month. Citizenship must be enhanced. There must be proper language and civic knowledge requirements, but also practicality requirements, supply requirements and long-term residence requirements in Sweden. Return must be a priority. All those refused shall be expelled as soon as possible under international conventions. More detention places, more electronic surveillance and sanctions against falling-back third countries who do not want to receive their own citizens must be put in place. Remigration must be encouraged, as in Denmark. It is good that Morgan Johansson also wants to talk about Denmark, because there we have very good examples to get. That is the policy that needs to be put in place in order for us to be able to talk about European minimum standards for real.
i-309cc584c87a38be-357	Mrs. Old President! I think that the differences are quite clear here in the debate. Jonas Andersson always wants and in all respects not to receive any immigrants, and also to drive as many immigrants out of Sweden as you can at all. This is the entrance of the Swedish Democrats. I stand for another policy, namely a policy in which we uphold the right of asylum. One of the conclusions that was important after the Second World War was precisely that the countries of the world undertook to take care, if war and conflict broke out somewhere, of the refugees fleeing from those conflicts. I am fundamentally proud that in recent years Sweden has been able to provide protection and support for 180 000 Syrians who have fled that war. It is men, women and children who otherwise could very easily have perished in some bomb plot in Homs or Aleppo. That is just the case, and I am basically proud that we have been able to do so. Then, of course, it must be done in such a way that they can get into society in a good way, get education and be integrated into Swedish society. But the right to asylum I do not deviate from. The asylum law stands firm, and it is important to keep going. Basically, in a situation where we have perhaps 80 million refugees in the world, all countries that are not characterised by these conflicts must take joint responsibility for these men, these women and these children. This, Madam President, is basically a question of solidarity and humanity. I don't know if these are unfamiliar concepts for Jonas Andersson. When I put him in the speaker's chair, it seems that way.
i-NrfYvjCvAh8M4vQ1qhQHbk	Mrs. Old President! Christian Carlsson has asked me if I think it is fair that rapists can be given shorter prison sentences if they risk losing their job because of the crime, or if I am prepared to take measures to abolish Chapter 29. Section 5, Section 7 of the Criminal Code. He has also asked me if I think there are any other reasons for cheapness in Chapter 29. Section 5 of the Criminal Code, which would need to be abolished. Finally, he has asked me if I am prepared to take steps to revise Chapter 29. Section 5 of the Criminal Code. The starting point for the determination of the penalty is how serious or blameworthy the crime for which the defendant is convicted is. Punishment must therefore be determined within the limits of the applicable scale of penalties according to the penalty value of the offence or of the total crime. In assessing the criminal value, account shall be taken of the damage, violation or danger caused by the act, of what the accused has realized or should have realised about it, and of the intentions or motives which he or she has had. Certain aggravating and mitigating circumstances which may increase or decrease the penalty are explicitly set out in the legislative text. Some circumstances do not affect the seriousness of the crime itself, but may still have an impact when the punishment is decided. Relapses in crime may, to some extent, result in a higher penalty than the penalty. Circumstances relating to the person or conduct of the accused after a crime, so-called a cheap consideration, can instead lead to a reduction in the penalty. The provision on the relief of penalties, raised by Christian Carlsson, contains several circumstances that the court must reasonably take into account. The first three points include circumstances over which the offender does not have control, such as serious bodily injury to the accused as a result of the crime. The two circumstances then listed are based on the fact that the offender, through some form of voluntary action after the offence, has expressed a rejection of the criminal act and thus appears less reprehensible. The content of the next three paragraphs focuses on what is known as ‘sanction cumulation', i.e. the cases in which, in addition to the penalty, the accused also suffers other sanctions as a result of the criminal act, such as dismissal or dismissal. There is also a general point which allows the Court to take account of circumstances other than those listed. According to the preparatory work, the provision on relief of penalties is to be applied with a degree of restrictive effect. It is therefore necessary that the reasons for cheapness are of some weight in order for relief to be granted. A dismissal or termination shall, according to the provision, cause the accused but in order to be able to lead to relief of punishment. If the presumption of dismissal or dismissal has been wrongly established, a court may, under certain conditions, remove the penalty and impose a new penalty for the offence. There is currently no work under way within the Government Office aimed at abolishing any of the circumstances of Chapter 29. Section 5 of the Criminal Code. In this context, it can be noted that in 2019 the Riksdag rejected a motion by Christian Carlsson to reduce the possibility of considering circumstances according to the provision on the grounds that the regulation is well balanced. I would like to emphasise that the government is doing very active work in the field of criminal law. For example, at the government's initiative, the scale of penalties has been tightened for a number of crimes, including aggravated rape, aggravated robbery, aggravated assault, aggravated blackmail, gross illegal coercion, gross illegal threat and gross gun crime. Furthermore, the government has reformed sexual crime legislation, and Sweden has now the most stringent legislation we have ever had. However, further measures are needed to strengthen legislation on sex offences. The Government has therefore commissioned a special investigator to review, among other things, the scale of penalties for sexual offences and to make proposals for the changes that may be needed to adequately reflect the seriousness of the crimes.
i-309cc584c87a38be-370	Mrs. Old President! Sweden needs a legal policy that puts people's security and justice in focus. A man was recently convicted in the District Court for raping a woman during a massage treatment at a Swedish spa, but since he lost his job because of the crime and probably can't work as a masseur again, the Court of Appeal chose to reduce the sentence by three months. Today's Legal Service has reported on the case that makes clear a clear and serious deficiency in Swedish criminal law. In b, Chapter 29 of the rottsbalmen. Paragraph 5 refers to a number of circumstances, so-called ‘cheap reasons', which entitle the court to impose a lesser penalty than is otherwise prescribed for the offence. It is therefore one of the points of this provision that allows criminals in this country to receive shorter sentences, or a lighter penalty, if they lose their jobs because of their own crime. The question is, is it reasonable? Are we really going to have to do that? Sweden is now one of the countries with the worst rape statistics, according to the World Population Review. I am well aware that for several reasons rape statistics cannot be directly compared, but at the same time the reported rapes in Sweden have increased by 44%, according to the Swedish Crime Prevention Council. In several of our suburbs, every other woman is insecure when she moves in her own residential area. I myself know several girls who told me how they walk with the keys between the knuckles and the phone glued to the ear for fear of being subjected to crime. Rapists and other criminals, on the other hand, will receive reduced penalties if they lose their jobs because of the abuse they have committed themselves. Where is the victim perspective in this? And how is justice in Sweden? It is against this background that I have asked Minister of Justice Morgan Johansson whether he believes it is fair that rapists can be given shorter prison sentences if they risk losing their job because of their crime. Unfortunately, from the Minister's answer, the government seems to think that this is fair. In any case, I do not hear that the government is prepared to do anything about the injustices in Chapter 29. Section 5 of the Criminal Code. I find that deeply regrettable.
i-309cc584c87a38be-375	Mrs. Old President! The design of the criminal justice system can always be discussed. There are relief customers and there are also a large number of enforcement customers. But what is important is the very starting point for criminal law, that is to say that the penalty is proportionate to the seriousness of the crime. This should always be the starting point, and that is what courts always weigh into the individual cases. That's what you've got to start from. I cannot go into individual matters, but I can see that Parliament is behind the way in which criminal law is designed on this point. The Parliament has dealt with a motion by Christian Carlsson, and that exercise fell. I have nothing else to assume but that it is considered that this regulation that we have now is well balanced. Then, of course, this is about the overall criminal law of sexual offences. I can then see that Sweden now has a sexual crime law that is stricter than ever before. I am a little disappointed with Christian Carlsson when he says that we are in very bad trouble and compare rape statistics with other countries. He says we should have the worst rape statistics and so on. This has been reviewed on the serious news sites in order to assess what is affecting the statistics in Sweden. An important part of this is that we have much broader legislation in Sweden. We have a criminalization of rape in marriage. Not all countries have – we didn't get it until 1965 – and compare you with countries that don't have that criminalisation, you get a much higher statistics here. Following the implementation of the consent law, we also have a broader definition of rape, and so there will also be more who fall within that framework, which affects the statistics for us. I have seen that, among other things, the Crime Prevention Council has gone through this and compared, and we are roughly at the EU average, I would say, with regard to sex crime statistics. For us, this is an important issue to continue working on. I pushed through the consent law in 2018 after almost 20 years of long, long discussion. The Alliance government investigated this issue but did not dare to move on with it but put forward a proposal that you were about to put forward in the trash. I picked up that question again and made sure to get a consent law in place in 2018 that only it has led to the number of convictions for rape having increased by 75 percent, as an evaluation has shown. The number of prosecutions increased by 80 per cent and the number of convictions increased by 75 per cent after that reform. I'm very proud of that. It is probably our most important criminal justice reform that we did in the last parliamentary term because it speaks clearly of sex based on voluntaryity. If it's not voluntary, it's an abuse that you can be convicted of, and then it's a serious penalty scale that you face. We also tightened the penalty for gross rape, we introduced a negligent crime, we introduced better support in the form of plaintiffs for victims of sexual offences and much more. Then I am prepared to move forward in criminal law with regard to sexual offences. I have asked an investigator to look at the issue of sexual harassment and the scale of punishment as such. I believe that there is also reason to increase the penalty for rape of the standard grade, as it is said in legal Swedish, that is, what is not the gross rape but the rape there under and the one we are talking about here. I'm prepared to tighten the penalties in that part, too. I will have a report this spring, and then we will see what the investigator has come up with.
i-309cc584c87a38be-384	Mrs. Old President! My first question in the interpellation is not very difficult to answer. It's about justice. Either it's fair that rapists and other criminals can get shorter sentences if they risk losing their job or it's unfair. If it is unfair, the government should also be prepared to change the penal code. A policy of law that focuses more on the criminal than on ensuring that the penalties imposed in our courts are fair and actually redressing the victim is frankly not much of a policy of justice. Justice is basically about respecting other people and their rights – rights that result from the equal value of all people. The person who chooses to commit crimes rather than treat his fellowman with respect, the one who steals, beats or rapes, the one who oppresses and thus is prepared to put himself above others creates a moral debt in relation to victims and society that must be paid back for the balance of justice. With the punishment, the victim is established, and it is also by serving a just punishment that the criminal atons his guilt. In this way, the criminal can earn a second chance – a chance to repent, a chance to improve. But it is only when the debt is repaid through a just punishment that justice is done. Of course, there should be both extenuating and aggravating circumstances. For example, a fair reason of cheapness may be if the offender voluntarily indicated himself or tried to limit the damage caused by his or her crime. However, any circumstance that Parliament says may be used in our courts must affect the punishment in a way that is fair. Today, there are a lot of immoral punitive discounts and unfair cheapness reasons that give criminals shorter sentences and are unwarranted. If a robber blows his way into a bank and is injured in connection with the blast, if a gang assaults a young man and someone in the gang themselves is injured or if, for some reason, a victim has delayed his report, this can lead to several months or years shorter prison sentences. It is not fair in relation to the victim, and that is why an investigation is needed to revise Chapter 29. Section 5. I believe that the Minister of Justice should be prepared to support the Christian Democrats in this.
i-309cc584c87a38be-390	Mrs. Old President! I believe that the rules are well balanced here, and so has the majority of Parliament. That is why this proposal has fallen in Parliament. The important thing is, I think, that if you want to get the scales up and make sure that more perpetrators are convicted, you should go on the minimum penalty for every crime, which we have now done. We have tightened the minimum penalty for almost all serious violent crimes: aggravated assault, aggravated robbery, gross illegal threat and gross coercion. We did so in the last parliamentary term. We recently sharpened the penalty for serious gun crime. We also tightened the minimum penalty for gross rape from four to five years in prison, as I mentioned earlier. That's how you get the penalty scales up. It'll make you feel good. Has this meant anything to you? As a matter of fact, it does. In 2019, Swedish courts imposed a total of over 10,000 prison sentences. We are talking about the mass of sentences. Thus, Swedish courts sentenced a total of over 10,000 prisons in 2019, which was an increase of almost 30% in just two years. Swedish courts therefore sentence both more and longer prison sentences than they did before. An increase of 30 percent in two years is a very strong increase. I also see it in the penitentiary, Mrs. Old President. We have 1 000 more people in custody today than we had two years ago. We have 100% occupancy in both prisons and prisons, and we are now working on expanding detention centres and prisons. The picture that is being put on the table is that the punitive measures do not have any effect or do not mean anything, therefore, is wrong. We see this very, very concretely, both in terms of the statistics on the courts and in terms of the prison system. I can say that there the Christian Democrats have not exactly made things easier for the government. During these six years there has been one single occasion when the Christian Democrats have had some real influence. That was when, in the autumn of 2018, when we had a transitional government, we managed to trump through a budget here in Parliament according to our own head. At the time, you reduced the tax by 20 billion, but the worst part was that you were underfunded the Prison Service by nearly 300 million SEK. The first thing I had to do when I came back as Minister of Justice in January 2019 was to pour in another half a billion to the Prison Service so that you could solve your task. My point, then, is that it is not good enough to stand here and demand more severe punishment, and then, when it really matters and you have to decide on this, cut back on the Prison Service, which is about to solve the task that harsher punishment leads to. That's not good enough. Here the Christian Democrats have shown no responsibility whatsoever. As I said in my previous speech, the Christian Democrats did not do so with regard to sexual crimes either. After all, the previous alliance government that the Christian Democrats were in investigated the consent law and received in 2010 a report that was not then dared to proceed with but tossed into the trash. Thanks to a committee initiative that I took when I was chairman of the Justice Committee during our opposition years, we managed to start such a process again. Then we were able to enforce the consent law from 2018, one of our most important criminal law reforms, which only it has led to the number of rape sentences now increasing by 75% in relation to what it was like in the past. Actually, I'm very proud and happy about that. We will continue to do this, and we will need to tighten up the legislation further in order to combat this type of crime.
i-3sWbaC5dyJyMLhNfyGTaef	Mrs. Old President! Thank you, Minister of Justice Morgan Johansson, for the debate! I note that in Sweden rapists and other criminals can receive shorter sentences if they lose their job because of the crime. Morgan Johansson thinks that's fair. He is not prepared to do anything about this. But it's not fair. It lacks a victim's perspective and is not morally justifiable. For justice to be done in our courts, the punishment needs to be proportionate to the seriousness of the crime and the violation of the victim. So questions that Minister of Justice Morgan Johansson needs to ask himself are: Will a rape against a woman be less serious because the rapist loses his job or needs to change business? Is a demeaning robbery against a young guy less serious because the robber himself is harmed in connection with the crime? Is domestic violence less serious because the mother who has been abused is delaying her report? The clear answer to these questions should, of course, be no. Therefore, such circumstances should not result in shorter penalties for the offender. We need to ensure that fair penalties can be imposed in our courts. It is good that the government has raised the minimum penalty for sexual crimes, but instead of hiding behind the majority of Parliament, Minister of Justice Morgan Johansson is welcome to form an opinion for change together with the Christian Democrats. It seems, however, that a new government is needed in order for us to have a Swedish criminal justice reform that prioritises people's security and aims at justice.
i-309cc584c87a38be-406	Mrs. Old President! The last time we had a bourgeois government, the law of consent was thrown into the trash can. They didn't want to move on with it. It was thanks to a committee initiative that we Social Democrats took in our opposition years that we managed to restart that process and get order so that we now have the most stringent sex crime legislation ever. I come back to the question that Christian Carlsson does not answer, namely why you blocked all reforms in this area during all your eight years of government. We have not received an answer to that question. We will have to come back to it in a later debate. In this discussion, I would like to point out that, if you are going to have a real effect, it is not the grounds for absconding and the grounds for absconding, but rather the minimum penalties for individual crimes that are important. We have tightened the minimum penalties for almost all of the serious violent crimes, the serious weapons offences, the serious drug offences and also for the sexual offence of gross rape. I am prepared to move forward with further penalties precisely in relation to the minimum penalties for dealing with other criminal offences. I mentioned punishment for rape, but that also applies to robbery, which Christian Carlsson has discussed. There is a current investigation that reviews criminal law in that part. Among other things, it is about being able to arrest more people who commit the serious crimes so that they do not get back on the streets. The important thing is that, if the level of penalties is to be increased, minimum penalties must be imposed, but then we must also ensure that there are police opportunities to investigate the crimes. We have also made great efforts there. But don't tell me our punitive measures haven't been effective. They've got it. The courts sentence longer prison sentences and more severe prison sentences than before, and this can be seen in the prison services.
i-309cc584c87a38be-412	Mrs. Old President! Mikael Oscarsson has asked me if I understand that it is defensible that the purchase agreement with Rheinmetall MAN Military Vehicles regarding all-wheel trucks was extended in 2018 for another five years despite heavy delays and running costs, including for adaptations of the foreign-made vehicles. He has also asked why this agreement should continue when we are facing the societal challenges we are facing, as Sweden has only bought a number of hundred vehicles while Norway has bought a smaller number. Furthermore, he has asked me whether, in view of the fact that the Swedish manufacturers, not least during the Corona crisis, have shown how quickly they have been able to assist society with skills, vehicles, drivers and the conversion of production to protective equipment, the benefits of the so-called Norway agreement are still considering and will lead to further extensions of the agreement. Finally, he has asked whether I am prepared to terminate the current agreement and to make a new procurement that also takes into account the need for security of supply. I would like to start by recalling the fundamental conditions of the autonomy of the administration. No authority, including the Riksdag or a municipality, may decide how an administrative authority should decide on a matter concerning the exercise of authority against individuals or concerning the application of law. It is the Swedish Defence Materiel Administration in collaboration with its Norwegian counterpart that is responsible for the procurement and the commercial relationship with the supplier. A Minister is thus prevented from intervening in the procurement process. The acquisition that Mikael Oscarsson asks about began more than ten years ago. After authorisation by the Government, the Swedish Defence Materiel Administration entered into an agreement with its Norwegian counterpart in March 2010 to procure the development and production of a vehicle fleet of all-wheel drive trucks. Following a competitive tender, the German vehicle manufacturer Rheinmetall MAN Military Vehicles, RMMV, was awarded the contract in December 2013. Sweden has so far ordered 330 vehicles and 24 trailers for tank transport, of which 221 vehicles have been delivered. A total of four calls have been made from the framework agreement. The first call was delayed, but later the call follows the delivery time plans. According to the Swedish Defence Materiel Administration, the framework agreement works well and meets the Swedish Armed Forces' current needs for all-wheel drive trucks. In this context, I note that the agreement has been of great importance for the acquisition of the carriers needed for the new medium-sized anti-aircraft system 103 Patriot. Furthermore, the truck is a possible alternative as a carrier to the Archer artillery system. The agreement with RMMV runs until the end of 2023. Based on the established investment plan, the Swedish Armed Forces and the Swedish Defence Materiel Administration will analyse which types of vehicles, which war units are needed and in which order vehicles are to be procured. A possible early termination of the agreement is a matter for the Swedish Defence Materiel Administration. As I understand it, the operational, procurement and diplomatic consequences of the early termination of a valid framework agreement and the suspension of orders placed with the German company and hence the cooperation agreement with Norway cannot be taken into account today. An immediate risk would be that the Swedish State would be liable for the company's incurred costs and lost revenue. Finally, I can note that the Swedish truck manufacturers Scania and Volvo, through both previous and ongoing orders, are important suppliers to the Swedish defence. Since 2019, the Swedish Defence Materiel Administration has ordered over 370 trucks from the companies. The defence decision of 2020, which involves the continued development of the national defence and the strengthening of the Swedish Armed Forces' war organisation, will also require substantial growth in the Swedish Armed Forces' transport resources, maintenance services and other support functions.
i-309cc584c87a38be-416	Mrs. Old President! The background to this interpellation debate is the agreement for all-wheel trucks. Let us first state that, historically, Scania and Volvo have delivered thousands of vehicles to the Swedish Armed Forces. We can learn a lot from history and not make the mistakes again. We are not going to underscore the fact that the agreement was signed in 2013 – 2014, but it would be interesting to hear how Peter Hultqvist thought when he extended the agreement. It turned out that between 21⁄2 and 5 percent of the vehicles were delivered, but from the beginning it was said that it would be 2 000 – 4 000 vehicles. I'm sure the Secretary of Defense has visited the regiments, and then he's seen that the vehicles don't work very well. Let's look at the example of a truck. The Swedish people know that they should be able to put a trailer after the truck. But what's going on? Well, the truck and trailer are so clumsy that you can hardly get through a Swedish roundabout, and you can't turn around inside the barracks area. It's not satisfying. The Norwegian cooperation was highlighted. But what is it really like, Minister of Defense? Has Norway paid anything for breaking the agreement and not moving on with Archer? It may be interesting for the House to hear. Why should Sweden stick to an agreement when it does not work as intended? We are now going to increase security of supply and think about total defence. We know that logistics is the bloodstream of the economy, and that is true in peacetime, crisis, increased preparedness and war. We also know that goods, medicines and food must reach the inhabitants. Ultimately, it's about survival. Volvo and Scania are deeply involved in the work on enhanced security of supply, but they are therefore not allowed to deliver in this case. Where does the idea of giving a monopoly to a supplier really come from? It's not a modern way of working. Why was the agreement extended? It is also important to look at what Volvo and Scania have done during the pandemic. They've donated their own protective material. They have bought a hundred thousand protective masks, gloves and facial visors from the market and donated to regions and states. They have changed their production and produced several hundred thousand protective visors and donated to health care and regions and municipalities. They've produced a couple of hundred thousand chaperones. They have supported the Swedish Armed Forces with transport capacity, with vehicles and volunteers, when transporting medical equipment and other equipment – free of charge. And they have helped other companies scale up the production of ventilators and protective materials and supported them in order to be able to donate to health care. I want to give the Government another chance to answer. What really is behind the fact that, almost nine months before it was even needed, he extended this agreement?
i-309cc584c87a38be-426	Mrs. Old President! It's a good thing we've cleared up the story in this and it happened quite a long time ago. It is important to be clear that no matter what you think about this agreement and no matter what you think that it is the authority that is responsible for that is where the responsibility lies and where it should be handled. It's kind of the basic relationship. This is also a procurement that has been examined by the Swedish Competition Authority, which has found that there is no reason to investigate the matter further and to close the case. I would also like to remind you that the agreement has been reviewed in the past. Scania has applied for a review from the Administrative Court in Stockholm. That application has been withdrawn. There may be many points of view and reflection on specifics in this context. Nevertheless, it is the Authority's assessment that, after initial problems, the agreement is running satisfactorily today. The first call included 232 vehicles, 188 of which were delivered. There was a problem. In the second call, 40 vehicles were involved, and there is no danger of delay. In the third call there are 58 vehicles, of which 33 are now delivered – a part before the contractual delivery time. In the fourth call, there are 24 trailers with agreed delivery - 21 and - 22 and there is no feared delay. What has been pointed out from the authorities is that there are problems in the first call. That is where we are today. Then I would like to emphasise that it is not as simple in life as just terminating this agreement. I'm being asked to do that or the authority is going to take that step. It should be made clear that both Germany and Norway are involved here, and this will of course have both operational and procurement law but also diplomatic consequences to terminate a valid framework agreement early and cancel orders placed. These are consequences that are difficult to grasp today and, of course, whether or not you want to pay any compensation, the issue of liability naturally arises. With regard to the Archer issue, which I do not believe belongs to this debate, I have no comments at this time.
i-309cc584c87a38be-436	Mrs. Old President! It is also the case that Norway, which had lead in this, has only ordered between 80 and 100 vehicles. There are some parallels here, I think, because when this agreement was made it was in cooperation between Sweden and Norway. Mr Archer was discussed and the issue of transport vehicles was debated. In Norway, they were not satisfied in one case and resigned. From what I understand, there have been no diplomatic consequences. The question is whether it's even cost something-- that's what the government can come back and tell us another time. The fact remains that this leaves much to be desired. First there was a model called HX to be developed. There were delays. Then they developed another, simpler model called TG. This took the opportunity to raise the price in the framework agreement by 1 1⁄2 billion. The appeal was closed after Scania had withdrawn its notification, but the question marks still remain. I think, Madam President, you would have to make a White Paper on this in order to learn how not to do it. How did the idea of giving a monopoly to a supplier come up at all? If you look at this, you can see that these are functions that are required. Now part of Scania and Volvo are delivered, but they are standard vehicles. If you talk to the Swedish Armed Forces about what is needed in a crisis or at worst a war, they say it is these all-wheel drive vehicles. This is also important from a tax payer's perspective, because it was said in connection with the defence agreement that thousands of vehicles would be ordered. Then it wants us to do the right thing in the future and not do what they did last, 2018, when they extended the agreement before they even needed it. It is also a question of strengthening security of supply. Now that we are going to do just that, there must be every reason to look at this. It is not for nothing that there are workshops for the world's leading Swedish manufacturers on Gotland, around Norrland and so on. It's not insignificant that it's like that. We usually point out in other contexts that if Sweden does not buy the vehicles, how will the companies succeed in the export market? Often the prerequisite is that you succeed in your home market. Looking ahead, the question is how important the Government believes logistics is, both in peacetime and in crisis. Does the Government believe that security of supply can be improved, and what role does he believe the Swedish companies can take in the construction of the total defence? That's what it's all about now – to recreate. We live in an increasingly tough world. Yesterday we received the annual reports from Säpo and FRA. The situation is the worst since the Cold War. Then comes the core question: how do we act to ensure that we have a defence that works and uses our resources and our tax money in the best way?
i-309cc584c87a38be-448	Mrs. Old President! Oscarsson is in a position to speculate on legal processes that have not taken place and will not take place. I'm afraid I'm not in the comfortable position. Therefore, I am not speculating on this type of process or what could be the possible outcome. I just want it said. Then I have no way of jumping over what applies to the independence of administrations and what powers a minister has. I also have no way of giving the Swedish Defence Materiel Administration any room to override the rules that exist. This is something you should be clear about. Then different parties will have to evaluate what kind of debate we are having and what is the substance of the matter. I can at least say that Sweden has so far ordered 330 vehicles and 24 trailers, of which 221 have been delivered. I have explained what it looks like on the delivery side, with the problem of the first roll-off and the assessment of the three additional roll-offs. FMV's view is that this is now going on in acceptable terms. As regards the order value, it amounts to a total of EUR 160 million, of which EUR 28 million constitutes the Swedish part of the development costs covered by the framework agreement financed together with Norway. We order from the Swedish manufacturers. Since 2019, Materielverket has ordered over 370 trucks from Scania and Volvo. So it is not zero that has been ordered. According to the defence decision, additional trucks will be ordered. It would surprise me very much if Volvo and Scania were not able to assert themselves in these contexts. In other contexts, it is said how important it is that we cooperate with other countries also on materials. But Oscarsson may well explain whether he thinks we should have some form of material protectionism or not. He will have to think about what he really thinks about this. As for the supply issues, I can say that we have an investigator to present a strategy that will contribute in a sustainable and cost-effective way to the needs of military defence for materials, technology development and services in peace, crisis and war. We will clarify the supply of equipment, analyse the defence market and develop the state's relationship with the defence companies. Oscarsson knows this; it was discussed in the Defence Committee. The report will be submitted in May next year.
i-309cc584c87a38be-457	Mrs. Old President! I wonder if the government doesn't agree with me. When he's out on the regiments and the units, isn't it clear that it's the all-wheel drive vehicles that are needed in crisis and war? Standard vehicles in all honour, but we have said that we cannot rule out that Sweden can be attacked militarily. Then we must ensure that it can work even then. Does the Government hear when he is out on the regiments that when you put on the trailer you hardly get around in roundabouts and cannot turn the barracks, that the vehicles are clumsy and heavy and that you have problems with spare parts and with the documentation so that FMV got to keep them an extra year? This is bordered by problems. In the Herren's year 2021, how does one come to give a monopoly to a company, preferably as we have two world-leading companies in Sweden? The best before date has long been passed in the case of this agreement. There's every reason to quit. And there is certainly reason to at least make it clear that the mistake does not happen again. This seems unreflected; that is the impression I get from the Minister for Defence. He can develop it. Was this something he reflected on when he continued this even though it had come so little out of the tap, that so little had been delivered and that this discontent existed? Why did he continue this way? You usually try to turn around if it doesn't work. When it comes to something as important as Sweden's defence and transport, we need better answers than this.
i-309cc584c87a38be-461	Mrs. Old President! I've accounted for the four calls and what the deliveries look like. That is the actual situation. Then, of course, Oscarsson can have a lot of views on this and draw his conclusions. But these are four basic facts as to how these exclamations take place. I have also explained the economy in this and the Swedish Materiel Administration's assessment of how the agreement works. I've explained the consequences of terminating it or resigning from it. It is clear that you can think this part of reality away when you are not in the position to think about it yourself. This is not as simple as Oscarsson says. It is clear that there are many assessments of how many materials can be used within the Swedish Armed Forces and the effects of this. It is also a discussion that can be held indefinitely. But in essence it is the Swedish Armed Forces that are responsible for the material on the basis of the political directives, and the Swedish Defence Materiel Administration is responsible for the purchases. It is in this sense that this must be dealt with. I am Minister of Defence, not Minister of Purchasing at the Swedish Defence Materiel Administration. We must respect who is responsible for what in the various ranks in this context. A discussion can then be held on all-wheel drive vehicles. Of course we should have all-wheel drive vehicles. Surely it is not a political issue that we need to have a big deal about, as if I did not understand that kind of perspective. However, Oscarsson must also understand that there are some regulations that he, too, may reasonably have to respect.
i-309cc584c87a38be-467	Mrs. Old President! Ola Johansson has asked me on what grounds I would be willing to act on the possible reintroduction of the amortisation requirement as of 31 August 2021. Over a longer period of time, H ustain's debts have risen in relation to their overall income. In order to maintain household resilience and reduce the risks associated with household indebtedness, Finansinspektionen, the responsible authority for macroprudential policy, has taken several measures, including the two amortisation requirements. The amortisation requirements have contributed to a smaller loan by new borrowers and amortised more than if the measures had not been implemented. The provisions governing amortisation requirements provide for temporary derogations to be granted to households from the requirement to amortise. This has then been used more generally in connection with the economic uncertainty followed by the spread of the disease covid-19. As we have seen, this has given households greater security in being able to manage their expenditure even if income is reduced. In addition, a temporary derogation has been able to free up consumption space. The Government has welcomed the fact that the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority has clarified through general advice how the possibility of an exemption can be applied in the serious situation resulting from the spread of the disease covid-19. However, the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority has made it clear that the measure is temporary. The Government considers that the amortisation requirements have worked well. Both national and international expert authorities, such as the IMF, the OECD and the European Commission, have assessed that amortisation requirements were well justified and reduced the risks associated with household indebtedness. However, it is important to evaluate implemented measures, and we have commissioned Finansinspektionen to carry out an overall evaluation of the implemented macroprudential measures during 2021. The evaluation includes, among other things, the impact of the measures on household indebtedness, the impact of developments on the risks associated with indebtedness and the impact of the measures on households' access to the market for owned dwellings. The evaluation shall be finalised by 30 June 2021. As regards first-time buyers' access to the housing market, in December 2020 the government appointed a study to propose measures to facilitate first-time buyers to enter the housing market.
i-309cc584c87a38be-474	Mrs. Old President! Should the amortisation requirements really come back, even though they lack demonstrable social benefits? 中 says former Governor Lars E O Svensson, and other renowned economists say the same. This requirement is harmful and increases the vulnerability of the whole economy and in particular of those who already live on small margins. With the amortisation requirement, they are forced to make forced savings that make their economies less flexible and therefore very sensitive if something happens – contrary to what was stated as a reason for introducing it. Amortization requirements make it difficult to buy one's own home, especially for those young people who lack high income, own wealth or rich parents. Only 20 per cent of 25 to 29-year-olds in Stockholm have sufficient income to buy one. Amortizations then amount to a total of SEK 6 000 a month. These people live on small margins and should not go into debt, the government seems to mean as it faithfully supports every measure taken by the Financial Supervisory Authority, as well as, as it seems now, the reintroduction of the amortisation requirement, which has been paused since 14 April as a result of the pandemic. My question on what grounds Åsa Lindhagen would act in order not to reintroduce the amortisation requirement is not answered. If the government doesn't want to answer, I have to. The amortisation requirements have contributed to new mortgage borrowers borrowing less and amortising more than if the measures were not implemented, says Lindhagen. What she means to say is that a good mortgage holder is a non-borrower. So it is a person who has sold a dwelling, has a fortune to take off or can take help from his parents. Many refrain from making the purchase of a dwelling, live there and continue to maintain a rental apartment that someone else would need. Do I need to tell Lindhagen that the amortisation requirement causes problems in the housing market and, at the same time, helps to increase the gaps between the richest and those with normal incomes? It would be spectacular if the Council of State did not agree with me on that. The criticism made by leading economists in Sweden against the amortisation requirement is waved away with the help of the IMF, the OECD and the European Commission. In this case, environmental party Åsa Lindhagen's confidence in the EU is almost religious. Many feel that more lending is good for the economy. If I want to make an investment in a home and the bank lends me the purchase price, the companies, carpenters and others I pay to build will be able to borrow. How the economy works: Credits, especially those used to invest long-term, are beneficial to consumption. We can only say that household savings are high: 15%. The debt increase, which has been 1.8 per cent, is also no problem as long as the share of interest rates in household income is at all times low. Instead, the problem is the rise in house prices, especially in large cities. While insiders who have developed value can be credited interest rebates, outsiders will be forced to save, while their risk-taking will be higher as house prices may fall. Åsa Lindhagen's predecessor Per Bolund sat on two chairs, when he was also Minister of Housing. To say that both promoting construction and at the same time defending credit restrictions proved to be untenable. Now it is another person who is responsible for housing policy. I wonder whether the two Environment Party ministers who belong to different departments are talking to each other about amortisation requirements and, for example, listening to what manufacturers of serially produced wooden houses think about them.
i-309cc584c87a38be-486	Mrs. Old President! When the second amortisation requirement was introduced, it rested on two legs, you might say. One was saying that financial crises are often preceded by a credit expansion to households, companies or states. It's a truth with modification. If we take the 2008 financial crisis as an example, we can see that it was so-called subprime loans to households with documented poor credit history and poor ability to pay that drove the crisis in combination with an active mortgage channel. In other words, households increased their indebtedness to finance over-consumption, and when house prices then fell, over-consumption could not be maintained. This also deepened the bnp decline. This is not the case in Sweden. We don't have an active mortgage channel. We have no subprime loans in Sweden, even if the second amortisation requirement is removed from the equation. The second was that it was said to have a price-absorbing effect on housing. But what is the reality? The fact is that it has not had a demonstrable significant effect on prices. We can also see proof of this if we open today's newspaper, where we see headlines like: Housing prices continue to rise – breaking a new record. All time high. My question to the Minister is simple: how does the Government see that the two legs on which the second amortisation requirement rested have been removed and that the amortisation requirement has now fallen flat?
i-309cc584c87a38be-491	Mrs. Old President! I can start by looking at the consequences, i.e. what has happened since the first amortisation requirement was introduced in 2016. What we see is that neither the number nor the proportion of young people aged 18 to 30 who have borrowed money has changed. It's about the same. There has been no drastic decrease in the figures. One of today's biggest social problems is that people find it difficult to find a safe place to live. This is partly due to the high prices of the housing market, which the previous speaker mentioned, and to the lack of rents that people can afford to live in. We do not solve the problems that exist on the housing market by removing the amortisation requirements. If we look at, for example, Denmark, which has made that trip, we see that the prices of housing rose further after removing the amortisation requirement. Indebtedness increased, and it is not something that benefits people who should take the first step into the housing market and buy a dwelling. We can also see that many actors – the IMF, the European Commission, the OECD, the European Systemic Risk Board, the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority, the Swedish National Debt Office and the Riksbank – have pointed to the risks of household indebtedness in Sweden. Here Sweden stood out before the amortisation requirements were introduced, because we amortised very little. There are great risks of high indebtedness in a country. It is about the risk to the individual, for example, what can happen to you if you have high loans and there are large falls in prices on the market in an economic crisis. At the same time, you may lose your job and be forced to sell, but the selling price does not cover the loans you have. We have seen this in other countries and also in Sweden. It affects people extremely hard. For the economy as a whole, household finances are crucial for coping with an economic crisis. If households get the hard way, the crisis risks getting worse for everyone. Consumption is reduced, perhaps not visited by the local restaurant, may not cut hair and so on, and employment is affected. Studies show that financial crises preceded by a sharp rise in indebtedness tend to have deeper and more lasting consequences. This is therefore also important in order to safeguard the stability of a country in the event of risks arising from economic crises, where high indebtedness poses a high risk. My question is, then, why is it considered that we in Sweden should amortise less than they do in many comparable countries? Why are we going back there? And how do MEPs view the risks of high household indebtedness? If you see such risks, what can we do about them?
i-309cc584c87a38be-498	Mrs. Old President! As mentioned at the end of Lindhagen's response, proposals are planned that facilitate first-time buyers. We welcome this, of course. But what gives the fastest effect if you want to make it easier for first-time buyers is to refrain from reintroducing the amortisation requirement that has been paused during the pandemic. Finansinspektionen's thesis seems to be a concern about household resilience in the event of crises. During the worst times of the pandemic, when the resilience is expected to be even lower, you choose to pause the amortisation requirements. Comparably with this, if one wants to improve household resilience if and when the pandemic rings off, the best thing would be never to reintroduce it. But Lindhagen lets us know that during the year, after an announcement in the Riksdag, Finansinspektionen will make an overall assessment of itself. I don't give much for that. That mission should go to someone else who is outsiders and independent. One might wonder whether the amortisation requirement is precisely the solution to the problem of household indebtedness. Many do not share that view. It goes without saying that the potential for households to enter the market for owned dwellings has been adversely affected. The question is whether it has affected supply. A declining supply of housing is what drives prices up, and we certainly need more housing. But there are more young people now than before who take home loans, Lindhagen objects, but this is because the range of alternatives is decreasing. In our big cities, it is not uncommon to have to wait ten years or more to get to the front of the housing queue. And many property owners also impose demands on the economy in terms of income requirements. Then you would rather try to buy something, even though it will cost $1,000 a month to amortise. It is a gratifying development that people want to own their housing, but even better would it be if more people were given this opportunity. Without the credit restrictions, 50% of 25 to 29-year-olds would have had an adequate income, I said in my first speech. It is possible that the remaining 30% will still have to be kept outside the housing market, but for what benefit? Well, then it's good to have rich parents, Mrs. Old President, and it's even better if it's them taking the loan or buying the home. The share of young people with at least 18 years older co-borrowers is said to have increased from 15 per cent in 2016 to 24 per cent in 2018. Two out of three young officials in Stockholm took help from their parents, but not everyone has that benefit. Referring to the IMF, the OECD and others is misleading. For example, it is claimed that housing in Sweden would be overvalued by 20 to 60 percent. I'm sure it's there, but it's one of the exceptions. Interest rates, which have fallen over a long period of time, are also not taken into account. Mrs. Old President! The warning bells ring, but on the wrong basis, while Lindhagen reflexes his own alarm button without questioning why. Perhaps our debate is coming to an end, so my question to Mrs Lindhagen is whether she is listening to studies other than those she mentioned at the outset. Is it Finansinspektionen's evaluation of themselves that should guide her in her support for their line, or is she prepared to appoint her own and independent experts to review and evaluate the credit restrictions? Questions have been asked to me and the co-debater, but I wait to answer them until Åsa Lindhagen answers my original question as to what reasons would prompt her and the government to question the reintroduction of the amortisation requirement on 31 August.
i-309cc584c87a38be-508	Mrs. Old President! As I said in my speech, it has been stated – and there is no doubt – that it was subprime loans, so-called bad loans, that ran the financial crisis in 2008 in combination with an active mortgage channel. We do not have that in Sweden, even if we remove the second amortisation requirement from the equation. It is not that the second amortisation requirement is some kind of universal solution that protects against financial crises. On the subject of bad loans, the Minister asked me if I see any risk of indebtedness. The most common reason today for taking so-called blanco loans, i.e. unsecured loans at high interest rates, is that you want to co-finance the cash payment. Why, then, do you need to co-finance the cash effort? One, because prices have gone up. Two: to avoid the second amortisation requirement. It is therefore not only that the second amortisation requirement does not have a statistically significant effect on the price development of housing, but it also pushes out young adults against poor loans. It is therefore directly counterproductive. I would like a comment on that. Another thing I would like to highlight is a quote from Fastighetstidningen dated 12 January 2021 and written by the Social Democrats' spokesperson for housing policy. He wrote in this way, saying that it is reasonable to review the amortisation requirements. ... But all the charges that have taken place over the last decade are most likely not justified. ... Young and first-time buyers are excluded because the repayments are the most important at the beginning of a loan's maturity. ... A more balanced amortisation requirement for young and first-time buyers would be desirable. ..................................................... It sounds like at least the Green Party's government partner Social Democrats are swinging. I wonder: does the Minister for the Financial Market agree with his government party?
i-309cc584c87a38be-513	Mrs. Old President! I was told that I'm reflexively throwing myself away with opinions here. As an engineer, I am quite interested in figures, so one of the questions I asked myself when I came in as new to this assignment was, among other things, how it has affected the number of young and first-time buyers that amortisation requirements have been introduced and whether we can see any drastic reduction in mortgages for those who are going to step into the housing market. The answer I have received is that there has been no significant, drastic reduction due to the amortisation requirement at all. I think that what Ola Johansson raises is part of the answer – that it is extremely difficult to get into the housing market, where some might be able to imagine renting, if possible. I fully share the picture of the problematic housing situation that exists in Sweden today and how hard it hits people, not least the people who have very little money. They will not be helped by the abolition of amortisation requirements, because they will not be able to buy a home anyway. We must ensure that we have more rental apartments that people can afford to live in. Then, of course, I take the impression, for example, of the consequences in Denmark of abolishing, in principle, amortisation requirements. Prices rose further. We already have very high prices in Sweden. Indebtedness increased, making it more difficult for young people to enter the housing market. The problems we have will not disappear because we remove the amortisation requirements. I was asked what might make me want to relax my demands. It is, of course, if we see that there are good effects for the people who live in this country and if I become convinced that this is the right step for people to solve the difficult housing crisis that we are in. Then, of course, we should not hesitate to do so. I think it is good that the evaluation is carried out. Finansinspektionen has access to a lot of data that I think are important in the evaluation. Of course, it is also good to listen to research that looks at these questions and take help from it. I think we all agree that, as things stand today, it is very tough for people in the housing market. But it is also not reasonable that Sweden should stand out as we have done before by not amortizing. It has also been an advantage in the crisis that we are in right now to be able to ease amortisation requirements. It created an increased space for households who had that need, perhaps a household with two adults who have both lost their jobs and are in a very difficult situation. In this situation, having a dialogue with your bank to see how you can do with your loans in this situation and removing the amortisation requirement can make that particular family do better and can make its way through life. Even though you are in a difficult economic situation, you can get through it and then get back up. There it was a great advantage to be able to create an increased space for households that have had a tough financial situation. As regards amortisation requirements, there is also normally room for dialogue with the banks on the possibility of removing the amortisation requirement if one is in a difficult situation. There were some reflections on my part. I am still curious about how MEPs view the risks of indebtedness and what can be done about them.
i-309cc584c87a38be-522	Mrs. Old President! It should be obvious that, as a Member of Parliament, one should also take responsibility for the debt. The question we are discussing here and now is whether the amortisation requirement is the solution to that problem. There are differences of opinion. It is positive that Åsa Lindhagen opens up to at least discuss what could change her mind. In that case, it is if we get a solution to the housing crisis that the amortisation requirement would be unnecessary. She then returns to Finansinspektionen's assignment to herself to evaluate the amortisation requirement. But it is not part of Finansinspektionen's mission in the evaluation to address the effects on the housing market at all. There is a complete focus on the issue of debt. I am pleased that we have had a number of points of view in this debate. Dennis Dioukarev and Åsa Lindhagen have perhaps gone into the more financial effects and reasons for the debt. It is good that this is highlighted from different directions. I have focused mainly on the housing shortage and the effects of the amortisation requirement on housing construction. I would like to come back to the tip of having a discussion with Märta Stenevi on the matter, because she is in charge of housing policy today, and to listen to the house manufacturers who are very critical and worried about what this means. I have called for an analysis of what the amortisation requirement means for the housing market and for what reasons the Government would like to evaluate it and refrain from reintroducing it. In part, I have received an answer to that. Åsa Lindhagen comes to the conclusion that the number of mortgages has not decreased but, on the contrary, may have increased a little. I have indicated the reason for this, and that is the lack of alternative housing. I have also described that many people who manage to take out loans do so because they have the support of rich parents, have their own wealth or have a high income. The rest of the people don't bother.
i-309cc584c87a38be-529	Mrs. Old President! I thank Ola Johansson for highlighting very important issues in this House, such as the issue of the serious housing shortage that we have in Sweden. We need more rentals, not least. I fully share the view that some people are forced to do what they can to buy a home. A lot of people want to own a place to live. But you should also have freedom of choice. If this is a very difficult situation, it is not always what it looks like in practice. I also share the view that some people in society have the opportunity to buy a home. But many people too do not have that opportunity. This should be a country for everyone. I would therefore like to thank you for the very important reflections on the situation in which we find ourselves. The debt in Sweden has gone out. There are several actors internationally and in Sweden who have pointed to the risks associated with it, both for the economy as a whole and for individuals. This can happen. For example, we saw first-time buyers in Ireland who, during the economic crisis, suffered having to sell and not be able to cover their own loans. Of course, this is a very difficult situation for people. The solution is not the amortisation requirement. But I could still say that part of the solution lies there. We see that people, not least young and first-time buyers, borrow a little less, buy a little cheaper apartments and will be more resilient both for themselves and for the economy as a whole. It is important if you end up in an economic crisis. It is therefore important to turn and reverse these issues of indebtedness and the difficult housing situation. In this respect, I believe that amortisation requirements have also played a major role in increasing resilience to economic crises.
i-309cc584c87a38be-534	Mrs. Old President! Mattias Karlsson in Luleå has asked me what measures I plan to take to ensure that Finansinspektionen provides more guidance and engages in dialogue with the securities market actors, and how I will work to establish a high level of consumer protection without Finansinspektionen making it difficult for growth companies to access capital through sanctions. I would first like to say that I share Mattias Karlsson's view of the importance of the listed growth companies for Swedish employment and the future. Many of these companies also play a crucial role in the success of the green transition to a sustainable economy. Against this background, it is important that we safeguard and develop the capital market in which these companies find capital in order to finance their activities and the transformation of our society. Sweden generally has a good investment climate with several available trading venues for small and medium-sized growth companies. This is reflected, among other things, in the large number of companies listed in Sweden, and it is often highlighted that Sweden in a European context generally has a good investment climate that benefits small and medium-sized enterprises. A high level of confidence in the capital market is crucial for investors to be prepared to make investments. This may be particularly true for investments in growth companies. Through its supervision and supervision, the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority and the trading venues contribute to maintaining that confidence. The Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority, like all other authorities, acts independently on the basis of applicable legislation. According to the European Securities and Markets Authority (Esma) report, in 2019 Finansinspektionen received approximately 50% of the reported administrative sanctions in the EU, but only 2% of the total sanction amount. As Mattias Karlsson points out in his question, Finansinspektionen contributes through its supervision to maintaining confidence in the capital market and thereby contributes to well-functioning markets. On the other hand, the regulatory framework is comprehensive, and I can understand that it can be perceived as demanding, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises. This is, of course, an issue we are closely following in order to safeguard a continued good climate for listing. It is worth mentioning that new EU rules will soon come into force to reduce the administrative burden on quoted companies in raising capital and to promote SME lending to businesses, among others. In this context, we can also note that the EU Capital Markets Union Action Plan includes measures to further promote SME growth markets, simplify current listing rules and create more proportionate treatment for SMEs.
i-309cc584c87a38be-539	Mrs. Old President! I would like to begin by thanking the Government for its answer. On behalf of me, the Swedish Parliament's investigation service has produced a report and presented Finansinspektionen's supervision of the listed growth companies. For growth companies there is, among other things, an infrastructure for capital supply through the three markets Nordic SME, Spotlight Stock Market and Nasdaq First North. The companies in these three marketplaces employ around 25 000 people. Adding indirect effects on employment and growth in the form of research and the purchase of various ancillary services will increase the importance of growth enterprises. According to research in this area, this growth finance infrastructure is an important reason why Sweden has managed to develop a large number of growing scale-up companies in several industries. On the basis of the European Securities and Markets Authority (Esma), it appears that Sweden has the largest growth market for small and medium-sized enterprises in Europe. So there is no doubt about how important these companies are for future growth and employment in our country. There is every reason to be proud of our growth companies and their contribution to growth and jobs. Unfortunately, however, there are problems, and it is about how the responsible authority – Finansinspektionen – acts. According to Esma, the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority accounts for approximately 50 percent of the reported administrative sanctions issued in the Member States. This seems to me to indicate that the Financial Supervisory Authority is overly zealous. If that is the case, it is serious, because it would have a number of very negative consequences. It would be more difficult to attract risk capital at reasonable cost, which would limit the potential of these development companies. Compliance costs would be higher in Sweden than in comparable markets. It would be more difficult to recruit board members when responsibility for the individual member is at risk of becoming unreasonable. The number of listed companies would be smaller, and already listed companies might be delisted. The Government's response states that the regulatory framework is comprehensive and that she can understand that it can be perceived as demanding, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises. But let me be very clear: it is not the legislation itself that is the problem, but it is Finansinspektionen's interpretation and application that makes it difficult for companies.
i-309cc584c87a38be-546	Mrs. Old President! I fully agree with Mattias Karlsson's tribute to our growth companies. They are, of course, something amazing for Sweden. It is also very gratifying to see figures for small and medium-sized enterprises. We can see that 42%, i.e. almost half, of companies in the EU that have shares listed on trading venues targeting small and medium-sized enterprises are listed in Sweden. That is something we should be very proud of. They help strengthen our country, they create innovation and they make people's dreams a reality. They bring us prosperity. I'm going to do some reflections here. We have legislation, the Market Abuse Regulation, which is an EU regulation. It must, of course, be followed by Sweden. There will now be a review of this regulation to see whether it is possible to simplify the rules, not least for small and medium-sized enterprises and growth enterprises, and whether there are things we need to improve. I think that such a review is important to welcome; we should always work over what more we can do to make it easier for companies, not least, to strengthen our country. The Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority has, of course, a task to conduct supervision based on existing legislation. They have a rapid process of injunctions. It is clear that one might think it would be better if Finansinspektionen were not so effective in its supervision – or less zealous, to use the MP's words. But this is an independent authority, and of course it controls its own work. In general, as far as legislation is concerned, I can also think that it must actually have consequences if someone does wrong. It's got to be a little bit of order. With regard to the large percentage of sanctions, there are no major consequences, because they are not serious crimes that have been committed. Instead, we are dealing with sanctions, and that is not something that the Swedish Economic Crime Authority is dealing with. It is on Finansinspektionen – but also partly on the trading venues where the companies are listed, depending on what it is about. From my point of view, it is more reasonable to ask ourselves whether there are things we can do to facilitate the regulatory environment. An authority acts independently and must of course be based on the laws that exist in Sweden. If the authority is supervising, the mission is, of course, to do just that. Of course, one might think that the authority could be less effective or perhaps refrain from intervening when errors have been committed. One might have such an opinion, but from a political point of view, I believe that the responsibility we as politicians have is rather to see what the legislation looks like. There's a responsibility. Of course, we can also have discussions about the importance of preventive measures, which is also something that the honourable Member has mentioned. That is, of course, important. What can we do to facilitate such work? Of course, the best faults are the faults that are not committed. But, again: Finansinspektionen is an independent authority, and it acts on the basis of existing legislation.
i-309cc584c87a38be-553	Mrs. Old President! I thank the Government for its answer. I think this discussion is extremely important to have. It should be borne in mind that the system of a supervisory authority is, of course, fundamentally good. In my opinion, there is a consensus among market players that relevant guidance and predictability are key factors for doing the right thing, so that confidence in the market is maintained. Such a regime benefits all market players, and here, of course, Finansinspektionen has a very important role to play. However, due to Finansinspektionen's approach, developments in some parts are in the opposite direction, i.e. that one is reactive and focused on sanctions. According to the report I previously referred to, the market feels that Finansinspektionen avoids too much guidance and dialogue and instead prefers a role where the actors may first make mistakes, which is to the detriment of confidence in the market, so that Finansinspektionen can then focus on the sanctioning task. At the same time, the risks increase after Finansinspektionen has chosen to change current practices in several areas, without clear justification. In particular, this affects smaller growth companies as Finansinspektionen does not take into account the size of the company in its application. This causes growth companies to suffer disproportionately, while the impact on larger companies is not so great. That such zeal is not necessary is evident from a reading of the report. The Swedish Parliament's investigation service has been in contact with a number of other countries in the work of its report and has found that in these countries it is felt that supervision has worked well and that it has not adversely affected growth companies' access to capital. Today, in my opinion, the Financial Supervisory Authority rules by first allowing companies to make mistakes and then punishing them. Does the Government share my view that it would be both more appropriate and more reasonable if Finansinspektionen focused more on steering through guidance and dialogue with the various actors in the market?
i-309cc584c87a38be-558	Mrs. Old President! As I said, the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority is an independent authority and has a mission to carry out. In general, I think prevention is very important in a variety of policy areas. I have previously been responsible, among other things, for the work of discrimination and the legislation on discrimination, and it is of course extremely important that we do what we can to prevent discrimination. In this case, it is a matter of preventing errors from being committed. I think it is always important to have such a perspective with us. I was going to take an example. Some of the sanctions are about market abuse, where people have traded with different instruments. The Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority has done a work together with banks and brokerage firms to see how to reduce the risk of such errors being committed. Among other things, to be very specific, there are several who have now placed restrictions on their systems to prevent small savers from laying out divergent orders, which may constitute market manipulation. It is a concrete example in which the systems themselves prevent errors from being committed. I think it is, of course, positive when you can work that way. A large part of this also consists of transparency reporting, i.e. that seniors in companies should report. If, for example, one has traded in shares and changed one's holding, this should be reported. It is sometimes reported too late or not at all, and then you can get an injunction. You can always have with you how to reduce these errors in different ways. However, in all policy areas and with regard to all legislation, my clear starting point is that there must be consequences of not doing the right thing. Knowing that it is orderly, that we have a regulatory framework, that there is effective supervision and that it has consequences to do wrong is important to maintain confidence in the market. This in turn is important for attracting capital and for investors to feel confident about investing. There, trust is extremely important. The Financial Supervisory Authority has a rapid process in relation to sanctions. In general, however, this is of course a very important issue that Mattias Karlsson raises about how to ensure that errors are not committed at all. I have one final reflection on this. It is true that almost half of the companies involved are listed in Sweden on one of our three trading venues. Then it may be that it is not as startling that a lot of the reported sanctions originate from Sweden. It could be more spectacular if we had a very small proportion of companies but still had many sanctions, which in itself could indicate very effective supervision. This is something I've been reflecting on. These were some reflections on my part. I also welcome the review that is now being carried out of the European regulation that we have to comply with.
i-309cc584c87a38be-567	Mrs. Old President! First of all, I would like to thank you for the important discussion that we have had. I am quite convinced that we have a broad consensus on how important it is for growth companies to have a reasonable regulatory framework to follow. As can be seen from the investigation prepared by the Swedish Parliament's Investigation Service, Finansinspektionen stands out in Europe and chooses to make special interpretations that rarely have legal basis for. Often these do not solve any real problem either. I think this is remarkable, and I think it would have to be investigated by the government. Finansinspektionen also seems to be clearly focused on sanctions rather than working with guidance and does not seem to be working proactively on these issues at all. This makes it extremely difficult for market players to know how to act. It's not communicative supervision. The question that has been debated now is not whether Finansinspektionen has to apply the legislation that exists, but how Finansinspektionen chooses to interpret and apply the legislation. The ambition for Finansinspektionen must be to get the market to comply with the law but also to act in a way that allows Sweden to develop well. This is what happens when investors, companies and all other stakeholders have confidence in the system and its application.
i-309cc584c87a38be-571	Mrs. Old President! The vast majority of these sanctions concern senior representatives of companies, or their relatives, who have not reported transactions in securities or who have reported too late. It is, of course, important that this has consequences, but it is also not about serious crimes that the Swedish Economic Crime Authority is investigating. This is a regulatory framework that we have in order to be able to feel confident, for example, that people have not acted when they have had unpublished information that can bring benefits. Anyone who looks at what the sanctions affect sees that this is what it is all about to the greatest extent. It is clear that it is always important to see how we can facilitate business, and I appreciate the constructive discussion that we have had in this House today. I would also like to point out the importance of keeping with us how we can stimulate new businesses that can grow and which can create opportunities for people in our country. I would like to thank the honourable Member very much for this. We have a good investment climate, but we must also safeguard that. On the political side, we can always think about how we can get even better and how we can better support companies that make our country stronger and better.
i-309cc584c87a38be-575	Mrs. Old President! Ciczie Weidby has asked me what measures I intend to take to reverse the negative trend with fewer and fewer safety representatives within the LO associations, what measures I intend to take to protect and develop the current system of regional safety representatives and what measures I intend to take to increase the number of safety and health inspectors in line with ILO guidelines. The Swedish legislation on health and safety at work is based on the employer's cooperation with the employees in order to achieve a good working environment. The safety representative is the employee's representative and represents the employees on health and safety at work. The activities of safety representatives are of great importance for the systematic work environment in the country's workplaces. Protection representatives are appointed by local employee organisations which are or are usually bound by collective agreements in relation to the employer. The Government considers it important that there are safety representatives at all workplaces and that the social partners within the Swedish model take responsibility for ensuring this. It is also important that safety representatives receive the right conditions and the training necessary to carry out their mission. A regional safety representative has the same powers as a local safety representative and has a fundamental task in activating local work environment management and promoting systematic work environment management. Regional safety representatives also play an important role in drawing attention to health and safety risks in workplaces that lack organised local protection work. The Government's proposal concerning the extension of access rights for regional safety representatives, which the Parliament rejected, was intended to address the problems encountered in a changing labour market by strengthening the work environment at workplaces that lack organised local protection work and thereby prevent ill health and accidents at work. The Riksdag announced what the Labour Market Committee stated that the Government will set up an investigation to evaluate the impact of the Regional Safety Officers' activities. The case is now being prepared within the Government Office. The government therefore intends to come back to this issue. Work environment inspectors are appointed by the Swedish Work Environment Authority, and the operations are part of the core business. Inspectors reach between 3 and 5% of all establishments in the country annually through sample checks. In addition, the Swedish Work Environment Authority works with initiatives in the field of information and communication, and these reach significantly more workplaces. Unfortunately, we will never be able to regulate or inspect away all risks and shortcomings in the working environment. The Swedish Work Environment Authority's work to analyse underlying causes and to inform about both regulations and the results of inspections, in order to increase both motivation and knowledge of how the collaboration work should be conducted, is of great importance for the Swedish work environment. Between 2015 and 2018, the Government increased the Agency's funding by approximately SEK 110 million to enable the Agency to hire more inspectors and increase its presence at the workplace. In recent years more inspectors have been hired, and in 2019 the Swedish Work Environment Authority made nearly 10,000 more inspections compared to 2016. In August 2020, the Agency commissioned Statskontoret to carry out an analysis of the Swedish Work Environment Authority, including with a view to obtaining an in-depth basis on how the investments have been made. The Government has also reviewed the Swedish Work Environment Authority's instructions and introduced some changes that came into force on 1 January 2018. One of the amendments was that the Agency's supervision of health and safety at work and working time legislation should be planned mainly on the basis of analysis of occupational health and safety risks and the risk that operators will deliberately breach the regulatory framework. During 2021, the Swedish Work Environment Authority's funding will be increased by an additional SEK 30 million in order to extend inspections against companies suspected of deliberately violating working environment regulations or laws in order to gain competitive advantages.
i-309cc584c87a38be-585	Madam President, I would like I thank Eva Nordmark for her reply. It is great that the government, just as we believe there should be safety representatives in all workplaces within the framework of the Swedish model. It is also good that the Government believes it is important that the safety representatives get the right conditions and the training necessary for them to be able to carry out their mission. However, Eva Nordmark does not really answer the question of what measures the Minister wants to take to reverse the negative trend with fewer and fewer safety representatives. Representatives from LO associations highlight harassment from employers and more precarious employment as possible reasons for development. Other reasons for the decrease in the number of safety representatives may be the increase in the number of companies with few employees and the increasing slump in the businesses' activities. A third reason is that safety representatives feel that they do not receive sufficient support from the Swedish Work Environment Authority. The role and task of the safety representative is intended to benefit the company and the employer, but if the employer does not know what the safety representative is or what they do and lack knowledge of work environment law, there are no conditions for good work environment work. Madam President, I would like The debate often focuses on workplace accidents and fatal accidents, and that is very important. However, the long-term effects of a poor working environment are less often recognised despite the fact that poor working environment often leads to poorer health and ultimately shorter lives. Within the LO collective, women have a shorter life span. A nurse does not fall dead from a scaffold, as a construction worker can do, but years of heavy lifting and poor working conditions give less health and shorter lives. To reverse this trend, policy action is needed. It is not enough to rely on the social partners to resolve it. The position of safety representatives must be strengthened. The duration of the safety representative training must be regulated in the Safety and Health Act and must be at least five days. They must also be given the legal right to further training. Job security must be strengthened so that safety representatives dare to stand up for a good work environment without having to fear losing their job. Of course, the appropriations for the Swedish Work Environment Authority must also be increased substantially so that the Agency can provide the support that the safety representatives are asking for. Setting up an investigation to evaluate the impact of the activities of regional safety ombudsmen is hardly the same as safeguarding the current system. Rather, it risks opening the door to abolishing the system and replacing regional safety representatives with so-called independent health and safety advisers, as the Right and Confederation of Swedish Enterprise want. Madam President, I would like During this term of office, the S-led government has turned its back on quite a few important issues for which the Social Democrats have traditionally fought, such as labour law and the leasing system. Will the government also give in to the current system of regional safety representatives? Or will you take measures to safeguard and develop the system?
i-309cc584c87a38be-599	Madam President, I would like Does the government lose weight? The answer is no. We will never give in to the important role of safety representatives and regional safety representatives in ensuring a safe, good and safe working environment. We probably knew before the vote in Parliament that it was not entirely certain that we would get through the increased access rights of regional safety representatives, but for me and the government it was so important to still take the fight, even if we did not succeed all the way into goal. We will, of course, in every way in our continued work, do everything we can to strengthen the role and safeguard the role of safety representatives and regional safety representatives and, not least, to ensure that we create a safer and better labour market. The systematic work environment work is the basis for a good work environment. A systematic work environment work involves collaboration and ensuring that it becomes a natural part of the daily work at all workplaces throughout Sweden. It is local in the workplace, in dialogue between employers and safety representatives, one knows best how the work should be organised in a way that both reinforces the positive factors in the job and eliminates the risks. In this context, the social partners have a pool of expertise and expertise in the field in order to be able to best represent those who are supposed to apply the legislation. If there are no conditions for collaboration on the work environment locally in the workplace, it is really bad, so we really need to ensure that there is a possibility of having a well-functioning safety organisation in all workplaces. We know that the risk of both ill health and accidents is greater in workplaces where there is no safety representative. Not only does this affect the individual, but it also has a negative impact on the productivity and competitiveness of businesses. It is therefore also very important from the perspective of employers, just as the Member of Parliament was involved in his speech. There is a consensus between the parties, employers and trade unions, and the state that we need to work to strengthen the factors that facilitate cooperation locally on the working environment in order to make it work in the best possible way. The parties need to take a great deal of responsibility in recruiting and maintaining safety representatives. In accordance with the Swedish model, it is up to the parties to ensure that there are safety representatives and that both safety representatives and employers have the training, knowledge and competence needed to ensure the work at the end of each workplace. The state and the authorities must take responsibility for ensuring that the health and safety acquis is designed in such a way that it works in relation to the Swedish party model. In the work environment strategy that I presented about a month ago, the focus is precisely on tripartite work. We need to ensure that the efforts of the state and the authorities are consistent with what is the main mission of the parties here, both the responsibility of employers and the important role of trade unions and safety representatives. I regret the fact that the majority in the Swedish Parliament adopted the proposal to increase access rights for regional safety ombudsmen. I believe that we need to continue to work to ensure that this can happen in the future.
i-309cc584c87a38be-611	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Eva Nordmark! There is certainly a consensus between us on several different issues relating to work environment work. I noted that in his reply, the Minister reported on the increase in appropriations to the Swedish Work Environment Authority, which was carried out during the last parliamentary term, when the government had a budget cooperation with the Left Party. Without us, that investment would have been considerably smaller. In Sweden, in terms of the number of employees, we invest significantly less in the working environment than our Nordic neighbours do. The International Labour Organisation (ILO) believes that there should be one inspector per 10,000 workers. With its 5.1 million employees, Sweden should therefore have around 510 health and safety inspectors. Last year we had 258. This can be compared to Denmark, for example, where you have about 3 million employees but still have more inspectors than Sweden. In addition, many more inspections are carried out in Denmark than in Sweden. Although the government wants to see greater ambitions from the Swedish Work Environment Authority, I do not see that more funding is being added for it. The government's target of having 300 inspectors in place by the end of 2020 failed. And this year it is only planned for new recruitments to replace retirements and other completed services. The work did an audit. All in all, it shows serious problems and shortcomings in the Swedish work environment. As we have said before, it ultimately threatens the lives and health of workers. Strong action by the government is needed to tackle it. There is a risk that I may sound a little tedious, but Eva Nordmark does not answer the question: what measures does the Minister intend to take to increase the number of OSH inspectors in line with ILO guidelines? It is great that the government strengthens the Swedish Work Environment Authority's funding. But is the Minister prepared to work to provide more resources? If she is not prepared to provide more resources, when does the Minister think that Sweden will achieve the ILO guidelines on one inspector per 10,000 workers – 2030, 2040 or 2050?
i-309cc584c87a38be-618	Madam President, I would like The Government has increased resources to the Swedish Work Environment Authority. We did so during the last parliamentary term, and we are now strengthening by another 30 million to ensure that we can get to grips with the crime of working life, which has grown increasingly in the Swedish labour market. Last year we also spent 2 million extra on training opportunities for regional safety representatives. My answer to the interpellier's question is: Yes, I also see the need to continue to strengthen inspection activities. It is absolutely central, and it contributes to compliance on the Swedish labour market. Now, in the midst of a pandemic, we see how important the Swedish Work Environment Authority's inspections are. Just a few weeks ago, the Government gave the Authority a mandate to inspect particularly risky industries. It is a work that is now under way. There will be about 2 000 inspections that are of course incredibly important, not least for those who are now in a workplace where you risk being infected by covid-19. At the same time, I would like to say that the nearly 30 000 workplace inspections carried out by the Swedish Work Environment Authority every year cannot replace the work of the safety representatives. We have a superpower in the Swedish labour market when it comes to safety and security at our workplaces. They're our safety officers. They are the superpower of the Swedish labour market model. Our nearly 100,000 safety representatives – they need to grow more – are around the country doing a vital job every day. They're supposed to have the best conditions. They do a job that not even 10 000 health and safety inspectors can replace. It is important to clarify that. I am concerned that some political forces are beginning to question the role and importance of safety representatives. We need to ensure that we have an authority that has resources and that we have workplace inspectors and resources for inspection activities, but we also need to ensure the important role of safety representatives and that we have regional safety representatives that can activate protection activities in the workplace. As a former union leader, I have seen how it works in other countries. It is never possible to replace the safety ombudsman activities, the local work and the systematic work, with any authority. It's important. It is also part of the Swedish model. I believe that this would be a development that none of us, whether political or the parties, would like to see. I would like to assure Ciczie Weidby that as Social Democratic Minister for Labour, I will continue to fight tirelessly both for us to have an authority with good conditions to do its important job and for us to continue to have a safety representative in all places around Sweden. It is of crucial importance for people who work in our country but also for Sweden and our prosperity.
i-309cc584c87a38be-625	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Eva Nordmark, for the debate. I think there is every reason to come back to this. Unfortunately, I do not feel that all the Minister's answers are very detailed. I also sense a certain passivity and a lack of vision. If we are to reverse the bad development with fewer safety representatives and safeguard this system, action is needed. The position of safety officers needs to be strengthened, job security needs to be strengthened, the RSO system needs to be developed – not decommissioned – and the Swedish Work Environment Authority needs more resources. The Government's new strategy on health and safety at work gives a completely different picture of the Government's ambitions in the area of health and safety at work. It is an ambitious strategy with ambitious objectives. If the government is serious about its strategy, it must be demonstrated in action. Policy action is needed now. Everyone has the right to work in a safe and secure working environment. Today, however, many have a work environment characterised by stress, low staffing, heavy lifting and monotonous tasks. Show that you are serious about your work environment strategy! Do not let your neo-liberal partners dictate the terms of this policy! Stand up for the workers, and invest in the working environment!
i-A2xLJjCyrSJvPbEnoXhL76	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Ciczie Weidby! I am convinced that we agree with each other in substance on a large part when we discuss health and safety at work issues. As I have described, the possibility for our safety representatives to carry out their vital work every day in the workplace is also central to the government's new work environment strategy. I look forward very much to implementing that strategy. This is an increase in the ambition of health and safety policy. I'm proud of the strategy. Now it takes hard work for the government, together with our authorities and with the parties, to make this a reality. We will certainly come back to the debate on health and safety at work in the future.
i-309cc584c87a38be-632	Madam President, I would like Magnus Persson has asked me what measures the government intends to take to ensure that people with criminal intent are not employed at the Public Employment Service, where it is already clear that the problem exists. The crimes against welfare, in whatever form or form they appear, are unacceptable. It is important that Arbetsförmedlingen works to reduce the risk of people with criminal intent being hired. The delegation of employers' policy means that the responsibility for the agency's employees lies at the level of the authorities, and ultimately the head of the agency is responsible. An extensive regulatory framework is in place as a tool to ensure that the agency's employees comply with applicable rules and procedures. Security clearance in accordance with the Swedish Civil Service Act, provisions on conflict of interest in the Administrative Act, the Criminal Code's penal provisions on misconduct and breaches of professional secrecy and labour law measures such as dismissal, dismissal, warning or salary deduction under the Public Employment Act are some examples. The Public Employment Service has an obligation to prevent corruption, undue influence, fraud and other irregularities in accordance with the Internal Governance and Control Regulation. Arbetsförmedlingen must also, on the basis of instructions for the Arbetsförmedlingen, ensure that incorrect payments are not made and that there is no benefit crime and in this work cooperate with the parties concerned and participate in the joint work of the public authority against serious and organised crime. When the Public Employment Service is reformed in accordance with the January Agreement, quality and control shall be the governing body. In order to strengthen the civil servants in their official role, the government continues to develop the work for a good administrative culture and has, among other things, developed an action plan against corruption. I have confidence that the management of Arbetsförmedlingen has the ability to inform and engage with managers and employees and, if necessary, to use the more interventional tools provided by the legislation. The government will continue to monitor developments closely.
i-309cc584c87a38be-637	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for Employment for his answer. In September 2020, we were able to read a report from a Head of Unit at Arbetsförmedlingen, where it was clearly flagged because the agency was cynically exploited by organised crime in several ways. Among other things, it was about false wage subsidies, procured brokering services, support and matching, and – worst of all – the exploitation of persons with reduced working capacity. Madam President, I would like According to the agency itself, employees in the Public Employment Service have been identified on several occasions as infiltrators of criminal networks. The scope does not seem to be clear, but what you have noticed is that the cheating is very open and that you have only seen the top of the iceberg. Madam President, I would like When you read the answer from the Minister for Labour, you can see that she believes that the responsibility rests entirely with the head of the agency and that the problems should be dealt with in connection with the reform. But the government cannot turn a blind eye to its responsibilities in this matter, as the government has the highest responsibility for its authorities. The joint initiative against organised crime was launched in 2009 in collaboration between the police and several authorities, including the Public Employment Service. These crimes were flagged early on and their development. So this welfare crime cannot have come as a surprise. The question is, Madam President, whether the government has been naive and gullible like previous governments on this issue, as this is not a new phenomenon that has arisen during this parliamentary term, but has existed for many years. Is it, then, generous interpretations of laws that have opened up to this crime? I would like to hear what the Minister for Employment has to say about that.
i-309cc584c87a38be-642	Madam President, I would like I think it is very important that we, here in the Swedish Parliament, start from the regulatory framework that exists. As has been said, the delegation of employers' policy means that responsibility for the authority and its employees lies at the level of the authority; it is the authority's manager's responsibility. As Magnus Persson says, there is extensive work going on with the cooperation of public authorities to combat welfare crime. We have also recently stepped up work against working life crime. I have recently also given a mission to the Swedish Work Environment Authority to ensure that there is lasting collaboration between the authorities. In addition, a decision has been taken on an action plan against corruption, which Minister Micko presented before the New Year. We also know that there is solid work going on to ensure that there are no undue payments. In this area, the government has taken a number of measures to ensure that we do not have either corruption or some kind of welfare crime. This shall be combated by any means available. There is also a very comprehensive regulatory framework in place as a tool to ensure that the agency's employees comply with current procedures and rules. I described several of them in my introductory speech. It is important in such matters that the authority takes responsibility and that the authority management also continue to engage in dialogue with managers and employees within the Public Employment Service and, if necessary, use the more interventional tools available. I cannot, of course, rely on an article in a newspaper, but if the authority puts forward any need for legislative or regulatory changes to the government, I will of course listen to that. I assume that the agency will return to the government if you see the need for such changes. Offences against welfare are totally unacceptable, regardless of the form or form in which they appear. The government will of course follow developments further.
i-309cc584c87a38be-647	Madam President, I would like It was not just any person who spoke in the newspaper, but it was a high-ranking head of unit within Arbetsförmedlingen. I think it is good that the government has woken up and taken action. But the problem is that this follows in the wake of a policy that has turned Sweden into a paradise for entrepreneurs in crime. All the authorities involved in serious organised crime bear witness to exactly the same developments. The bus got a tie and a briefcase. The multi-criminals have realised where the big money is available, namely at the Swedish Employment Service, Försäkringskassan and the Swedish Tax Agency. Here both this government and previous governments have been very naive. The combination of big money, low detection risk and low penalties is for criminals like candy for children. Right now, it's Arbetsförmedlingen that stands for the sweets. The attacks on our welfare systems often follow the same pattern. These are false identities, false control data and business façades. Then you start your looting campaign against the public. That is a frightening development, Madam President. This is serious crime. It is a systemic threat to the welfare state. We risk financing the emergence of ever more powerful criminal networks. I know that the government has decided to step up cooperation between the authorities against labour crime. This is good and important, but it takes far more than fine words. Is the Minister for Employment and the Government prepared to review legislation, tighten controls and the scale of penalties, and give the prosecutors and the police, but also the authorities, the resources needed to help our authorities overcome the problems? There's quite a lot to do.
i-309cc584c87a38be-652	Madam President, I would like I think it is very important that we observe what the situation is, namely that the public administration in Sweden has a high international standard, so that it does not sound like this would be a widespread problem. Sweden is also perceived as a country with relatively little corruption, and it turns out in international comparisons that Sweden stands well against other countries. In spite of this, people with criminal purposes infiltrate authorities in order to learn the systems in order to benefit from them. That is, of course, totally unacceptable. Corruption has serious consequences. It naturally reduces confidence in the authorities. It undermines the legitimacy of the rule of law and can undermine democracy. Corruption thus harms Sweden in many different ways. Even suspicions of corruption can hurt. That is why this action plan is very important. It was adopted last year and will apply between 2021 and 2023. In a strong welfare society, corruption risks must of course be regularly prevented, managed and discussed. On my table as Minister for Labour is specifically the work against labour crime, where we are now investing more resources. We are prepared to review how we can work more closely with the social partners. I will have a meeting with the parties shortly to discuss this further. But I also see that there may be a need to review confidentiality legislation in order to share more information between our authorities. Madam President, I would like Of course, we will do everything in our power to secure our authorities. We should not have any welfare or welfare crime at all. It is, of course, very serious if this happens within our authorities. It is thanks to this important cooperation of authorities that this type of crime can be detected. It is incredibly important that we protect cooperation between authorities and that our authorities have the best conditions for carrying out their important work.
i-309cc584c87a38be-657	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much, Minister for Employment, for the efforts you are making! When you listen to the Minister for Labour, the naive belief emerges that in Sweden it is not so bad. Swedish welfare and Swedish authorities should not be a refuge and a cash cow for criminals. Yet we see it. We see it at Arbetsförmedlingen. We see it at Försäkringskassan and the Migration Agency. Now the last time we could see it, even within the Ministry for Foreign Affairs, the government's own department. This is a development that frightens. Here responsibilities and governance lie ultimately with the government and no business managers. This is a growing problem. We have to let go of the idea that Sweden is the whole country where nothing happens and take a strong stand against this crime. It is very important for society to overcome this. Actually, it's tax money it's all about.
i-309cc584c87a38be-661	Madam President, I would like It is, of course, important that we take all the measures we can to ensure that we do not have welfare crime or that criminals can step in and use taxpayers' money or otherwise engage in welfare crime. That is also why we are taking a number of different measures. Now that we are going to reform the Public Employment Service, which was nevertheless the theme of this interpellation debate, it is important that quality and control should be in charge. We are at the Government Office right now in the process of developing regulations that should be in place for reform of the agency. It's supposed to be in place in 2022. The Public Employment Service is preparing the reform with a trial. We are taking step by step forward in this process. It is very important for the perspective we are discussing here that opportunities for evaluation and control should be ensured. We must also have strong quality criteria that ensure that independent actors deliver both good results and high quality services to ensure that all job seekers receive the support they need and that taxpayers' money is used efficiently and correctly. Thank you, Magnus Persson, for the debate.
i-309cc584c87a38be-665	Madam President, I would like Magnus Persson has asked me whether I believe that the results of subsidised employment are at such a level that they justify the cost of the government's finances and, if not, what measures the government intends to take to address the lack of impact of the policies pursued. He has pointed out in a previous parliamentary question that it is not the resources for labour market policy programmes and subsidised employment that are lacking, but the result after participation in these efforts. I would like to emphasise once again that research shows that subsidised employment is an effective way of getting people who are less closely linked to the labour market into work. The proportion of people who get a post-employment job varies between different subsidised jobs. This depends on the target group for the aid, the employers who receive the aid and how the Public Employment Service works with the aid. It is important not to misdirect subsidised employment, so people who still had a job take part in the efforts. In the Institute for Labour Market and Education Policy Evaluation, it has studied those who take part in subsidised employment and found that the characteristics of the participants are well in line with the target group, i.e. those who take part in the subsidies are to a large extent individuals with a weak position in the labour market and with a high risk of falling into long-term unemployment. It is true that the proportion of people leaving some subsidised employment for unsubsidised work is relatively low. The proportion of people who move to some form of work after taking part in an extra job or an introductory job has decreased since the outbreak of the ongoing coronapndemine. However, for people who are particularly distant from the labour market, a chain of efforts may be needed before they can find unsubsidised work. Extra services are targeted, for example, at those furthest from the labour market. It is reasonable that many of those who have had an auxiliary service need other measures or other types of subsidised employment before they can get an unsubsidised job. At the same time, the performance differs considerably between different types of subsidised employment. For example, the share of new start-up jobs for unsubsidised work was 31 – 37 per cent between 2014 and 2019. The share fell to 20 per cent in 2020 due to the ongoing coronapandemine. The government's assessment is that labour market policies, including subsidised employment, can contribute to improvements in the labour market in several ways. The individual will be strengthened in his/her own work and salary. E xtra services and introductory jobs can also strengthen job opportunities for not least foreign-born women. Extra services have contributed to a more balanced gender balance in subsidised employment, which is important in order for active labour market policies to be more equal in order to support women and men to get into work on equal terms. Extra services also serve as a way into important welfare professions where there is currently a shortage of labour.
i-309cc584c87a38be-671	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister for Employment, for your answer. We note that the government's efforts are extremely expensive in terms of the result in terms of regular employment. According to statistics from 2019, for example, 5 per cent went to regular work after participating in a programme called extra services. It is a programme subsidised at 100% of wage costs and aimed at municipalities and the public sector. Then, of course, you automatically risk crowding out regular jobs that would have been created. This is just one example of measures for several billions with poor results. From introductory work, 7 percent went to regular work after the end of the programme. From entry-level jobs, 5 percent after completing the program went to regular work. I would like to make it clear, Madam President, that these are figures from the time before the coronapandemy struck. Madam President, I would like Surely the result of subsidised employment must be that people move on to regular work and become self-sufficient. That must be the idea. The results show that the Minister for Employment has failed completely, although he claims otherwise and refers to research in this area. But there is also research that shows something completely different. It shows significant displacement effects and lock-in effects, i.e. that the person gets stuck in subsidised employment even after the measure is no longer necessary. How does the Minister for Labour view the risks related to the displacement effects for regular jobs mentioned by IFAU, among others, in his report on subsidised employment? We can see in the real world of work that companies cynically use these systems to replace their staff after a year. There are many examples of this.
i-309cc584c87a38be-678	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by answering the specific question. It is important not to target subsidised employment to people who still had a job. This is supposed to be for people who are far from the labour market. Often it is not enough just to have one subsidised job, but often it is to need a chain of different efforts. You may start with an extra service, and then you will have the opportunity to replenish with new knowledge and skills. Several different measures and measures may be needed to enable a person who is far from the labour market to find work and self-sufficiency. I think it is important to realise that the coronapndemin will affect our labour market for a long time to come. It is essential that we do everything we can, not least to ensure that long-term unemployment is not allowed to get stuck. This is an issue that affects our whole society. That is why it is so important to have the strong efforts of over 100 billion that the government has presented for this year's budget and which can lead to approximately 75 000 more jobs. It is also about the efforts that are made within the framework of labour market policy. We add SEK 1 billion to the Public Employment Service to enable them to meet the increased needs but also secure local presence throughout the country. We add SEK 2 billion to additional matching services and labour market training. We add 500 million to introductory jobs and extra services. All of that is important. I also think it is crucial that we see that people who are currently unemployed have different kinds of needs. For some, a quick matching service will suffice, and they will have the next job. But for other people it takes longer. Then we have to make sure that there are the right tools for that. Nor can the same demand be made for them to enter directly into the labour market as quickly as possible. That is my starting point. Then, of course, together in the Swedish Parliament, we will ensure that we have the best and most effective labour market policy, so of course I welcome the debate. But for me it is important to see precisely that people have different needs and that we need many different tools in the toolbox. We must assume that people are given the right conditions to acquire their own jobs and long-term livelihoods.
i-309cc584c87a38be-684	Madam President, I would like Surely the Minister for Labour cannot be satisfied with the result. It is extremely low numbers and few people who go to their own livelihoods if anyone does so at all. I would like to highlight an example of how the system is developing, particularly in the case of additional services. We can take part of a report in Sydsvenskan. There you can read that the Social Democratically governed Malmö tried to recruit 500 long-term unemployed to access the money through the so-called extra services. There were only 283 people, and it was so fast that many did not even have jobs or a workplace to go to. More than 100 people sat at home without any activity but with full contractual pay, paid by tax money. The only purpose was to shift the costs of the municipal supply support to the state coffers. Surely this cannot be the idea of subsidised employment, which is called extra services. This, Madam President, shows a major system failure throughout the construction of labour market measures. Here it is a question of moving hundreds of unemployed people from one column to another in their eagerness to balance the budget. This ping-pong game between the state and the municipality definitely does not solve any problems and definitely does not help the unemployed. Then why is it this way, Madam President? In addition to full government subsidy, the operation has been seasoned with strong wrist support and an aggressive bonus system that together amounts to nearly SEK 90 000 per post added. The structure is remarkable. The municipalities compete to reach a certain beting, and the municipalities that have managed to create enough of these artificial measures may share half a billion dollars. This was the driving force for the Social Democratically controlled Malmös hets. It was not a long-term attempt to create jobs and livelihoods for those who are far from the labour market, but the reason was simply that they wanted to make money. Does the Minister of Labour think this is how to use state resources? Is this the way to help unemployed people who are far removed from the labour market from self-sufficiency?
i-309cc584c87a38be-691	Madam President, I would like Of course, additional services should be used in the way they are intended, namely that they are aimed at those who are farthest from the labour market. It is also these people who are deemed to have the greatest need for a subsidy. As I said, this is often about people who have stood and are far removed from the labour market. What I see when I'm out on my many – nowadays digital – visits is that there are fantastic efforts around our elongated country, where extra services play a major role. I often meet extra services where foreign-born women have their first opportunity to try out Swedish working life. They are allowed to enter a community and, in addition, have the opportunity to develop in languages and to learn together with others to develop in a working life. It is not at all certain that you are ready to step into unsubsidised work immediately after the extra service if you have been out of the labour market for a long time. More efforts are often needed. It could be SFI, or it could be vocational training. I also see that there is a great opportunity here. For example, we have a great lack of skills in care for the elderly. There are also many other professions where employers need to employ. That is why we are going to ensure that we can have just one chain of different efforts. Of course, it is not the extra service as such that solves all the problems. This is just one of many tools available in the Employment Service's toolbox. But the extra service, together with other contributions, can be absolutely crucial for a woman – because it is often women I meet when I'm out on different digital visits – to have the opportunity to enter the labour market and eventually create their own livelihood.
i-309cc584c87a38be-696	Madam President, I would like We cannot discuss subsidised jobs and their results without getting into the effects of the irresponsible immigration policy that has taken place in Sweden in recent years. It has contributed to the fact that we have an extremely large part of our workforce that is not employable in the Swedish labour market. It is people who choose to put away in various labour market programmes, types of extra services, entry-level jobs and more. At the same time, it is said that we have the highest employment rate in the European Union and highlight it as a good thing, when we actually have among the highest unemployment rates in Europe. Talk about moving people from one column to another! This is an equation that, in the long term, risks overturning the whole welfare society, as the tax burden decreases as the population increases sharply. Madam President, I would like Sweden should instead look at whether subsidised employment should exist at all for people who do not have a disability. The programmes must be stopped as an integration measure, as statistics show that they have failed. We are not only seeing it when it comes to additional services. We see it in other authorities, and we see it in Samhall, for example. Samhall is being used as an integration measure today, and that was not their mission from the beginning. Reduce immigration significantly, make it easier for businesses to hire and reduce employers' contributions and taxes on labour! Make Sweden attractive for companies to establish themselves in, and increase education efforts! Education is A and O. That's the most important thing to get people to work. Learning to scan documents in a government agency can hardly be a future profession for those who otherwise lack the training required to take on other tasks, as the job is usually created by command and not a real need.
i-309cc584c87a38be-703	Madam President and Magnus Persson! I would like to say that there is a great deal of investment in our country right now. In the part of Sweden that I come from, northern Sweden, we have over 1,000 billion in investments in the coming years. These are fantastic opportunities that are up there. Of course, we have a tough situation in the Swedish labour market. At the same time, there are over 100 000 job vacancies to apply for, so the future is not dark, it is actually bright. But of course it takes us to do the right things now. We need to ensure that all those people who are out of work get an input and have the right conditions to get into work. These tools look different. It is from extra services for those who are far removed from the labour market to fast matching services and labour market training that directly meet the needs of the employer. We will ensure that people can grow and develop through a full career. It is not only about those who are unemployed and that they should be able to get a new job, but also about people in the middle of their working life being able to develop, educate themselves, change and take up the new vacancies that are emerging in the economy. When we talk about extra services and the foreign-born women, I see that they are a very good asset in our Sweden, where we have a great need to employ in many professions. With the right efforts, with additional services, by ensuring that we sharpen our efforts – because you can always make efforts more effective – and by increasing the results with the right efforts in the form of education, we will be able to succeed in further raising the employment rate and, thanks to this, increase our prosperity in general.
i-309cc584c87a38be-710	Madam President, I would like Ludvig Aspling has asked me three questions in connection with the proposal for a directive on adequate minimum wages in the EU presented by the Commission on 28 October 2020. He wonders whether I am prepared to accept the derogation as it is formulated in the Commission's current proposal, whether I see a link between the social pillar and the Commission's proposal and how I will act to prevent future negative consequences of the social pillar, and how I and the government will work to clarify our position on this issue. The government considers that the proposal presented by the Commission should not be a legally binding directive and that the EU lacks the power to set wage levels in the Member States. Sweden has been pushing for an opinion from the Council's Legal Service on the compatibility of the proposal with the legal basis. We have also been the driving force behind and brought together several Member States to await the opinion of the Legal Service on the substance of the negotiations. The opinion of the Council's Legal Service has now arrived and is being analysed in consultation with allied Member States and the social partners. At present, we can say that the Council's legal service has assessed that the proposal is essentially compatible with the stated legal basis. However, the Legal Service makes that assessment provided that the directive is to be interpreted as a framework. The Legal Service also believes that the proposal needs to be amended to clarify this. Madam President, we have also informed the Committee on Employment on the basis of the opinion. As Ludvig Aspling has written in his question, tough negotiations can wait. This requires active action to ensure that the proposal is designed in a way that respects our national system and the autonomy of the social partners. This means, among other things, that the proposal must not lead to a requirement for Sweden to introduce universally applicable collective agreements or statutory minimum wage. A crucial starting point for the government is that the social partners will continue to settle terms and salaries on the Swedish labour market. Collective agreements are adapted to the conditions of the industries and are based on mutual responsibility between the social partners. This system has created a long-term stable framework that has resulted for two decades in both real wage increases, high employment rates, work peace and growth. Meeting the social challenges is important for the cohesion of the EU as a whole and for the single market. Improving living conditions throughout Europe does not only improve the economy of these people; it also creates fairer competition, which benefits Swedish businesses and jobs. Discussions on a European minimum wage took place long before the pillar came into being. The Pillar does not give the EU any new powers, and therefore does not give it any new powers in terms of wages. The pillar states that all wage setting should be transparent and predictable in accordance with national practice and with respect for the autonomy and independence of the social partners. It is still the Member States that decide on wage levels.
i-309cc584c87a38be-717	Madam President, I would like First of all, I have to say that I am a little surprised that the Government chooses to disclose information from the legal opinion. These are data which are under foreign secrecy, at least as I understand it, and which are also classified from the European Union. I don't think the Government has the authority to disclose this information, but maybe we can talk about this another time. The European Commission is therefore proposing a legally binding directive on minimum wages. The Swedish model of wage setting thus faces a rather serious threat. We have, at least on paper, a united front against this proposal in the Swedish Parliament. All parties here claim to be deeply sceptical. So this debate is not about the material content of the proposal, but about how the government has acted, or failed to act, during the process to stop the proposal. First of all, it is important to understand the risks arising from the proposal. At the beginning of the process, the Government repeatedly stressed that it had negotiated an exemption for Sweden. The third point of the draft directive rightly states that in this directive, it may be interpreted as an obligation for Member States where wage setting is ensured exclusively by collective agreements to introduce a statutory minimum wage or to make collective agreements generally applicable. This sounds good on paper. The only problem is that the Government does not take into account how EU law works in practice. EU legislation is almost always the result of a long and complicated negotiation process, making the text of the law rather unclear. There is often no real interpretation background in the way that we in Sweden are used to with our preparatory work. EU acts have their real meaning when they are interpreted by the European Court of Justice and, as we all know, the European Court of Justice is very fond of using fairly loosely defined principles and other materials that we might not recognise as sources of law. All of this makes the process quite unpredictable. Another aspect of this is that the directive creates rights for individuals. This means that some provisions will have so-called direct effect, which means that they are directly applicable in Swedish courts regardless of how Sweden chooses to implement the directive. The bottom line is that things can go well, but there is also an imminent risk that the directive could have very serious consequences for Sweden. In an interview with the newspaper Dagens Nyheter, the Government said: However, I can also note that the Commission has developed an exception to ensure that the Swedish wage formation model is not affected. ..................................................... To this statement it sounds like the Minister for Labour is quite satisfied with the so-called opt-out. In addition, the statement may be used against her in a possible negotiation. Once said that you are satisfied with a certain exception, it is very difficult to demand further concessions from the other party. Madam President, I would like My question to the Government is this: does the Government think it was a mistake to speak so positively about the so-called guarantee, and does she still trust it today?
i-309cc584c87a38be-726	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by being very clear that Sweden does not want a directive in this area. We have worked with full force from the start in the process to ensure that this is made clear to everyone throughout Europe. Of course, we also need to do everything in our power to ensure party autonomy so that our wage-setting model is not in any way challenged or threatened by any initiatives at European level. When the Commission made its proposal, it was clear that the Commission had listened to the existence of different models of wage formation in Europe. Many EU Member States set salaries on the basis of legislation, while our model in Sweden and Denmark's, for example, works so that it is only the social partners who take responsibility for wage formation. In the proposal presented by the Commission, it is clear that the Commission has tried to meet up with Sweden and like-minded countries. However, my message has always been that we will never say yes to anything unless we are absolutely sure that this in no way challenges or undermines the Swedish labour market model. It's very important. This could be a very long process. I believe we have a long negotiation ahead of us. First of all, we do not want any initiative in this area at all, but would it still happen – even though we have now received the Council's Legal Service's opinion and work is going on here and now – we must vigorously and in every way safeguard the Swedish party model. Ludvig Aspling can feel very confident that I, not only as a minister but also with my long background in the trade union world and as a leader in the European union, will continue to work to ensure, with all the opportunities given, that this does not in any way affect Swedish wage formation.
i-309cc584c87a38be-731	Madam President, I would like The Government says that I can feel safe, and I can only make it clear to the House that I will not feel safe until the Social Democrats have left the Government Office. I want to be 100% clear about that. The Government also says that they will not say yes to anything that they do not feel confident about will mean that the Swedish model will be secured. But was it not then a mistake to speak so positively about this guarantee? It is definitely far from waterproof. It is also important to understand that this threat does not originate from any obscure EU bureaucracy. The prime responsibility for the fact that this proposal is now on the table is Prime Minister Stefan Löfven. The background to the proposal is the so-called social pillar, which is a political orientation document that was adopted at a summit in Gothenburg in 2017 on the initiative of, among other things, the Swedish Prime Minister. Paragraph 6 of the declaration on the social pillar contains an explicit reference to the issue of minimum wages, and the draft directive on minimum wages refers to the social pillar in no less than eight places. The connection between these two documents is clear. Representatives of government parties have stressed on several occasions that the issue of minimum wages has been discussed at EU level before the adoption of the social pillar. The government is trying to get away with this in the debate as well. However, that argument is nonsense. Everything between heaven and earth has been discussed at European level at some point. The question is not whether this has been discussed at European level in the past, but why it comes up on the legislative agenda right now. The answer to that, of course, is the social pillar. It's absolutely obvious. Usually the step from a discussion to a sharp proposal is quite long. That is not all that is being discussed anywhere that is actually becoming sharp suggestions. The reason we are talking about this now is that the Social Democrats signed the declaration on the social pillar. End of point. For me, it goes without saying that the ministers have a duty, in a situation where strong interests want to see a proposal that could potentially have a devastating effect on the Swedish model of wage formation, to do everything they can to keep that issue as far away from the legislative agenda as they can ever. Prime Minister Stefan Löfven chose to do exactly the opposite. We are therefore in a situation where an old trade unionist can risk going into history as the one who finally killed and buried the Swedish model of wage setting. I hope that will not be the case, but the risk is obvious. I would therefore like the Government to say what she thinks about this when we now see the results of the social pillar. Was it a mistake to initiate this?
i-309cc584c87a38be-740	Madam President, I would like The EU has no competence in terms of wage formation, nor does the social pillar give the EU any new power in this area – no new power or authority whatsoever. The social pillar is precisely a political orientation document. I think it's important to be done with that. I believe that the honourable Member is actually aware of this and has read about the social pillar. The fact that some forces then want to use it to advance their positions and argue that it means that we now have to legislate is another matter. However, it is not the case that the social pillar gives the EU any new powers or powers. Our wage-setting model has served us well and serves us well today. That is something that this government will continue to defend.
i-309cc584c87a38be-743	Madam President, I would like I think that speech is a little naïve to the way the European Union works. The EU has no authority in this, says the Government. No, the EU has no competence for joint borrowing either, because the Treaties expressly prohibit it. Yet we have the Corona Fund. The forces that govern Brussels do not care whether they have authority or not, but push their agenda through in any case. That is why we in Sweden must be hard on. Apart from the fact that the government chose to support the social pillar, which is the origin of the proposal, there is another factor which seriously damages the credibility of the government in this matter. On 27 January this year, the European Parliament voted on a resolution on minimum wages. It states, among other things, that the European Parliament stresses that the final directive should guarantee statutory minimum wages. It also states that the European Parliament calls on the Member States to propose minimum security systems in the form of legal frameworks. The Swedish Social Democrats in the European Parliament voted in favour of the resolution as a whole and also chose not to vote against any of the specific wordings on minimum wages, which they could have done if they had wanted to. It is completely incomprehensible to me, Madam President, that the Socialist Government, which claims to want to fight against this proposal, cannot even fight its own MEPs. I would therefore like to end by asking the Minister how the Swedish Government's efforts to stop the directive and its credibility are affected by the fact that the Government's own party is voting in favour of the directive in the European Parliament.
i-309cc584c87a38be-748	Madam President, I would like In fact, I think that the honourable Member is very familiar with how voting procedures are conducted in the European Parliament. In fact, there is no doubt at any level, either in Brussels or among the Member States, about what the Swedish Government's position is or what the attitude of the Swedish Social Democratic parliamentarians is. There is, of course, intensive advocacy work also going on among them. Madam President, I would like I would just like to conclude briefly by saying that we continue to believe that a legally binding directive is not appropriate, but we also need to act to safeguard our model in the negotiations that are now continuing. We note that alone is not strong and continue, together with many other Member States, to act and work on this incredibly central issue for Sweden. The government will continue to act with full force to ensure that the proposal from the European Commission does not jeopardise the Swedish collective agreement model or the parties' responsibility for wage formation. With this, I thank Mrs President and Mrs Aspling for the debate.
