i-e18c6b5ae93406c5-12	Madam President, I would like Mr Rothenberg has asked me what efforts I intend to take to avoid mass bankruptcies in the restaurant and hospitality industry. Madam President, I would like It is a very tough situation that many companies and workers in the restaurant and hospitality industry find themselves in because of the coronapandemine. The government and I as Minister of Economic Affairs have a dialogue with the tourism industry and are well acquainted with the situation in the industry. Examples of the support measures developed by the government during the pandemic are conversion aid, turnover support for individual traders, short-term lay-off, credit guarantees such as Företagsakten, relief in the unemployment fund for entrepreneurs and temporary reduction in employers' contributions and social security contributions. At the moment, we are in a third wave of infection, while the situation is serious on the labour market and for businesses. The Government has therefore proposed that several aid be extended in June, and the Government has also proposed that the previously announced closure aid be supplemented with compensation for salary costs in order to avoid dismissals in the event of closure. The conversion support for autumn and winter has been applied for from 25 February 2021, and the Swedish Tax Agency estimates that the processing times are very short. The Swedish Agency for Growth is also making efforts to speed up the processing of short-term aid. In parallel, retroactive deferred tax payments are granted. Since 5 February 2021, SEK 11.7 billion has been granted in this liquidity support. Madam President, I would like Having said that, the government is constantly following developments and is constantly looking at the need for the necessary measures.
i-e18c6b5ae93406c5-17	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. During this pandemic, the restaurant and visitor industry has taken more beatings than most other industries. Many of these companies have owners who have invested all their private finances in driving up their businesses. When the effects of the pandemic become increasingly critical, it is not only the existence of companies that are at stake, but also the private economy of companies' owners, when there is no more of their own money to put into the business. In the end, there may be double bankruptcies, on the one hand, of the companies and on the other hand, of the owners' personal nature. To deal with the consequences of this, the government has a clear responsibility. Liquidity problems in the restaurant industry in particular are acute. At the same time, there is considerable inertia and slowness in dealing with the promised subsidies. Many people testify to this. Payouts delay remarkably long, and in the worst case there will be no one left to pay out until the tempo does not speed up significantly. For this, the government has a clear responsibility. Madam President, I would like Many restaurant owners show that it has become more difficult to access conversion aid during the second round, which is why they are calling for faster and more flexible systems. The fact that the restaurants were also forced to close at a time when many guests usually arrive makes life even more precarious. The risk is imminent that the bankruptcies like the Corona virus will spread uncontrollably. That is why I have asked the Minister for Economic Affairs what measures he intends to take to avoid mass bankruptcies in the restaurant and hospitality industry. I did not note a clear answer from the Minister here. No one can explain the benefit of the early closure of restaurants to prevent the Corona virus. On the other hand, there is a clear ban on trade after 20 o'clock. Everyone can see the obvious negative consequences: companies on their knees and people who lose their jobs. If evening restaurants are the big problem, the corona infection would have been radically less widespread now, which it is not. For this, the government bears full responsibility. Redo and do better! We have seen a parade of decisions that do not solve the problems but rather create new, misdecisions that mutate at an ever higher rate that even the corona virus cannot match. When the restaurant closes at 20 o'clock, the party moves on to other places where the control is non-existent and the spread of infection is uncontrolled. For this, I would say, the government also bears full responsibility. Deferred tax in all honour, but it builds a tax debt for the future that will sooner or later be paid – a debt burden that becomes unmanageable when you are unable to earn your own money. Support in all honour, but what the restaurants want most of all is to be able to earn their own money and contribute to a safer management of the spread of infection. That is what they are today prevented from doing. That's why the government should do it again and do it right. The question is what basis the government has for deciding on the closure of a certain business activity at 20 o'clock. The Public Health Agency does not say at all that it is an effective solution, on the contrary. According to the self-reported data reported by the Swedish Public Health Agency from 11 March, the main vectors are family, partner and cohabiting partner, workplace and private encounters, as well as care situations. They're not restaurants.
i-SvLGudqAZZQnMzFqCSSWo4	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Rothenberg, for a highly topical interpellation! We are a number of moderate MPs who have raised these issues with the Government in recent months. This is my third debate on the same subject with the Minister for Enterprise since the turn of the year, Madam President. Why do we insist on stealing the minister's time on this subject? Because this is an issue that is concrete and deeply affecting a great many people in our vicinity. Both Hans Rothenberg and I come from Gothenburg, which is a city with a large and vibrant tourism industry. Or allow me to correct myself, Madam President: before the pandemic struck just over a year ago, Gothenburg had a large and vibrant tourism industry. Now that industry is struggling for its survival, literally. In recent months I have met a number of restaurateurs and restaurant employees in Gothenburg. They have come from fast food chains and neighborhood restaurants, from nightclubs and from star restaurants in Guide Michelin. Everyone describes more or less the same desperate situation. Between April 2020 and March 2021, 581 restaurants in Sweden went bankrupt for a total of 6 28 9 bankruptcies. Thus, nearly one in ten bankruptcies was a restaurant. Sure, there are many who highlight the problems with the design of the support measures. But, Madam President, more and more restaurateurs are also raising the question of how proportionate and substantiated the restrictions on restaurants are. Working at a restaurant today means to a large extent being well educated and able to handle drunk people. More and more restaurant workers I meet describe a development where restrictions now lead to drinking alcohol and socializing outside the restaurants. A restaurateur I met two weeks ago told me that it is becoming a problem at his restaurant that many guests want to leave Systemkassar in the closet and then take them to home parties. The problem is that the cashiers simply don't fit in the closet. But this is also problematic from the point of view of infection. It can't be better for people to be seen in crowded apartments late at night than for them to be seen in a restaurant with trained staff to keep people away? A number of legitimate questions are raised: What is it about the spread of infection that makes restaurants have to stop serving food and alcohol at 8:00 p.m. but are allowed to do so before? When authorities and government are to explain the cause of those restrictions, it is in rather sweeping terms. You talk about that it is part of a whole and that it should be seen as markings and norm formation. Direct scientific support is more difficult to find. Is there support for the increase in the spread of infection after 8:00 p.m.? Is there support for a reduction in the spread of infection in general if you limit the size of the company to just four people – especially as the restrictions say that there are eight people who apply in places other than restaurants? Madam President, I would like I understand that the government wants to send signals and norms of behavior. It is basically good and important to stop the spread of the disease. But you can do it in different ways and according to different parameters. I therefore think that in this debate the Minister for Enterprise must answer whether it is worth risking an entire industry in order to set that example. Is it worth risking 200 000 people's jobs in the hotel and restaurant industry to set an example? If not, what is the scientific basis for all the restrictions now imposed by the restaurant industry?
i-e18c6b5ae93406c5-41	Madam President, I would like This interpellation debate is prompted by a question from Mr Rothenberg about what efforts I intend to take to avoid mass bankruptcies in the restaurant and tourism industry. So the question was put, and I have answered that, since March last year, we have designed a dozen different aids to mitigate the effects of the pandemic on our business community. We have done so, and we have done so on a scale that has never been seen before because we have been in a crisis that we have never seen before in modern times. It is a broad and deep crisis that still lasts because the pandemic continues. We are still, and I would remind Members of this, in the middle of the third wave. We all hope, of course, that it will ebb out, but that is not the case yet. The spread of infection remains high. Now, Madam President, two moderate Members of Parliament are standing in the speaker's chair pretending that they have made other proposals. They pretend that they have put forward proposals that restaurants should be open exactly as usual. David Josefsson says that the restaurant and hospitality industry in Sweden has a very tough situation. That's right. It's in a very tough situation. But it should not come as news to the honourable Member that this is not unique to Gothenburg or Sweden. This is a situation that we have globally. It's a pandemic raging. Ever since the outbreak of the pandemic, it has been uncertain how this infection spreads with more. We have learned more and more because this has lasted for a year, but there are still a great many uncertainties. Nevertheless, we know that just when people associate with each other, when you approach each other and when there are a lot of people in motion, the spread of infection increases. That's exactly what we saw last fall. It was against this background that the government and the Public Health Authority introduced a number of recommendations and restrictions. Do we want it that way? No, I believe that neither Members, I, the government, the restaurant industry or anyone else wants to live like this. We'd like to live normal. We'd like to be able to hang out with friends, go to the restaurant, go to a dinner-- yes, simply live our life normal, but it's not possible as it is now. We have to endure the coming months until vaccination has gone so far that we can curb this infection that way. Madam President, I would like Let me go back to the question that Mr Rothenberg has put to me. How should we avoid mass bankruptcies in the restaurant and hospitality industry? By simply standing together! Since last March, we have introduced a large number of support measures with taxpayers' money precisely to mitigate the effects of the virus. As David Josefsson says, I have received a large number of questions – both simple written questions and interpellations – about the situation and mass bankruptcies. The situation is so serious that we should be careful about this, but it is already so dark that you should not be blacking out in an unnecessary way. If we look at the actual developments, we see that these support programmes work. During the first quarter of 2021, which has meant a very tough situation for the tourism industry, we see that the number of bankruptcies in the restaurant industry is decreasing compared to the first quarter of 2020.
i-e18c6b5ae93406c5-50	Madam President, I would like Yes, Minister, efforts to limit the number of bankruptcies should be accurate. They will be useful, and they will remedy a problem that exists. Making efforts that do not remedy a problem but rather restrict the ability of traders to earn their own money and avoid bankruptcy is not what a government has to decide on. The Minister talks about restrictions and the spread of infection. I don't think there's anyone questioning the fact that the Corona virus has caused a lot of trouble. But it is important to make the right efforts. What evidence is there of scientific, empirical or any kind that says that the spread of infection is best managed by closing restaurants at 20 instead of 22 o'clock or any other time? We get reports from disturbance shelters and property owners e that there are more disruptions in housing today. Why is that? It doesn't take Einstein to understand that. The party's moving home. And it wouldn't be a home party if people could stay in the restaurants in a controlled way, a maximum of four at each table, with distance between the tables and with trained staff who can handle people who come too close to each other. Instead of doing that, people should go home too soon. Then the party occurs, and it arises in environments that cannot be controlled. There are many reports from restaurant owners about an excessive focus on cheating. We Moderates have said: Pay out the subsidies first, and check afterwards! It is important to do this and not suspect until they have received the support. Out of approximately 100 000 applicants, 30 cases have led to a police report – 30 out of 100 000 applicants. That is why the approach should be completely changed. Payments are delayed for five months, the Swedish Agency for Growth does not take into account arrears, and 60 000 employees are on short-term leave. Only on 5 May can the property owner apply for rent support from January, for a rent that was due in December. It is not easy to get the landlord to agree to pay the rent six months later. There are other examples of fixed costs not included in the conversion aid. A restaurant with a gas stove must not count on the energy cost. But those with electric stoves are allowed to do so. The Ministry of Industry believes that it is the Swedish Tax Agency that makes a too square interpretation, but the Swedish Tax Agency believes that they follow the rules. In the end, it is the restaurant owner who has to bear the consequences of the completely absurd decisions. The conversion aid is not enough by a long way, but it is being replenished with private money. And the biggest problem now for the restaurant business is that you can no longer serve at 20 o'clock but should chase out your guests. The decisions taken by the government will also be a problem for authorities. For it is the government, not the opposition, that has taken the decision on what applies from 20 o'clock. Don't pretend the opposition's in on this! It is the government that owns that question, and the government must tell us the basis for this. If you do not, you have to talk about how to deal with the bankruptcies that we will see because traders cannot carry on their business.
i-e18c6b5ae93406c5-59	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. It is, as the Government says, an exceptional situation in which Sweden and the rest of the world find themselves. Stopping the spread of the disease must be a priority. But precisely because it has to be a priority, it is important to have a good and well thought-out basis for what you do. It is clear that the government has failed to keep the spread of infection in Sweden down. On the basis of what we have heard in the hearings in the Constitutional Committee, the government also seems to lack a strategy for its management of the pandemic. Madam President, I would like The fact that, at the beginning of a crisis, measures for which there may be a lack of clear evidence are perfectly understandable. Sometimes it is more important to act quickly than not to act at all. However, the restrictions that today hit the food service industry hardest were not introduced in March or April last year. On 18 December, it was decided on the restrictions on alcohol filling after 20: 00 p.m., as well as the restriction on four persons per company. On February 26, almost exactly two months ago, restaurants that do not serve alcohol were also included. So it is not measures that have been decided on in an emergency phase, at the beginning of a crisis. There has been plenty of time to work out documentation and design restrictions. One could thus have learned from both one's own and international experiences. That is why I ask a very simple question one more time, Madam President. What scientific evidence is behind these restrictions? Is there one at all? Or is it the case that the government is risking a whole industry and thousands of people's jobs simply because it wants to show action?
i-e18c6b5ae93406c5-65	Madam President, I would like These are important issues to discuss. It is clear that the tourism industry as a whole as well as the specific industries – in restaurants, hotels, travel, culture and more – continue to have a very tough time. That's it. It is easy to forget, because we have been in this situation for 14 months now, that there are industries – culture and events etc. – that have not been open since March last year. Of course it's a tough situation. It is against this background that we are helping. We're standing together. It is against this background that we have used tens and tens of billions of taxpayers' money to support healthy, honest companies in overwintering this. I now hear two things from the Moderates. One is directly dangerous. I hear that, as some other countries have done, we will prematurely release restrictions. I cannot interpret it in any other way, Madam President, when you say: why not 22, or why not 24? We had a fall when it was freer, and we know where it led. There are pictures of overcrowded dance floors. And we know what a huge wave came in the fall. Of course, it wasn't just because of it. There were a lot of things that led to it. But it was against this background that we imposed the restrictions. The facts are still right, Hans Rothenberg. As regards the last decision on the extension of the permit to serve, it is the Public Health Authority that has decided on it. It came last week. What, then, is the situation in this very tough time? I will return to the question put in the interpellation: how should we avoid mass bankruptcies in the restaurant and hospitality industry? Well, by helping each other. What is the result? You don't want to pretend like that from the moderate direction. I will read from the latest report from Growth Analysis, Madam President: The number of employees affected by bankruptcies decreased by 48 per cent during the quarter. This compares with March last year and the first quarter in 2020. That's what reality looks like. Does that mean we can blow the danger over? No, absolutely not. We're still in a very difficult position. The pandemic and the spread of infection are still very much alive. Although we have great hope of what the vaccination can lead to, Madam President, I would like to raise the finger of warning to Members. This is a virus mutating. We also see the situation in the countries that have opened up prematurely. They have exclaimed, Victory! Then they have had a huge blow back, with suffering, death and, of course, major economic problems and mass unemployment as a result. Madam President, I would like If the moderate Members have any other proposal, they are happy to present it. It is the Public Health Agency that has proposed and, in the last case, decided on an extension. Is there any other evidence and suggestions so: Please! I'm all ears. I think it is important that we listen to each other in these difficult times. Madam President, I would like I cannot help but note that what Mr Rothenberg and the Moderates are saying is tremendous. When we spend 50, perhaps 60 billion – an enormous amount – of taxpayers' money, Rothenberg and the Moderates mean that we should send out the money and if it turns out to be wrong, take it in afterwards. It only works on honest entrepreneurs. It's fattening organized crime. It's really irresponsible.
i-e18c6b5ae93406c5-75	Madam President, I would like An entire restaurant business now heard the Minister say that they are part of organised crime. There have been 30 police reports of 100 000 aid paid. This is to suspect an entire industry. It is a nutrition that does what it can with tightening up the receipt team and everything possible. It is a nutrition that has previously had problems with wardrobes that do not work. They want nothing but to carry out their activities properly. They're not bad guys, and they shouldn't be considered bad guys until they've committed a crime. But it is not a crime that they are currently losing their liquidity, that they have acute problems getting their business going. Recruiting will be very difficult. Many have left the business for good. But it's a coming problem. The generation that will have their first job will not get any summer jobs this summer. It's a more acute problem. It's an exaggerated focus on cheating. In Germany, you manage to trust your traders and frame those who actually do wrong. There are a few restaurants in Sweden that have overcrowded dance floors. There are a few restaurants in Sweden that have dance floors at all. It's not a problem at a pizzeria or Chinese restaurant. If there is no nutrition to come back to, the recoil of the Corona virus may become mass unemployment. The Minister for Industry should go for a Marshall plan for the restaurant and hospitality industry. How do you rebuild it? How do you avoid a debt mountain where tax deferral becomes a burden worse than the Corona virus? The government listens when the Public Health Agency warns, but you don't listen when the Public Health Authority doesn't warn. The Public Health Agency has not recommended shutdown. Thank you for the debate.
i-e18c6b5ae93406c5-79	Madam President, I would like The situation is tough. I understand we're all frustrated. It's been this tough ever since March of last year. I think we would all, deep down, both privately and as a company, like to have a normal life. I hope and believe that via vaccination we will also be able to get back to the new normal, but we are not there. I would really like to appeal to Members not to give up but to hold out the last few months before we have vaccinated widely in society. I myself worked in the restaurant business, Hans Rothenberg. There are very many honest entrepreneurs and employees who are doing their utmost. But I know that Mr Rothenberg, who has been around for a while, is not naive; we also have organised crime in our country. It is clear that if they understood that there were tens and tens of billions of taxpayers' money that could be obtained without controls, the gender would risk being long. Both Europol and the European Commission and the former Head of National Police, who has investigated the matter, have warned against simply sending out the money in this way. If it turns out to an honest entrepreneur that the whole thing has gone wrong, the money will be refunded, if possible. But there is a great risk that those who do not have pure flour in the bag will take the taxpayers' money and draw. Then we wouldn't see a glimpse of them. Of course, it is important that we work together in this situation. Yes, we use a large part of taxpayers' money to help companies overwinter. It is therefore important that they go to the companies that should have them – the honest and honest companies that do their utmost with both their own resources and the support that will ensure that we have a future even after that.
i-e18c6b5ae93406c5-83	Madam President, I would like Lotta Olsson has asked me on what facts and circumstances I base my position that Sweden and our energy policy can find success factors in the German energy transition and energy policy. Lotta Olsson has also asked me if I am going to take any initiatives to change Swedish energy policy in view of the information that has emerged from the report by the German National Audit Office. First of all, I want to make it clear that I have not made such a statement as Lotta Olsson refers to. But when it comes to what lessons we can learn for the Swedish community, I think we should remember that Germany has been involved in driving you even now the favourable cost developments for renewable electricity generation and batteries. This is something we can take advantage of in Sweden. I also believe that we have much to gain by learning from the energy policy of other countries, and in this respect the report by the German National Audit Office is interesting. Germany has ambitious climate targets that for energy policy mean that all coal power will be decommissioned by 2038, with large-scale decommissioning already until 2023. In parallel, nuclear power will also be decommissioned next year, while there are major investment needs in the German electricity grid. It is therefore doubtful whether we should draw too far-reaching conclusions from the report on energy policy in Sweden today. In Sweden, we certainly also have certain challenges in the electricity sector that the government is actively working with. In this context, I would also like to regret the fact that Lotta Olsson's party chose to leave the cooperation under the Energy Agreement where future challenges were discussed in a broad political circle to enable as stable and long-term rules of the game as possible. But that said, it is important to remember that we have very good opportunities to switch to a renewable electricity system and to meet the forthcoming electrification of the industry and transport sector. With our hydropower we have unique opportunities to balance the variations in electricity consumption and also electricity generation when, for example, wind power production is high or low. Our nuclear power is also expected to form part of the energy mix in Sweden for the foreseeable future.
i-e18c6b5ae93406c5-88	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Ygeman, for your answer. The German counterpart of the Swedish National Audit Office has a greater freedom factor than the Swedish and works more independently. It has been very critical of the country's energy transition. Germany has the highest energy price in the EU. Although Germany per capita has a corresponding half of the energy consumption that Sweden has, this is heavy for German households and industry. In Germany, the energy price is 43% higher than the EU average. This is, of course, costly, and yet Germany does not have the heavy industry that we have. There has therefore been a sharp criticism of both the energy transition and the way in which energy policy is conducted. They have also been very tough on the German Treasury and say that this wastes German taxpayers' money and that it is ordinary German households that have to pay for the inconsistent or irrational energy transition. The energy policy that has been pursued is seen as very costly. Germany has a foundation with more fossil energy, such as coal and gas, but now they turn a lot to wind power and phase out the basic energy from nuclear power. What we now want to do is to increase the transfer capacity from Russia with fossil gas. This is not a road that Sweden wants to go. It is therefore very strange that the Minister for Energy sees no danger in us changing our energy mix so that we get much more wind power, but at the same time we balance it up with more nuclear power. It is difficult to increase the production of hydropower. We are talking about the possibility of raising water levels in the reservoirs, but it is still a negligible amount of energy. I do not understand when Anders Ygeman often argues in the debate that Sweden is doing so well, that we export energy and that we export wind power. In fact, we will have the same balance problems and costs as in Germany. There they have the problem that they soon have no nuclear power left, and they also have no hydropower as Sweden has. This is particularly worrying for Sweden, because we have a heavy industry. Anders Ygeman and I use as a citizen in Sweden, with everything we produce in the country and with our private consumption, twice as much electricity as an ordinary German citizen. I am seriously concerned about our competitiveness if we are to be in the same class. For this reason, I had expected Anders Ygeman to be more concerned about the German report on how things have turned out when you have changed and have not done proper impact assessments. One should look at the economy and see the overall impact on the country.
i-e18c6b5ae93406c5-97	Madam President, I would like Of course, Lotta Olsson is free to worry about anything, but, as I said, I have never said anything positive about the German energy transition. Therefore, the whole foundation falls on which the interpellation rests. Lotta Olsson answers the only question she asks herself, namely that Sweden, unlike Germany, has large resources of hydropower. That is something we should be happy and proud of.
i-e18c6b5ae93406c5-99	Madam President, I would like Now it is that Anders Ygeman has actually revised what he thinks about the energy needs in Sweden in a few years' time. You have to give him all the credit for that. We have seen that we will have to double our energy consumption when we change our heavy industry. It has been one of our flagships in Sweden. We convert heavy industry in Norrland to fossil-free. Then all the hydropower Anders Ygeman wants us to balance up wind power in southern Sweden with. Therefore, I think it is my duty when I am working on these issues to highlight this before we are in the same position as Germany. I don't really know how Anders Ygeman thinks about the economy and how we can finance this. Germany is also a huge export-dependent country, Madam President, but for us half of the bnp depends on what we export. If energy is to be twice as expensive, neither Anders Ygeman nor I will be able to count home this much exports to other countries. Many other countries are now also switching to fossil-free production. We have had a competitive advantage in that we have been able to make very green and fine products, but these will be produced in many other countries as well. Whether Anders Ygeman has said so about Germany, I would argue that German wind power policy is a great example of how Anders Ygeman's factual thinking behind this looks, and that does not hold. Furthermore, given what Anders Ygeman said in the interpellation response, this is, of course, the reason why it is difficult to make agreements. If Anders Ygeman's policy is based on completely different facts and a completely different research about what happens when you set up systems as large as the entire Swedish energy system, it is extremely difficult to agree. If Anders Ygeman believes in Santa Claus and we don't, it's extremely difficult to make an agreement. But, as I said, Germany is an example of how much more expensive it will be for us. We will have a completely different problem. Another effect of this transformation – and we also have it in Sweden – is that much more infrastructure will have to be developed. We took a decision last week, Madam President, to allow more infrastructure to be paid for in Sweden, and we have been in favour of this from a moderate point of view. We still have a lot of air lines. We have narrow sectors to Stockholm, to Skåne and so on. We have much higher prices in energy areas 3 and 4, which we think is positive. But in Germany we are talking about huge investment needs that are not at all in parity with Swedish investment needs. It will cost more than $5,000 per household to make this investment. Then I think Anders Ygeman is guilty of the answer. Is it this development Anders Ygeman wants to see in Sweden, or should we be able to balance this in some other way? Is it a large hydroelectric power plant in southern Sweden planned, or where are we going to get this balancing power from?
i-e18c6b5ae93406c5-104	Madam President, I would like Jack Werner gave out a book a couple of years ago called "I don't give a fuck that it's fake, it's fucked up anyway. It's a bit the same debate technique Lotta Olsson uses. She knows what she's saying isn't true. She even says it's not true. But she still thinks it's fucked up, even though it's not true. It would be good if we could start by starting from reality and truth, Lotta Olsson, instead of fictional Santas. Lotta Olsson then deals with the issue of the economy and is concerned about the economy in Sweden. Let's ask the World Economic Forum. They came in the day before yesterday with their report where they rank countries according to the best conversion ability – which are the best in the world down to those who are the worst in the world. There are a number of countries. I don't know if it's all the world's 195 countries, but of that magnitude. Sweden is number one. I can tell Lotta Olsson's delight that Germany is not in the top three of the list, so there may be other countries to look at than Germany. The basic conditions in Sweden are such that we have the largest electricity surpluses ever and the EU's lowest prices. We have changed our energy system so that today, in energy production, we emit one fifth of the carbon dioxide and one fifth of the fossil content compared to what we did in 2010. The basis for Swedish energy policy – it feels a little sad to have to mention it to a moderate – is that it is market driven. It believes in technological development. It believes that different technologies compete with each other and that the best technology wins. It has given the EU the lowest electricity prices. It has also produced hugely low emissions of carbon dioxide, perhaps the lowest. Our wish is for this to continue and for us to build on a fact-based, innovation-friendly and market-driven green transition. I hope that the Moderates will leave the faith and Santa Claus to join the Swedish line.
i-e18c6b5ae93406c5-108	Madam President, I would like There are a lot of gnomes and trolls out here, but as an anecdote, this is important. Anders Ygeman never likes my combat technique. If it is so that I write very well thought out points I get criticism because I read before. If I debate in another way, I get criticism for it. I do not think it is a fine rhetoric to say that to debaters. Instead, the arguments put forward should be listened to. Bill Gates has written a hugely thought-out book where he has looked at what the world's energy transition looks like. He cannot see anywhere that we will be able to do this without increasing nuclear power quite sharply. Anders Ygeman is right about one thing: We have historically been very good in Sweden. We were early in hydropower and nuclear power. This has also cost a lot to both Swedish nature and Swedish taxpayers. There are films to watch where you can see the enormous sacrifices you have had to make in Norrland to expand water power and what it cost to expand nuclear power. If we are now going to increase by 100 percent more and we already have balancing problems today, I do not understand, Anders Ygeman, how we can do it in any other way. The Social Democrats never like the market economy as much as when it comes to energy. But this is still a controlled market in many ways. For example, we have not done research on the nuclear side as we have done on all other things. It's been politically controlled, so it's a market with modification. We still have to admit that. I would like Anders Ygeman to get away from ancient times and start looking more at the future to see how we can get more balancing power in our electricity system, so that we can balance up the massive expansion of wind power that is coming.
i-e18c6b5ae93406c5-114	Madam President, I would like If it is the case that Lotta Olsson makes things up and then continues to maintain the things she has made up and argues based on them, she will have to accept that I criticize her defamation technique. There are enough real things to debate in Parliament's Chamber to avoid making up things to get a debate. With regard to the final question of balancing power, I can say that the need for this will certainly increase. I think we are going to see hydropower running differently from today. There will be more hydropower when there is less and less hydropower when there is more wind. We will see, for example, with the Hybrid project, that wind energy is stored in hydrogen in order to be able to run it when the price of electricity is higher and it blows less. We will see offshore wind – twice as many hours at sea as on land on average. We will see storage through a number of different technologies. It can be hydrogen, batteries and heat storage in salt, for which Alfa Laval is now building a plant in Canada. I think we will see much more flexibility in the electricity grid. There are many different techniques to take advantage of. My point is that we should not invest taxpayers' money in any technology that is not cost-effective. We shall ensure that we have political governance of energy policy that makes use of the most cost-effective technology to cope with the green transition. In this way, we can maintain the EU's lowest price of electricity and avoid the development of many other countries. They pay large sums of money for nuclear power and thus receive a double or three times as high an electricity price as the Swedish.
i-e18c6b5ae93406c5-119	Madam President, I would like Joar Forssell has asked me what the government has done and is planning to do to persuade the Commission to pursue a technology-neutral energy policy in which all fossil-free forms of energy, including nuclear and renewable energy, come into use to the extent that it is effective in achieving climate objectives. Joar Forssell has also asked me whether the Swedish Government, on behalf of Sweden, has refused to sign the letter that the French President, together with the Heads of State or Government of six more EU Member States, has sent to the European Commission, and if so why, and what the government is doing to make Sweden's view of the EU's energy policy known to the other Member States. Let me begin by making it clear that I fully share Joar Forssell's view on the need for the Treaty to establish that the Member States themselves decide their energy mix. Both natural and political conditions differ from one Member State to another, and therefore views on different technologies vary. Nuclear power is perhaps the most obvious example where the Member States have different views. Another example is carbon capture and storage. It should, of course, be up to the elected representatives of each Member State to decide for themselves how the countries contribute to the achievement of the EU's objectives. The Lisbon Treaty therefore states that the EU should promote the energy areas in which the EU as a whole sees added value, namely renewable energy, energy efficiency and well-functioning energy markets. Otherwise, I fully agree with Joar Forssell that regulation should be as technology-neutral as possible and allow each Member State to find the most cost-effective solutions for achieving the common European objectives. I have repeatedly expressed the position adopted by Parliament that all fossil-free energy technologies are important components for achieving the climate target. I have also worked constantly to ensure that the EU avoids unnecessary detailed regulation of how the objectives are to be achieved and gives more freedom to the Member States to decide how the targets are to be achieved. With regard to the letter from Hungary, Poland, the Czech Republic, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia and France, we have not received any information about it before we read about it in the media.
i-e18c6b5ae93406c5-123	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. It is well known to the Government and the House that the Swedish position on these issues was decided at least a year ago. But we know it's been decided several times. It is very clear what the House thinks, because it has been decided on several times. The Swedish position is that all fossil-free forms of energy, including nuclear energy and renewable energy, should be used effectively in Europe's climate transition. Madam President, I would like It is also the core of the letter that has been sent. According to the Government, Sweden has not been asked to participate. It may seem a little strange. There are a number of countries that have similar positions in one for all of these countries and also for Sweden an extremely important issue. If you know that there is another country, in this case Sweden, which has a position that simply correlates with the core of the letter, it is a little strange that you should not ask the question. Of course, we often have differences of opinion with countries such as Hungary on other issues. In this matter one might imagine that, for example, France, which is a country that is often close to Sweden on other issues, could reach out one hand. Madam President, I would like As a Member, one wonders with what frenzy and what commitment the government, which has not initially supported the position but which has then been given by the Parliament, has brought this forward in its contacts with our European friends. Madam President, I would like Nevertheless, I must ask the Government to answer a perhaps speculative question, when we have the opportunity to ask questions here. Why does the Government believe that we have not been asked to take part in the letter? It seems a little strange if it is that we have put forward our positions, which the Swedish Parliament has so clearly decided on in these contexts, but then not been asked to take part in the letter. You want as many friends as possible to sign such a letter in order to have as much impact as possible?
i-Hn7usjvhgyjqVnapUszmPg	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Joar Forssell, for the question! There will, of course, be speculation on my part. It can be noted that there are other countries that have the same position that have not been asked either, such as Finland. It shows that it is the classic Visegrad countries that have met and then asked France but not countries in a wider circle. That would be my first-hand speculation when I see the signatory countries. It is not a secret for anyone in the EU or in Sweden what Sweden stands for in that discussion.
i-e18c6b5ae93406c5-131	Madam President, I would like Thank you again, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for your answer. According to the information that has come in my direction, Finland chose not to sign. Of course, you can speculate on the reasons for this. It could depend on which countries are included in the letter. I might think it's a little strange. These are issues in which we often have common positions. It is also the case that France is a co-author. Madam President, I would like On a previous occasion, I have compared Minister Ygeman with various football players. It has gone like that, perhaps mainly because of my own knowledge of that ball sport. Another ball sport that I am well acquainted with is water polo that I have played for many years, believe it or not. It can be said that if the Government has now put forward our position, which the Riksdag has decided on so clearly – this is about technology neutrality and looking at all fossil-free energy types – he is not as good as the famous water polo player Dezső Gyarmati in promoting our Swedish position. Madam President, I would like I would like to take this opportunity to emphasise how important it is when Sweden decides on our positions. In this case, it is precisely about technology neutrality, but also about being a country itself having to decide about its energy mix. In the Riksdag, we expect the Government, in this case Minister Ygeman, and the Government as a whole to put forward our positions and try to find kinsmen on various issues. It is clear that it is easier to have close contacts with countries with which there are many common positions. But in this case, for example, France has shown that it is possible to find common positions with countries with which we usually find it a little more difficult to cooperate. Madam President, I would like It would have been good, good for Sweden, for our competitiveness and our important climate work and indeed for our role in the world, our solidarity in the field of energy with our neighbours, and also because many of the countries that are here and which today use coal power in a way that Sweden is critical of, if we had had the opportunity to sign this letter and the opportunity to pursue our position together. Madam President, I would like That is why I will come back to one of the questions that is in the interpellation from the beginning. Given that Ygeman believes that we are pushing our position and suggests that Sweden has not been asked to sign up, I wonder how the Government and Minister Ygeman from the Swedish side will act in the future. How will they act in order for our position, the one decided by the Swedish Parliament, to become even more known both among our European friends and, perhaps on other issues, among our enemies?
i-e18c6b5ae93406c5-139	Madam President, I would like If Joar Forssell has knowledge gaps in the field of football, I can reveal that my knowledge gaps in the water polo area are monumental. I think he's quite right to say that I'm not anyone... I dare not even pronounce the name again. I think I'm more like a greystone when it comes to water polo- closest to water scared. I hope I make better efforts as a minister. We will, of course, continue to promote the Swedish view in all international contexts. I think, as I said earlier – although it is speculation – that the fact that Sweden was not asked to sign this letter has to do with the fact that the Swedish position is unknown. We meet at least once a month between energy ministers and discuss this, and at every opportunity I am given the opportunity to put forward the Swedish position. As Joar Forssell and I agree, it is ultimately the individual countries that will determine the energy mix. It is not the EU that should decide what energy mix either Sweden or Hungary should have, but there are other conditions to decide. It is about the national democracies of each country. I can assure Joar Forssell that I will continue to work to ensure that the Swedish position on which we both agree is put forward in all contexts where possible.
i-e18c6b5ae93406c5-143	Madam President, I would like Thank you again, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for your answer. The said water polo player, Dezső Gyarmati, is also Hungarian. It may well be said that Hungary is doing many things wrong that you can criticise them for, but water polo is difficult to break Hungary in. Madam President, I would like Nevertheless, in the light of the answers I have received here today, I would like to hear from the Government in the last speech whether he has the view that the European Commission today fully respects each country's right to decide on its own energy mix. I also wonder whether it is the Government's view that the European Commission has a technology-neutral approach to the different types of energy that we need for our transition. That is what is at the heart of the position adopted by the Swedish Parliament. I would also like to take the opportunity to ask a question on this type of letter or talk which, in its political content, shares the Swedish position. Is it the view of the Government that you can sign that type of letter or make joint statements even with countries with which you do not share views on other political issues?
i-e18c6b5ae93406c5-147	Madam President, I would like I understood that there were three questions that Joar Forssell asked. On the first two, if the European Commission respects the decisions that exist in the EU and if the European Commission seems technology neutral, I would say that the answer is yes. It is certainly possible to have comments on individual decisions, but broadly speaking I would answer yes to the two questions. The third question is whether Sweden is prepared to sign letters with countries with which we agree on a particular matter but with which we may otherwise disagree on other matters. There I would say that the answer is unequivocally yes. Most of the countries that have signed this letter have signed another letter along with taxonomy, which also moved forward the positions considerably. If we had been asked, the fact that in this circle there were some countries on which the EU has views would not have prevented us from signing a letter. I think that's the straight answer I can give.
i-e18c6b5ae93406c5-151	Madam President, I would like Jens Holm has asked me whether I will work to ensure that the national transport infrastructure plan contributes to a more transport efficient society within the framework of climate targets in line with what the Climate Policy Council has proposed. The answer to the question is that the government's response is clear: the climate targets should be reached! Sweden will be the world's first fossil-free welfare country. In June 2017, the Riksdag adopted a climate policy framework for Sweden. The framework includes new climate targets, a climate law and the Climate Policy Council. The government's policy is based on the Climate Act. The transport sector, like all sectors, needs to change. If we want to make wise investments in infrastructure, we will increase the opportunities. However, infrastructure planning needs to be combined with other measures to achieve climate objectives. It is committed to a large number of measures to accelerate the transition, including support for transport electrification, the transfer of goods from road to rail and shipping, sustainable renewable fuels and making it easy to travel climate-smart with public transport throughout Sweden. The government has recently put forward a bill with the largest financial framework ever for transport infrastructure measures. In total, the framework amounts to SEK 876 billion for the period 2022 – 2033. The proposal involves major efforts both to take care of and develop existing infrastructure and to carry out new investments throughout the country. Infrastructure planning is an important tool for achieving transport policy objectives, including climate targets, and the proposal focuses on the infrastructure's role in building society. After Parliament's decision on the financial framework for infrastructure measures, work continues on the so-called action plan. They identify the actions to be prioritised in the national plan. Investments in transport infrastructure build Sweden strong and sustainable for the future and can contribute to climate change. Decisions on a new national plan are planned for 2022.
i-e18c6b5ae93406c5-156	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Minister for Infrastructure for the answer to my interpellation. The debate we have now concerns the Government's proposal for an infrastructure bill and the subsequent plan for national infrastructure investments – the infrastructure plan. This is likely to be the largest investment made by the state of Sweden over the next twelve years. The Infrastructural Bill and the Infrastructural Plan are likely to also be the most important governance documents we have to achieve our climate goals. Let me emphasise that the transport sector has a separate climate target. We will reduce emissions by 70% by 2030. It's less than ten years away. By 2045 we will have zero emissions in Sweden. That is why we need infrastructure planning that really stays within the framework of our climate targets. Madam President, I would like A few weeks ago, the Climate Policy Council came with its review of Sweden's efforts to reach the climate targets. They point out infrastructure planning as perhaps the most important thing for us to achieve our climate goals, precisely because it is about so much money, which the Minister has just been on. Here we also have the opportunity to create a transport-efficient society where we transport ourselves less and where we transport ourselves smarter from an environmental and climate perspective. This means less transport with your own car. This means less transport by air but more by rail and more by public transport. And that means more walking and cycling in our cities. I believe, like the Climate Policy Council, that the government, with the infrastructure bill and with the infrastructure plan that we have today, misses the opportunity to achieve just that: a more transport-efficient society in which we achieve our climate targets. The infrastructure bill referred to by the Minister, which was presented last week, raises some interesting points, I think. But it leaves at least as many questions. For example, they say that the infrastructure bill should achieve the climate goals and that the so-called four-step principle should govern infrastructure planning. The four-step principle means that the last thing you do is build new ones. As far as possible, use should be made of step one and step two. We do this by planning differently and by supporting, for example, behavioral changes so that people travel collectively and bikes instead of building new roads and so on. Therefore, I would like to ask the Minister: how does the Minister think that step one and step two measures, within the framework of the four-step principle, will be strengthened with the infrastructure bill and the future infrastructure plan? And what concrete measures does the Minister intend to take? I see no legislative changes, no commissions to the Finnish Transport Administration and no new forms of funding to enable us to make more use of step one measures and step two measures. That is exactly what is needed, and it should be in the infrastructure bill.
i-e18c6b5ae93406c5-165	Madam President, I would like Jens Holm and I fully share, I believe, both objectives and ambitions when it comes to Sweden becoming the world's first fossil-free welfare country and that infrastructure planning and transport policy in general are incredibly important instruments. There is no doubt on the part of the government – we also wrote it into the assignments to the Swedish Transport Administration – that climate targets are a central starting point for planning. And Trafikverket will base its focus proposal on a scenario where climate targets are to be reached. That must be the starting point. I do not like the idea of having to correct the chairman of the Transport Committee, for which I have a lot of respect. But both the chairman of the Transport Committee, Jens Holm, and the Climate Policy Council probably do not really understand what an infrastructure bill is aimed at. It is not a broad transport policy proposition that raises questions about bonus– malus or incentives for electrification or, for that matter, individual objects. The infrastructure bill is the government's way of requesting to Parliament, if you may say, that we should have a framework for future infrastructure planning. This framework is about both development funding and maintenance. It is then in the action plan that work on individual objects comes in, based on the guidelines and principles that exist. And it is in other contexts that we are talking about the climate policy instruments that exist. On the other hand, it is quite right that the four-step principle is important, but I believe that some misunderstand it. The four-step principle is not a principle that can be used not to build new infrastructure. One thing I think is clear – I still want to take the opportunity to say it. Of course, we have an important level of ambition in reaching the 2030 target – a 70% reduction in emissions from the transport sector by 2030. That's a very important goal. As far as this is concerned, there are key tools in the field of transport policy. It's biofuels, biofuels. With a reduction obligation for both road vehicles and, not least, aviation, it can be very effective, provided that the biomaterial is there. We have to work together for that. It is also about electrification. We are speeding up electrification, not least through the Electrification Commission's work, in order to reduce emissions mainly from the road side. But it is an exciting development also in terms of the electrification of shipping and in terms of aviation, where there is, of course, a great potential. The third part is Jens Holm also inside. That's the transport efficiency. There is much to do to make the transport system we have today more effective. Not least in the case of freight transport, there are low-hanging fruits and opportunities to make even better use of the current transport system with the right incentives. We also have the target of net zero emissions in 2045. Rather, this is what the infrastructure bill is aiming to a large extent at. What investments must we now make in order to ensure that we are not only able to reduce emissions by 70% by 2030, but also to achieve net zero emissions? That's when new investments come in. It is about rail investments and investments in shipping. I usually use this also in the discussion with many people who now believe that we should put a great deal of focus on maintenance. No, if we do this too much, we are missing the chance to now make the necessary decisions to cope with net zero emissions. If we are to make it, the capacity of the rail system must be properly expanded. This is what I think is the great challenge and which I hope the Parliament will support. It is a historically large framework of SEK 876 billion, precisely in order to be able to complete not least many of the important investments and new investments that have now been announced. I think that starting to reconsider and tear up would be extremely unfortunate for both the climate and the cohesion of the country.
i-e18c6b5ae93406c5-178	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to say a few words about the content of the proposal. The overall framework referred to by the Minister is nearly SEK 900 billion. It is completely inadequate. The high-speed lanes are within that framework. We can also compare this framework with previous frameworks. We know that we have a consumer price index that is constantly increasing. Our crowns today are less than the crowns in 2017. We would therefore need a larger framework than that. Norway, for example, has a framework of NOK 1,200 billion for the exact same planning period as we have. Then we also know that the Norwegian krona is worth a little more than the Swedish krona. The Minister for Infrastructure will be happy to correct me if he thinks it is necessary. But as I understand the infrastructure bill – and I do not hear the Minister saying anything different – it is precisely a question of setting an economic framework. Then there are a number of important political principles that are set out there. One of them is the four-step principle, to which I am just related. There I interpret the minister like this: No, there will be no new assignments for the Swedish Transport Administration. There will be no new money as state co-financing to step one and step two. There are no legislative changes or anything else that have been announced. I think this is unfortunate, because then the four-step principle risks once again being overtaken by new construction. And there is a risk of using step one and step two measures much less than could be done. I would also like to raise the question, once again, of the principles and general features of the infrastructure bill. It is mentioned in the infrastructure bill about a basic forecast, which originates from the Finnish Transport Administration. There is an increase in travel up to 2040. Travelling with your own car is expected to increase by almost 30 percent. I think that is a very bad thing about the idea of a transport-efficient society, where we need to transport less with what increases emissions. I do not see the government in any way trying to change this baseline forecast and instead steer towards targets. It is, therefore, about the objectives we set ourselves, such as our climate targets, and about saying that they should govern future infrastructure planning. The Minister also says that he does not go into individual objects, and I understand that this too comes in the plan that will start to be worked out soon. At the same time, everyone who listened to the press conference heard that lots of different objects were raised. If you are going to be a little bold and if you want us to achieve our climate goals in real life, I think you might have to have the courage to prioritise a little better and dare to say that some road projects that are in the planning since before must be lifted out because they simply cost too much. They have been dismissed by the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, because they will lead to such large emissions. However, I do not hear the Minister say that he is prepared to remove a single motorway project from future planning. Finally, I would like to mention cycling. It is great to announce a national goal for increased cycling in future planning. However, I do not see any concrete changes in legislation or anything else, such as the possibility of building bicycle routes independently of car routes. It would have been good if there had been such clarification in the bill.
i-e18c6b5ae93406c5-187	Madam President, I would like It takes a left-wing party to say that an historic addition of 176.5 billion, the largest infrastructure bill ever, is far too little. It is easy to be a left-wing partyist, because then you always have more money. In fact, this is by far the largest amount ever set aside for infrastructure measures in Sweden, and it means that we have the conditions both to be able to provide resources for maintaining the road network and the rail network and to have room for important investments for Sweden over the next twelve years. It is about continuing work on new main roads, but in a way that does not crowd out other important initiatives but still creates room for what can be Norrbotniabanan, railway in northern Sweden or other urgent efforts. It is clear that the opposition always has more money, but it is with an engagement said a little interesting to hear how the Left Party will then finance this. In any case, this is the framework with which we go to Parliament. It is historically high, and I think it is needed to restart Sweden. It is needed to ensure that we can get a green start with important investments that will create jobs, hope and confidence in the future after the pandemic. Again: A bill of this kind should not include a number of assignments to authorities or what Jens Holm is asking for, but there will be other occasions and contexts where the government talks about what assignments we give to authorities. It is not the Riksdag that decides on this. Parliament has to decide on the framework and direction based on the proposal that the government has put forward. There is no doubt that this is a bill that will really help to reform the transport system to ensure that Sweden becomes the world's first fossil-free welfare nation. It's a huge investment to reset. That is why, of course, the Climate Act, the Climate Policy Council's work and the whole climate work that this government and the previous Social Democratically led government began together with the Green Party will be absolutely crucial for the work ahead. In this sense, I feel secure both with the framework that we are now presenting to the Riksdag and hope that the Riksdag will support and, of course, also that this is exactly the platform that Sweden needs for extensive investments. However, I get worried when Jens Holm so clearly announces that the Left Party wants to tear things up in national planes. Now this is not a matter for the infrastructure bill, but it is obvious that what Jens Holm still reports here is that objects should be removed. I have said – with very strong support throughout the country, I dare to believe – that laid short enough lies. One should be careful to repeat the mistake made by the Moderates in 2006 when they removed the entire Norrbotnia track from national planes and removed the planning work that existed. What if you hadn't? What significance would it not have had for Sweden if Norrbotniabanan had been in place, both for the investments made in northern Sweden and for all the people who need to commute to an enlarged labour market? I think it would be extremely unfortunate to start messing with infrastructure planning and re-examine it every four years. This applies, of course, to long decisions that will apply for the next 10 to 20 years and even longer. It has been a strength in Sweden. Now do not make this a game of picking, but now make sure that infrastructure planning is something that we create the conditions for in the long term together with municipalities and regions. It facilitates planning work, and it also facilitates climate change.
i-e18c6b5ae93406c5-196	Madam President, I would like It sounds like it usually does when I debate with the Minister for Infrastructure: when I raise certain issues, it is too early, and when I bring them up next time, it is too late. An infrastructure bill that has the ambition to cover at least the next four years and send out clear signals for the forthcoming planning, which is about the next twelve years, should be very clear in terms of both financial funding and political content. But none of this is in the current infrastructure bill. It's not enough money. Some parts of important objects should be removed from national planes and instead financed by borrowed money as separate projects, not least the construction of high-speed lines. That is exactly what the Finnish Transport Administration and everyone involved in this view. I would like to ask the Minister: does the Minister think it reasonable to base the future infrastructure planning for the next twelve years on a forecast of 27% increase in self-propelled travel? Is it building a transport-efficient society? I would like a concrete answer to that. I would also like to ask the Minister whether he considers the four-step principle and the use of step one and step two measures to a greater extent, i.e. behavioural changes, trimmings and other things, to be important. If so, when does the Minister intend to put forward concrete proposals for this to really make a difference in infrastructure planning? I did not receive an answer regarding investments in bicycle infrastructure. If we are to be able to expand bicycle infrastructure on a large scale, and we should do so, we also need to ensure that bicycle infrastructure can be built independently of roads. I can't do that today. Then the Finnish Transport Administration must be given a mission.
i-e18c6b5ae93406c5-201	Madam President, I would like I note that Jens Holm does not answer the basic question if the Left Party wants to tear up the entire national planning, remove objects and create the mess that it would actually mean. It would be good if we could get such an answer, because I think that a great many municipalities, regions and business representatives around the country would be interested in that. But we have plenty of time to go to national level 2022, so Jens Holm can certainly get the time and space to develop this on a few occasions. Basing a bill on a 30% increase in car driving is not relevant. I think that everyone who heard me and Per Bolund at the presentation and who reads the bill realises that with major investments in rail, continued announced investments in shipping and a comprehensive electrification of the transport sector, something else we are aiming for. But of course, both forecast data, climate data and very many data together will form the basis for the political assessments we make when we present a bill on the Riksdag table and eventually also a national plan. It is up to the Swedish Transport Administration to take care of its forecast work, and I know that they have several different forecasts that they take as their starting point when they look at traffic work in the future. I honestly believe that everyone following this debate realises that in a pandemic that we have now had for over a year, where travel has changed dramatically, not least for aviation, one should be careful to make certain commitments about how traffic work will develop and how much more we will telework. Jens Holm and the Left Party obviously think that it is better that we borrow money from banks or others who can take interest than that the state injects the necessary money with its own funds. I never understood the point. It's not free to borrow. It is probably better, as we are doing now, to raise to 176.5 billion and thus be able to afford to make investments instead of borrowing.
i-e18c6b5ae93406c5-206	Madam President, I would like Martina Johansson has asked me how I and the government intend to work to ensure that there is preparedness throughout the country from our airports and that there is a financial compensation that works even in the event of extraordinary events such as a pandemic. Emergency airports have an important role to play in ensuring preparedness for essential public air transport operations regardless of the time of day. It has made several efforts to ensure that there is infrastructure for socially important transport, not least during the pandemic. The Finnish Transport Agency has been commissioned by the Government to negotiate and conclude agreements on temporary preparedness. This means that the Swedish Transport Administration has signed an agreement with 17 temporary standby airports in addition to the regular standby airports, but not with Skavsta Airport, which has chosen not to enter into an agreement. During the pandemic, the government has also decided to introduce a temporary public service obligation on a number of routes to and from Norrland and Gotland, in order to ensure basic accessibility for the transport of persons and goods for socially important purposes. Following the Government's proposal, the Riksdag has added another SEK 100 million in 2020 for the temporary reinforcement of state operating aid to regional airports that received support in 2019. For 2021, SEK 10 million has been added in order to maintain increased emergency preparedness at the regular contingency airports. The Parliament has also, following the Government's proposal, introduced temporary government loans of SEK 164 million to local traffic management providers at regional non-governmental airports. This is also to ensure the capacity of the Swedish infrastructure for socially important flights. To reinforce the ambulance flight, SEK 75 million has been added. All in all, these measures mean that the country now has 27 emergency airports to allow rapid transport of patients and staff. In this context, I would also like to mention that, for 2020 and 2021, significant increases have also been added to the general state contribution to municipalities and regions, which they can use for example at their airports. I would like to stress that compensation for operating aid to non-governmental airports as a starting point can be given to both municipal and private airports under the current regulatory framework. On 15 June 2020, Trafikverket submitted a final report on the review of the regular contingency airports and the efficiency, functionality and effectiveness of the system submitted by the Government. The issue is now being analysed and prepared within the Government Office. I monitor developments closely and have an ongoing dialogue with the relevant authorities, regions and municipalities as well as other stakeholders.
i-e18c6b5ae93406c5-213	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. The Minister's answer is that the Government is currently analysing the material received from the Swedish Transport Administration in its mission to analyse the efficiency, functionality and effectiveness of emergency response airports. My question was about how the government works to ensure that there is preparedness throughout the country and that there is a financial compensation that works even in extraordinary events. I took my starting point in Stockholm Skavsta, which today has agreements with fire planes and coastguards. The airport receives less compensation for this, and they have been able to do a good job thanks to revenues from scheduled air traffic. This traffic has to a large extent been financed by revenues from private air tickets. This is what it takes to be an airport, for example in the form of cleaning, snow clearance and air traffic control. Now that virtually all traffic has been down for a year, the revenues from travel have more or less disappeared, just like for all other airports in the country – regardless of who owns the airport. The compensation currently offered by the State to airports for being emergency airports covers a small part of the cost and does not compensate for the cost required for, for example, anti-slip operations. Regular services account for most of the costs during normal times when we travel and fly within the country and between countries. As ticket revenues bear the costs, in principle the basis for keeping the airport running has disappeared. Other countries have chosen to replace airports in a different way from what we have done in Sweden when it comes to preparedness. It has chosen to account for a much greater part of the cost. Has the government considered whether there is another way? Has the government considered and come up with any proposals for operating emergency airports in Sweden, even if there is no revenue from regular traffic? My question of origin is still unanswered. How does the Minister see that the compensation given today to airports to carry out preparedness does not ensure that there is preparedness even in the event of extraordinary events, such as a pandemic?
i-e18c6b5ae93406c5-219	Madam President, I would like I think I've answered the question. We have certainly ensured that there is compensation, and Sweden has never had as many emergency airports as now. In addition to the ten state emergency airports, there are now a total of 27. After a request from SKR, with their replacement model proposal, we ensured that we could quickly open temporary standby airports. There everyone except Skavsta accepted. Skavsta has made a profit for several years. There is nothing to prevent the use of the support generally given to municipalities and regions to provide resources. They're co-owners of Skavsta Airport. A discussion should of course be held with Skavsta about why they chose to say no to being a standby airport. But in all other parts of the country, the proposal was accepted. It's been important. In January alone 380 transports were made by patients and staff. During the pandemic that is currently taking place, it has been extremely important that we have been able to do so. That is why I am grateful and happy about the municipalities and regions that have opened their airports, which have accepted the state's offer and have been able to be available for the rapid transport of people who have fallen ill in covid or staff who need to help elsewhere. This has been the starting point when the government has acted to produce more temporary emergency airports. Of course, it is free for both municipalities as owners of airports and private owners to say no. You don't have to make an offer. I can understand that sometimes you also certainly want more. But the fact is that all the other airports that received an offer accepted. This means that we are helping each other in Sweden to ensure that patients during the pandemic can actually be transported. I want to remember that the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare, together with SKR, has reported how the system is used well. In the future, of course, it is important to look at the long-term financing of emergency airports so that we do not just use temporary operations. There we are now shooting at SEK 10 million in the budget. The Finnish Transport Agency has proposed a slightly broader structure for emergency airports. I find that interesting. The current system of ten standby airports has quite a number of years to go. In my experience, among other things, it has been the storm Gudrun. I'm a little boy! When the forest fell in Kronoberg County, it was thanks to Växjö Airport that we were able to maintain efforts that were able to perform repairs of electricity lines, not least. It has also been the fires in Sala and other forest fires where it has been important for fire planes and ambulances to land. I still believe that the Swedish Transport Administration has a point when they see that there is an increased need for emergency airports. The pandemic has made it clear how important it is. That's why the government's shooting at resources. The Parliament has also supported this, with the possibility of 27 emergency airports. It is an impressive turnout, and I can only regret that some airport has said no. It is important that we help each other during a pandemic in order to cope with the transport of patients and staff.
i-e18c6b5ae93406c5-225	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, even for that answer. Of course, there are many airports that have accepted the offer to be a standby airport. However, the problem remains that the compensation provided is not the one required to maintain a standby airport, but is based on the existence of regular services. This also means that those who own these airports will have to provide funds to maintain emergency airports when regular services are down. I'm still not sure how this is going to work at the next stage. The Minister is looking at how to do it in the long term, and that is exactly what I am looking for. How can we ensure in the long term that we have emergency airports even when extraordinary situations arise? A few years ago, the government set up an airport review, which would review the imbalances between the various forms of ownership of our airports. There was also a Arlanda Council to investigate Arlanda's development. None of them have completed their work and submitted a final report, at least not presented, if I have received the right information about it. The fact that the government has not finished these two things makes me wonder whether it really is important and sees that there is a need for emergency flights throughout the country. Last week, the government also announced the closure of Bromma, with reference to a corona-related reduction in air traffic, without ensuring that its operation can be handled differently. The closure of Bromma is referred to as poor profitability. These are discussions that, just as he is in the middle of, are also taking place in the Minister's neighborhood – in Öjaby, which is actually also my home country originally. There, too, the Minister's own party colleagues question whether to continue running the business because the costs are so high. These are airports operated by the State and the municipality, and they operate through revenues from regular traffic. The Minister mentions that Skavsta is privately owned – partly; Nyköping Municipality also has an ownership share – and that they have taken out profits. And yes, it is. In good years they have certainly done so because they have a good business. However, I do not think that it removes the responsibility to compensate or that it should replace the cost of carrying out preparedness that is our joint responsibility in the state. The question is whether it is reasonable that when I travel as a private individual, I should finance our joint government responsibility that there is preparedness throughout the country. If we are now to close down Bromma and possibly more airports on the grounds that air traffic is falling due to the pandemic, what other activities should we close down for the same reason? It is therefore important that we have a good basis for our airports. Back to the closure of Bromma and the government's lack of plans to ensure its functioning. In Mälardalen, there are today several airports that could take over Bromma's role as an airport, both in terms of domestic flights and as a relief for Arlanda. If one had had a long-term plan, one could now point to other airports, such as Stockholm Skavsta or Västerås Airport, which could contribute with this. My supplementary question to the Minister is whether it is important that there are airports throughout the country because there is no flight plan, whether it is about preparedness or the transport of people and goods.
i-e18c6b5ae93406c5-236	Madam President, I would like I'm sorry to have to say this, but there were a lot of errors in Martina Johansson's story. It will take time to correct them, but I'll give it a try. As regards the Arlanda Council and the review, it is an ongoing work within the Government Office on the review of regional airports. In fact, I think most people realise that a pandemic like the one that has occurred is changing the conditions. That we would then not give any support is definitely wrong. On the contrary, we have never given as much support as we have now to regional airports. On the one hand, we have given extensive support in the form of earmarked resources to regional airports. On the one hand, we have set up a public service obligation, which means that we ensure that there are flights in some places when the market is not able to do so. In addition, we have made substantial increases in the general state subsidies to those who own the airports. Yes, Martina Johansson, ownership means that you can sometimes pick out profit. But ownership also means taking responsibility when the business goes with loss. We cannot have a system in which, so to speak, we socialise losses and privatise profits. I think it is important that we ensure that ownership is a long-term responsibility. That is why we have provided resources, and municipalities and regions have also chosen to support and continue developing existing airports. I am grateful that we now have 27 temporary standby airports. It's important. One said no, and it was Skavsta. I can regret that. Everyone else accepted that offer, and it is because it is important that we help each other during a pandemic. Let me then address the more fundamental question of what is the State's responsibility for aviation infrastructure. After all, there was a government in which Martina Johansson's party Center was included, which put its foot down and said that the state should be responsible for ten airports, not more. The rest is up to municipalities and regions if they want an airport business. I think it has been a good order that municipalities and regions have a strong commitment. I also think it is important to help each other to ensure basic functions. In many places this has meant that other important parts of aviation such as tourism and regular domestic traffic have been able to grow strongly. This has been the development for a long time. But it is clear that if we are to define what is the responsibility of the state, then I think it is important that we clarify it. The State is currently responsible for ensuring basic functions around essential social aviation in addition to the ten state airports in the base range. That is why we set up the investigation that the Swedish Transport Administration has now carried out. Should we expand the circuit of emergency airports? Should the responsibility of the state be greater? Can I problematize a bit? One part is, of course, about the conditions for fire and ambulance flights. If we look at the ambulance flight, we can see – if we ignore what has happened during the pandemic – that the bulk of the ambulance flight is now for planned operations. It is a consequence of the centralisation of health care, where patients travel by ambulance flight to planned operations at the major university hospitals. It is clear that if this concentration continues, we can also see a continuing increasing need for ambulance flights. The Finnish Transport Agency points to this in its basis, and it is of course a fundamental discussion about how much responsibility municipalities and regions should have and how much the state should have. I see that there may be reasons, and I think that the experience of the pandemic is in favour, for the state to have a slightly increased responsibility for maintaining the basic aviation infrastructure because municipalities and regions and, not least, private actors have difficulties with sustainability.
i-e18c6b5ae93406c5-247	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Tomas Eneroth, for your answer. I'm sorry if I didn't have all the facts. But then I have to say that it is very good that there is work going on. I expect that work to come out with a result, in which we also ensure the economy of those airports in the future – regardless of their ownership. If it is a state responsibility to ensure that we have emergency airports, the state must also take responsibility for the costs incurred, whether for municipalities and regions or for a private owner. That is why I think it is still important to review it, and I think it goes without saying that we should all take responsibility. But the question is where that money comes from if municipalities and regions are also going to provide funds for us to be prepared at all airports. Funds have been added to airports, absolutely, and I know that my colleagues have been a strong driver in the budget negotiations to ensure that this happens. The world is evolving. No one knew a number of years ago that we would be facing a pandemic. We did not know what Sweden would look like today when we were sitting in previous governments. Today we agree that we need to have more emergency airports than we did in that situation, and I think it is positive that we can constantly develop policy and land in new conclusions when the world is different. That is precisely why it is a question of the fundamental responsibility of the state to which we need an answer. What will it look like in the future so that we can have good contingency flights throughout the country, regardless of the form of ownership of the airports, and feel safe when we get into new situations that do not belong to ordinary life but are in some way extraordinary efforts or occasions?
i-e18c6b5ae93406c5-253	Madam President, I would like As I said, today the state has ten standby airports. It is the state that is responsible for these, and they are financed to carry out that task. The question that has arisen is: do we need more emergency airports, and what will the compensation then look like? There, the Swedish Transport Administration has come with good evidence, and I find it interesting to see if we can expand the state's engagement. We have already done so by providing in the budget an additional 10 million in resources to state emergency airports. In addition, we made an extraordinary effort now that we gave 18 airports the opportunity to set up and help with a compensation in accordance with what SKR proposed. And 17 airports said yes and chose to help. There is a pandemic going on, and I understand the difficulty and the challenge. However, I also realise that we, as the government, have provided large resources to municipalities and regions, which make it possible to provide additional resources and maintain airport capacity. This is important for Sweden. Then let us remember that at many of these airports, not least at home in my Växjö, there has been no flight for a very long time now. Air travel is still at a historically very low level, and it creates huge challenges for the owners. We must respect this, and that is what makes the question of the state's contribution all the more interesting. I think we should be careful to have the pandemic as an argument for making major changes, although the patterns of travel will certainly change in the future. So when it comes to the discussion about Bromma, it is not the pandemic that is the root cause, but the structural prerequisites for maintaining a well-functioning airport structure in Stockholm.
i-e18c6b5ae93406c5-258	Madam President, I would like From flight to port! Jimmy Ståhl has asked me what I and the government are doing to strengthen the role of ports as core ports and to enable the transfer from road to rail and shipping. The ports in Sweden play a central role in ensuring that transport flows to and from Sweden will work all year round. This is precisely why the government is working to create long-term conditions for shipping in Sweden by tripling investments in fairways, doubling research funds for shipping and increasing the flag to the Swedish Register of Ships through the tonnage tax. This means, among other things, fairway improvements to both Gothenburg and Luleå, but also in larger locks and canals in both Södertälje and Trollhättan. These various measures will contribute to an increased shift of freight transport from road to maritime transport. The government has also implemented a number of measures within the framework of the national freight transport strategy with a view to increasing the choice of shipping as a transport option. These include the introduction of eco-bonus, the identification of more inland waterways and the establishment of a national coordinator for shipping at the Finnish Transport Administration. I would like to point out in particular that last November the government decided on an additional mission to the national coordinator. The mission aims to create incentives for the transfer of goods from road to shipping through dialogue with Swedish ports and to strengthen the competitiveness of maritime transport. Corehamns, or core network ports, also have the opportunity to apply for EU co-financing to develop the TEN-T transport system. During my time as Minister of Infrastructure, the Government has approved several Swedish core network ports' project applications aimed at improving and developing maritime transport.
i-e18c6b5ae93406c5-262	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister of Infrastructure Tomas Eneroth. When I heard the answer, I was quite surprised. I have two interpellations, one about ports and one about shipping. In the answer to the ports, I understand that it is the direct incentive to strengthen the role of ports. It is certainly a good thing that inland waterway routes are being extended, but there has been a regulatory problem since 2014, which means that no traffic has been added to inland waterways at all. There is still a lack of regulatory improvements to get traffic started. We can also note that today we do not really have a single state port. All ports are either privately or municipally owned. When it comes to Gothenburg, the Port of Gothenburg currently owns the land, but it does not own the operation. It is a Danish company called APM Terminals that operates. In Norviks port in Stockholm it is a company called Hutchison that operates. Then we have two fairly large ports in the south, Ystad and Trelleborg, which are municipally owned. But the two ports have no crane capacity. I know that there have been major discussions in the past, when there were major problems in the port of Gothenburg with strikes and more, about how to secure the operation of the ports. One of my questions, therefore, is whether the Minister has considered whether, in a future, one should try to have some form of state port infrastructure to ensure capacity, because we are such an export and import-dependent country. As far as ports are concerned, we can look at Ystad and Trelleborg, for example. If one is to move from road to rail and shipping, it is single-track operation up to both of these major ports. The port of Gothenburg is now beginning to develop double tracks, which is very positive. But there is no trace of these ports to take over intermodal transport for further handling. We know that both Ystad and Trelleborg today have the opportunity to receive rail freight and carry it on by ship. However, this handling is becoming more and more obsolete, and today only a few percent are transported by coach on a boat. But in a future we have a huge opportunity with intermodal cargo, where rail freight is unloaded on deck and rolled on board and then into the next port. We can look at Kristinehamn harbour, which should have been connected to the Inland Line. But there's no railroad to talk about. I myself have called the port of Kristinehamn and asked if they would have an interest in being connected to the rail network in order to be able to carry more goods. They said, "Come on! We have spare capacity. Very many ports have spare capacity and want to expand their operations. However, there are shortcomings in both road and rail infrastructure. So I wonder a little why the Minister hasn't responded to these particular things. Or is it that the Minister has no plan beyond deeper fairways?
i-e18c6b5ae93406c5-270	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jimmy Ståhl, for the commitment! I really appreciate that. Nor do I think anyone has missed my commitment to shipping and ports. I was the minister who for the first time convened the ports of Sweden. They are, as Jimmy Ståhl rightly points out, municipal and private. The state doesn't have ports. However, I chose as a relatively new Minister for Infrastructure to convene all ports to have a completely different dialogue from that of the past. I think it's necessary. Since then, I have visited almost all ports in Sweden and made digital visits now during the pandemic to highlight the importance of ports as nodes in transport systems. Now the time has passed when you are just someone who receives and leaves goods; now you should be an actor. We see that very many ports have taken the baton, thanks to the incentives and instruments, the freight transport strategy and the national coordinator that we have. Look at Gothenburg's fantastic work to develop the harbour, or Trelleborg or Piteå. I am extremely impressed by ports that are now developing their role in becoming actors in an intermodal transport system, because that is exactly what is needed. I do not see that this is the time to nationalise ports. I'm curious if Jimmy Ståhl and the Swedish Democrats think it would be a desirable path. However, I think that the state should have a greater commitment, and I have addressed that on several occasions. We also do so by, among other things, providing support, supporting and ensuring that many of the ports now benefit from important TEN-T funds, whether we are talking about Ystad or Trelleborg. I recently gave a commission to the Swedish Transport Administration, which has now been reported, on how we can strengthen and exploit spare capacity in Trelleborg for rail transport to the continent. It is a concern when many business players choose to use rail transport only over the Öresund Bridge and eventually Fehmarn Belt. As impressive and smart as the logistics chain is, if it means that we slowly but surely undermine financing and economics for the other options, not least important ports in Skåne, we still lose redundancy. Then we lose compensation and alternatives. At some point I have said that perhaps one day's stop at the Öresund Bridge will be enough to eat up the export costs that it would involve quickly financing and securing, for example, the railway capacity in the port of Trelleborg. I have had discussions on this, and only the other day did I talk to the Industry Transport Council about ensuring that Swedish industry and the export industry also see the need to use the various options available. Then Jimmy Ståhl and the Swedish Democrats have a concern. We want to strengthen the competitiveness of shipping, and we do so with eco-bonus, important incentives, planning and fairway intensifications, the tonnage tax that increases flagging and a multiple increase in research funding. Jimmy Ståhl and the Swedish Democrats do the opposite. You want to lower the price of gas. You want to reduce fuel costs. You want to make it easier for truck traffic. You do not want any transfer from road to sea. In any case, you have quite the wrong incentives for that. So the basic question back to Jimmy Ståhl is: in what way will your billion-dollar investment in reduced petrol and diesel taxes provide enhanced opportunities for shipping to accept goods from our roads?
i-e18c6b5ae93406c5-279	Madam President, I would like This about state ports was a question that I was curious to ask. We have no such thoughts either at present, but it is always interesting to know what the Minister thinks. Reduced fuel prices are something we have had in the discussion before. Only reduced fuel prices do not create transfers, but it is a battery with measures that are needed. Ports actually have machines with forward drive. A grensle truck pulls 30 - 60 liters an hour. It is also a cost that is added to the transport. Today, there are shipping companies operating on pure diesel because of the sulphur directive. It's also a cost. Of course there is a need for a battery of measures. On the other hand, we lack much effort to get goods from road to rail and shipping. For example, I did not hear the Minister mention a single word about extending the railways, for example. The Minister said that he had been to Trelleborg and Ystad, but there is still only one track – a track that is operated by both the Påga train and the Öresund train. There will also be space for freight trains. Freight trains are a priority in comparison with passenger traffic. If you do not build more tracks and make the ports possible, it is an impossibility to get more goods on the trains, because it becomes unattractive. A truck today runs about 70 miles [70 km] in an hour. The longer the goods have to stand and wait to enter the ports and be shipped out, the more attractive it will be to take the transport on a truck. In ten hours you will be able to reach 70 km, which is quite long, while the container may be standing on a side track waiting to enter the port. So there's a lot to do if you just want to. I was also going to ask the Minister for Infrastructure what the National Coordinator has found out. What has been the proposal? I have previously touched on the investment in a transport chain between the port of Norvik and the port of Köping. It's a pretty short stretch. But during the test period it turned out that it cost over $100,000 to send a ship this small distance. It is perfect cooperation between two ports, but it is too expensive. It's too expensive to transport by boat. I also have an old example that I thought was brilliant, namely that the Port of Gothenburg bought ownership shares in Gävle Hamn. That cooperation is no longer there, but it is a shining example. You can then, for example, send goods by rail or by ship between these nodes. This was about the Kattegat and the Baltic Sea. Perfect! Gävle is also strategic. But as I said, the infrastructure to and from the ports is super important. I don't have any bets. I see nothing in the answer to this. The investments on locks and inland waterways come just in the time of the Count. If urgent efforts are not made, we must shut down our inland waterways. Efforts are therefore positive, but when does the Minister put the shovel on the slopes for the locks?
i-e18c6b5ae93406c5-287	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jimmy Ståhl! I appreciate the commitment. But let me be clear that there has never been so much investment in either infrastructure, rail or, for that matter, maritime transport. In the first national plan, which I presented in 2018, we made a triple of the investments in shipping – not to mention the strong investments we make on the railways, combined with the freight transport strategy, where we really talk about how to get clear paths down to the ports, preferably electrified as well, whether it is with rail or with self-driving vehicles. It can offer fantastic opportunities for completely fossil-free transport. Now the shipping is also turning on. For example, Stena chooses to invest in the development of electrified ferries. It is clear that this creates the conditions for the transition that is so important for Sweden. The problem for the Swedish Democrats and Jimmy Ståhl is that when you get the opportunity to clarify yourself, for example in your last exercise on infrastructure, it is only about road investments. There were no railway tracks at all. If the Swedish Democrats want to make more investments on rail, you are welcome, because it is needed. We need to ensure that the whole freight chain works well. Then there is the question of incentives. Even though there are some diesel trucks left in some ports, one should still be aware that a lot of people are taking a big responsibility now, first with HVO and then with electrification. We have ports that have clearly realised this and want to take part in taking the step towards a fossil-free society. Then I am not so impressed with the proposal made by the Swedish Democrats, i.e. to spend several billions on reducing petrol and diesel taxes. Would it not be better to use these resources to strengthen the railways or to ensure that electrification goes faster? You hold on to the old fossil society or for that matter to populist proposals for lower petrol taxes instead of helping to create tools so that the whole of Sweden can change. This is the starting point. We know we need to change, but we need to make sure that it is possible. This should be possible in cities and rural areas, for ports, for aviation and for shipping. This is where the whole process with Fossil-free Sweden has been around. Together with the catalyst from the government, Svante Axelsson, and the industries, we develop ambitious programmes for conversion. Where are the Swedish Democrats in this debate? You have representatives who are sometimes openly climate-deniers, and you are mainly spending resources on reduced petrol or diesel taxes. Seriously, Jimmy Ståhl, who I still see as a person involved in transport policy and maritime policy, come on now! Make sure to make some ambitious proposals from the Swedish Democrats to electrify shipping! Make sure that we can switch with more rail and more shipping, so that we can meet the climate targets, because that's what Sweden needs! The Government is now presenting a bill of SEK 876 billion for infrastructure. We've never proposed such a large amount of resources. Now it is up to Parliament to support it, and I hope it is more important than tax cuts. I hope it also means that the Riksdag gives the go-ahead to continued investments in fairway depths, because they are important, and on road and rail infrastructure so that we can get functioning chains to fantastic Gävle Port, speaking of it, and the ports of Piteå, Luleå, Trelleborg or wherever we are. This is how Sweden will develop, not least together with the national coordinator for shipping, Pia Berglund, who is doing an incredibly good job of increasing the share of shipping in freight transport.
i-e18c6b5ae93406c5-298	Madam President, I would like In any case, one cannot deny that the Minister for Infrastructure is a skilled debater. Not a single answer was given to what the national coordinator has done to increase transport. I did not hear a sound about the infrastructure to and from the ports, but it was about the Swedish democrats' efforts on fossil-free or not fossil-free. I have to take this as meaning that the Minister has no plan for the ports. I know that the Minister is a little passionate about shipping, and I will bring it up in the next interpellation debate and therefore I did not intend to go into that much now. As far as Kristinehamn is concerned, I did not hear anything, but we must get the infrastructure going to the ports in order to manage the operation. I was listening to a seminar where I thought I could attend but was not able to ask a question, which was perhaps unique to me. Representatives of the Board of the Port of Gothenburg stated that they should only invest in the core harbours. As the Minister knows, we may have up to 100 ports with industrial ports and so on, but we usually say that we have a little over 50 ports in Sweden. Is it also the Minister's idea to invest only in the larger ports? Or should we also make it possible for small ones to function? Corehamns have the right to seek EU funding. Has the Minister considered whether the Government Office or the Ministry of Infrastructure could provide the ports with expertise to apply for these funds? It is not a simple process.
i-e18c6b5ae93406c5-304	Madam President, I would like Jimmy Ståhl thinks he didn't get an answer, but I think I answered the questions clearly. But perhaps it is difficult for the Swedish Democrats to have to answer for the lack of climate policy, and I can respect that. But it's a shame. Come on, all the parties should know better. Sweden is an international example, and I believe that the Swedish people are deeply committed to us being the first to be in the climate transition. It will create jobs, hope and faith in the future. I'll have to take credit that I'm burning a little light a bit to quote Jimmy Ståhl. I thank you for that, because I really do. I'm really passionate about shipping. That is why we have tripled the investment in fairways, doubled the research funding for shipping, increased the flagging and made great efforts not least to highlight the role of ports in the Swedish transport system. Jimmy Ståhl asked a question about the ports, and that is an interesting question. We have about 54 ports, and then there are some industrial ports and so on. At one time there were thoughts about centralising, merging ports and greatly reducing the number of ports in Sweden. This was undoubtedly the focus of some of Sweden's politics for a number of years. I think those days are over. The export industry may not need all ports. Here is the fairway depth for large ships out in the world one thing. But not least Pia Berglund's excellent job with the 62-point action programme and other things show what a fantastic opportunity ports could be to relieve the road network and the railway network for our internal transport with smart logistics. Rather, it is in favour of maintaining and maintaining functionality and perhaps also of making sure to automate and simplify port operations. This is where the ports come in. They have a key position in the Swedish transport system in the future.
i-e18c6b5ae93406c5-309	Madam President, I would like Jimmy Ståhl has asked me what I and the government are doing to increase the flag of ships to the Swedish flag and otherwise strengthen Swedish shipping. I would like to begin by emphasising that the number of Swedish flagged ships is an important issue with great importance for the supply of goods, employment and the country's crisis preparedness. This is why the government has worked to strengthen the competitiveness of shipping by increasing the share of freight transport by moving from road to shipping. Within the framework of the Government's freight transport strategy, a national coordinator has been appointed with the task of promoting Swedish shipping, and we have identified more inland waterways. In addition, we have extended the eco-bonus, and during the current pandemic, the government has decided on a temporary adapted maritime support to keep shipping strong even after the pandemic. These are examples of efforts that strengthen Swedish maritime competitiveness while creating the conditions for the green re-launch of the economy after the crisis.
i-e18c6b5ae93406c5-313	Madam President, I would like When I heard the interpellation response, I thought back to my father when he was stressed. As a child, when I wanted to hear a bedtime story, I got a short version: That's all. That's about what I hear in the answer. There are no suggestions. The Ecobonus is a temporary bonus for those who choose to move over goods. Adapted maritime support is great during the Corona crisis. But I'm going to expand history and explain to the Minister for Infrastructure what shipping needs. From what I have been able to find out, there is a strong desire to change the stamp tax into a stamp tax and to restore the net model – a model that the government scaled off to introduce the tonnage tax. The tonnage tax is appreciated, but shipping also wants to see an increase in tonnage tax. It would have been appropriate to set up a Maritime Council. Now there is a national coordinator, whom I hope will take on this role. We can review pilotage costs, fairway fees and the Swedish Maritime Administration's funding. We can expand inland navigation and coastal shipping. Madam President, I would like About two years ago, the Minister for Infrastructure and I attended when Swedish Shipping celebrated the flag of the 100th ship. How many Swedish ships are there today? Yes, 100 of them. It hasn't increased at all. Judging by the Minister for Infrastructure's answer, it does not look brighter in the future either, because the problem is not being tackled. The Ecobonus is temporary for transfer. I do not know if the Minister can respond to how many Swedish-flagged ships have been added after this effort. How many ships have been flagged in Sweden after adapting maritime subsidies? I would like to say that this support is very important, especially now during the pandemic when ships are being put up. Why don't you look at the stamp tax and turn it into a fee? If there are no Swedish ships being flagged in, we will not get a stamp tax. So it is more or less a zero-sum game. Restoring the net model does not entail a direct cost. It's 1% that you have to raise. We've had the Tonnage Tax for a while. The government promised to review it. Is it happening now, Tomas Eneroth? Is there a review of the tonnage tax, or has it been forgotten? There are some questions I would like answers to. Then, while I am at it: In my previous interpellation debate, I never found out whether the Minister thinks it reasonable that a ship transport between Norvik and Köping should cost 100 000.
i-e18c6b5ae93406c5-324	Madam President, I would like It is not me who sets the price of transport between Norvik and Köping, but it is a market. On the other hand, it is fascinating how Jimmy Ståhl, in the space of perhaps a minute, burns off SEK 30 - 40 billion. That is about the cost that Jimmy Ståhl says we should be happy to pay, this in a situation where we have spent SEK 420 billion on pandemic measures. When the transport system has been affected, we have been able to make extra efforts, not least maritime support, to maintain and strengthen Swedish shipping during a difficult crisis. It may be that Jimmy Ståhl and the Swedish Democrats have a lot more money than everyone else. This may be the case, but as a government, we should prioritise and be clear with which efforts are most important. We have certainly chosen to support shipping more than many other modes of transport when it comes to developing the infrastructure. I explained earlier how we in the national plan made sure to step up efforts on fairway deepening, how we reformed tonnage tax and how we have strengthened shipping in many other ways, not least with the national coordinator. And be so sure – the government is planning and will make more efforts for shipping! However, without clear priority and cost management, we will not say yes immediately to measures that cost SEK 30 – 40 billion. Sweden is an export-dependent industrial country. We are very keen to maintain competitiveness. We need to strengthen the competitiveness of Swedish shipping, just as we do in terms of industry and the great opportunities for good. It can be tough sometimes, because many countries subsidise their shipping. Our competitiveness should not lie in reducing the conditions for those working in shipping, dumping prices or ignoring climate requirements, but we should be a little better and a little sharper in logistics, intermodality and new technologies. It understands Stena, it understands Wallenius and it understands many progressive ports. I believe that this must be the starting point when we strengthen and develop Swedish shipping. In order to return to the previous interpellation debate that I had with Jimmy Ståhl, it becomes a concern that the Swedish democrats' response to this is to reduce the petrol tax and diesel tax and make sure that it becomes even cheaper to take other alternatives than shipping. That's where you put your billions, Jimmy Ståhl. You are not funding proposals in the field of shipping in your draft budgets, as I have read so far, but you are choosing to spend most of the money on reduced petrol tax. In what way will reduced petrol tax strengthen Swedish shipping, Jimmy Ståhl?
i-e18c6b5ae93406c5-329	Madam President, I would like Again you see that when Tomas Eneroth has no answers he goes on reduced petrol tax. 30 to 40 billion, he throws it out. It's a matter of prioritising, he says. Madam President, I would like 150 billion were donated to the EU quite recently. That's a priority. We said no to this. We could easily have invested this money in infrastructure and shipping, for example. I will not go into this now, but it is a matter of priorities. I am not as sure as the Minister for Infrastructure that the measures I read up to these amounts. That's where we have different views. To review pilot duty and costs does not have to be very expensive. We can see, for example, that pilots become a shortage profession quite soon. A lot of ships have to wait for pilots, and that is not sustainable. It is very important to have distance slots there. As far as the fairway charges are concerned, if we want real shipping to start, it is important that we can use coastal shipping, where you go from port to port without imposing a lot of costs. If a ship does not enter a port, it does not collect containers or other cargo. I got a parable of a bus, and it's like a ship. If you ride in a bus and see that there are three passengers and you do not earn enough money on these three passengers, you go on. What anger this arouses in the poor people who stand in the water and wait for the bus. Something like that is true of shipping. We have to get in and get the goods instead of passing by. As I said, once again, what are we doing for the flag? Ecobonus doesn't help. Shipping subsidies don't help. The stamp tax will help. Restoring the net model will help. Increasing tonnage tax will help. None of this I have seen that the Minister for Infrastructure has touched upon. Then, of course, there are a lot of other measures. We can talk about shipping and climate. Then it must be very good if we have Swedish ships where we can have Swedish training and where we can steer the Swedish ships to use good fuel. At least I do.
i-e18c6b5ae93406c5-336	Madam President, I would like As far as the latter is concerned, developing Swedish shipping, we made a real effort to research maritime transport. It can be said that now that we have provided funding from the state, it has meant that we have some really exciting projects where we help shipping to take part in research funds and research programmes in order to be able to reset and perhaps develop electrified flights. I think Wallenius has electric models where you also want to use sails. That is how we will work in Sweden. We will increase resources so that we develop what strengthens competitiveness and that can cope with climate change. There are not the Swedish Democrats on the map. That is why I am raising the issue of petrol tax. I understand that this is very difficult for Jimmy Ståhl and the Swedish Democrats. You still have proposals that are just about looking back on the old and living populistically on people's dissatisfaction instead of being involved in developing what builds Sweden strong and creates new jobs. The fact that we together from politics, research and industry look at how we will develop in the future is what makes Sweden strong as an industrial nation. I'm going to do a little digression on this. Look at investments in northern Sweden – Hybrid, steel without coal, Northvolt, Green Steel and LKAB! It is almost 1 000 – 1 500 billion in investments in sustainable technologies. I have not heard the Swedish Democrats driving us to develop this kind of technology. It is we, as the government, who have said that we must ensure that Sweden becomes a country that has renewable energy and that can compete with conversion and be at the forefront. And now it turns out that the world's vehicle manufacturers want steel without coal. They want increased battery capacity because they believe in electrification. It may turn out that the investments will not only lead to Sweden's new industrialisation but will also grow, with jobs and employment, and at the same time help the world to cope with climate change. That is why I am addressing the climate issue. It is important, and maritime transport is of great importance. Once again, we are developing shipping. We are investing a great deal of resources in strengthening it. I realise that it is a challenge for Jimmy Ståhl to present what the Swedish Democrats want. I can perhaps ask a question for the closing speeches. Jimmy Ståhl and the Swedish Democrats want a moderate government. You have been clear about this. Does that mean that you will be making demands of a moderate government in terms of tonnage tax, stamp duty or other proposals that Jimmy Ståhl has made here? Do you make such demands, or is it just words that we hear in the speaker's chair? Will you have a list of this area where you make demands on the one you think should rule the country? Ulf Kristersson from the Moderates is your prime minister candidate; you have clearly stated that. We are a government that has contributed to strengthening Swedish shipping, and we make extensive investments. But you want something else, and it is of course up to each party to decide. Will you make demands? Do you have a list for the government that you will support in the future, or are it just words?
i-e18c6b5ae93406c5-344	I would like to remind the Minister that we are talking through the President and not using you or you.
i-e18c6b5ae93406c5-345	Madam President, I would like What can I say? There's talk of anything but shipping. This means somewhere that there is no thought and that there is no drive to get more Swedish ships in. If we have more Swedish ships, we have the opportunity to do exactly what Tomas Eneroth seeks with research, technology development and new comfortable fuels on the ships. It will be easier to train and fix internships for our upcoming sailors with the right thoughts on environmental thinking. I see that as a prerequisite. We also have greater opportunities to make demands on Swedish ships. We can also make greater demands, for example, on safety and working conditions, which I assume the Minister is passionate about too. That's a very important question. Of course, we will do everything in our power to promote our important issues. As far as I am concerned, I have no intention of anticipating any negotiations at all. Of course, I will pursue the issues that I am passionate about, much as I am doing today with the Minister for Infrastructure Tomas Eneroth when I ask questions to try to get a better policy. I have one final question for Tomas Eneroth. Why has there not been more ships than two years ago when we opened the hundredth ship, Tomas Eneroth?
i-e18c6b5ae93406c5-348	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jimmy Ståhl, for this interpellation and combined two interpellations dealing with shipping. There are two interpellations dealing with the development of ports and how we can ensure that more goods are transferred to shipping and what are climate-smart alternatives. Actually, that's what it means. I say very clearly here that we are making record investments on the part of the government. This is both an infrastructure bill covering SEK 876 billion and a national plan that points out shipping to an extent that we have not experienced before. It is also a matter of involvement in the development of ports, which we have not experienced in the past either, with the development of the importance of ports in the freight transport system. There is also increased financial support for shipping. Of course, there is always more to do. I think that developments in tonnage tax, as we did, also highlight the challenge in a competitive world where the number of commutes. Let us work together in Sweden to continue to strengthen Swedish shipping. It's important. But then the conditions of competition must be reasonable. Then the competitiveness of maritime operators must also be there, not least in relation to road and land transport. I note that the Swedish Democrats have some concerns about how to change that competitive situation. I and the government will continue to work to strengthen Swedish shipping. It is incredibly important to Sweden. Not least, I am now delighted with the depth of the fairway in Malmporten in Luleå and in Skandiahamnen in Gothenburg, where we now have great opportunities with regional co-financing to develop the potential of shipping. It's good for Swedish shipping, it's good for Sweden as an export nation, but it's also good for us who want Sweden to become the world's first fossil-free welfare country, because shipping is climate-smart.
i-e18c6b5ae93406c5-352	Madam President, I would like Maria Stockhaus has asked me what measures I have taken to stimulate more direct flights to and from Sweden. Access to international air connections is important for both individuals and business. The government is therefore working to improve Sweden's bilateral air service agreements with third countries as well as in negotiations at EU level. Within the framework of the 2015 export strategy, the priority is to strengthen accessibility. It is an important factor for investment but also for tourism. At the same time, it is important to point out that the aviation industry is facing a major change. Since the start of the pandemic, air transport has decreased dramatically, and air transport is one of the individual sectors most affected. The work of many stakeholders in the industry is now focused on managing the effects of the ongoing pandemic, and the government has taken a number of support measures for the aviation industry to mitigate the impact on both jobs and businesses. Finally, I would like to emphasise that the re-starting of aviation must be green in order for us to meet the Paris Agreement's objective of limiting heating to 1.5 degrees. The major climate impact of aviation will be reduced, and aviation will need to bear more of the costs of its climate impact. It is against the background of what the government takes the leadership shirt for aviation's climate change change by, among other things, introducing a mandatory incorporation of renewable aviation fuel and environmentally-governing take-off and landing fees. It is urgent, and we now need to join forces in order to be able to live up to the Paris Agreement.
i-e18c6b5ae93406c5-356	Madam President, I would like I will begin by thanking the Minister for Infrastructure for his answer. The Pandemin, as the Minister for Infrastructure said, has hit aviation hard. But that doesn't mean that fly t is down for the count and that we won't fly again. The consulting company McKinsey has made the assessment that aviation may have recovered to 2024 for leisure trips but that it may take a little longer when it comes to business aviation. The long-term consequences of the pandemic for our travellers, regardless of the type of traffic, remain to be seen. As my party leader often says, we must be able to keep two thoughts in our heads at the same time. We're still in the middle of a crisis. But there comes a life after it, and it's time to start looking at it and thinking ahead. This applies not least to flights. From the answer, I note that the Government has no ambitions to meet the objective of our export strategy that we should get more direct flights to and from our Swedish airports in general and Arlanda in particular. What determines whether an airline chooses to establish a route? According to the organisation Svenskt Flyg, it is about the size of the local market, whether the airport is attractive and modern, how many transfer passengers you can get, how high airport charges are and whether there are special air taxes. The aviation market is global, and national charges impair the competitiveness of Swedish airports. Sweden currently has a special airline tax in contrast to Denmark and Finland, which is a competitive disadvantage for Arlanda. I'll give you a calculation example. An airline flying between Arlanda and Tokyo with 80 percent occupancy five days a week pays SEK 32 million in air tax. However, if you fly from Helsinki and Copenhagen you don't pay anything. More direct lines are important for a global and attractive city like Stockholm. The government wrote in its own air transport strategy in 2017: Accessibility in the form of direct routes is becoming increasingly important in today's globalised world and is one of the most important factors for foreign companies when choosing between different options for establishment and new investments. Direct routes are also of great importance for the tourism industry. Flying directly instead of intermediate landing provides better availability and shorter travel times but also less environmental impact, mainly in the form of reduced CO2 emissions. Writing this in a strategy is not worth the paper it is written on if it is not followed by action. And when it comes to aviation, it is not possible to describe the government's actions as anything other than paralysing, unless it is about closing airports and reducing flying. The Swedish Agency for Growth has calculated in a report that 60 per cent of all foreign guest nights in Sweden can be attributed to aviation. In view of the fact that the tourism industry has also been severely affected by the pandemic, it is important that the aircraft get started so that the tourists can get here. Copenhagen Economics, on behalf of SAS, has calculated that a single intercontinental direct line to Stockholm can lead to SEK 600 million in foreign direct investment. The arguments for more direct lines are telling. How does the Minister for Infrastructure view the government's responsibility for developing aviation? At present, it feels like the focus is on decommissioning.
i-NqtKXGjAhuQpk3rWPqc5Yo	Madam President, I would like I thank Maria Stockhaus for this. I am just a little surprised by the concept of paralysis. Let me just give a few examples: credit guarantees for flights, loan guarantees, exceptional support for regional airports, the introduction of public service obligations, emergency airports and increased support, but also 27 temporary emergency airports, investment and development with state resources on electric flights. The list is long on aviation initiatives that have been done not only during the pandemic but since the government took office. It is an active policy for developing Swedish flights. And I'm glad that players in aviation together with Fossil-free Sweden are now taking the height to also be able to change the flight in the future. It's important. The airscam that we could see before the pandemic showed that travel was reduced because people wanted to opt out of the flight because of its climate impact. If we're going to attract people to fly, we're going to have to change the flight. I think it's a pretty important basic criterion for a lot of people these days. The Moderates may think that the airline tax is the most important incentive, but I think it's the wrong idea. On the other hand, I would like us to develop a flight tax with clear climate management instruments. It's important. Then it is important to have more direct lines. I really share that view. Sweden is an export-dependent industrial country, and we need good relations with the outside world. But I think everyone also realizes what a challenge we have now. I heard a representative of the business community say that they intend to reduce their business travel by 50% in the future and move on to digitalisation. It is a challenge that not only SAS, BRA and Norwegian have, but also Lufthansa and Air France – all the world's flights – face this challenge when society is digitised, for better or for worse and with all the opportunities it offers. It is also a challenge for, for example, Arlanda. So let me be a little perplexed about the Moderate position. Maria Stockhaus refers to McKinsey's report and it states that it is absolutely crucial how large the local market is and how many transfer passengers there are. If so, can there not be a point in securing the capacity at Arlanda by adding, for example, the domestic flight from Bromma? Would that not mean greater opportunities for international direct links? Instead, maintaining a structure that does not contribute to the rational and economic use of the funds for the air infrastructure is perhaps not the best way forward. So the basic question back to Maria Stockhaus is: If it is now the local market and how big it is that determines, or for that matter how many transfer passengers there are, can there not be a point in ensuring that the ground increases through, for example, a transfer of the business at Bromma to Arlanda? This issue has been discussed for a long time, and representatives of the business community have also highlighted it as an argument for creating better conditions for Arlanda to have international direct lines. As it is now, Copenhagen Airport is growing, with the large base that is there, while Arlanda has found it difficult to cope with the competition – not least because of a small base where domestic flights are spread out on several different hubs, including Bromma.
i-e18c6b5ae93406c5-373	Madam President, I would like It is interesting that one picks among the criteria that fit one's own argumentation and does not look at the other criteria regarding how companies reason about establishing long lines. The measures for aviation listed by the Minister for Infrastructure were crisis measures, apart from possibly the last on electric flights. That is quite different from what I am asking for, namely more forward-looking measures to get more direct flights. What is interesting in this context is the Arlanda Council. I know that the Minister for Infrastructure has discussed this in the past, with many different actors. The Council was appointed in spring 2017, and 15 highly qualified members sat there – including the then Minister for Environment and Climate Change. They worked until 31 March 2019 and had a largely completed report. A final meeting was scheduled, including photography and communication of the final report, but everything that was planned was suddenly cancelled. It was two years' work, and there is no official report. Many have asked questions, but the only answer you get in these contexts is that the question is being prepared. Madam President, I would like I've seen the draft final report. It is a draft with many good proposals for Arlanda's expansion and development, but also proposals for sustainability and the goal that aviation should be completely fossil-free in 2045. The report also contains proposals that address the need for better connections to and from Arlanda. The plan was clearly that the Council would present a final report. One can only speculate on what happened, but the Green Party's attitude to aviation is familiar. The report set clear targets, including more direct lines, three parallel roller tracks by 2035 and that Arlanda would become a world exhibition for innovation that contributes to climate-smart and attractive services. It is an impressive work with many concrete proposals to make Arlanda what we Moderates think the airport should be, namely the leading airport in the Nordic region. Instead, the government's policy and lack of action mean that Arlanda risks becoming a feeder airport to Copenhagen, which risks jobs and growth not only in the Stockholm region but throughout Sweden. According to Anders Sundström's report on Bromma, the time horizon is that an expanded and developed airport at Arlanda Airport takes about 20 years. If you add the end date 2038 for Bromma you can note that Arlanda with Sundström's time horizon is not extended to 2038. The debate does not now apply to Bromma, although the Minister for Infrastructure chose to address Bromma in his previous speech. There is reason to return to the latter, but the time horizon is the interesting thing. The construction of an airport is not something you do in a hurry; decisions are needed, and that is what is missing. The report from the Arlanda Council was due in March 2019. There was never a final report, but the proposals are reasonably available at the Ministry of Infrastructure. The question is therefore: when will we see a government action that will make the proposals in the Arlanda Council's report a reality?
i-e18c6b5ae93406c5-380	Madam President, I would like It is in the nature of things that the opposition is never satisfied and that the government is certainly too satisfied sometimes– what do I know? In this matter, of course, if we want more direct lines – and it needs Sweden – we need to be able to ensure that capacity exists. Just recently I had a press conference with my colleague Per Bolund where we said just that: Secure the capacity at Arlanda! I want to remember that Maria Stockhaus then went out and criticized it very much. Maria Stockhaus consultants thus report that the local market determines, as does the number of transfer passengers. I think the third was airline tax, and I think it is difficult to lead in evidence that it affects. If this is what they write, in what way do the conditions for Arlanda's attractiveness increase if the conditions are removed to widen the ground – for example, by saying no to a part of the domestic flight in that case moving to Arlanda? I'm just curiously interested in how the Moderates actually think. You seem to be inclined at the moment to say no to everything the government is proposing, Maria Stockhaus, whether it be investment in infrastructure or restructuring and responsibility for aviation. You are doing this in a situation where I think everyone realises that we have quite a lot of challenges – after a pandemic, but also since before because of a flight comb, and in a situation where business aviation will have major challenges in the future. The consultants referred to by Maria Stockhaus are relatively optimistic, I have to say; we look at the forecasts of IATA and everyone else we see that the recovery of aviation is in fact even further ahead. Then let us, who realise that Sweden is an export-dependent industrial country that is in great need of good communications with the outside world, think about how they can be as good as possible – as sustainable and climate safe as possible. How should we make the best use of resources? Then it is not enough, as the Moderates, to say no to every proposal that is put forward, but also to think. Please develop how the Moderates see that we will secure the capacity at Arlanda if we do not move from Bromma!
i-e18c6b5ae93406c5-385	Madam President, I would like Now we have not submitted our follow-up motion to the infrastructure bill, but I can say that we will interfere within the same framework as the government. We welcome the major investment in infrastructure in terms of money, but we will choose to make completely different priorities from what the government has done – not least with regard to high-speed roads. When it comes to the criteria for establishing new direct lines, they come from the organisation Svenskt Flyg and not from any consultants. I just wanted to correct the infrastructure minister there. As far as the air tax is concerned, I believe that SEK 32 million per year affects whether an airline chooses to establish a route or not. The Minister for Infrastructure returns in all the debates on aviation to the fact that the aircraft must be changed, and I agree with that. I think everyone agrees with that. But what is strange in the debate is that the Minister for Infrastructure always says that the aircraft must change, while I see that the aircraft is changing. The Minister for Infrastructure does not seem to be aware of this, and he does not give air travel credit for actually doing that work. Instead, it is simply a matter of embarrassing the flight because it is not being changed. In March, Swedavia announced that their operations at all ten airports are fossil-free, and SAS has three new aircraft delivered that emit 30 percent less than the planes they replace. We have a Swedish initiative for electric flights, and there are ongoing experiments with hydrogen. We have biofuels and new engines that can withstand more and more interference. The possibilities for aviation to become fossil-free are great. This is about the fact that it is a global market and that we need global action – for example, we need to deal with the Chicago Convention in order to get a CO2 tax on aviation fuel. It is important that we have a better international commitment to the conversion of aviation. My question is: what is the government doing to bring about changes at international level in aviation?
i-e18c6b5ae93406c5-392	Madam President, I would like To answer the last question: for example, I myself stood in the ICAO General Assembly, which could be called the equivalent of aviation to the United Nations, in Montreal, arguing for the possibility of taxing fossil aviation fuel and changing the practice and application of the Chicago Convention, which has been solid since the 1950s, I think. I was alone in this; there was not a single Minister of Transport or Minister of Infrastructure in the rest of the Assembly who said the same thing. Since then, we have worked tirelessly to bring about a change. In the EU, there is an interesting discussion about getting aviation into the EU ETS. We now have several like-minded people, who think like Sweden – the last time I saw the list it was seven or eight nations that now think it is reasonable to tax fossil aviation fuel in order to get an international discussion about the same steering year that we had for the automotive industry. This has proved to work; with different types of instruments, we can actually contribute to a transition in the automotive industry to sustainable fuels and, not least, to electrification. I am talking very well about aviation in very many contexts precisely because I myself am an aviation enthusiast. I was there when Heart Aerospace, together with Prince Daniel, inaugurated the engine that should be available in an electric plane for 19 people. It is important, and we have put state resources into developing this. In the same way, GKN participates in the joint development programmes that exist to develop Swedish aviation. The reduction obligation is well known, as is Swedavia's commitment to airports. It is during our time that this has happened. The moderates' top priority action when aviation sank like a rock and there was a pandemic crisis for aviation was to reduce air tax. I think everyone realises that we need a little more creativity than reduced taxes.
i-e18c6b5ae93406c5-396	Madam President, I would like Jens Holm has asked me what measures I intend to take to prevent further outbreaks like the current avian flu and whether it is my opinion that it is reasonable for the state to pay such a large proportion of the cost of avian influenza and other spreads of infection due to intensive and large-scale livestock farming. Avian flu still spreads around Europe and so also in Sweden. The outbreak in the season 2020 – 2021 is the largest we have had of avian influenza in Sweden, both in terms of the number of affected herds and in terms of the number of animals. More than two million birds have been killed so far in Sweden. The competent authorities have handled the outbreaks in accordance with the rules and procedures in place. I have great confidence in the work of both the authorities and the industry during current outbreaks. Sweden has extensive experience of preventive work with animal health and disease protection, which is the basis for preventing the emergence and spread of diseases between animals and humans. In recent years, a great deal of work has been done on preparedness for infectious animal diseases, including avian influenza, in order to combat an outbreak quickly. Avian influenza has also been addressed on several occasions in different EU contexts, where action at EU level is needed to combat the infection and introduce preventive measures. Sweden is following this work closely and will be active in this process. In addition, in January this year the Government has also given a commission to the National Board of Agriculture and the National Veterinary Institute to examine the risk of developing and spreading new diseases between animals and humans. The authorities shall seek the opinion of the Public Health Authority. The assignment must be presented by 28 February 2022. As regards the question of compensation for the costs incurred in combating avian influenza outbreaks, the Epizootic Law (1999:657) states that the State is to compensate owners who have suffered losses or costs as a result of decisions taken by the authorities to prevent the spread of certain contagious animal diseases. Avian influenza is such an epizootic disease where animal owners are entitled to some compensation. The fight against the season's outbreak of avian influenza has caused considerable economic costs, and the government has in the spring change budget for 2021 (prop. 2020/ 21:99) proposed SEK 200 million to cover the costs of combating infectious animal diseases, and in particular avian influenza. Sweden also has the opportunity to apply for co-financing from the EU. The issue of compensation for outbreaks of animal diseases is a complex one, and the report submitted to the government on new animal health legislation (SOU 2020:62) states that there are strong reasons to review the compensation system as soon as possible. The report is now being prepared within the Government Office.
i-e18c6b5ae93406c5-403	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Jennie Nilsson for the answer to my interpellation. Just as both I and the Government are on the rampage of bird flu right now in Sweden. It's the worst outbreak we've ever had of avian flu. Also in other countries one looks a little surprised at Sweden precisely because avian flu has hit not only wild birds but also knocked out large-scale breeding of chickens and turkeys at facilities in Sweden. Let us remember that this is not just any avian flu, it is the highly pathogenic version of avian flu, the one that usually goes under the abbreviation HPAI. There is also a great risk, and it feels particularly topical now during the pandemic, that avian flu can mutate and then spread to people. It is the case with pandemics and other diseases that they almost always originate from the animal world. Often an infection comes from a wild animal and lands in a herd of domesticated animals. It could be chickens, it could be chickens, it could be pigs and other things. There the virus settles, mutates and can then spread further in mutated form and infect humans in the form of a so-called zoonoses, i.e. a disease that is contagious from animal to human. We have now seen under the coronapndemine how the corona virus has landed in herds of minks from the fur industry and then hit people in mutated form. Madam President, I would like I would like to emphasise that these are serious matters. The Public Health Agency addresses avian influenza in particular on its website. They write:中 The greatest threat to human health is not the infection of avian flu itself, but the possibility that it will give rise to a completely new flu variant for humans. In particular, a variant with better ability to spread between humans and against which we do not have protective antibodies. ..................................................... This is dangerous. Here there are latent threats of new pandemics against which we do not have vaccines or antibodies. I really want to know whether the government is fully prepared for the latent threats that exist, because we do not see that avian flu has actually been eliminated, but, as I have said, it is still rampant in Sweden. Then I think that a good line from the Swedish Government would have been to look forward to large-scale livestock farming. For example, instead of spending money on the mink industry, as has now been done in our amending budget, large-scale animal rearing of minks should be phased out and, in the next step, perhaps large-scale livestock farming should be completely phased out.
i-e18c6b5ae93406c5-409	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jens Holm, for the question! Yes, it is a highly topical issue, just as Jens Holm says. We have a big outbreak, the biggest that we have ever had in Sweden. However, I do not think that Jens Holm has any evidence to say that other countries look surprised at Sweden, as if we had an outbreak that does not exist elsewhere. We are affected just as badly as many other countries, for the sake of unaccompaniedness. Jens Holm described in a commendable way how viruses arise, which is both adequate and relevant in this context and which forms the basis for how we work with these issues. I would also like to say that Jens Holm both knows and agrees that Sweden has a very good reputation in terms of how we work with preventive anti-infection measures and control of infection. We are often active, engaged and appreciated in international contexts, linked to it. We are, not least, because we have been a forerunner and a strong driver in reducing the use of antibiotics for animals. We have done this by taking the lead in Sweden, of course, but also by pushing this issue forward in international fora and in the framework of trade agreements, to take an example. Overall, I feel very safe with the work that the authorities do. That does not mean, of course, that we do not always have to ensure that we learn from what we are in. This year and perhaps above all – if you include avian flu – autumn and winter we have had to deal with the coronapandemia in society at large, where we have seen that it is an infection that can go between humans and animals, salmonella outbreaks and a bird flu outbreak that by Swedish standards is very extensive and is still ongoing. Given this, we have tried to find a good balance in ensuring that the authorities have the tools they need to deal with this. We have a constant dialogue with them on this. We also have a constant dialogue with the sectors concerned about how they perceive the work of the authorities and what tools they might need from the policy. And already a few months ago– I don't remember right now if it was just before or shortly after Christmas– we commissioned the Swedish Board of Agriculture, SVA and others to analyse the work that is being done and draw conclusions from our preparedness and ability and come up with proposals for possible additional measures that need to be introduced. Nevertheless, I would say that we are dealing with this very seriously and that we are taking all the measures and taking the measures that we can give the facts that we know and given the situations that we have had and that we are planning for – this to deal with this as well and wisely as possible. Then Jens Holm boils this down in two specific issues. Let's start with the first one. Then we can conclude that I do not intend to work to ensure that we do not have large-scale production in Sweden. We have not long since, in 2018, adopted a food strategy in this House, which was also supported by the Left Party. Among other things, it highlighted the need for increased profitability and large-scaleness as part of such work. However, companies in Sweden, whether large or small, will live up to the same tough and strong demands for good animal husbandry. I think that is the priority issue in this context.
i-e18c6b5ae93406c5-420	Madam President, I would like When I said that the outside world is looking at us, I meant looking with surprise. That is exactly what the Government says: we have a very good reputation in the world in terms of food production and animal husbandry. However, I am looking, for example, at EFSA's reporting on this – it is the European Food Authority. It notes that avian influenza has spread to domesticated animals – turkeys and chickens. More than 2 million chickens have been killed in Sweden due to avian flu. I think that's quite surprising to many, and that's kind of contrary to the image we have of ourselves. Ultimately, this is about how we treat animals and how we look at food production in general and whether we think you can squeeze 10 000 or 15 000 chickens into one and the same premises and believe that it is safe production. I've been to several places like that myself. It can be seen that it is an extremely intensive breeding of animals. I simply think that it is contrary to any kind of natural behavior that a chicken should be able to have. And become a chicken in such a herd infected spreads the infection to everyone else in a day or a few days. We in the Left Party have often criticised this form of livestock farming. We call it animal factories, and we say that this is contrary to the animal's right to natural behaviour. Now there's another dimension. I can admit that I hadn't reflected on it much a few years ago. It is the latent risk of new infections that spread not only among animals but also to humans. We have seen that now during the pandemic with the minks. In its spring budget, the government has proposed SEK 60 million to mink farmers, not to phase out their operations, but to keep them under their arms. I think this is the wrong decision. In the food strategy referred to by the Minister, there are also wordings on reducing meat consumption. I can say that it was the result of the Left Party that it came along. We believe that, with reduced meat consumption, we will also become less dependent on these animal factories. I would really like to know if the government is prepared for further contamination. Let's talk about the avian flu. We know that in Europe swine fever is spread among wild boars but also among domesticated pigs. It can spread to Sweden. In Denmark, they are building a fence between southern Denmark and Germany precisely to prevent swine fever coming to Denmark. Is the Minister and the Government prepared for this? The swine plague could be the next form of a pandemic for the animals. I also asked a question about the compensation that the government directly brings to farmers. It is so far 340 million SEK for compensation to breeders in chicken production and clean-up. And now the government is proposing another $200 million. It is over half a billion dollars in pure compensation for the industry. Does the Minister not think that the industry, the industry, should take greater financial responsibility when such outbreaks occur? After all, it is in their activities that it happens, and it is the result of large-scale farming.
i-e18c6b5ae93406c5-428	Madam President, I would like Thank you for a further important debate, of course! We can start in the part about Jens Holm's picture and account of how infection occurs. It is clear that I share the view that much of the infection occurs in farms with poor animal husbandry, often in markets in Asia, where animals are mixed and there are very bad conditions. We have a responsibility to work with these issues at a global level but of course also nationally. It is not least a question of being a forerunner. We are considered to be forerunners in a great many areas. It is about how we work to prevent the spread of infection and how we handle it, but it is also about Sweden having one of the world's best animal legislations. We are also a driving force within the framework of the European Union to put the issues on that agenda. For example, we have the EU Animal Health Regulation, which is a good result of the EU-wide work in this area. Its main objective is to improve animal health and to focus more on measures to prevent disease outbreaks. We implemented it in Sweden as late as 24 April this year. So things are constantly happening in this area. In Sweden, it is my firm opinion that we should have good animal welfare regardless of whether we have small or large facilities. However, we need both small and large plants. This is where I think the Left Party is going wrong in its way of reasoning. One of the main reasons, linked to this debate, for us to need large plants, is that it is those who invest in new technologies and are involved in financing and pressing for biosecurity systems, for example. They are the ones who are able to bear the costs, technological development and so on. Without profitability in an industry, these incentives do not exist. And no one does the job better than the industry. I believe that replacing this with something else, such as the state, would be devastating in dealing with the spread of infection, regardless of the category we are talking about. Another important part of this is, of course, that you as an animal keeper should directly report if you have the slightest reason to suspect outbreaks. You get tough restrictions as soon as you report. If we talk about avian flu, you stop everything right away until the vets are in place. If they are infected, restrictions are imposed. And of course, this is hugely expensive. Should you not receive compensation, experience from other countries shows, among other things, that the tendency to report is decreasing very much. Maybe that's when you take a chance. I therefore believe that compensation also plays an important role in ensuring the proper functioning of these systems. If we look at bird flu – the replacements look a little different – we see that it is regulated both when you get compensation and for what. It is also true that this is an epizootic disease regulated by the European Union. So we have an obligation from the European Union to deal with this. It is then the case that you get 100% for certain parts, i.e. the animal value and the clean-up, and 50% for the loss of production. I think it is a reasonable part, but with that said, there are still questions. It is highlighted from several different directions that you need to review the compensations, but not for the purpose that I feel Jens Holm is looking for, i.e. that you should reduce the compensation in general. On the other hand, bee diseases are raised as a problem given that they provide very low compensation today, which many claim leads to beekeepers not always reporting when you suspect disease in their bee communities. This is something you need to look at. I think we want the same thing, but we land in different solutions.
i-e18c6b5ae93406c5-437	Madam President, I would like I mentioned swine fever and did not get a response to it, but swine fever is rampant in several European countries and is getting closer and closer to the Nordic countries. Denmark is building a fence against Germany to hold the swine fever pole. This could be the next bird flu. In fact, it could be the next human pandemic if it wants to hurt itself. The Public Health Agency was on the point: perhaps it is not the spread right now among the animals that is the problem, but it is about whether these viruses mutate and then in mutated form, which we have no protection against, attacks people. Is the Minister aware of the spread of swine fever? What measures has the Minister taken to ensure that it does not come here and that we do not suffer from it? As far as the compensation system is concerned, I think we think a little differently, quite simply. I think more that it should be the polluter who pays and that this principle should be taken more seriously. So far, the government has gone in with more than half a billion dollars just to replace and pay the remediation for avian flu. I would like to know from the Minister what the plan really is. Could it be more than this half a billion dollars? That's an incredible amount of money. Does the Minister not think that the industry has a greater responsibility? It's still where the eruptions take place. One of these outbreaks occurred at Sweden's largest egg producer, which is a reputable breeder. But it does say something about the problem of these large plants. Because if an animal is affected, the entire crew is knocked out, and you have a large-scale infection that is very difficult to handle. I think that much more needs to be done here.
i-e18c6b5ae93406c5-441	Madam President, I would like It becomes very clear in the debate that we land differently in this, and we do so from different points of view. Unfortunately, I think that Jens Holm and the Left Party are going a little wrong on the basis of weighing in completely different perspectives that would not be beneficial whether we are talking about spread of infection or pandemics. I believe that these are other political considerations that are being considered, and so we are trying a little unlucky to use these issues to build another case. I am very convinced and, of course, aware of the challenges facing us. Now African swine fever is being raised in the debate, something that we obviously have very close control of. It too has its origins in China and Asia and has existed in Europe for a long time. It is quite close now, for example in Germany, where Denmark builds a wall as Jens Holm said. This does not make Sweden clear that we do not have a land border with Germany. I do not think that this is perhaps the most effective way to stop swine fever either. But we follow the question, and we have it under guard. Our authorities above all have a readiness for what we would do if it came to Sweden. This cannot be excluded. We are talking about wild live animals in the same way that they are migratory birds, that is, wild birds, which primarily spread avian flu. Of course, one would argue consistently when it comes to birds, one would say: Don't have chickens out there then. Then there can be no wild birds infecting them. However, I do not believe that this debate is conducive to such issues. I also note that a total of 24 farms are affected. Two of them are really big, 16 are commercial and the rest are hobby farms. All of them are in different forms of clusters, and then you would say that you must not be close either. But then you reduce all the conditions to be able to build networks that work proactively and proactively to develop the industry as well as these kinds of issues. That would be unfortunate.
i-e18c6b5ae93406c5-445	Madam President, I would like Alexandra Anstrell has asked me how I will act within the EU to create opinion with the aim of obtaining a trade permit in the EU for trade in seal products and thus following the announcement made by Parliament to a government. She has also asked me what incentives I intend to create for the hunters to want to exploit all the shot seals, which is also consistent with good hunting ethics. Lars Beckman has asked me how it is that I do not intend to follow a decision taken by Parliament to pursue the issue of obtaining a trade permit in the EU for trade in seal products and that Sweden within the EU should push the issue of lifting the ban on trade in seal products. He has also asked what incentives I intend to create for the hunters to want to exploit all the shot seals, which is also consistent with good hunting ethics. Finally, he has asked what other measures I intend to take to reduce the stock of seals and cormorants after the coast of Gävleborg and other coastal areas in Sweden where the need exists. In 2009, a ban on the import and sale of seal products was introduced within the EU due to concerns about the welfare of seals. However, an exception was added to the continued sale of seal products from the protection hunt within the EU. In 2011, Canada and Norway initiated a dispute in the World Trade Organisation (WTO) against the EU as they considered the ban to be restrictive of trade. The WTO Dispute Settlement Body concluded that the EU ban was permitted under the current trade rules but that the exemption for the protection hunt was discriminatory and therefore not compatible with WTO law. The EU implemented the WTO ruling and the exemption for the continued sale of seal products from the EU protection hunt was removed from 18 October 2015. The only remaining derogation from the EU ban is for seal products from hunting carried out by indigenous peoples inside and outside the EU. Sweden is thus bound by the current form of EU law not to sell seal products within the EU. The Swedish Parliament has announced to the government what the Committee on Economic Affairs has said about trade in seal products. The Government has indicated by letter 2020 21:75 that the Government considers that the possibilities of currently pursuing the issue of lifting the EU ban on trade in seal products are very limited. The announcement is not closed. According to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's decision to license hunting for grey seal, it is allowed to fell 2 000 grey seals during the period 20 April 2021 – 31 December 2021. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has also decided to allow hunting for 900 chubby seals and 420 bays during 2021 and early 2022. The government is aware that seal hunting is time consuming and associated with costs for the individual hunter. Nor is it possible for a hunter to sell seal skins or meat, for example, because of the EU ban on trade in seal products. Prior to 2021, the Government of the Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management has decided that a maximum of SEK 3 million may be allocated to the county administrative boards to be used for compensation for handling costs for grey seals that have been shot with the support of decisions of the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency regarding protection hunting and license hunting. A scientific evaluation of the licence hunt on grey seal shall be presented by 1 June 2021. I cannot precede the work in progress and anticipate the evaluation. The cormoral population and how it is to be managed is also an important issue. If justified, the county administrative boards may, in accordance with the current constitution, decide on a search for cormorants, which today takes place regularly at several county administrative boards. The County Administrative Board may also decide on the right to intervene in the nests of birds or to destroy birds' eggs on the basis of the hunting regulation. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has submitted a proposal for changes in hunting times to the Government on the basis of the hunting regulation. The Government has referred the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's proposal, and the matter is now being prepared within the Government Office. I cannot anticipate that process either.
i-e18c6b5ae93406c5-452	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. We are here today debating the issue of selling seal products. So we are talking about trying to create opportunities, but the Minister for Rural Development is saying no because it seems too difficult. That you can shoot seals but not dispose of the animal is not very logical. Since 2015, therefore, there has been a total ban on trade in seal products. EU rules or the rules that remained after the WTO ruled that exceptions should be made for certain Inuit communities and indigenous peoples are one thing, but that a Swedish seller cannot sell anything from the seal is completely insane. It is therefore completely impossible to sell seal meat, seal skins or anything else from the seal. Failure to sell the meat and fur of seals may mean that sellers do not want to shoot more seals or that there are serious difficulties in getting rid of the bodies. Some shoot the seals but then let them sink to the bottom. A shot seal sinks to the bottom, and then it floats up when gases have formed in the body. And it can contribute to eutrophication in the Gulf of Bothnia. Madam President, I would like We can't have that. Shooting animals without taking advantage of the body is not justifiable, nor is it good game management. I don't know any hunter who wants it that way. Historically, we have seen that skins, furs, meat and fat have been commodities, and they should continue to be. Following the decision of Parliament 2019, seal hunting is allowed, which is welcome. But as long as the ban on trade in seal products is in place, it is both ethically wrong and a major waste of resources to shoot a seal and then not be able to dispose of any of it. The WTO is the international organisation responsible for international trade rules. The WTO also administers a dispute settlement system that is common to the various areas of agreement, and that is exactly what the Minister explains in his response. The WTO decision on the exemption for seal products derived from hunting carried out for the sustainable management of marine resources states that what has been deleted may create problems for certain Member States and should be taken into account in future evaluations. Future evaluations – yes, it was 2015, and now we are in 2021. So it should really be time for an evaluation. Is an evaluation something that the Minister has highlighted in the work on the WTO negotiating rounds, in the Council of Ministers or in the General Council?
i-e18c6b5ae93406c5-459	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer.
i-e18c6b5ae93406c5-460	Madam President, I would like Grey seals in the Baltic Sea and the Bothnian Sea find it difficult to find food. P4 writes on its website that there is a shortage of food for many raw seals in the Baltic Sea and the Bothnian Sea. It goes on to say that it may be due to overfishing, that the seal strain is too large for the food resource available or that the ecosystem is out of balance in some other way. AnnaAnna-Carin Westling, sales owner from Båsfjärden outside Hudiksvall, believes that the lack of food will have major consequences: I think we will have a large and painful seal death. ..................................................... Madam President, I would like So it is said that it believes that we are going to have a great and painful seal death. We can't have that. In fact, it is quite unreasonable that we have had a situation where there are so many seals and cormorants after the coast in Gävleborg and in many other places. Nature is thus out of balance. One of the finest groups in society, Sweden's hunters, is great conservationists regardless of animals. Of course, the fine group of hunters should be involved in getting their balance back so that the seal does not starve to death. That's what the interpellation is about. My colleague Alexandra Anstrell has mentioned the subject in an exemplary way. What worries me is that the Government does not intend to respect the Swedish Parliament in its response. This is the finest political assembly there is, Madam President. The Swedish parliament has said that the government will act on the issue in the announcement by introducing trade in seal products, which will give hunters and others a motivation to create the balance that the coast of Gävleborg needs. I am surprised that the Minister does not intend to follow the highest political assembly in Sweden. The Government replied that the government has considered that the possibilities to pursue the issue of lifting the EU ban at present are very limited. Listen to that sentence again, namely that the government has judged that there are very little possibilities. I think one should understand the sentence as that the Green Party has put its foot down and decided on another issue. It does not matter whether it is predatory or other rural issues that are important. Then the Social Democrats will veto it. Who is affected by the veto of the Social Democrats and the Green Party? Well, it's the seals that have trouble finding food. It is the seals that are dying of starvation. It is as the seller from Hudiksvall says, namely that she believes we will see a large and painful seal death.
i-e18c6b5ae93406c5-465	Madam President, I would like I thank the interpellants, who have raised an important question, and I also thank the Government for the answer to the question. When the WTO and the EU in this way oppose or set laws and regulations, it becomes another example of a local concern in Sweden. We are talking about about 60 000 seals around Sweden's coasts. Then there are 2 000 seals in the licence hunt and more than a thousand in the protection hunt. Then it is 3 000 – 3 500 seals that are possible to shoot. On a 60,000 seal stock, there will not be a stock-regulating hunt. That is exactly where we have to go, that is to say, to get a stock-regulating hunt. The Baltic Sea is exposed in many ways. There's talk of cod having a hard time. Last time, it is the herring that is extremely difficult. A number of other species also find it difficult. We know, of course, that seals and cormorants are important parts of the fact that these species have difficulties, as well as various environmental problems that also burden the Baltic Sea. So there are a number of concerns and concerns about the Baltic Sea. The clouds of concern are also a direct threat to coastal fishing, small-scale fishing – which is an important part of the Swedish food strategy, which we are trying to create tools to make it work so that we can increase our food production. So there are many parts that record. If we are to make sure that the hunters do this, because it is they who need to shoot these 3 000 – 3 500 seals, there must be incentives for that. They themselves must feel that there are incentives, because if they manage to shoot 3 500 seals – which I do not mean is a very stock-regulating hunt – and then have no incentive for what to do with them, then we have failed anyway. Seals can also be a food, and seal products can make a positive contribution to the national economy. The government bites itself in the tail when it says that this is going to be difficult, we cannot do this and we do not believe that it can be done. At least we have to try, don't we? It is quite often the case in the debate that we in Sweden take a step back and say that the European Union says that we cannot do this, we cannot and we must not. These are species and habitats directives and other directives. And then we say in Sweden: Well, okay. That's too bad. I couldn't do that. We must, as a matter of fact, change our attitude a little and dare to push ahead in order to move forward on these issues. As far as seals and cormorants are concerned, we in the Moderates believe that we need a stock-regulating hunt for both, and we believe that the EU's species and habitat directives will allow stock-regulating hunting for them. You'll buy it. We know we have incredibly large tribes today. We need to get regional management plans across Sweden for how to handle the cormorants. I see examples at home on my farm, where we have some small lakes. There it is getting full of cormorants. The scarf is not exactly a defective product anymore. We need to get stock-regulating hunting, perhaps even public hunting, on the joints. I would like to clarify how the Minister views these problems. How does she view small-scale fishing, coastal fishing, for which seal is a concern? And if there is no incentive, will these seals still be shot? We don't think so. How does the Government view these questions?
i-e18c6b5ae93406c5-476	Madam President, I would like I want to start by being clear. The Minister does not say, as the interpellants claim, that we should not follow the announcement that exists from the Riksdag. I myself am a Member of Parliament at the bottom; I have the greatest respect for this House. What we're saying is that we should do this wisely. Doing so wisely means waiting for a smart time to raise the issue. That is when there are conditions for the issue to be realized in something. Of course, it does not mean waiting for the situation where you think you can get exactly what you want, but you have to have timing for everything. At the moment, this is the assessment that is being made. I noted that Mr Beckman does not have any confidence in that assessment, but thinks that he himself makes a better assessment. However, my assessment rests on that of the non-political officials who are looking at these issues, and it is that there are no accessible paths or new openings within the framework of EU cooperation to repeal the original EU decision. In addition, the appeal made by Canada and Norway to the WTO, which means that we have a ruling in the WTO against the EU, which means that the exceptions that we had previously, and on which we could perhaps have built a case, cannot now be invoked. In this context, it should also be remembered that everything needs to be put into a whole. I think it is the great weakness of all the interpellation debates that I have, not least with moderate representatives in this House – that on purpose or because one cannot do so, one does not look at the whole, but tries to pretend that each issue alone is completely molar. These are not really questions, but everything in politics needs to be put into a wider context – including these issues. For me and this government, the overall trade policy is, of course, part of this. To urge Sweden or the EU to obstinate against a WTO decision in the difficult situation that the WTO has, I think, would be wrong for Sweden, and it also weighs into the assessment. At the same time, we can see that there is now a new administration in the United States which, at least, has not yet stated that it wants to push the WTO in the right direction. Perhaps the WTO can appoint new judges. Perhaps we can have a strong voice for free trade friends to ensure that we have a functioning trading system in place. It is important in this context. In this situation, I think it would be quite inappropriate to obstinate against a WTO decision. At the same time, I can agree – not only can I agree, but I agree – that it is deeply problematic that you do not use the meat or all the fur that comes from the seal that you shoot. It is not compatible with good hunting ethics, and it makes it difficult to get up volume in this area. We have partly tried to deal with this by introducing a management grant. But to be crass, it means burning the seal. This means that we can possibly get someone to shoot at you because you get paid for your additional costs. But of course it is not an incentive that anyone wants to pursue hunting, but it is a way of dealing with the situation that is with a blocking majority in the European Parliament – which is solid to judge by the latest that has been expressed in this area, and no openings have been shown at this stage – and given the position of the WTO on this issue. We are also giving quite a lot of money to industry, especially the fishing industry, both for prevention and for compensation in this context. These are the measures that we have assessed are possible here and now.
i-e18c6b5ae93406c5-486	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I received another reply on 30 September last year. It was then said that the government does not intend to act on the matter. Now the minister says something else. I thought it might be good to have a little clarification. What's the minister going to do? What leg does she want to stand on? I think that if Parliament's will is to enable trade in seal products and an announcement is sent to the government, how can the Minister for Rural Development stand here and say that the Minister and the Government will not implement this? Now you said something else, of course, but what's it gonna be? This doesn't make any sense. Now the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has decided to hunt for over 2 000 grey seals, and one of the reasons for this is that the seals cause huge damage to fishing. Along the east coast of Sweden, much of the coastal fishing has disappeared, i.e. those who fish with nets. Before they get back to pick up their nets, seals have whitened the nets and eaten the catch. That is a great pity, because it is a segment of professional fishing that is good to keep, also to get a living countryside. And that's what we want, isn't it, Minister of Rural Affairs? I was in my last speech, Madam President, on how to influence the WTO and who can do so. After all, negotiations within the WTO take place through so-called rounds of negotiations. The rounds are the periods during which Member States meet regularly to negotiate new agreements. The highest decision-making body in the WTO is the Ministerial Conference, which under the WTO Agreement is to be convened on a regular basis – preferably at intervals of no more than two years. The highest decision-making body between the ministerial conferences is the General Council. Each country is represented here at the highest official level, i.e. the level of ambassadors. The General Council is the decision-making body in principle all matters. Then I think that there are possibilities here. Here there are opportunities for Sweden to pursue this issue, opportunities to try to improve for Sweden, for Sweden's fishermen and sellers and all of us who live here in Sweden. The overall objective of the WTO is to contribute through mutually beneficial trade arrangements to the improvement of living standards, full employment and efficient use of resources in accordance with the principle of sustainable development. Sustainable development, Madam President – that could certainly be included. I am thinking of the sustainable management of marine resources, which I mentioned earlier, in that the hunt is conducted precisely on the basis of sustainable management. It will not be sustainable if we have to throw away the seals, burn the seals or sink the seals in the Baltic Sea. I believe that Parliament's announcement on this issue makes it clear to the government that there is a majority who think that one should take advantage of the whole seal and therefore be able to dispose of parts of it. Yet the government ignores this and refers to the fact that it is a bit difficult. Perhaps it is a pipe dream for some – that it would just ignore things that are decided upon. But it is not for me or for the other democratically elected assembly here in Parliament, I think. I think that it is possible to decide whether and to create better incentives if you are able to deal with difficult issues as well.
i-e18c6b5ae93406c5-498	Madam President, I would like It is interesting that the Minister for Rural Development is raising the issue of trust. I saw in a survey in one of the media in Sweden that it was 1 percent of the Swedish people who have confidence in the Minister for Rural Development. It's a so-called challenge when you have 99% left. Madam President, I would like I'm very glad the Minister for Rural Affairs wasn't a hockey coach in Brynäs. Brynäs has just passed the qualifying for SHL. But if the rural minister had been commissioned to save Brynäs in the elite series, it would have been very unfortunate if she went into the team and said: No, this is a bit difficult – we make the assessment that it is difficult to push the issue right now. Madam President, I would like If you have that attitude, of course, you get the result you deserve. We now have a situation where the seals along the coast of Gävleborg are starving. We have a situation where a seller says: I think we are going to see a big and painful seal death. In that situation, Madam President, surely we must try to do the utmost and turn all the stones around in order to resolve the situation and reduce the seal population? There are many people who, quite rightly, believe that the seal strain is too large for the food resource that exists and that the ecosystem is out of balance. It is not good enough, Madam President, to say to the Swedish Parliament, which has adopted an announcement: ..................................................... However, if you make that assessment and if it is true, Madam President, the next question will of course be: what measures will the government take to reduce the seal population in real terms? That was also one of my questions in the interpellation. What incentives are there for hunters, who are Sweden's finest and best game keepers? The Minister says in his answer: We set aside 3 million, which may be distributed to the county boards. So there is not 3 million in Gävleborg, Madam President, but in Sweden as a whole. We must therefore have other, better incentives to ensure that we can reduce the seal population. As John Widegren says, although we would succeed in eliminating 3 000 seals out of 60 000, it is still too little, with great probability. So we need to get the levels up considerably. As far as the cormorants are concerned, Madam President, a study has been carried out in Söderhamn. There, 94.8 percent of the islanders say that they want the cormorants removed. I visited a large employer in Söderhamn, and there was an island very close to the large factory. The smell of the cormorant on the warm summer day is a work environment issue, I would say. It is a work environment issue for the company, which is difficult to influence.
i-e18c6b5ae93406c5-505	Madam President, I would like I agree with such comments as the lack of a holistic approach. I stood right here and described the concerns about the Baltic Sea. Some of them are precisely the large seal population and the large cormorant population. That is exactly what today's interpellation debate is about. That's why we probably didn't broaden the discussion much more than that. That's where we know we have major problems today, both with regard to the seal and on the side of the cormorant. I understand the Government's argument that it may be difficult to get this through. Nevertheless, we must try. I believe, Madam President, that the Swedish Government must always go to EU negotiations and other things to reason and do the best for Sweden. I expect the Swedish Government, when it goes to ministerial meetings and other things and the issue of bird directives and other things comes up, to do the best it can for Sweden – that we will have to increase the shooting of cormorants in Sweden, because we have a problem with cormorants here. I am counting on us to push the issue of getting stock-regulating hunting for both seals and cormorants, because that is the best thing for Sweden. I come back to the fact that this is a form of rural issue. It lands on issues of near-coastal fishing and food strategy, and then seals and cormorants are very important issues. That is exactly what today's interpellation debate is about. So I think the question to the Government remains: Is the Government prepared to work to get stock-regulating hunting for seals and cormorants?
i-e18c6b5ae93406c5-509	Madam President, I would like First of all, I can say that I think there is quite a lot of consensus between me and John Widegren that it is very important that we have an orderly management of all our game. Then we can certainly land in slightly different views on volume, possibly, although I do not believe so, but above all on how best to achieve this, at least in relation to the way in which one is – or chooses to believe that one can refrain – to the directives and other things that we are bound by within the European Union. Having said that, of course, like John Widegren, I assume that at every opportunity, regardless of the government, Sweden will go to Brussels to do what is best for Sweden. What is best for Sweden, however, is not always what an individual Member says in this House. It is, of course, a collective approach to both what is possible and what is appropriate. I would like to say that this issue boils down a little bit to this. In this context, I would also like to make it clear that, when I say that we are not making that assessment at the moment, it is not to interpret it as not going to do anything. This is about exactly what they say: at present it is not appropriate. Then you have to look at what we do instead. You can of course choose to run your head into the wall with something that you don't think is a way forward, or you choose to look at trying to develop the systems we have and work with them. One of these is the cost of handling. It is not satisfactory, but it is a tool available. It is also important that we have actually got a licence hunt on grey seal. This is the first step in achieving orderly management. The protection hunt, which is otherwise the expression we have, is good and can be used very far. But it does not regulate stocks in that way; you cannot work with them in the structured way. That is why it was a very important decision that this government made – the government made up of the Social Democrats and the Green Party. It is indicated in the debate that the Green Party would somehow be against us having an orderly administration. That's not my picture. I would also like to make it very clear in this connection that I agree with the picture that there are problems of several kinds linked to this issue. It is about the lack of food for the seal; it is one way of looking at it. The second perspective is – and this has been a strong contributor to the regulations we have made – that the seal is also a threat to, in particular, the Baltic cod stock and some other stocks. One seal eats three to eight kilos of fish a day. One might think that it is not that much, but in terms of the total volume and compared to how much we land of certain types of fish, such as perch, whitefish and cod, it is quite close to landings according to quota. This is an issue that needs to be looked at in this context. Add something that has not been talked about very much here, in addition to the fact that the seal is destroying tools, namely the fact that it is also spreading parasites. One likely reason why several fish stocks in the Baltic Sea are poor, small and not growing is that they have diseases and parasites that they have received from seals, among other things. Now there's a lot of them. I can assure you that there is no lack of incentives to find all kinds of ways to deal with these issues and to evaluate further measures here and now, but one must also look at what is the smartest and most appropriate to change positions, such as those of the EU or the WTO, when the opportunity is given and it is deemed appropriate.
i-e18c6b5ae93406c5-519	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. If it is not appropriate at the moment to pursue the issue, then we are wondering what the timetable is. When is the government going to push the question, and what are you really waiting for? The Government has decided in the regulation letter to the Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management for 2021 that 3 million will be allocated to the county administrative boards and used for compensation for the handling costs of grey seals that have been shot with the support of decisions of the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency regarding protection hunting and license hunting. It is 3 million crowns that could actually be used for much better things if once you have shot a seal you could dispose of meat, skin or other. It would be more sustainable and would create a more vibrant countryside and probably also increase self-sufficiency, as more fishermen could fish near the coast with nets – if there are any fish left, that is, when even seals are starving. Madam President, I would like When seals starve, it is a clear indication that fish in the Baltic Sea are bad. Then we need to do even more things and perhaps take action faster than so far. I will come back to my question on the timetable. If you do not see any chance of running this now, when should you pursue it in order to actually get incentives? It is now that the Riksdag has made decisions. This is the moment when they have made their announcement that the government should pursue these issues.
i-e18c6b5ae93406c5-522	Madam President, I would like This interpellation debate has shown that the government is having a very difficult time getting along and very difficult to get to grips with. At the same time, there are alarm reports warning of a large and painful seal death. On the matter at hand, we are in complete agreement. The Minister for Rural Development listed here the problem of the seal, which eats a lot of fish, so we are in complete agreement. What makes the difference is that the government doesn't do anything. The government's throwing in the towel. I also note that the Minister did not speak against me very much when I said that the Green Party has a veto on this issue too. Who is affected by the government's failure to reach an agreement? Of course, it is the seal that is starving and the fishermen who cannot fish in coastal waters, and here I am thinking both of the fishermen along our fine coastline and of the anglers. It is an untenable situation that the government does not spend enough money to provide financial incentives for hunters. Then there may also be an ethical situation, as the Minister for Rural Development seems to be aware. Maybe you don't want to shoot seals to burn it. Of course, the vast majority who hunt do so because they want to take care of the animals they have shot. I now ask the Minister for the third time, and perhaps this will be the third time that the Minister and the Government are going to take measures to reduce the seal population this year. Then I am talking about measures that really reduce the seal population and cormorants and make a difference to those who live along the coast of Gävleborg.
i-e18c6b5ae93406c5-527	Madam President, I would like Thank you, once again, to the interpellants! I can only say once again that we have completely different pictures of what the effective measures are in this context. We focus on ensuring, for example, that we have license hunting on site. We have already decided on protection hunting for species not covered by licence hunting. We have put in place a mandate to evaluate this with a view to good governance. So far I have not talked about cormorants, but even there we can see that protection hunting decisions are comprehensive. We don't have a license hunt on cormorants, because that's not possible. However, Gävleborg County has already decided to hunt for 1,000 cormorants in the Söderhamn archipelago in 2020. In Stockholm County it has been decided to hunt for 1,900 cormorants on the Baltic coast. The County Administrative Board of Västra Götaland has decided that 3 000 cormorants may be felled in the sea within the county until 2024. So you try to be proactive and work with the tools you have. At the same time, there is currently a proposal that addresses these issues and deals with changing hunting times. Part of the proposal is about hunting for protection on the initiative of individuals. This has now been referred, and we prepare it. I look forward to dealing with this issue further. I would like to say that this government has been very active on these issues. We have taken the holistic approach, which I regret to say is still lacking in at least some of the interpellants. One seems to be more interested in picking short-term political plaque points than in finding a way to deal with the issue. I assure Members that we are taking these issues very seriously. We try to ensure in every situation that we have good management of these issues in Sweden as well.
i-e18c6b5ae93406c5-532	Madam President, I would like Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson has asked me what talks I have had with the Swedish J owners' association that can be described as negotiations with the aim of reaching the decision that has now been made and on what circumstances and facts I have based my position that the Swedish J owners' association has accepted the decisions that have been made. He also asked whether the Council had taken any initiative in establishing the knowledge of interested parties that the European Commission had left the case and why the government had chosen to proceed with the change in the so-called general mandate, despite the Commission's justification for closing the case. Since 1938, the government has annually given the Swedish Hunters' Association a so-called general mission to lead parts of the practical game care and hunting in the country. For the assignment, the Swedish Association of Hunters has been awarded funding from the V IT Fund. I would like to emphasise that the general mission has not been abolished. It has been developed to pass judicial review and review, while at the same time safeguarding the important role of the hunting corps as a peoples' movement in Swedish game conservation. For a long time, legal criticism has been levelled at the design of the general mission, particularly the fact that it is problematic from the point of view of procurement law. In 2016, the European Commission launched a pilot case against Sweden. The case was closed on 12 June 2020 when the European Commission accepted Sweden's response to the Government's initiative to review the allocation of funds from the Viltvårdsfond and to include the distinction between grants and what needs to be procured in accordance with the Procurement Directive. Over the years, a number of attempts have been made to align the general mandate with procurement law. In order to create a long-term efficient, sustainable and transparent procedure for the allocation of funds from the V iltarvårdsfonden, the Government decided on 7 January 2021 to instruct the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, among other things, to ensure that measures relating to game monitoring, traffic search and biungulate game management are carried out. For this purpose, funds from the Viltvårdsfond may be used and the procurement rules shall be taken into account. The new approach is a development of the role of the Swedish Hunter Association, where there has been an adaptation to, among other things, procurement legislation. However, the Swedish Hunter Association's special position in the country's game conservation will be preserved by the Government intending to award the Association a multi-annual organisation grant from the V iltarvårdsfonden for its nationwide game conservation work from 2022 onwards. The Government considers that the changes decided in addition to making the award procedure more compatible with the legislation in force will also promote the country's wildlife management in general. For me and the government, it is crucial to have a good dialogue with various stakeholders involved in the government's decisions and to deal with issues in a listening and respectful way. Hunting and game conservation in Sweden has long been the character of a popular movement where the voluntary involvement of landowners and hunters plays a crucial role. The government has no intention of changing this.
i-e18c6b5ae93406c5-540	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer – although it was not a proper response in all its parts. My first question is left as I feel it completely unanswered except that the Government notes that the Swedish Hunters' Association has accepted the decisions that have been made. This can be interpreted in a number of ways, either as being involved in the process or being confronted with a fait accompli. The Government notes that I ask the question, but she consistently chooses not to answer. That is why I ask again: what talks has the Council of State held with the Hunters' Union, which can be termed negotiations with the aim of reaching the decision that has now been taken? Based on the debate taking place in the media, the League as a whole seems to have been taken to bed. The protests are huge. In addition, the Government writes that legal criticism has been directed against the design of the general mission for a long time. What does the legal criticism look like? Who has made the criticism, and who do they represent? As early as 2014, a legal investigation was commissioned from a reputable law firm. It makes it clear that the general mission is valid. The Hunters' Association receives a grant, and grants cannot be procured. In addition, it is a contribution that the hunters themselves make via the state hunting card. From the letters issued by the EU, it appeared that the government has allowed the European Commission to believe that it is the State that has financed the mission. The fact that it is only the hunters themselves who pay the Viltvårdfond does not seem to have been explained to the Commission. Nevertheless, the Commission has chosen to close the case. Madam President, I would like The European Commission has not started a case against Sweden on its own initiative. A pilot is a consequence of someone else making a notification, in this case a representative of the Swedish Rovjursföreningen. From the outset, the European Commission has set itself cold-heartedly to the notification that has been received. In the reasons given for proposing closure, we read, among other things, that this has no cross-border interest or that a specific local knowledge is needed. So it is not a matter for the EU to interfere in. The fact that Sweden would have indicated that a review should be carried out is not mentioned. If the Commission had called for a review, it would also have required a result. Pilot cases will not be closed until they are completed, i.e. changes required by the Commission will be implemented and ready. If a change had been required, the case would have been closed only after the change had been implemented. It is out of the question that the Commission should deal with Sweden in particular differently and on this particular issue. Does the Minister think that we should go to bed for all pilots who come from the EU? Even if the government received a letter of formal notice in June 2020, the European Commission recommends that the pilot be closed already in February. It was then almost a year after the government had had its last meeting with the Commission. Did the government not have any information on this before June 2020? In view of this, one might consider why the Hunters' Association was not informed earlier. After all, the government was informed in June 2020. Are there notes, minutes or other public documents from the two meetings between the Commission and the government that the Minister can release?
i-e18c6b5ae93406c5-554	Madam President, I would like I thank Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson for a very important interpellation. Madam President, I would like I will quote an election promise from the Socialist Party leader Stefan Löfven. On a straightforward question whether he intended to change the general mandate, he replied clearly: We have no plans to change the system. ..................................................... It was a clear and important message to Sweden's hunters given that then and present party leader Prime Minister Stefan Löfven. Madam President, I would like There may be some who went and voted for the Social Democrats because they believed in that election promise. Trust in a society is extremely important – trust in the Swedish Parliament, trust in the Swedish government and trust in the political parties. What does it mean for trust in society that we have a prime minister who did not give a correct answer? Lying and lying, some would say. The arguments used by the Minister for Rural Development to change the general mandate must reasonably have been known by the Prime Minister of the Swedish Government in 2018. Or it is so simple that this change has been made because it has allowed the Green Party to veto yet another issue. What happened when this change came? Environmentalists cheered and talked about success in predatory policy. I note that the member of the Environment Party in the Committee on Environment and Agriculture writes on his Facebook page: Unfortunately, this is only a partial victory when, from 2022 onwards, the Hunters' Association will receive a more pure organisational grant from the government. However, the Jägarens Riksförbund with a vision of eradicating wolves from Sweden will not receive this organizational support. It feels incredibly good. She also writes: This is something that we, the Green Party, have pushed hard to change. Often the Social Democrats have put their heels on the ground and refused, but now we have finally reached an agreement. Maria Gardfjell, also an environmental party, does not rule out going further in accordance with the wishes of the Green Party. Madam President, I would like What does it mean for trust in society when voters vote in the belief that they can trust the Swedish Prime Minister? Then it is about two years, and the Green Party is forcing the Social Democrats to change their minds. What does that mean for trust in society? What kind of feelings does that create in rural areas? What does it mean for hunters' willingness to be game keepers? I think it is reasonable to ask yourself questions. Just as we have said in another interpellation debate, Sweden's hunters are perhaps Sweden's foremost conservationists. We'll be very careful of them. I would like to hear from the Minister for Rural Development what caused the Socialistly led government to betray its promise to the electorate. (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to remind you that interpellation debates are about examining the performance of the duties of the Ministers of State. )
i-e18c6b5ae93406c5-566	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister for your answer. My whole question is: what problem would be solved with this? I don't understand it. What was the problem we were going to solve? What was it that didn't work well before with the general mission? Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson from the Christian Democrats pointed out that it was not the EU that said anything about this. The answer says that for a long time legal criticism has been levelled at the design of the general mission. What kind of legal criticism was that? What hasn't worked? The answer also mentions that a number of attempts have been made over the years to adapt the general mandate. In what way? What problem would we solve? There are a lot of questions here, and I look forward to getting some more answers, which we did not get in the interpellation answer. I see big trouble here. What has been built up over this long period and which the Government highlighted, Madam President, is trust between the public and the individual in the interest of hunters. It has built up both a management of the wild and the search organisations that have worked for Sweden's game in a good way. Although we have not seen it, I am concerned that they will suffer as a result of the decision. I am concerned that this will lead to an increasing centralisation of hunting issues. We have been saying for some time that we want to see exactly the opposite. The Moderates have pushed that the country's wildlife management delegations should have more say and that they should be allowed to make more decisions. Now it feels more like we are pulling power from the country back to the public and the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency. Are there not anxiety clouds or worries in this? The hunters do not usually have the greatest respect for or any hopes for the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency. This is heard and read in several places. It also gives cause for concern about the increasing centralisation. Madam President, I would like There must have been a thought about this that has probably not come to light in any way yet. I would like to hear the Government's reasoning and problematizing about this. I do not understand, Madam President, what this would solve.
i-e18c6b5ae93406c5-572	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson, for an extremely important interpellation! Wildlife Fund – that's where the money goes from all government hunting cards that hunters solve. So it is the hunters who pay the hunting cards that finance the Viltvårdsfond. Why should you pay hunting cards if you don't know that the money goes to the right things? What is it that receives so much from the government and does not want to set up a game conservation agency? For my part, I would be happy to trade three other authorities for it. Maybe we can solve that problem. Who knows? Now the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency will take responsibility and arrange procurement of traffic search and game monitoring. My dad's been doing traffic search for as long as I remember. He got up early in the morning, in a blizzard and in sunshine, he got up late at night, whether it was Christmas Eve or Midsummer Eve, he went far and he went short and he went with or without a snowmobile. It was either road or rail – all to quickly reduce the animal's suffering. I am afraid that this is going to go out on the animals, Madam President – that we are not getting to a good organisation in order to be able to deal quickly with injured animals, who have the habit of crawling away and hiding. It takes good people. What did not work, my colleague asked. Well, what didn't work earlier? If you make very quick, unannounced decisions, there is, or should at least be, a clear problem that you want to solve quickly. What didn't work? What was so urgent that this decision was taken, completely unannounced? What is it you want to solve? Who is it that the minister and government think will get up in the middle of the night and head out early morning or late night, in a blizzard, in sunshine, in rain or when it's really cold? How do you get it to be better than it is today? There must be a very good answer to these questions, but so far we have not received any good answers. That is why I repeat the question that my colleagues have already asked: what was the urgent need to improve on this issue and which would do it much better than it is today?
i-e18c6b5ae93406c5-578	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking Kjell-Arne Ottosson in particular for raising this issue. It is an issue where there are many false images, not least in hunting media and on different types of pages. There are many misunderstandings and, I believe, also a picture of old proposals that have existed and which are confused with the current proposal that exists today. That is why I think it is important and good that we have a debate in which we can ensure that we discuss on the basis of facts. I'll try to pick up the questions. Many have asked questions, and it will be a challenge in terms of time to deal with everyone. I'll start with the first part, which I think is most important. First of all, I would like to state that the decision has not been made on the basis that there is no dissatisfaction with how the Swedish Hunter Association has handled the general mission, on the contrary. The decision is made to ensure that the Svenska Jägerförbundet and the general assignment will also be able to live in a new time. It has been pointed out in the debate that the mission was created in 1938 and has existed for a very long time. That is absolutely true, and my ambition is that it should continue to live for a very long time. However, it needs to be adapted to current legislation. Laws don't look like they did in 1938. The law that has above all been raised as problematic in this context, also over time, is the law on public procurement. In fact, I believe that Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson, who follows these issues closely, is also aware of the criticism that exists from various stakeholders in this area. We can begin by stating that the first question in this context was about the dialogue with the Swedish Hunter Association and how it happened. I always have a continuous dialogue with all my competent authorities, associations and industries. In this context, I can note that the Swedish Hunter Association is an important organisation with which we have ongoing dialogue with a number of different issues, of course also in this. It should not be confused with a negotiation. Of course, we do not negotiate with anyone but other political parties or sometimes with other countries about different things, but we do have a dialogue, and a listening one. When we have looked at how this issue should be dealt with based on a procurement law problem, we have been very keen to listen to other critical areas that have existed, not least from the hunters' perspective. These are issues of under-financing. The same contribution has been made for many years. They have received their contributions year by year. It has been felt that this has been a problem when it comes to developing one's business. These are some examples that we are now lifting into this context and ensuring that we also solve as we take a grip on this. Then there is a question about the EU pilot. Here I can only say that I do not share Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson's view of how the EU normally works. Nor do officials in different departments. It is not just my department but many departments that have been involved in this over the years. It is quite correct that there is an individual who has complained. In that situation, the EU is looking at whether or not to take it further. A legal analysis was carried out here and decided to raise a pilot case against Sweden because it considered that there was a reason for legal criticism. We answered the question in 2016 and then had an ongoing dialogue. This pilot case has lived for four years until 2020 when it felt satisfied with the response we gave, given that we would review this to ensure that the transition between grants and procurement would be reviewed.
i-e18c6b5ae93406c5-588	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for part of the answer. There's a lot of things that you could get to grips with here. The general mission, or the hunting and game conservation mission as it is now called, has been updated after 1938. There's no law left since then. In any case, I know it has been updated twice and then with parliamentary decisions. Some questions have also been asked about how the government can now go in and make changes when it has previously been required a parliamentary decision. The Government points out that legal criticism has come from several actors. I've only noticed one actor when I've been looking, and that's one of the government partners-- that's the Green Party. The EU closes a pilot case when it is done. Here Sweden says: We will review this. Then the EU has no idea what this review will lead to. Does this mean that Sweden believes that it is good as it is and does not do anything or go all in? The European Commission does not know that when the government says that this will be reviewed. It is very strange that, in this case, the European Union would suddenly settle for it. We can think about what makes the hunting and game conservation mission better. Large parts of the mission are being torn away. You get less money, and then it suddenly gets better. For several years, we in the Christian Democrats have been exercising that the assignment should be given for several years in order to make it easier to plan and to get information earlier than late in the autumn for the new year. Now the government has promised that it will be given over a longer period of time. At the same time, however, much of the foundation is being pulled away. What's better about it? Several of the colleagues have noted, not least Alexandra Anstrell, that there is a wildlife accident in Sweden every nine minutes. Who pulls out in all the weather during all the hours of the day to shorten the animal's suffering? Yes, it's a seeker. It is a hunter who has very good expertise in this area and who also spend tremendously many hours and a lot of money on having a good search dog. They do society a favor 365 days a year. In what way does the Government believe that she and the government have now motivated these everyday heroes to continue with this mission to be procured by an authority which, moreover, has an extremely low level of confidence in the hunting corps, not least because of the breakdown of predatory policy? Then I'm going to go over to what might have upset the popular movement the most. The Government has thus decided that parts of the general mission of the Swedish Hunter Association will be procured. Here, then, we are talking about associations which are directly counterproductive to what the hunters stand for. But it's the hunters who pay the money to the V.I.T. Fund. For example, it is the Nature Conservation Association that is looking for money for the preservation of whiteback woodpeckers, which has been done for several years and received earlier. That is questionable. I have nothing against woodpeckers. But why on earth would the hunters pay for it? Hunt critics are looking for SEK 4.7 million to argue against loose dog hunting, issue a member magazine, get rid of hunting with hail weapons, nooses and traps, inspect and approve hunting passes, review and appeal protection hunts, bring the seal's case – according to previous debate – and protect beavers' habitat, review authorities and participate in search. This is totally baroque.
i-e18c6b5ae93406c5-599	Madam President, I would like John Widegren asked the Minister a simple question: What has not worked? Why has the government done this again? As everyone listening to this debate notes, the Minister does not answer the question. I shall refer to what a member of the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture who has answered the question has said. The Member says: The report has also been poor. It has not been possible to read out what the money is used for. There are a variety of factors that cause the Green Party to land in this decision, although we have a debate within the party on future proposals. We are pleased that the proposal has been developed in dialogue between different parties and has been very much involved in this solution. So this is something that the Green Party is behind. This is what the member of the Committee on Environment and Agriculture says.
i-e18c6b5ae93406c5-604	The Minister must look into the camera and tell Sweden's 700 000 hunters what she has been dissatisfied with. Ulf Berg, former parliamentary colleague of mine, gets up at four o'clock in the morning when he is called to make a search. What is it that Ulf Berg and his hunting friends have done poorly in Dalarna? I think that question deserves an answer. And what is it, as Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson mentioned here, that others can do better with the hunters' money? I think that question deserves an answer. Out of respect for Sweden's 700 000 hunters, the Minister should be able to tell us what has worked badly. What is it Ulf Berg has done badly when he got up at four o'clock in the morning? Sweden's 700 000 hunters want answers to that.
i-e18c6b5ae93406c5-605	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its reply. I understand that there will be a lot of questions to deal with. But I think we still have a good discussion. Of course, the question remains: What problem is this going to solve? I will have that question in my head for a long time. But I want to come back a little bit to my concern that it feels like we are centralising these issues right now. I think that's very unfortunate. It is about what is highlighted about hunters, but also about the fact that trust in this government work, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, in the Hunting Corps, is quite low, and it does not get any better. There are quite a few at the moment, Madam President, who feel called upon to take part in the money of the Viltar Fund. I have also asked a written question about this very money that the Government has probably not had time to answer yet. But it may be interesting to have a clarification of it. As far as the Moderates are concerned, we have insisted that we have a multiannual mission. We have also pushed for a reduction in the centralisation of these issues. And we also have an announcement from 2015, I think, about a game agency. As I understand it, the Government stated when news of this change came that, with this, there will be no wildlife agency. Is that what's really going on? Is the announcement to the Swedish Hunting Corps here today that there will be no game agency?
i-e18c6b5ae93406c5-610	Madam President, I would like Nothing had been displeased with before, and yet this powerful change is being made. What was highlighted was the need to make this change because of legislation. World-leading expertise has, however, been saying for quite some time that the general mission does not require public procurement. So it is not just some Swedish lawyer who said so, but it is world-leading expertise. LOU applies to the purchase of supplies, services or works, i.e. not grants. Or is there a major change going on? Is it the case that the government thinks that other grants will also be procured? Should we raise the question to the football club, the riding club and the fishing club, or what are we waiting for? The Social Democrats have said that hunting critics should not be able to get funds from this fund. I wonder how the Minister should be able to ensure that – through requirements in the procurement process, or how can one be so sure that they will not be able to get it? Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson reported quite a few applications, some of which have probably been approved. I think it must be extremely clear that it will be better for the animals, not worse. We talked in an earlier debate today about incentives. What incentives does this create for hunters? How does it get better for the animals? I did not receive an answer from the Minister regarding a game agency, so I was going to repeat that very question: apart from wondering how this will be better for the animals, when can we have a game agency in place?
i-e18c6b5ae93406c5-614	Madam President, I would like I thank the interpellante and the other participants. What are the problems to be solved? Yes, the problem to be solved is that we need to have a system that can withstand scrutiny and judicial review. In this context, I can only note the following: given the European pilot that existed, it was on the basis of the legal assessment made by the Brussels lawyers – and subsequently our lawyers in the Government Office, in several different departments, looked at and chose not to over-taste given that they shared the assessment – that parts of the general mission could be considered as payment for a service or a mission. These are the elements that are defined in what we are now laying out for procurement. In this context, I think the wise and smart thing is to ensure that the general mission is protected from further scrutiny or judicial review by ensuring that we have a system that is adapted to Swedish law. That is what we are talking about here. We have implemented this law. I think that is reasonable, and I think that everyone who does not have that opinion needs to respond to how to deal with this in the long term and in the future. Then I can also say that there are a lot of false statements in this debate as well. We're doing this to make sure we're at peace with the general mission. We do this to give the Hunter Association the best opportunities to develop its mission – not just continue it, but actually develop it. We do so by ensuring, as several debaters here say, that they have wanted but have not managed to do, that the federation now has a unique special status as the only organisation that receives direct funding from the government through a multi-annual organisational grant. Then we organize the remaining funds. We do so on the basis of some important principles. The most important principle is that the funds of the Viltvårdsfond should be distributed for activities in accordance with the definitions of the Hunting Act. That is how we ensure that this goes to things that are in accordance with game conservation and game management and according to the definitions we have for this in law. We also ensure that you can only apply for the grant if you are a nationwide organisation that has existed for five years, I think it is, and so on. So we are really trying to create a reasonable and sensible structure for this work. We have also been very keen to look at funding, for example. The fund has been underfunded for a very long time. All in all, we therefore also increase the hunting card fee from SEK 300 to SEK 400, which one might have thought would lead to a big discussion. It has not done so – mainly, I think, because this is not about money but about other things. But it also means that we create the conditions for developing this in the long term. Another important fundamental principle that I am a little pleased that John Widegren raised in this context is the one about centralisation. There are also discussions in the debate that this means centralisation. That's exactly what I want to deny. A fundamental principle in this context, which is very important, is the principle of local and regional governance – that decisions should be taken as close as possible to those concerned. We have worked actively over time to develop systems for this, where game delegations are very important and central. There are no plans for centralisation. In this context, I would also like to make it clear that I am most concerned that this will be a good thing, not that it will be quick. There are also questions about why it is so urgent – I think it was Alexandra Anstrell who asked it – and I would say that it is not urgent. Instead, these are issues that have lived for a long time and that we are now landing. We do it in the best dialogue and transparency and are prepared to rig this in a good way.
i-e18c6b5ae93406c5-622	Madam President, I would like I note that I did not receive an answer to my question about information to the Federation regarding the cancelled pilot, that is, why that information did not arrive immediately. The Government says that the system should withstand scrutiny and judicial review. After all, lawyers in the European Commission are saying exactly the opposite of what the Government is standing here in the pulpit saying. Then who are you supposed to believe in? And the pilot was actually shut down before the government had told the EU how to resolve the issue. It's still there. Should the Society's grant be procured in the same way, or other associations that work against hunting? There are several people who have been involved in the game. The government made it clear that there will be no wildlife agency now that you have done this. It is therefore opposed to the decision of the Swedish Parliament. I will quote the representatives of the Government in the post: It is the Green Party that has kept pushing on this issue, at least during the time I was a minister. The general mission has largely worked well. It is the hunter's money that other organizations now want. This is what former Minister for Rural Affairs Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht said. As we heard earlier, members of the Green Party also call this a negotiating victory. It feels, Madam President, that something is not right. It would have been very interesting to really get to the bottom of this.
i-e18c6b5ae93406c5-627	Madam President, I would like Let me once again be clear with Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson: Europe closes a pilot when they are satisfied with the answer. In this case, they were pleased that we had stated that we would ensure that we deal with the criticism of procurement law, and we have done so. It is also the case that we have tried to ensure that we secure the general mission, which is important for Sweden and Swedish wildlife management. We have tried to do this by finding a smart design in which we manage the systems and ensure that they pass a judicial review, while at the same time being clear about what the money should be used for – i.e. a purpose in accordance with the hunting law's definitions. I can see that there are different ways of dealing with criticism. The debate here and now tries to pretend that this would be new criticism. It is not true – the criticism has lived for a long time. I believe that ever since the late 1990s there have been investigations and other things that have questioned and criticised, and there have been various analyses of this. When there are criticisms, which, moreover, both the European jurists and our own lawyers consider to be reasonable, one can of course choose different ways of dealing with it. What's going on now is a sniper against the general mission. Of course: You can duck, squat and hope that nothing hits. You can also try to find a way to remove the sharp ammunition. This is one way to remove the sharp ammunition and secure the mission. In fact, I think that we have a common responsibility here at least to ensure that we discuss on the basis of the facts that exist, that we listen to what is both said and written down and that we jointly ensure that we also have good and functioning game management in the future. My picture is that we have a total consensus that this is what we want.
i-e18c6b5ae93406c5-632	Madam President, I would like Joar Forssell has asked me what the government has done to persuade the Commission to lower the CO2 emission limits contained in the draft delegated act for taxonomics. He has also asked me whether I believe that emission limits are sustainable and in line with the Union's 2030 and 2050 climate targets and, if not, what emission limits, according to the government, could be considered sustainable. Joar Forssell has also asked me whether the government will support the delegated act in the Council if the emission limits remain in the final version of the document. We need constructive, sustainable and effective environmental and climate action to achieve the emission targets agreed at global, European and national levels. The government is working to ensure that taxonomics is based on a scientific assessment and reflects the achievement of the EU's sustainability goals. The government also strives for technology neutrality. Joar Forssell refers to two different emission limits in taxonomics that have different functions and are set in relation to two different environmental objectives: mitigation of climate change and adaptation to climate change. It is important to clarify the difference between the two limits. The emission limit of 100 grams of carbon dioxide equivalent per kilowatt hour is used to assess whether a given economic activity is to be considered as contributing significantly to the climate change mitigation objective. The limit value is in line with the threshold proposed by the European Commission's TEG Technical Expert Group on Sustainable Financing. The limit value shall be reviewed regularly and adjusted downwards to comply with the scenarios necessary to achieve net zero emissions by 2050. The government has not pushed for any other limit to the starting value that will then gradually be lowered. On the other hand, the government has opposed higher limit values, for example for natural gas. The emission limit of 270 grams of carbon dioxide equivalents per kilowatt hour is a so-called non-damage criterion, which is used to ensure that an activity considered to contribute significantly to the objective of adaptation to climate change does not at the same time cause significant damage to the objective of climate change mitigation. In this case, too, the limit value is in line with the TEG proposal and will be reviewed and revised regularly. The government has not promoted any other limit value. Like so many other things in the EU, taxonomics will ultimately be a compromise. Taxonomin covers a very large number of activities for which criteria are not only set for climate targets but also non-damaging criteria to ensure that the activity does not cause significant damage to any of the other environmental objectives of taxonomin. For each criterion, there are different points of view, but the question we will ask ourselves is whether this overall is a step in the right direction. The government's position will thus be based on a balanced assessment, and dialogue on this will take place in the Riksdag.
i-e18c6b5ae93406c5-638	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. It is good to see the Government in this House. We are old colleagues from City Hall, and I am pleased that we will have to debate taxonomy and other things in the future. I'm still a little worried about the government's response. It is quite correct that taxonomy needs to be seen as a whole, and of course it is necessary to relate to taxonomy as a whole from the point of view of whether it will be better than the status quo – i.e. from the point of view of whether it will be better or worse than today with taxonomy. If it gets better, you should be for taxonomics as a whole; that is reasonable. My question, however, is about how the government has acted and adhered to the elements of taxonomy that I raise in my question rather than about taxonomy as a whole and as a final product. Madam President, I would like We Liberals have not opposed the existence of two different limit values – on the contrary, we have also considered it reasonable. We have talked about the fact that the higher limit should be 100 grams and the lower limit 50 grams; this is the demand that has come from the Liberals. It has not been made public what the end result will be, but on the basis of the questions and answers on the Commission's website, I assume that the limit values will remain as they were when I asked this interpellation. At present, the higher limit is 270 grams instead of our proposal of 100 grams, and the lower limit is 100 grams instead of our proposal of 50 grams. With regard to the higher limit of 270 grams, where we would rather have 100 grams, Madam President, I do not share the view of the Government that this is a limit that has been set on the basis of the European Union's objectives. Rather, this is a limit that is set on the basis of what the average emissions from EU electricity production were the other year, when it was 262 grams. That's why it's been set. This limit thus ensures that EU energy production will not emit more than emissions will be reduced. The problem with this attitude and with contention and calling it a non-damaging criterion, Madam President, is that the whole reason why we have a climate policy is that our current energy production, for example, emits far too much, which leads to climate change. If we had an average of 262 grams of our electricity production the other year, it is obvious that it cannot be considered sustainable to release 270 grams; that goes without saying. If there was no climate problem, both I and the Government would have been able to go home – then we could have stopped climate policy. There is a problem with climate change, and this is due to emissions. They need to be lowered and eliminated. Madam President, I would like Looking at the targets and limit values that we are debating here today, it is clear that with the limits that appear to be in taxonomy it will be impossible to achieve net zero emissions by 2050. It will definitely be impossible to achieve net negative emissions, which we also absolutely need. The Government says that this is a basic level and that it will be adjusted downwards in the future, but I still think that the question of whether the Government and the Government are satisfied with this level remains. Madam President, I would like In the light of what I have said here, in response to the speaker, I would also like to ask whether it is true that the government has not tried to make these limits lower than they now appear to be.
i-e18c6b5ae93406c5-645	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by saying thank you to the Member of Parliament for his kind words. I share the pleasure of standing and debating in this House. There are two parts here. I could have understood that it would have been possible to feel upset if the 270 grams limit had been about energy production – if you could release 270 grams and still be called green. But that is not the case; that limit is about the climate adjustment objective. If you want to implement climate adaptation measures in a business, such as an aluminium smelting plant that needs a barrier to avoid flooding, you should not be allowed to call climate adaptation measures green anyway. You shouldn't be able to say that all climate adaptation measures are green, point. Here the Commission has said in its delegated act that the activity to be protected, such as an aluminium smelting plant, must not emit more than 270 grams. Otherwise, the climate adaptation measure will not be classified as green. I think it is reasonable that not all climate change adaptation measures should be called green, but that consideration should be given to their impact on the second objective of climate change mitigation. If the activities that want to limit climate change are to be called green according to that goal, which is another goal, one must not release more than 100 grams, point. It is also the assessment made by the EU expert group of what is needed to achieve the EU's own climate objectives. The Commission also considers that it is 1 – 5% of business activities and investment portfolios that will be classified as green. So this border is not a free pass to be called sustainable, quite the opposite. It is an acute climate crisis in which we find ourselves. I think there are many of us who are very concerned about the future, not only for future generations, our children who live and grow up here, but also for our own future, because climate change is happening here and now, right now. They hit people's living conditions extremely hard, and it will only get worse if we do not reverse developments. Then it also takes us to do other things. Now we are talking about the activities that are classified as sustainable. We also need to talk about the activities that release and destroy a great deal for the climate. One of the things that we have done from the Swedish side is that we have pushed through increased prices of emission allowances within the EU, which is, I would say, one of the most important climate measures during the last term of office and of which I, as a Swede, am very proud – not least Isabella Lövin, pushed on in this work. This means that we are now seeing coal power plants closing down around Europe. We also need to work on the elements that are about actually costing to destroy for everyone's future.
i-e18c6b5ae93406c5-651	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by saying that I am pleased that the Government is committed not only to limiting climate change but also to adapting to the climate change that will happen after all. It is actually incredibly important also for the Stockholm region and the City of Stockholm for that matter. Madam President, I would like Nevertheless, I must maintain that the limits proposed are, if not arbitrarily, set on the basis of a scenario that is not sustainable. They are simply too high. Now the Government is talking about the kind of measures that are about climate adaptation. The higher limit value also concerns, for example, the production of various substances, chemicals, which electricity is used in production. We will not be able to have production with this type of high emission levels if we are to achieve the EU's climate targets. Of course there are other objectives, and I am well aware of that. It is for this reason, Madam President, that the Liberals too are open to having more than one level, in this case two levels, of our various emissions. We have proposed 100 grams and 50 grams respectively, and the government is here today very clear that it thinks it is good with 270 grams and 100 grams respectively. I hope the Government can agree that a tougher target would be better, simply because tougher measures and tougher targets are needed to stop climate change. After all, the most important measure to cope with climate change adaptation is to ensure that there are no major changes from the outset. The activities that would release this type of high levels will undoubtedly contribute to climate change, as much carbon dioxide is released simply. In turn, it risks increasing climate change if you emit a lot of carbon dioxide when you produce energy or electricity when you build things or whatever adjustments you make. The government had several examples of this. It is clear that such emission levels are not sustainable. We should not get caught up in the discussion about whether we should have different levels, because it seems, Madam President, that I, the Government, the Liberals and the Green Party agree that we should have different levels. We do not fully agree on the history of why the levels have come here. I think that the level of 270 grams is about having a level of 262 grams the other year and that is why they have landed there. It is simply a matter of starting from the current situation and then thinking of adjusting downwards. However, we believe that we need to have a downward pressure from the outset when setting this target. However, if we do not get caught up in whether we should have different levels of the target, because there we agree, Madam President, I would still like to hear the Council of State's reasoning on why it has not chosen and wanted to pursue a tougher goal. It is certainly better from the point of view of climate change to release less than to release more. So, according to the Government, why should one not have a target of 100 grams and 50 grams respectively to call it sustainable according to the EU taxonomy?
i-e18c6b5ae93406c5-659	Madam President, I would like We want a limit on energy production, and it is 100 grams. There is the limit on the climate target in taxonomics, which is about climate change mitigation. If you're going to call your energy production green, you're going to pass the limit of 100 grams. That is the limit set by the EU expert group to achieve climate neutrality by 2050 in the EU. And, of course, it is completely unreasonable to set a limit where we do not reach our own climate target. One must, of course, think that it is absolutely obvious that such a limit must be set. Then there is another border that concerns another target. It is about climate adaptation measures, but it is something else. If you're going to do a climate adaptation measure, you can't do it anyway. If you want to protect a business that emits more than 270 grams, your climate adaptation action will not get called green, point. When it comes to limiting climate change and reducing emissions, the limit is 100 grams. That is what the European Commission has laid down in its decision. I think it is extremely important now to work on reviewing what the whole taxonomy is about, what it is that is sustainable and how we should define it. This is an extremely difficult issue. There are many discussions both here in our own country and between countries about a very difficult issue for the European Commission to land in. But they have now made their decision. But if you get a taxonomy in place, I think it can be an extremely important tool in the green transition. The idea is to steer investment towards sustainable operations and to continuously review taxonomy and see if we need to tighten up. We have just received the decision from the European Commission. We will need to analyse it and find out how to look at it. I also assume that I will be called to Parliament to discuss these issues. These are extremely important issues for many parties, and it is of course important to have a discussion about them. The work ahead is to assess the decision taken by the European Commission as a whole. But we can also raise our eyes in general when it comes to the fight against the climate crisis in which we find ourselves. Then it is very clear that we are not doing enough. Sweden is not rarely highlighted as being the world's most prominent in the work to combat the climate crisis. But neither do we do enough. We must do more in this fight. We must continue to reduce emissions. We also have to work globally, and we have to work in Europe, because we cannot solve this crisis unless we all help each other. So we need to take responsibility in our own country. We need to take responsibility within the European Union. We need to take responsibility globally. And we have to do a lot more.
i-e18c6b5ae93406c5-668	Madam President, I would like I agree with much of what the Government says. There is really no line of conflict between the Liberals and the Green Party on the extent to which climate change is considered to be a problem, nor on what level of ambition it wants. It is the opposite, Madam President. It is not often that the Liberals hunt the Green Party, and if the roles had been reversed, it would surely have been the opposite. We both have a very active and ambitious climate agenda. In this case, however, it seems that the Green Party and the Government – and in part the person who had the minister's post before – have allowed the question of taxonomy a little bit to slip between the fingers. Because if you look at the whole thing, there's a lot to criticize. That is where I agree, Madam President, with the Council of State's reasoning. It is now necessary to see whether the whole is getting better or worse than the starting point, but it is clear that there is still much to be criticised. Then there are the objectives. As I said, there is no line of conflict as to whether we should have two different objectives. There we are united. The line of conflict is that we in the Liberals believe that the high criterion for what should be considered sustainable should be 100 instead of 270 and that the low should be 50 instead of 100. Madam President, I would like I would have liked the Government and the Green Party, which have a high tailings and a high profile on these issues, to actually push for tougher goals and tougher criteria. Of course, it is good to have a criterion that is 100 than no criterion at all. There we are united. We need to redirect our investments towards more climate-smart investments. But it would have been even better to have a criterion of 50 grams instead of 100 grams at the low level. Surely the Prime Minister can agree with me on that?
i-e18c6b5ae93406c5-672	Madam President, I would like It is clear that we want to see tough climate targets and that businesses should want to strive to become sustainable. I am also thinking here that we will gradually tighten up the requirements. That is my assumption of what will happen in the future. But of course we should have tough climate demands. The idea of taxonomics is also that this should stimulate activities so that they constantly work actively to reduce their emissions. The idea is that 1 – 5 percent will be classified as green with this, so it will be a pretty tough situation to be classified as green. But, of course, one should constantly push for energy production to reduce its emissions even further. It's absolutely central. I fully share that. What I also think has been a very important issue is natural gas. This border means that natural gas could not be classified as sustainable. It has also been lifted out of the delegated act. It has been included in previous drafts by the Commission, and then in the end it has been lifted out. I know that this is something that we both really share and are positive about. It would, of course, be absolutely devastating to the credibility of taxonomy if fossil energy were to be classified as sustainable. If taxonomy comes into place, I think it will in future be able to play a very important role in the transition. However, it goes without saying that those of us who are fighting for ever more stringent climate requirements will have to continue to fight that fight. It is also very clear that those of us who believe that we need to do more have quite strong forces against us.
i-e18c6b5ae93406c5-676	Madam President, I would like Markus Wiechel has asked me on what circumstances and facts I base my statement that white, native-born women should move in favour of foreign-born women and whether, in the light of my statement, I intend to start from, for example, skin colour or origin when appointing various positions in society. The work to prevent and combat racism and polarisation in society is important. This creates the conditions for a united and united Sweden. Discrimination on grounds such as gender or ethnicity is prohibited under the Discrimination Act. The protection applies, among other things, to working life and recruitment. The goal of gender equality policy is for women and men to have the same power to shape society and their own lives. It is then, of course, all women who are referred to. However, women's participation in the labour market is lower than that of men, and the labour market is highly gender-disaggregated. The Government has appointed a commission on equal income from life, which has the task of proposing measures that contribute to the equal distribution of public support measures to women and men and to equal workplaces. I do not think that the appointment of various positions in society should be based on ethnicity, nor have any such intention been expressed. All administrative authorities and others carrying out public administration functions must, according to the form of government, take account of the equality of all persons before the law and observe objectivity and impartiality. Decisions on state employment shall be based solely on factual grounds, such as merit and skill.
i-e18c6b5ae93406c5-681	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. The reason why this interpellation was written in the first place and to this debate is, of course, that there are quite a few, signed, who, rightly, I would say, were quite upset when they heard the statement from the Government. The Government has thus said: Should foreign born women gain power, white native born women will have to move. I have tried to analyse the statement and see what it really is the Government wants to come up with. Unfortunately, I have seen a lot of identity-political tendencies in Swedish society, where you increasingly start from things that an individual cannot influence, for example what skin color you are born with and so on. This is something that concerns me, not least in view of the fact that I have seen what it leads to. Madam President, I would like I myself have grown up largely in the United States, a country where this type of tendency is quite common. It's nothing beautiful. It is nothing that promotes the work against racism, segregation or exclusion. That is not something we would like here in Sweden. This only leads to more segregation, more racism and greater problems. That is why I think this issue is well worth raising. Then we can look at this statement. I note that the Government sees this as some kind of zero-sum game. If some people are supposed to have power, some others have to move. It simply cannot be that everyone is reasonably well off or that everyone can live side by side in harmony. The government may of course correct me if I am wrong, but I cannot interpret it in any other way. Then she also says that white native born women should move. Excuse me, Madam President, but what does skin colour have to do with anything at all? It doesn't matter what skin color a person has for whether that person should have a certain position or not – in this case power? This speaks directly against what the Government came up with in the interpellation response: The work to prevent and combat racism and polarisation in society is important. The statement does not counteract racism or polarisation. On the contrary, it is almost racism, and it definitely polarises. Madam President, I would like I would therefore like a clearer answer from the Government. What does she really mean by white native women moving around?
i-e18c6b5ae93406c5-691	Madam President, I would like Then I shall make it very simple and very clear, just as I have replied to the honourable Member's colleagues on previous occasions. Neither I nor the government have proposed or will propose any quota whatsoever, discrimination on the basis of ethnic origin or the addition of positions in society on the basis of ethnicity. Point. According to the form of government, decisions on state employment must be based only on factual grounds such as merit and skill. The managing authorities shall, in their activities, including employment matters, take into account the equality of all persons before the law, as well as the objectivity and impartiality of their activities. I have not in any way expressed that I or the government would have any ambition whatsoever to change this. The problems I raise, however, are discrimination. It's about differences in life opportunities. It is a question of some women being less able to fully enjoy their democratic rights. It is about the fact that we in Sweden have structural racism, based on skin colour, which affects individuals. I and the government will work tirelessly against racism and for women's and men's equal opportunities and rights. Nothing I or the government have said can, should or should be interpreted in any other way.
i-e18c6b5ae93406c5-697	Madam President, I would like I hear what the Government is saying here, but it still does not match the statement that is the basis of this interpellation and the debate that is taking place. It is clear: Should foreign-born women gain power, white native women will have to move. I do not think it is possible to explain that statement as anything but that it is believed that some women, based on what they look like, should have to move. This does not go together with the answer given by the Government here, and I do not understand that you cannot just say no, I made a mistake. It would be easy to do, but the worst of all, Madam President, is that the Government stands by the statement and then claims to stand for something quite different. This is about some people's skin color. That is why I do not think that the answer is sufficient, Madam President.
i-e18c6b5ae93406c5-700	Madam President, I would like I would like to make one thing very clear once again: the objectives of equality policy include all women and all men. The government works for equality between all women and all men. But a person's possibilities in life are not only influenced by gender. Opportunities can also be affected by a person's financial situation, if one is born in Sweden or abroad, one's ethnicity, age and functional variation and other factors that fall within the scope of the grounds of discrimination. In working on gender equality, we need to take into account how all these categories interact with each other. It is only in this way that we can seriously understand how inequality and inequality create different conditions for groups and individuals. Only in this way can we combat discrimination against groups facing particular vulnerability. This is, or should be, a matter of course, and it does not mean that we stop working for equality between all women and men. It is also the case that if more people are to be able to use their democratic rights and if more people are to be able to make their voice heard in the way that our whole democratic system is based on, more individuals belonging to groups that are currently under-represented will in different ways also take more space in different rooms, which is both desirable and the purpose of having universal and equal voting rights. In order for no one to misunderstand or distort in the future, I would like to conclude by once again emphasising that neither I nor the government want to impose quotas. No. Neither I nor the government want to discriminate against anyone. No – no items in society should be added after ethnicity. I have never expressed that it should be so. Yes– the government will continue to steer towards gender equality policy goals so that all women and all men will have the same power to shape society and their own lives regardless of their background. On the other hand, Madam President, I would like to take this opportunity to ask, in the light of the honourable Member's question, how he defends the shadow budget put forward by his party, where children's economic opportunities will be governed by their ethnicity. How does the honourable Member defend the discrimination that it would mean that children with a residence permit who live here and who have spent their entire school life in this country would receive less money than other children based solely on where their parents were born? I think that is an issue that we can take this opportunity to raise in this debate.
i-e18c6b5ae93406c5-708	Madam President, I would like I can start with the question asked by the Government at the end. Of course, if you have targeted incentives to try to get people living in the country to work or try to get people who are currently living in exclusion to be included, that is a good thing. That is why I think we have a very good budget. I think this is a very good proposal precisely to try to stop the alienation that this government has created. In addition, I have to say that I am pleased that the Government says that it will not propose any form of quota or discrimination based on, for example, skin colour or ethnic origin. But it is still the case that the statement made by the Government is problematic. Not only does the concept of white natives moving, where she goes directly into skin color – there is also an undertone of feeling sorry for foreign born women in some way, as if they do not have the same opportunity to get around in society, as if they are not strong enough. What exactly is the view of people? Aren't they as capable as white native women? I think that in itself is astounding.
i-e18c6b5ae93406c5-711	Madam President, I would like I note that at the same time as we are again discussing a statement to which I have now responded, I believe, four interpellation debates, the Swedish Democrats put forward a proposal which would discriminate against children in Sweden economically solely because of their ethnicity. I and the government will continue to work hard against men's violence against women and for women's economic independence. But the fight today is also about the inclusion of all women and the fact that all women today cannot fully exercise their democratic rights. As a woman involved in politics, I get my fair share of criticism, threats and hate – absolutely, and that makes sense. But it is nothing compared to the waves of hatred and direct threats that my female Muslim, Jewish and/ or racial colleagues at local, regional and national level receive. The hatred of women is gross, the threats are often sexual. Hatred has one single purpose: to silence, frighten and stop women from taking their place in society. This is racism today. If more people are to be able to use their rights, racism must be countered and discrimination combated so that ethnicity does not play a role in your opportunities or when posts in society are created. It is meritocracy – not quota. I will never accept a society and a democracy in which not everyone can engage politically on equal terms. We cannot be satisfied until all women can make full use of their democratic rights regardless of their skin colour and origin. No woman is free until everyone is free.
