i-2cdc13fb2589f3a7-8	Madam President, I would like The Coronapandemia has hit the whole community hard. There are many who have lost loved ones and even more who have been sick or near the sick. Medical personnel still work very hard and long days to care for the sick. We all need to continue to take great responsibility for reducing the spread of infection. Of course, the Coronandemine is primarily a threat to people's lives and health, but the economic consequences are also great. The world economy has gone through one of the most powerful cases since World War II. Even in Sweden, many are worried about their future supply, and many companies are in a very tough economic situation. Although many entrepreneurs and employees in the country are having a tough time, we still see that the crisis measures we are taking make a difference. And it would be weird if it wasn't. The total cost of the budget bill and the additional crisis measures presented during the pandemic can thus far be added to SEK 374 billion. It's historic. Never before has support from Swedish taxpayers been able to save so many jobs in the private sector. Almost 600 000 Swedes have been on short-term leave during the crisis. As a result, hundreds of thousands of wage and salary earners have escaped the risk of losing their jobs, and companies have thus been able to retain important labour. Because Sweden entered the crisis with a stable economy and low public debt, the government and its partners have been able to act vigorously to protect jobs and businesses. It has always been uncertain how the crisis would develop and not least how long it will last. It has also been important to get money out quickly. As a result, financial support has been adjusted and will be adjusted as the pandemic continues. The government is closely monitoring the economic situation and continuously evaluates the impact of the various subsidies and their accuracy. A careful balance is needed in order for our common resources to be used responsibly and efficiently. The government and its cooperation parties have also been clear that new restrictions will be followed up with increased support. As a result of the increased spread of infection and the new Pandemic Act, we have in recent weeks presented extensions and reinforcements of emergency aid. Today we are debating the Finance Committee's report 38 on more accurate support for businesses. The Committee on Finance proposes that two announcements be addressed to the government. The first is that the government should urgently review the rules on short-term lay-off in order to make it easier for companies in hard-hit sectors to retain their employees. It is of course important that sectors that are severely affected receive support, and Sweden has also designed the financial support measures so that they will benefit the most affected companies. General aid is designed in such a way that the more financial difficulties one has, the more aid one is entitled to. We can see, for example, that hotels and restaurants, which are one of the most vulnerable sectors, are among the sectors that have received the most crisis support per employee. It should also be known that aid that is not general but targeted at only some companies takes longer to get in place, as they need to have state aid approval for the EU. For example, the amusement parks that had closed this summer because of the Order Act are still waiting for final information as to whether they will receive the more generous support that the government wants to give them. The support for short-term lay-offs will mean that, once we have dealt with the issue in Parliament, 80 per cent of working hours can be reduced during these months with a high spread of infection. It will help many companies in precisely those sectors that are in a tough economic situation. In addition, the government and the cooperation parties have presented new and strengthened aid which will soon also benefit these companies. Having said that, the government and the cooperation parties continue to follow developments and are also ready to make new decisions in order for the support to be as accurate and effective as possible. So far, however, we do not see any reason to deviate from the main thrust of general aid aimed at the companies most affected, regardless of the sector to which they formally belong. After all, there is clear evidence that some restaurants, for example, are doing very well during the crisis. In the light of this, I would like to support our reservation on the first point of decision in the report. However, with regard to the second point of decision, I support the proposal that the government should remedy certain shortcomings in existing crisis support for individual traders. These are those who have a private firm and who have been on parental leave or sick leave during the reference months. It is also a question of allowing the person who has an individual firm and who has received unemployment benefit to receive turnover aid. These are issues that may not be about a great deal of money in total in a state budget, but, of course, for the individuals affected by the pride of the system, it is absolutely crucial. And we are pleased that the entire Committee on Finance wants to improve support in these parts. Since the government is already working on these issues, I also hope that this will soon be in place. As I said, the pandemic has hit the whole of society hard and fast. During the previous year, the Committee on Budgets has decided in broad agreement on a whole of twelve additional amending budgets with crisis measures. Many measures have had to be developed quickly and have also had to be adjusted afterwards in order to make aid more accurate. It is good that a united committee here today can take further steps in this direction. Madam President, I would like I know that many companies and industries are having a tough time. That is why we are adapting the systems as quickly as possible when the situation changes. Many people will be in touch with us about long processing times. Therefore, I would like to take this opportunity to say that this is an issue that we continue to follow and which we are looking at carefully, and we are working to shorten the processing times further. Our intention, of course, is for the money to be as useful as possible in companies.
i-2cdc13fb2589f3a7-23	Madam President, I would like This year of pandemic – almost a full year – is a year that we will never ever forget. It has hit us hard and has been very tough for all parties, not least for those we are going to discuss today, namely the companies. I can begin by saying that I believe that Parliament and the government have taken enormous measures together. As the previous speaker said, we have pushed in SEK 374 billion. That's a record amount of money. Only the crisis measures for 2021 amount to 63 billion, so it is not finished. The additional amending budgets that we have decided on are aimed at securing important societal functions, securing Swedish jobs, securing Swedish companies and ensuring a continued viable civil society. As far as today's discussion on accurate crisis support is concerned, I can say that as a centre party I am both proud and satisfied, but at the same time dissatisfied. I'll get back to that. The role of the Center Party this term of office is a bit unique. Our role is to negotiate. I am very pleased and proud that we have been involved in negotiating 12 additional amending budgets last year, and I think there are already four in the pipeline this year. We from the Center Party, together with the Liberals, have been very proactive in the government negotiations with regard to everything relating to business support. Actually, I'm very proud that we're there. The fact that we in the Center Party prioritise this so hard is because we believe that companies are the foundation and that which builds society strong and provides a good welfare society. The Center Party's line in spring 2020 was quite clear. We preferred a quick and good solution rather than a perfect solution that came later. This led us to make use of existing legislation. Then not everything was perfect and accurate. But we saw that the alternative not to do so would have been significantly worse, because then it would have taken longer. Everything was meant to save as many viable companies as we could. But we were also quite clear from the beginning that we will not be able to save all businesses. That's not possible. The Center Party's line this autumn has had three entrances. It should be quick action, it should be accurate action and it should fit within the EU framework. As a result, we have had numerous negotiations with the government to refine aid, to extend aid and to maximise aid levels under the EU framework. At the same time, we have negotiated more money and resources to shorten the administrative time. I'm pleased with that. However, I am less satisfied, or even dissatisfied, with other things. Everything hasn't gone brilliantly well. I will take a Gotlandian example, because I have my reality there. Gotland has Gotland's Strump factory with five employees. It is a small and dear rural company that received a preliminary yes in support of short-term work this spring. The company is a limited liability company and meets exactly all the requirements for short-term work. But last fall, you got no. It turned out that annual pay is used instead of monthly pay. This small detail put the company at risk. One misses support, or even becomes liable for repayment, of just under 300 000 kroner. This shows that not everything has gone well. We are also unhappy that part of the aid – I am thinking in particular of aid to individual traders and to commercial and limited companies – came too late. But we from the Center Party have pushed as best we can. Of course, the major debate that has been going on in the autumn and in recent times concerns the overall problem of the authorities' slow-going handling of permits, decisions and, above all, payments. We are very unhappy with this. There, as we see it, the responsibility falls heavily on the government which is responsible for the management of public authorities. This led the Minister for Economic Affairs and the relevant authorities on the initiative of the Center Party to be called to the Committee on Economic Affairs so that they could explain why we have received the support chaos that we have received. We are constantly facing many of these desperate and worried companies. It is therefore almost always a question of conversion aid and compensation for short-term work and why things are so slow. What we have been able to do from our side is to negotiate more money for administrators. For example, the Swedish Agency for Growth will now employ 200 new administrators during the first quarter. At least it's a little comfort. Madam President, I would like The last year will be historic. I very much hope that we will never have to make as many additional amending budgets as we did in 2020. I support the reservation contained in the report.
i-2cdc13fb2589f3a7-40	Madam President, I would like We are in an extraordinary and difficult time. Many have lost loved ones and lost their jobs. A lot of entrepreneurs around Sweden are awake at night worried about their company's future, a company that they have put their souls into and where they have their faith in the future. To allay these concerns and give these entrepreneurs hope for the future takes up the wake-up times of government and cooperation parties. We are doing everything we can to meet the needs of these companies. The support that has been developed for entrepreneurs has been developed at an extraordinary rate of rapidity. We have come to the conclusion several times in this House that the principle of getting them in place quickly is better than that of being perfect. We have repeatedly made minor ex-post adjustments when problems have emerged when aid has met the reality. The willingness to do so remains. We often have constructive discussions in the Committee on Finance – and I understand that it is also in the Committee on Economic Affairs – with the aim of making this support work well. Today we have a situation where processing times are not acceptable. This is a problem that we need to make more effort to overcome. One method is, of course, that the authorities can hire more. Another part is that we look at whether we can screw the regulations so that they become more functional. In doing so, we must also respect the information that comes to our attention that there is organised and thought-out fraud with this support. Unfortunately, it is part of the reality that we see. An investigator has examined the management of aid, and he has unfortunately been able to see that this is the case. Then we must also ensure that the authorities are in a position to pay the aid right from the start. In retrospect, trying to do post-checks and get the money back is very difficult. This shows the authorities' experience of similar work as they do on a continuous basis. As so often, we need to find a balance. Short-term aid is the largest and the most important thing we have during this pandemic. Short-term lay-offs allow employees to retain their employment. It has been possible to adapt how much employees are at work according to the crisis. It has varied during the year linked to how much restrictions we have had. That is also why the government has announced that it will be extended and expanded in the spring when we are in the middle of a second wave with tougher restrictions. It is certain that this system is not perfect either, but that it can be corrected. But one reason it works well is that it is general. It goes to companies generally, regardless of how they are coded in government systems. That's one reason why it's accurate. The same is true of the conversion aid. We have an aid that is an industry subsidy, and that is the rent subsidy. It has some advantages. It reaches some companies that no other aid can reach. But it also has obvious disadvantages, and that is that it is designed according to industry. It gives rise to very strange bordering problems, and that is that a restaurant can get support but not those who supply goods to the restaurant and that a self-evident part of the business cannot get corresponding support. That is why we have concluded that we should minimise the number of sector-specific aid. They simply work worse. They're less accurate. My view of this has been strengthened during the time that we have examined how the various subsidies work. I do not think that this is the last time we will be standing here discussing whether we can make aid better. It is a continuous work, and I hope that we can continue to have a constructive discussion in Parliament. In doing so, I would like to support the reservation and support the committee's proposal in general.
i-2cdc13fb2589f3a7-50	Madam President, I would like Many thanks to all those who work and work in health care and in care for the elderly, all who make sure that all the vital activities such as police, fire department, ambulance and much more work, all who continue to go to work and make sure that there is someone who receives at the pharmacy and someone who is in the register in the store – all who make society continue to work. Many thanks to all of you! Today's matter, which is on Parliament's table and will be decided on later this afternoon, is a matter that originates from the fact that, among other things, we Moderates, Christian Democrats and the Left Party saw a lot of problems with the existing subsidies that we had been involved in producing. The Swedish Democrats have also contributed to the work that is making us have these issues on the table today. Madam President, I would like Let me start by telling you that we Moderates already on the first day of the crisis decided to work to ensure proper resources for health care, for care for the elderly and for what results from combating the spread of infection, namely to ensure that people do not have to lose their jobs, livelihoods or that those who run businesses lose the company and their life dreams. We've been working on all that during the crisis. Before Christmas, we put forward a proposal that was intended – that is what we are talking about today – to correct all the problems that have arisen with the subsidies. The intentions we have had as legislators to save businesses and jobs have not been fully met when the regulations have looked like they have. Let me give you an example. I talked to Jacquline Wessman this morning. She is a hairdresser, and she was a new mother at the end of 2018. Let me address this to the government that calls itself feminist: she, and many other women, has started an individual firm instead of a limited company – that's what it looks like. It's less risk and more women. We Moderates and some other parties fought long before the government finally gave up to give them crisis support. Jacquline was very happy at the end of last year when she thought she was finally going to be part of the long-awaited crisis support and her company could survive. She could continue working as a hairdresser. She was then told that she did not benefit from the support, Madam President, because she had been on parental leave. The government had decided in the regulations that those who have been on parental leave or on sick leave should not be entitled to support. This is completely incomprehensible. This and a number of other problems came up in crisis aid. There, the Moderates, the Left Party, the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats chose to say that something must be done. It can't be like that. It is completely unreasonable that just because you have had children you should not be eligible for emergency support. That is why this proposal is on Parliament's table today. I talked to Jacquline this morning. I told her that this afternoon Parliament will hopefully vote in favour of a proposal that will give her and many others in her situation retroactively the support. She was so happy. She'll call me later this afternoon after we hopefully made the decision. What we are doing is for real, and when we correct the mistakes that exist in the support, we save jobs and businesses. People can continue to have their livelihoods. That is what we are doing here, Madam President. That's why I'm glad we get through a number of important things. Some have described some of the other parts that we get through. Time does not allow us to go through everyone, but we correct some mistakes together. Here I am addressing the Center Party. The Center Party is a party that has many good representatives that I have worked with over the years, get along well with and like. It is a party that has claimed to be protecting small businesses. It hasn't been empty words. We have done a lot together in the Swedish Parliament, both during the years of alliance government and at the beginning of the crisis. But something has happened, Madam President. I was in contact with another company, and it will unfortunately not be helped today. It is because the Center Party has chosen not to support that initiative. I promised you I wouldn't tell you the name of the company. The company has ten full-time employees and 30 part-time employees, and it is located in southern Sweden. At the beginning of the crisis, the company was advised to withdraw money from the company, not as wages or dividends, but from the capital they had entered the company with. They did not do it because they were greedy, but they took the money out of the company because they were advised that if the company were to survive a tough crisis for a long time, it would be better to withdraw money that is their own because that money is not taxed. Instead, they should be above their own salary and the company will survive longer. This meant that the company was subject to the same regulations as we agreed in the Riksdag, i.e. that one should not sit in the meeting room of the big companies and plan past dividends and other things while receiving crisis support. But this was a small company that received the recommendation that, in order to survive as long as possible, you should collect the money you had put into the company. I'm looking at the Center Party representative. You say you protect companies. Not only did one of the partners contact Annie Lööf and received an answer from a member of the Center Party to look at the question and include it in the government negotiations. The partner called me at Christmas because he no longer received an answer from the Center Party, and he was devastated because his company would now fail and all employees would lose their jobs. When you realized that the act would be equated with dividends, you corrected the mistake as soon as you could. The money was paid back to the company and tried to do the right thing. They had not cheated, but tried to get the company to survive as long as possible and to save the jobs of the employees. The company is now subject to a regulatory framework that does not allow it to benefit from emergency aid. That wasn't our point when we said what we said last spring, was it? Had it voted for the proposal put forward by the Moderates, among others, if the Center Party had supported it, this company would have been able to benefit from crisis money and the employees would have kept their jobs. They were not greedy, but tried to do what they thought was best for the company and the employees so that it would survive the crisis. If the Center Party had stood by its word, to stand on the side of small business, we would have saved them. During Christmas I asked the entrepreneur to contact the Centre Party's spokesperson directly and explain the situation because I thought the party would listen to them. One Monday the entrepreneur got an answer and was very happy. Then he was answered by the political spokesperson of the Center Party who said that the party should try to solve the problem for them. On Tuesday, the next day, the party voted down the proposal put forward by the Moderates, among others, who had saved the company and solved the problem. The day after you answer the individual company that you want to help it, you vote down the proposal that had actually helped those who had saved the jobs of the employees. I don't understand. I think that the Center Party is a good party that always stands up for what is right and right for small businesses and to save jobs in small businesses. I'm sure the Center Party can answer, but I don't understand. I'm really glad we get through a lot of things. We can straighten out a lot of errors in crisis support, ensure that we save jobs and businesses and ensure that people retain their livelihoods. I'm really happy about that. I just wish we had got more and done even more. I think we should try to save every job we can in the crisis. Anyone who tries to do the right thing should not be left out. Anyone who cheats and is a criminal should not have part of the money, but anyone who tries to do the right thing should have the right to emergency aid.
i-2cdc13fb2589f3a7-71	Madam President, I would like Member Edward Riedl takes the big words and blames a lot of misery on the Center Party. I must say that I find it somewhat distasteful at this point. We in the Center Party are quite proud of what we have achieved with 12 amending budgets and huge efforts for business support that would not have come about if the Center Party had not been sitting at the negotiating table with the Liberals. In fact, one can be very clear that it is the Center's merit that all these crisis aid has been negotiated. That is not to say that we are 100% satisfied – all the support went quickly to begin with, and they are difficult to get into shape. We choose to support the proposals that bring about some substantive change in the discussions that come up in the Committee on Finance. We have done this all along, and we think it is very reasonable. It has been a very good collaboration between the January parties and between the Government and the Riksdag. When there are concrete amendments that make a difference and tell us how to change things, we usually support them or find changes. With regard to paragraph 1, which we are now discussing and where we have a reservation, I think that we are only pointing to a problem situation without making any factual proposals on how to solve it. That's why we left a reservation. This does not mean that we have stopped acting; as I said, we have already raised 63 billion in 2021 for action. The crisis is not over – for companies are certainly not over. But I think those were strong words from Edward Riedl.
i-2cdc13fb2589f3a7-76	Madam President, I would like Let me say what I said in my speech: I hold the Center Party high. The Center Party has many wise representatives and is a party that has done a great deal over the years and even during this crisis. This is what I started by saying. Madam President, I would like What I do not understand about the Center Party – and this is something that the honourable Member, Lars Thomsson, will be happy to answer – is what I am trying to say. In paragraph 5 of the initiative we presented in the Moderates in December, we have listed how we want to solve the problem for the individual entrepreneur whom I described, with 10 employees and 30 part-time employees. The entrepreneur accidentally took money out of the company because he thought that the company would then be able to survive longer – he listened to advice. When the entrepreneur realized that he was wrong, he quickly paid back the money and hoped that he would be able to save his company and the jobs of his employees. I asked Lars Thomsson and the Center Party a question about this. This person hasn't said he's a center party, but I guess he is because it's you in the Center Party he's been in contact with. He has received answers from the Center Party – from your leading representatives – that the Center Party wants to solve his problems and thinks that it is unreasonable. The Center Party has replied to him that it is unreasonable that he should not be allowed to take part in this support and that it should be resolved. He received this reply on a Monday. On Tuesday, the Center Party entered the Finance Committee. Paragraph 5 of the Moderate initiative, Madam President, is about solving this particular problem. If someone has made mistakes and taken money out of the company and then tried to correct it, you should still get access to crisis support, and the jobs should not be lost. On Monday, the Center Party replied to the entrepreneur that they wanted to help him. On Tuesday, the Moderates' proposals were voted down to resolve just that. That is what I do not understand, Madam President, because I hold the Center Party high. But this can surely be answered by Lars Thomsson.
i-2cdc13fb2589f3a7-83	Madam President, I would like Mr Riedl continues to say that the Moderates have the solution. Had we seen that what the Moderates are proposing was a solution and an answer to how this is to be resolved, we would actually have agreed to it and entered into a negotiation, but we see that this does not solve the problems. On paragraph 2, however, a change was actually made, and so we have also come to an agreement there. There is quite a lot about this. Our line has been that we see general support as the path that has worked because it is possible through the EU framework. We have also managed to target the general support so that those who have received the most support in SEK per employee are the cultural and entertainment industry, which has been hit very hard. The second most support per employee has been received by the hotel and restaurant industry. This shows that, with the reforms we have presented, it is possible to target general support so that they hit better than straight support had done. Of course, when we have received these statements, we have answered as many times as possible that there are errors and that we should try to correct them. We have done this on an ongoing basis, and as a result there have also been a large number of additional amending budgets and additional amendments in cooperation with the government to correct everything. If what the honourable Member describes is a detail to which a technical solution can be found – if there is a solution within reach – then we will of course remedy this at a later date.
i-2cdc13fb2589f3a7-86	Madam President, I would like I think the honourable Member, Lars Thomsson, does not quite understand what I am saying. Lars Thomsson talks about the proposal that is on Parliament's table. That is, of course, the lowest common denominator – what the Center Party chose not to be involved in the committee. Had the Center Party been, the Moderates would have put forward a lot of proposals that are not on the table today because the Center Party chose not to support this. This is, of course, the proposal at issue here. There is a ready-made proposal. Now I'm going to be benevolent, because I know that the Center Party is a good party. What the honourable Member, Lars Thomsson, from the Center Party, has now promised is that if there is a proposal within reach, it will be dealt with. Madam President, I would like There is a proposal within reach – the Moderates put it on the table of the Finance Committee in December. I now assume that the Center Party is involved in solving this. It is not contrary to any EU regulation, as the honourable Member mentioned, but, on the contrary, it is quite possible to do so. We were the ones who tightened up these rules. We do not even need to adopt legislation, but we can tell the Tax Agency to make a different interpretation when companies have collected own resources and then put back own resources. It is fully within the scope of possibility. The representatives of the Center Party now stand in the Riksdag and say that if there is a solution to this, it should be resolved. The Center Party voted it down once, although the proposal was before the Finance Committee. I now assume, Madam President, that the Center Party will help or make the same proposals as the Moderates put forward. There is a ready-made proposal to remedy just that.
i-2cdc13fb2589f3a7-90	Madam President, I would like A year ago, there was probably no one in this House who thought that today, on 27 January 2021, we would stand here and debate further support to deal with an almost one year old invisible enemy called covid-19. With more than 10 000 deceased and an overcrowded iva, the pandemic has hit society at large hard. Not least, it has hit small businesses hard, which have had to take a big blow in the wake of restrictions from parliament, government and authorities. These restrictions will be discussed and will have far-reaching consequences in the future. More than 96 per cent of all companies in Sweden are so-called micro-enterprises with ten employees or fewer. The modern labour market consists of an increasing number of small businesses who choose to take the step of boldly pursuing their dream of life and starting their own business. The labour market today looks different, and small businesses are today's workers. Society is largely run by small businesses, and all citizens are affected by small businesses on a daily basis. They are our painters, carpenters, hairdressers, masseurs, shops of various kinds, car mechanics and restaurants, to take some examples. These are small businesses that work far more hours than most people do, small businesses that risk their own capital to contribute to society, small businesses that take responsibility for ensuring that staff receive their wages and small businesses that pay a lot of taxes and bear the welfare that we so often take for granted. At a time of crisis, the state needs to reach out quickly and effectively to assist fundamentally viable companies with the help needed to overwinter a crisis, especially when the crisis consists of a pandemic requiring government restrictions. The support announced by the government has often been good, while in some cases there have been shortcomings – deficiencies that we in the Swedish Democrats, together with the other opposition, have been diligent to remind the government of. We in the Swedish Democrats have supported the report we are discussing, because we believe that the government has shown a slowness which has affected a large number of small businesses which are currently living with great uncertainty about the future. We believe that the twitchiness and ambiguity that the government has repeatedly shown has been directly harmful. We have repeatedly criticised the government's strange demand for the turnover step, which has gone from 30% to 40% and 50%, then going back to 40% and finally down to 30% again, so that we can take part in the conversion aid, to take an example. It is probably not just me who is being contacted by entrepreneurs who are feeling a great deal of confusion about what is really going on and who are feeling despair over the rules that they have to wrestle through in order to even be able to seek support. For large companies it is often easier when resources and skills are available in-house in large financial departments or similar, which simplifies the application process. I have also talked to young companies that have hired outside consultants to handle the applications precisely because it is so complicated. But how can a small company, a lonely hairdresser or a masseur be able to keep track of any changes in the regulations and manage to apply for the support? Even I, who work on this in the Finance Committee, can't always keep track of all the rules. No, we believe that our Swedish small businesses deserve clarity, efficiency and consistency. The initiative addresses seasonal activities that find it difficult to assimilate support through short-term lay-off. We agree that there is a need for greater flexibility in the regulatory framework, especially in relation to the reference months. As a starting point, the Swedish Democrats are opposed to separate solutions, but we welcome the initiative's willingness to target specific support to companies that are particularly affected by the restrictions, given the circumstances. Just as the previous speaker from the Moderates said, this is for real. Before Christmas, we Swedish democrats presented a committee initiative that addressed companies that cannot benefit from support because they had previously had to use unemployment insurance. We did not get support for our initiative, but we are pleased that it is included in today's report for individual traders and that the Left Party has presented an initiative, like the Swedish Democrats, in the Committee on Finance for comparative months linked to short-term lay-off. We will be happy to support this. With this, I would like to call for the committee's proposal to be approved.
i-2cdc13fb2589f3a7-101	Madam President, I would like The Left Party believes that it is important to support smaller companies, companies that in the crisis are having an extremely tough time. The Left Party has acted and has taken the initiative to allow individual traders, such as cultural workers, taxi drivers, hairdressers, plumbers and others, to receive turnover support even in the months they receive unemployment benefit. When the fixed expenses remain – it may be the rent for the garage, the rent for the car, the rent for the barber's chair or the premises, the rent for the studio or the studio – and the company does not generate sufficient income, many people face financial problems. Health is adversely affected by that lump in the stomach that exists because of the concern about expenditure, which is too high in relation to the income of the company and the unemployment fund. We therefore appreciate the fact that the whole committee has supported our initiative. The Left Party is also behind and has pushed for those who were on sick leave or parental leave in 2019, but who in 2020 were back in their firm again, to be able to receive sales support. It is not reasonable for the reference months to exclude sick and parental leave. Therefore, the reference months need to be changed for that group. We also believe that seasonal industries may need more adapted rules for short-term lay-off. It is for us about the comparative months here too. During the covid-19 pandemic, a lot of different financial support has been developed for companies in crisis. That is a good thing, although one can question why large companies with strong capital owners should be included. The owners should be the ones who primarily go in with capital. When the crisis is over and the economy has stabilised, part of the aid should be paid back in the form of increased corporate taxes and capital taxes. It is the taxpayers' money that the owners have received. If there has been a lot of support to businesses, aid to individuals has been considerably more difficult to obtain. Nor have they been extended as they should, such as the housing allowance for families with children. The management of the risk groups' remuneration has been anything but good. Today, people are on leave for fear of being infected at work, while bills are piled up. The government's handling here is under any criticism. The fact that decisions on risk groups were not made on time is a disaster for those who have no financial margins and who now go home without compensation or are forced to work even though they belong to a risk group. Many unemployed people are now receiving lower compensation as they have become long-term unemployed, and many of them are soon transferred to the Social Insurance Agency's activity support. Unfortunately, the political interest in doing something about this is low or non-existent. But the Left Party will continue to remain on it and present proposals for measures that we believe are needed. Saving businesses is not enough. We must also give people the opportunity to survive financially during the pandemic. Madam President, I would like I support the committee's proposal.
i-2cdc13fb2589f3a7-111	Madam President, I would like The Coronapandemia strikes life and health. It threatens our way of life and is extremely painful to many who suffer from the loneliness and isolation that affect their entire lives. For many employees and entrepreneurs, it is also a pain of great measure to see their life's work merge or their job threatened or disappear, and we see unemployment rising. There is a desperation for losing one's job or what one has built up during a lifetime in a company, perhaps for generations. This plays a role for the local community, for the district. It cuts into the lifebloods that contribute life, hope and belief in the future in our societies. That is why we Christian Democrats have pushed for viable companies that are affected in this crisis to be able to get support for survival, so that the Corona virus will not reap more companies and more jobs than necessary, so that people can get caught up in their jobs and have a job to go to and so that panting flames cannot be extinguished without hope can return and remain. This is important to protect people's lives and to ensure that unemployment does not get stuck at very high levels, as we know, with major social, economic and, not least, health consequences over time. We can see that we have made a difference. We were able to change the lay-off allowance this spring, so that family entrepreneurs are included and companies where the public is the largest client can also receive support. We pushed through an earlier suspension with tax payments and, together with others, pushed forward a reduced deferral rate. And in the Finance Committee, we are now acting together with the Moderates to ensure that the government's planned increase in the deferral rate is not implemented. We pushed for an increase and increase in lay-off aid and were in the process of leading the government to carry out restructuring aid in order to remove some of the firm's fixed costs. When the government did not ensure that individual entrepreneurs were included in the subsidies, we acted to obtain a special one for them. When, in the next stage, the government did not include active owners in limited partnerships and partnerships, we acted again to secure support for these entrepreneurs and companies as well. Madam President, I would like In today's report by the Committee on Finance there are a number of other things that need to be corrected in order for aid to be better achieved. Aid for lay-off must reach more vulnerable sectors and become more flexible so that it also works for companies with seasonal variations or with different categories of staff in the workplace and today cannot fully benefit from the aid. These demands are addressed to the government. We also make a requirement that the person who was on sick leave or parental leave during the reference months should not be deprived of turnover support in an individual firm. I am pleased that we have been able to reach agreement on this point. The same applies to the possibility of receiving turnover aid as an individual trader even if you have received unemployment benefit. It is good that, hopefully, this will soon come into place as a result of this report – to save more jobs, to ensure that more viable companies do not succumb and to prevent unemployment from getting stuck at high levels. Madam President, I would like My view is that the government did very well at the beginning of the crisis. There were a number of emergency aid that were important and necessary where we could make improvements, speed up and push further. But the government has not kept up this pace during the crisis. There have been delays and delays, and in some cases, as in the case of aid to individual traders, an unwillingness to act where it has taken a very long time. Sometimes there has been an incomprehension to the reality that entrepreneurs face. This has created unnecessary frustration and concern among entrepreneurs and employees. Even after today's report, there is reason to continue to act. My colleague Edward Riedl has pointed out remaining shortcomings. I shall point out another lack of support, and that is that there is a rule that obliges companies to terminate temporary, temporary, temporary, probationary and temporary workers in order to ensure support for their permanent employees. Those with the weakest roots in the labour market are sacrificed when these subsidies are to be tested and paid out. This goes directly against international crisis experience, OECD evaluations and, in short, any European country that, after the financial crisis, chose to include temporary workers in lay-off aid rather than, as Sweden, excluding them from aid. This has caused more people to find themselves in unemployment than necessary. We are now in danger of further strengthening this effect in connection with the second wave. This needs to change, and so far I have not heard a single sustainable argument for us to have a rule that is forcing people into unemployment in the midst of a crisis. Madam President, I would like The pandemic is far from over, we hear it said from government representatives and authorities. It's true. We all feel that life is being obscured. For many entrepreneurs and employees, not least in particularly vulnerable industries, is it a reality that crawls under the skin every morning and every night: Shall we fix it another day or not? We need better support. We need more targeted support that reaches those who are in a particularly vulnerable position in Swedish business. We also need to ensure that subsidies can be paid out as soon as possible – with the reasonable demands that we should make that there are no undue payments that end up in the wrong pockets. But most people are doing the right thing and they're going to get support. In recent weeks, therefore, the Committee on Finance has called representatives of the authorities to ensure that they do all they can to ensure that these subsidies are paid out as soon as possible. Madam President, I would like We in this House are going to do everything we can to save jobs and businesses and to ensure that we take Sweden as well as we can ever through this crisis. We must ensure that entrepreneurs and employees who work and drag every day and make great efforts should be able, willing and daring to fix it another day, another week, another month until we are through this.
i-2cdc13fb2589f3a7-130	Madam President, I would like Although I exceeded my speaking time, I did not have time to support the committee's proposal, so I do now.
i-2cdc13fb2589f3a7-131	Madam President, I would like Today, at last, I say, at last, when the Swedish Customs Administration's ability to stop the illegal introduction of weapons, ammunition and explosives is greatly enhanced. The Customs Agency may, for law enforcement purposes, decide that a postal consignment should be retained by a so-called postal carrier in order for the Customs to be able to carry out its checks. This is called a postal barrier. Such a barrier may be imposed if there is reason to believe that the consignment contains narcotics which can be seized as smuggling and it is necessary for seizure to take place. Madam President, I would like With the aim of strengthening the ability of the Customs to stop the import of weapons, ammunition and explosives, this Decision will have the same powers as for drugs. It will now also be possible to place postal barriers on consignments carried by courier companies. This is only mentioned in passing in the bill, and I do not really know why. Perhaps it is a bit embarrassing for the government that such a proposal has not been tabled in the past. If the government has really really wanted to strangle the influx of drugs, weapons, ammunition and so on, why has the Swedish Customs not been able to stop courier consignments containing these very goods in the past? For most of us, this has been a serious lack of legislation for many years, and it is a little surprising that this insight has not reached the Ministry of Finance until now. Madam President, I would like As early as March 2016, together with the then alliance parties, we commissioned the government to enable Customs to stop all mail suspected of containing illegal goods. One might think that the work against the smuggling of drugs and illegal weapons should be at the top of the government's list, as there is a direct link to violence and exclusion in our vulnerable areas. But only now, almost five years later, does this legislation come. During these five years, we have all witnessed the free circulation of weapons on our streets. The question Patrik Lundkvist and the Social Democrats should ask themselves is how many shootings could have been stopped if legislation had been in place much earlier than today. Madam President, I would like The fact that the Customs Agency is now gaining increased powers is gratifying, albeit late. Perhaps it has to do with the fact that the Swedish Customs Agency has received a head of government who came directly from the Ministry of Finance. She's doing a very good job, I'd say. But, Madam President, is it really going to be necessary for an S-marked State Secretary to be given the post of Head of Government to have the ear of the government? It also feels a little bit risky. As we all know, not all S-marked heads of government have really pinked the market with neither good judgment nor morals lately. The fact that the Customs Agency has now received the necessary resources is the result of a driving opposition that has never given up. The trip started in 2018 when the Moderates and Christian Democrats received through their budget their demand for the Swedish Customs to receive 175 million more than the government had proposed. It was resources that enabled the Customs to carry out their mission and be able to reinstate instead of dismiss. This requires both resources and powers. These are powers such as the right to conduct preliminary investigations into certain drug and arms cases, the introduction of special on-call prosecutors and the strengthening of the Customs Agency's role as a law enforcement authority. With increased resources and powers and an understanding of the importance of seeing the Swedish Customs' law enforcement mission, we could also have a customs service that could forcefully prevent the export of stolen goods. In the Swedish National Audit Office's report, the Finnish Customs got a lot of thumbs up for their work. However, as far as exports are concerned, nothing was written in principle. Of course I asked why. The answer was that resources and powers simply did not exist. How many of us are constantly being called up by farmers and car-, boat- and homeowners who have been subjected to systematic theft raids that are purely ordering jobs? Anger, despair, abandonment, and fear are just a few words that describe their feelings. The proportion of thefts and burglaries committed by foreign theft leagues has escalated. Today, it is estimated that these leagues are responsible for more than half of all residential break-ins. They also account for up to 90 percent of other gross thefts of such things as car parts, boat engines and agricultural machinery. Large profits, low detection risk and low penalties are strongly contributing to the fact that these theft leagues are ravaging Sweden. Despite this, Tullverket's personnel lack the authority to prevent a person or stop and search vehicles with suspected stolen goods at the Swedish border. Instead, this is the case with the police, which are far from being in place to intervene. Many are the customs officials who testify to how they see the stern of the ferry when it leaves the port without the police having arrived. Madam President, I would like Freedom of movement within the EU is fantastic, but it was never meant to apply to criminals. The kind of crime that affects people all over the country has been going on for far too long without the government taking any action. Today is one step, but that is not enough. We need more customs officials with increased powers, a change in legislation and better coordination with other law enforcement authorities. I hereby accept the Moderate reservation 2.
i-2cdc13fb2589f3a7-144	Madam President, I would like Given that goods flow across borders and to a large extent enter through mail channels and agents, it is obviously positive that there is an increase in controls and that the security of these flows also increases. However, the question is whether the government believes that it is enough to address the major societal problems that have been built up for a long time. The Swedish Customs Agency is Sweden's oldest authority. It was the first authority to be set up. This fact alone makes us realise that the agency has been crucial to the construction of an economically strong Sweden. Its main tasks have been those of exports and imports and have thus had an economic character. In recent decades, crime has grown sharply as we dismantled the common view that we have had on ethics and morals. This is something on which we once built a strong Swedish society. It is now being phased out in the footsteps of multiculturalism. Madam President, I would like The free movement of the EU has also led to considerable difficulties in securing Sweden's borders. The limited resources and powers of the Customs Agency lead to extensive imported criminality. The law enforcement activities of the Office have therefore become the primary task of customs. The Customs Service has not been able to ensure the safety of border personnel. Instead, we have seen situations where customs has not been able to carry out checks due to understaffing and the increased risks to which a more violent criminality exposes the staff of the operation. Powers of controls at both external and internal borders need to be increased. It is not only goods crossing the border but also unidentified individuals who should not be here but who are allowed to enter our country because we lack an active customs duty. Half of all persons with coordination numbers in the country have no proven identity. After three months you have no right to be in the country unless you have a job. But the person cannot be expelled because no one knows when he or she entered the country. Theft waves running in the country, when police warn against various cars associated with theft, might have been more unusual if we had border protection. Last autumn, the Ministry of Finance came up with a bill. It was a law that would give customs increased powers from July 2021 to stop the exit of stolen goods. The proposal reads: A customs official should be able to intervene in the context of a customs control procedure in the event of a suspicion of a crime against which the Customs Authority is not currently autonomously empowered to intervene. However, it has been limited to giving customs the power to seize what is found in regular customs controls. So there is hardly any difference from the present situation. Regular customs controls are mostly carried out on incoming goods, not outgoing goods. Had stolen goods been seen as smuggling, there would have been another possibility. Stealing is prohibited, but it is not prohibited to drive stolen goods to another country unless the police intervene. The Customs Department had then been given the authority to stop, seize and retain goods or transporters pending their surrender to the police. The detention should continue until the police arrive. The government should urgently investigate a criminalisation of the export of stolen goods and return to Parliament with legislative proposals on this. Today, customs officials, due to the limited law enforcement powers, allow suspected criminals to leave the scene before the police arrive. Madam President, I would like The Customs Agency is facing significant challenges. We need to think new, perhaps rethink and add the resources and powers necessary to give the Customs Agency the strength and capacity to also interact with the police and other relevant authorities so that the imported criminality decreases. I support SD's reservation 3.
i-2cdc13fb2589f3a7-153	Madam President, I would like Before I begin my speech in today's debate on customs powers, I would like to draw our attention to an important event in our history. Today 76 years ago, something amazing happened. It was the day the Auschwitz-Birkenau concentration camp was freed from the atrocities that were going on there. Let us remember this day, but also the days before it, and honor those who were deprived of their lives by the worst of mankind, namely hatred. Let us remind ourselves of the consequences of letting darkness take place, flourish, and rule. Let us keep our promises given to those who survived not to walk the path that led us to the unimaginable. And let us remember that it did not start with concentration camps and mass murder, but with words and mistrust. If we're in oblivion, it's in their ashes we're walking. Madam President, I would like In the bill we have dealt with and in the motions from general exercise time, it is a clear focus on the work's law enforcement work, and that is important. I would already like to start by asking for the Centre Party's reservation that customs should be given the power to – without having to call the police – prevent persons or stop vehicles carrying suspected stolen goods at the border. At the same time, in this debate, I would like to point out in particular the role of customs as the collection authority. Effective collection, several years of increased appropriations, recruitments and more seizures than ever before create a good basis for the agency. In 2019 the plant received almost 8 billion in collection, and 99.7 percent of what was charged was finally paid in. Those are amazing numbers. Mr President, I would like to An increasingly efficient work and increased digitalisation create opportunities for simplicity in imports and exports for our companies. As we increasingly focus on the law enforcement part of the work, I would like to highlight the fantastic work that is being done to simplify and support businesses, which we have seen not least in all the work that has been done to facilitate Brexit. Foreign trade is much greater among our small businesses than most people think. It may be a worn-out concept, but Sweden is an extremely foreign trade-dependent economy. We can look at what it looked like a few years ago. More than 90 000 companies in Sweden imported goods. Of these, 95 per cent were enterprises with less than 50 employees. More than 40 000 enterprises exported goods, of which 92 per cent were small businesses. Therefore, seamless handling of the trade of these companies is an important task for customs. Mr President, I would like to Customs staff are doing an amazing job. There is no doubt about that. Without their professional skills, scores of drugs and weapons had reached our streets instead of getting stuck in customs. But far too much of that commodity still crosses the border. One reason for this is that the Customs Service does not have the powers and resources to combat smugglers seriously. We must further complicate the introduction of weapons and drugs. That thing's clear. Therefore, since the entry into force of the new Customs Act in May 2016, the Center Party has pushed the issue of holding courier items in the same way as postal items through a postal block. It is as we have seen it absolutely necessary. Customs also claimed that such legislation was needed in its referral. It took time, but now we're there. That is of course a good thing, because at that time there were twice as many firearms seized in courier consignments as in postal consignments. Mr President, I would like to The Center Party has been pushing for a long time to tighten the penalties for crimes related to gang crime. We have also pushed for the strong reinforcement that has taken place in the police and the judiciary. If we are to succeed in the fight against drug trafficking and shooting, we need to seriously strangle the influx of drugs and weapons, a deadly combination that costs almost one life a week. That is why we must act decisively at the border and give customs increased powers. The Customs Agency must be empowered to prevent persons or stop vehicles carrying suspected stolen goods at the border without having to call the police. This is absolutely necessary to prevent international theft leagues from ravaging Sweden. There is also a need to review the interaction between the police and other authorities. For example, the Swedish National Audit Office's report on a joint agency work against organised crime shows shortcomings in the monitoring and management of the joint agency's work against organised crime. The Center Party considers that there is also room for further improvement in the coordination work and in the exchange of information between law enforcement authorities. Mr President, I would like to With this, I call for approval of the Government's proposal to increase the possibilities for the Customs Agency to decide on postage barriers and for approval of the Centre Party's reservation.
i-2cdc13fb2589f3a7-164	Mr President, I would like to Swedish law enforcement must take place at all levels of society, from a proper school that has time with every student and builds a solid foundation to stand on in life to that there are many police officers who can work crime prevention but also be there when the crime has been committed. The chain of justice is of great importance. It is important that the whole chain works and that there are no gaps, long waiting times, lack of resources and other things that Swedish justice has constantly struggled with. We see such a glitch today. Welcome major efforts on the police have created a high pressure on the prosecutors, who are too few today. And when the judgment in the court has fallen, the period of suspension at the institution is miserablely long, because it is full in Sweden's prisons today. Mr President, I would like to It can be seen that I have worked for many years in the Committee on Justice. Customs is a natural part of the legal chain for me. I have stood next to the border police down at the Öresund Bridge and seen the fine crime prevention work that customs employees do to control goods entering the border. It's an impressive job. It is therefore a good thing that customs are given more tools to use, such as postal barriers and the new possibility of detaining postal items that may, for example, be suspected of containing drugs. But there are other crimes than the most serious drug offences that Customs should, in the opinion of the Left Party, focus more on, as we have called for. Dog smuggling is today a low priority crime alongside other crimes. However, given the suffering associated with the rearing of many dogs along with the risk of disease spreading when dogs enter the country, dog smuggling should be given increased priority at the Customs Agency. Huge resources are being spent on stopping the shootings and gang crime, and rightly so. Sweden is in an extremely serious situation. But one of the most effective ways to get to crime is to follow the money. That's where customs, police and the EFC are needed. There is a need for control at the border, customs stations, many police officers and really good intelligence to stop the cash. But there is also a need for more control of companies, because today companies are being used as a crowbar into criminal activity. The relief of rules, a lot of contributions from the cradle to the grave, makes businesses a cash cow for criminals. We all know what pizzeria I'm talking about. We all know which venture capital companies exist. Simple cash, that's all. We have to stop dangling with criminals. There must be tougher requirements, more control, more audit and no simple contributions. We cannot teach entrepreneurship at school and, at the same time, have rules that favour criminal acts. We cannot have a school that goes on its knees while clumping politicians make sure that the school's owner collects money. That if anything should be criminal. Stop criminal entrepreneurs! Stop the privatisation of the school! I request the approval of reservation 4.
i-2cdc13fb2589f3a7-171	Mr President, I would like to There are many of us here in the Swedish Parliament who want to see an expanded mission for the Swedish Customs Agency to stop various forms of crime at our border. That is why we welcome the proposal of the Christian Democrats, which gives the Customs Agency greater opportunities to decide on postal barriers. However, like many of the government's proposals these days, the bill is a consequence of an announcement made, among other things, on the initiative of the Christian Democrats during the last parliamentary term. The proposal extends to consignments suspected of containing weapons, ammunition or explosives the power of the Customs to decide on the retention of postal consignments likely to contain narcotics. It's welcome. However, the Finnish Customs has a mission that does not only relate to these articles. The Customs Office shall also check the entry and exit of a variety of other goods, such as war material, cultural goods, doping preparations and child pornography. However, in case of suspicion of these goods, the Finnish Customs may not decide on a postal block, although these may be very serious offences. The Christian Democrats believe that it would be justified to be able to issue postal barriers for more goods than arms, explosives and drugs. We'd like to see an investigation done about it. Mr President, I would like to The Customs Agency is not an authority that is part of the police. However, it has an important law enforcement function and is in need of a number of important reforms to function better as such. The Swedish Customs Service has undergone major changes since Sweden's membership of the EU. But freedom of movement within the EU must not mean that Swedish borders are unprotected. The Christian Democrats want to strengthen customs law enforcement and border protection. The Swedish Customs Agency is today strongly focused on being a collection authority under the Ministry of Finance. This means that the main task is to control the importation of taxable goods and to collect taxes. Customs is also looking for drugs and illegal weapons. However, customs has too little authority. This means that Tullverket is part of a chain that made Sweden called a sandwich table for international theft leagues. In many cases, Customs is forced to watch suspicious stolen goods leave the country. and it lacks an assignment in the regulatory letter to check the exit. Customs needs to become, in our view, a border protection authority that can prosecute all types of crimes at the border. In particular, the export of goods should be subject to much stricter controls. We Christian Democrats believe that the Customs Agency should be given a clearer mandate to control, stop and detain people at borders. Most concretely, it means that customs should check passports or other entry documents to a greater extent than today. It should also be given the power to detain. It will provide better means of controlling the inflows and outflows of goods and people in the country. Mr President, I would like to It is a fact that both individuals and entrepreneurs are severely affected both economically and operationally when theft leagues are operating in our country, and the stolen goods from these crimes are being carried out in practice out of control across the border. We Christian Democrats want an expanded mission. It is time we made the flow of stolen goods across borders more difficult. I would like to mention some of the proposals for reforms that we want to see. Change the law so that the Swedish Customs' powers make stolen goods and stolen goods included among the goods that the Swedish Customs may check at the border. Customs should be empowered to detain suspects. It's missing today. Entry checks should be carried out, i.e. passport and ID checks, to a greater extent than is currently the case. Mr President, I would like to The Christian Democrats believe that the potential benefits for society that would arise if Sweden got better border protection would be extensive: fewer people staying illegally in Sweden, fewer illegal weapons and fewer drugs that criminals can sell in alienation areas. It is also time to take seriously the problems created by the gangs of theft for citizens and entrepreneurs in Sweden and act. We Christian Democrats show with our proposals that we are prepared to give the Customs Agency a clear direction and the conditions for an expanded mission. It can now be noted that after several years of disinterest, the Government has a proposal for a referral that will extend the mandate of the Swedish Customs Agency. It's really not a day too soon. But does the proposal have the desired effect? Unfortunately, there will now be signals from various companies, insurance companies and industry associations that there are major gaps in how control will take place if the proposal remains as it stands in the referral. According to the proposal, the Customs Agency is only required to intervene in cases of suspicion of a criminal offence in connection with customs control. However, since most of theft goods are transported out of Sweden, and in most cases this means that it is not a customs matter and no customs control is carried out, the law will probably be a blow in the air and not significantly hinder the operations of the theft leagues in Sweden. This morning, data in the morning news showed that of the approximately 25 000 controls carried out by customs at the border in 2019, only 350 were intended for transport out of the country. Thus, the government's proposal as it stands today will not bring about any major change for theft leagues. The Minister of Finance declared in the same news that there is no question of an extended mission that would lead to increased controls on transport even out of our country. Mr President, I would like to My call is therefore that the government listens to the criticism that has come up and reshape its proposal after the consultation round so that it clarifies and expands the mission so that Customs will become an active party to stop the activities of international theft leagues and the flow of stolen goods that takes place across the border from our country. I support the motion and reservations of the Christian Democrats. In this debate, however, I am only in favour of reservation 5.
i-2cdc13fb2589f3a7-191	Mr President, I would like to The Customs Department is in a time of change. In recent years, efforts have been made to extend both staffing and powers to more or less new needs. Since the establishment of the Social Democratic and Environmental Party government, several millions have been added. Several customs officers have been trained and more changes have been made within the Agency. Both the EU's development of cooperation between customs authorities and its internal work is under way, while the outside world is changing and with the conditions for the agency. Of course, England's withdrawal from the Union has had a major impact on the Finnish Customs. For my part, I am of course a little extra pleased that customs will also establish themselves in Gävle during this year. The appropriations increased from approximately SEK 1.68 billion in 2015 to SEK 2.28 billion this year. This is a significant increase, which I am proud and happy to have been involved in bringing about. Of course, it is not ready yet. We must do more to curb the problems of smuggling and the crime that comes with it. It is interesting to hear here how everyone says they want to increase the funding and give more opportunities to Customs. But if you look back historically, you can see that in 2010 the Customs Agency had a budget of 1.55 billion. The increases that took place during the alliance government were modest. This is something that has taken on later. Surely it is always worth reminding oneself of the fine tactics that the right wing often has in opposition. The efforts made by social democratic governments are being trumped up, and they constantly claim that they want more and are the ones who give a little more. But if we look back at what it has been like when the right wing itself has had the power, we see that such efforts shine with their absence. Then it is efficiency improvements and tax reductions that apply. Now that you don't need the money for tax cuts, you can invest more. But this is not the big question of the day. Today we are deciding on postal barriers, the possibilities for the Customs to stop the flow of mail after suspicion of illegal goods at a company and carry out checks on the goods. This is, of course, an important function. Huge amounts of goods cross the borders every year, and although the majority are legal goods that someone is waiting for back home hiding a lot of shit in the flow. All the time there is a struggle between smugglers and customs officials to find new ways and ways into the country. Customs intelligence work, thank God. It is accurate, and this will give customs greater opportunities to use and expand the network. We actually decide on several parts that give the Customs new opportunities. It is about increasing the number of illegal goods that the Customs has the power to stop for control. From the point of view of drugs in the past, it will also apply in the future to weapons, ammunition and explosives. It is also a question of extending the possibilities for courier companies, which have not previously been included, and of requiring them to report any suspicion of such goods. We also change within the authority and extend the powers to examine the final decision on postal barriers to the head of the Customs Administration's Legal Department. All in all, these are good changes that both increase the ability to control goods and bring more parts of the transport industry into the system. The fact that more companies have increased obligations to help in the fight against arms and drugs can only be said to be good. But it also means, of course, an increased burden and responsibility both for the Customs and for companies. This kind of thing costs other parts of society, and although we are all, of course, prepared to take those costs into account, some account must also be taken of the companies involved. Of course, there are more steps to take – it will probably always be in this business. The world is evolving and changing, so are crime and the transport sector. But in order for it to work as well as possible in the long term, there is reason to hurry a little slowly and keep focus on what is most important. All parties need time to expand their operations, rework routines and adapt to new tasks. Staff must be trained and routines put in place. Excessive and comprehensive changes with new broader assignments or demands for more focus areas are ultimately at risk of reducing the focus on drugs and weapons or disrupting other activities. But when this has settled down and everything is rolling as it should be, there is every reason to look at more changes. We will do this together with the Customs and, if necessary, other authorities. The next step is, among other things, what several people are demanding: an increased responsibility and opportunities to handle the export of stolen goods from the country. Our work in this area must be persistent and purposeful, but never enough to put a stop to those who are going to do the job and risk destroying what is working today. Mr President, I would like to I therefore call for the motion to be approved and for all motions to be rejected.
i-2cdc13fb2589f3a7-209	Mr President, I would like to Now I have listened carefully to Patrik Lundqvist's speech and perhaps expect some kind of self-examination as to why this legislation has not been put in place until now. The government received this assignment already in March 2016. It is a long time to investigate legislation that is not really very complicated. There was room for the issue of drugs, and that should also apply to courier companies cannot be the problem. But I was a bit optimistic, because what characterises this government is usually that the responsibility is someone else's. We can also hear this in Patrik Lundqvist's speech. I can only note that if the M-KD budget in 2018– where the customs authority received an additional 175 million in addition to the government's proposal – the investments might not have been in place today either, who knows? But it's hard to know who else is this time. Is that the opposition? Maybe we're the Moderates? I find it difficult to see that it is the authority in this case, because they have wanted this for a long time, as Patrik Lundqvist very well knows. The trade union has also been clear. Nor has the Law Council made any recollection whatsoever. My question to Patrik Lundqvist is therefore simply: Why has it taken five years for the government to get this so requested legislation in place? Are the government's words about getting rid of drugs, firearms, and gang crime just empty words? Is violence and exclusion in our vulnerable areas something that the government is putting on hold?
i-2cdc13fb2589f3a7-214	Mr President, I would like to The only answer you can answer is, really not. Those are big words from Bouveng, but they echo quite empty. These are not new problems that have come in the last five years. There are several years before that when one could have done something but did not deal with the issues. In fact, we have done it now, and that is what should be the important thing. We've been raising funds throughout the period. Even without the fine millions that the 2018 budget gave, it is more than in the previous five years. We have also looked at a much broader mission than what Mr Bouveng wants to boil down to simply introducing courier companies into the same legislation that has already been in place for drugs. It is a bit exciting that when we do things that go fast, there is a complaint that we have not investigated enough, that we have not taken enough things into account, that we have not investigated consequences and so on. And when things don't go fast enough, you mean that there are simple things that we should have been able to do much faster. There are few things that are so easy to criticize as what has not fallen into your taste. It is said that it should have gone faster or that it should have been a little better. I suppose such criticism will always come, regardless of government. But it doesn't feel like there's much weight in this either.
i-2cdc13fb2589f3a7-219	Mr President, I would like to As I said, five years to introduce fairly straightforward legislation. I don't know if you can do anything but criticize it. Those of you who listen to or will read Patrik Lundqvist's answers to my simple questions may well decide the substance of these. Unfortunately, not all the powers of customs officials are included in this bill, and given the slowness of the government with the introduction of new, requested legislation, I can feel more than concerned. As I mentioned in my speech, the problem of the export of stolen goods is more than great. The proportion of thefts and burglaries committed by foreign theft leagues has escalated. There are big profits and little detection risk – the perfect business idea for the criminal. Despite an extensive export of stolen goods from the country, the Customs staff still lack the authority to prevent or stop and search a vehicle with suspected stolen goods at our border. I know there's an investigation ready and ready on the government table. My question to Patrik Lundqvist is whether this investigation should also lie dusting on the Government Office's desk for five years. Or can the Swedish people, who have seen their houses, their garages and their barns be plundered, feel the hope that once and for all we can put an end to this?
i-2cdc13fb2589f3a7-223	Mr President, I would like to Everything that can be done will be done to ensure that as few thefts as possible take place in this country. I think we can all agree on that. This government has invested considerable resources in the police, the Customs and other law enforcement agencies to take steps towards that goal. Of course, it will not end here and now. The Finnish Customs, the police, the Swedish Prosecution Authority and the courts will have a bigger job in the future and will need to see changes in their operations in many different places. It is partly a question of resources, but of course it is also a question of new legislation, changes in criminal offences and new tools for the police to find those who commit the crimes. This work is infinite and will never end. What we are now doing with postal barriers is part of a much larger whole.
i-2cdc13fb2589f3a7-226	Mr President, I would like to Organised crime involves finding the highest profit at the lowest risk. What a person makes money on is less important. It could be arms trafficking, drug trafficking or animal trafficking. If there is a low risk of a good deal in smuggling these goods across Sweden's borders, it will happen. When weapons and drugs are smuggled in, we have a more precarious society, with more shootings and deadly violence and more abuse. Live animals smuggled across borders — such as contraband dogs, which have been observed during the Corona — cause enormous suffering to the animals. Parts of endangered animals smuggled in the form of jewellery, ornaments or souvenirs do not only cause animal suffering but also the extinction of species. Customs therefore has a very important role to play in preventing these illegal markets. Mr President, I would like to Combating smuggling and thereby curbing organised crime is an important task for customs, but not only by stopping smugglers but also by stopping goods sent by mail. In order to facilitate this work, the Swedish Customs Agency is now given increased opportunities to retain mail that comes across the border into Sweden if it can be assumed to contain weapons, ammunition or explosives. This is therefore a simplification and improvement compared to the past, when only drugs were involved. Mr President, I would like to I have said this before, but I would like to take every opportunity, and I would therefore like to take this opportunity to emphasise that we should combat organised crime as a whole, and it is therefore important that we should also include both live animals and parts of animals in the priority work of customs. There are improvements to be made in this regard. Mr President, I would like to I'm in favour of the bill.
i-2cdc13fb2589f3a7-231	Mr President, I would like to Crime prevention is to begin at our national borders, and the Customs Agency is one of the most important law enforcement agencies to shoulder this very important job. Today, we are taking further steps in the fight against organised crime and providing customs with more tools. These include extending the powers of customs to decide on the detention of postal consignments suspected of containing weapons, ammunition or explosives. It is also a matter of tightening up the requirements for forwarding companies and courier companies and extending the right to give final judgment on a postal block to the head of the Customs Administration's Legal Department. These measures are necessary to close the loopholes in our laws, which criminals often find. Without more measures and increased powers, we will fail to curb crime and stop the influx of illegal weapons, hand grenades, drugs and other things that we do not want in Sweden, but also fail to prevent stolen goods from being transported out of the country. It is therefore important that there is good cooperation between customs and other law enforcement authorities. Customs and the police are good examples of when close cooperation is required – as is happening today. But that work needs to be intensified, and I am proud of the Liberals' success in getting more resources through the budget negotiations with the government and the Center Party. Madam President, I would like We have not done enough in the fight against organised crime. This is a reality that we regret to see in this House. Everyday crimes are a widespread problem. Insecure exists in much of our society. The age of gang criminals has declined radically in recent years, and gang killings are now everyday in our society. We must stop this by tightening the noose about the criminals. It is crucial that customs is able to stop the introduction of weapons and other dangerous and explosive substances. Otherwise, more victims will be reaped and more lives will be extinguished. We cannot accept this in a rule of law such as Sweden. Madam President, I would like However, there are also small sparkles of light that are worth mentioning. During the first half of 2020, Customs seized 79 firearms in Sweden – and this was done under the coronapndemine. It can be compared to 2019, when only 58 weapons were seized in a whole year. This successful work was the result of cooperation between customs and the police. That is why cooperation between authorities and greater powers for customs, which is the subject of today's report, is essential if we are to be successful in the fight against organised crime. But I would also like to emphasise that the prevention of crime is just as much about stopping the ravages of international theft gangs in Sweden, which are both causing major social costs, undermining security and weakening trust in each other as in the state's ability to combat crime. Madam President, I would like A great deal has been done and much remains to be done. Introduce Customs with requests for more funds or more tools in their toolbox, we will be responsive. Stopping organised crime is one of the biggest societal challenges we have to deal with. It is a prerequisite for making Sweden a safe country to live in. With this, I would like to support the committee's proposal in today's report.
i-22MnHaEHf3vcaAbUsAY1Et	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin, on behalf of the Social Democrats, by calling for approval of the Government's proposal for a clearer link between conditional release and participation in relapse prevention. I also support our reservation 2 on the committee's announcement in the report and the rejection of all motions for resolutions. Criminality and crimes against a person cause great personal suffering, a risk of deterioration in quality of life and high costs to society. No matter who we are or where we live, we all have the right to feel safe in the public space and within the walls of the home. For those affected by violence and crime, society should be there to support and facilitate. The role of civil society in this context is also of great importance. Society's signal should also be clear to those who commit crimes or risk falling into crime: Measures and sanctions should be taken, but support and treatment should also be provided to avoid recurrence of new crimes involving new victims. As legislators, the Riksdag and the Government have a special responsibility over time to comply with and amend legislation based on how society develops. The government has therefore taken a wide range of measures during this and the previous parliamentary term. It is a question of new criminalisations, penalties and extensions of the punishable area of crime. This has resulted in over 200 bills from the Ministry of Justice. It is also a question of substantially increased resources for the judicial system and crime prevention, as well as for the victim support services. In addition, the government has developed a national crime prevention programme, Together against crime, which is the first in 20 years. The government has also established crime prevention services on the county administrative boards of the country. These, Madam President, are concrete examples of the Government's ambition and priorities in the work to increase the security and security of individuals and of society. As recently as 1 July last year, new legislation aimed at strengthening the control and support capacity of the Prison Service for those who are released conditionally from a prison sentence was introduced. This means, among other things, that the probation period after parole is extended and that the Prison Service should more actively use regulations and instructions in the work to facilitate the release's adaptation in society. The bill that we in Parliament now have to decide on aims to establish an even clearer link between the time of parole and participation in relapse prevention measures. The proposal means that if an inmate refuses to participate in or mishandles the relapse prevention measures or shows other mismanagement, the conditional release may be postponed to a greater extent. In addition, when an overall assessment is made as to whether conditional release should be postponed, specific reasons should suffice instead of exceptional reasons, as it is today. Madam President, I would like It is also important to bear in mind that each inmate has an individual enforcement plan designed by the Prison Service. Based on the individual's own circumstances and needs, time in prison should include appropriate measures and employment that reduce the risk of recidivism and facilitate the inmate's opportunities in life after serving a sentence. If the parole is to be suspended, there must be a legally secure and enforceable process for the inmate in which he or she understands that the refusal to take part in action or neglect may have consequences. Since relapse prevention measures are based on the needs and conditions of the inmates, some different requirements will be imposed on the inmates. Therefore, in order to meet the requirements for legal certainty, for appointment and for equal treatment, the individual execution plan must be the starting point, together with the guidelines of the Correctional Service, when a comprehensive assessment is made of any suspended conditional release. As far as our reservation is concerned, we believe that the legislative amendment now proposed well meets the need to create a stronger incentive for an intake to comply with and contribute to the implementation of the agreed enforcement plan. Furthermore, it is important to see the conditional release as an important part of controlling the transition from time in prison to a life of freedom and in reducing the risk of relapse. There is also no support for reducing or missing parole and additional time in prison leading to better conditions for living a law-abiding life after release. Instead, it is about the measures that can be taken in the meantime at the prison and after parole. There is therefore, in our opinion, no further need for stricter rules. Madam President, I would like Good growing-up conditions, opportunities for quality education, access to work and prioritising increased equality, reduced class gaps and injustices are the basis for security and security in society. But there and when people are victims of crime, victims of crime should be able to get and feel redress as far as possible and that society is on their side. For those who commit crimes, the signals and consequences should be clear from society regarding the individual's own responsibility to take the consequences for their actions and the responsibility to participate in measures and employment that promote the conditions for non-return to crime.
i-2cdc13fb2589f3a7-256	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the report on a clearer link between conditional release and participation in relapse prevention. I will begin by saying that we Moderates have many reservations, but I only call for reservation No 4. It is good that the government has come up with proposals for stricter requirements for parole. Finally, I say. We Moderates have been working for many years to tighten up the possibilities for parole. Today, those serving a fixed-term prison sentence are usually released on parole after two thirds of the sentence period. It is possible to postpone this, but it is rarely used. In many cases, it may be a case of several years being deducted from the penalty. We think Moderates are wrong. We believe that the person who has been sentenced to prison should be given a greater share of the sentence. As early as 2015, the Swedish Parliament adopted an announcement on tightening up conditional release. Since then, the Riksdag has decided on several different announcements regarding this. So it took five years for the government to come up with proposals. The proposal will allow the conditional release to be postponed in more cases than today for those who do not participate in or mishandle relapse prevention measures in prison. This also applies to other measures that can help the sentenced person to reintegrate into society and stay on the right side of the law after the release. Other mismanagement should also lead to suspended parole. It is important to use prison time for measures that can reduce the risk of relapse into crime. The Crime Prevention Council supports participation in relapse prevention measures to reduce the risk of relapse. More than half of those who have implemented treatment programmes feel that this has reduced their risk of relapse into crime. There are various treatment programmes within the Prison Service, such as programmes for violent crime and sexual crime. It is the Prison Service that decides which measures suit the sentenced person. In 2019, more than 6,200 clients completed their prison term. Of these, only 19 percent completed a treatment program — 19 percent! It's way too low. Incentives must be strongly strengthened to encourage more people not only to participate in but also to pursue the programme. Madam President, I would like The Government proposal does not propose to postpone the conditional release if the inmate refuses to take part in medical treatment. The government's motivation is that care should be voluntary. In its opinion, the National Board of Health and Welfare considers that there is reason to analyse this further. For example, these may be treatment against abuse and sexual offences. A few years ago, I and some other Moderates were on field trips to a prison. There were serious sex offenders. We met a paedophile who had been sentenced to 12 years in prison. For many years he had committed gross rapes against a young child. As I said, he was sentenced to 12 years in prison and thus was reduced by a full four years because of today's parole rules. Pedophilia is one of the worst crimes I can imagine. Destroying the lives of small children by committing sexual crimes against them is terrible and terrible, and we must do everything we can to combat this. At Karolinska University there have been studies of the medical treatment of pedophiles. The result has been positive. It has been shown that those who received the medicine have felt that the attraction to children for sexual purposes had decreased. If you refuse medical treatment, you don't take responsibility for your crime. Then you should not automatically be released on parole. In view of this, we Moderates believe that there is reason to investigate the possibility of postponing the conditional release when the sentenced person refuses to undergo medical treatment. It is simply a matter of protecting children from being raped. Madam President, I would like The government's proposals are in the right direction but not good enough. It is therefore proposed that a further tightening be announced to remove the presumption of conditional release and to replace it with a system that takes greater account of the behaviour of the inmate during the prison period. The announcement also means that it should be considered that parole should take place at the earliest after three quarters of the sentence and never for the victim of a crime. Conditional release should not be an unconditional right, but an opportunity for those who are taking care of themselves in prison and participate in the work to reduce the risk of relapse. It's important for the inmate, but at least equally important for all decent people outside the prison walls. Let us now hope that it will not, once again, take five years for the government to comply with the announcement. The government usually says they're doing everything they can to fight crime. Then it is a little up to proof not to take five six years to come up with proposals based on Parliament's announcements.
i-2cdc13fb2589f3a7-275	Madam President, I would like We are debating a report on a clearer link between relapse prevention and conditional release. It is no news for this congregation that among the parties there is quite a difference in view of who is to be paroled and not. The Swedish democrats advocate a completely different system from what exists today, namely that they should clearly make themselves worthy of a conditional release in order for it to be discussed at all. Today, you can automatically expect to be released on parole after two thirds of the sentence imposed. From the left there are calls for more sentences in freedom, while the Swedish Democrats see that punishment in prison is a crime prevention instrument to keep dangerous individuals away from society and protect individuals. Time in prison is also a reasonable consequence from the victim's perspective, namely that those who have been subjected to serious crimes know that the person who has subjected them is in an institution. It is a great comfort for those who have been victims of crime to know that the person is in prison. That is why it is offensive that so many today are released on parole after two thirds of the time. We have been able to see in the near future, only in the last few weeks, how innocent women have been murdered and raped. Young individuals have been robbed of humiliation. Gang settlements take place while convicted criminals have been suspended from prison. When so many serious crimes occur with people who have been released on parole, one must be able to say that something is wrong in society. For the Swedish Democrats, of course, there is something wrong when convicted individuals can come out into society and rape, murder and continue to commit serious crime that affects innocent people. Then we politicians must do something about the situation. Is not our primary mission in this debate, in our committee, as Members of Parliament to do just that – to protect society from dangerous individuals? Unfortunately, not all parties share this sentence, but it is the Swedish Democrats who have the clearest perspective on the fact that incapacitation is a crime prevention measure. We want the system to be completely redesigned so that no one can count on parole. One must clearly deserve to be paroled prematurely. We also believe that it is reasonable for us to review parole after two thirds of the sentence period and to support the transition to three-quarters of the sentence period instead. However, we think that we should be able to go much further than we are doing today. I would also like to highlight another reservation supported by the Swedish Democrats, which we have been talking about for a very long time, and that is precisely a risk assessment before parole. It is the Swedish Democrats, the Moderates and the Christian Democrats who together stand behind such an idea, which exists in the field of forensic psychiatry today. If you are enrolled there with a special discharge test, you will not be free. That is, if you are dangerous and risk committing new crimes you will not get out. However, for those in prison who are convicted of a serious crime, there is no such assessment of danger. If a rapist, a murderer or a gang criminal clearly indicates a strong desire for revenge against a competitor or, for example, an ex who has broken up or left, he is still on parole. The prison service may know that there is a great risk that the person will seek out his or her ex or be part of a new gang-critical conflict, but the person will still be released on parole. Is it not reasonable, Madam President, that we have a risk assessment that precedes a conditional release decision? I find it strange that the Red-Green Government has reserved itself on this issue and believes that no further measures need be taken to ensure that dangerous individuals do not commit new crimes in society during the time they become prematurely freed from a prison sentence. It is very remarkable that we have a red-green government that is reasoning in this way, especially in the light of the fact that we see so many criminals committing new crimes on parole. It's offensive! The Swedish Democrats find it unreasonable that we have a system in which we cannot have a risk assessment before a conditional release. I therefore call for the approval of Amendment No 6 on the assessment of danger. For the sake of time, I only ask for this reservation to be accepted, but otherwise we support the committee's proposal in the report and, of course, our other reservations.
i-2cdc13fb2589f3a7-287	Madam President, I would like Correctional services have 13 accredited treatment programmes, all based on kbt, except the twelve-step programme. Participation in a programme accounts for about 5% of the time spent in institutions for both women and men. Treatment programmes are also carried out within the field of care. In order to attend a treatment program, it is important that the sentenced person wants to change his own way of life. In order to offer the right treatment, the Prison Service prioritises those clients who have a medium to high risk of relapse. In 2019, 19 per cent of those in prisons and 13 per cent of those in prisons completed treatment programmes. Treatment programs reduce the risk of relapse into crime, and that is extremely good. The foundation that ensures that Sweden has control of criminals at the critical time when the client is leaving an institution is the conditional release. Without it, it is bye bye-bye at the wall, and then the Prison Service has no way of controlling, following up, doing sobriety and drug-free testing or using any of the many other tools that exist today. It is a question of deportation to society and of the part of the prison sentence that takes place in freedom, with supervision from the care of the free. If the sentenced person commits a crime or misbehaves, he goes back to prison, and does not behave during prison, the parole can be postponed. It's not weird. I want you to keep an eye on people who have just been released from prison. The fact that, for example, the Moderates totally ignore that view surprises me greatly when they shout that the parole will be removed. The fact that the Moderates don't have any problems either with the state forcibly meditating individuals makes me afraid. This is the way of the Holocaust Remembrance Day, it is good to look back and see what mistakes and mistakes have historically been made by the state towards individuals and groups. Obsessive medication is one of many ugly events that must not be repeated. Madam President, I would like We know today that the lock-in to society is not working well. Too many people relapse into crime. We also know that the conditional release plays a major and important role in ensuring that all citizens and victims of crime are confident that the state is keeping track of convicted persons who have been released. But time and again the government is trying to reduce this control, which can create more victims. It is important that clients in institutions want to participate in treatment programs – crucial, I would say. But then you actually have to be prepared to, and want to, change your life. Because that's how kbt treatment works: Force doesn't work to change a person's mindset. The government is opposed to research and experience when it wishes to link participation in treatment programmes more clearly to the time when parole can take place. This is a bad proposal and it violates the principles of equal treatment, proportionality and predictability. The Left Party thinks so, but also Brå, JO, the Bar Association and other heavy consultation bodies are very critical of the proposal. It may sound good and effective, but it lands completely wrong. For example, there are no treatment programmes in languages other than Swedish, and not all treatment programmes are available in all institutions. Will it affect the time when a person can be released? I want victims. I want victims to feel safe. That is why we must have a conditional release that is long, intervention and control. This proposal undermines all of this, and that is quite the wrong way to go. I ask you to accept reservation 1.
i-2cdc13fb2589f3a7-295	Madam President, I would like I had to ask for a reply, because Linda Snecker comes – as quite a lot of other times – with false claims about what the Moderates really want. She claimed that the Moderates want to forcibly take people. We never said we wanted to. We have just said that, since there is evidence from Karolinska that the sexual attraction of paedophiles to children is reduced if they take a special medicine, it should be investigated whether this could affect conditional release. So it is not the case that they should be co-medicated, but that they should have their own choice:. Should I take this medicine which means that I may not rape a child? If they do, it is good, because then they have actually realized their problem and take responsibility for it. But we think it should be investigated whether the person who does not want to take the medicine has the right to obtain parole. That's two completely different things. However, it is not uncommon for Linda Snecker to claim a lot of different things about the Moderates. So we do not want to force medication, but we say that it will be investigated whether it can affect the conditional release if someone refuses to take medicines that help against paedophilia, as there is evidence.
i-2cdc13fb2589f3a7-298	Madam President, I would like It is not uncommon for Ellen Juntti to take an incredibly generalizing approach in her debates and then smooth it out over the great principles of the rule of law. It's not unusual, but we've seen it before, right, Ellen Juntti? It's a good thing the Moderates don't want to force-medicate individuals. I'm glad the Moderates have a little bit of legal pathos left. No one will be happier than me! But it surprises me that the Moderates are dwindling so much with those who are recently on parole. There is no problem with the state releasing criminals – which hopefully, but perhaps not, has gone a treatment program – outside the walls with an Icakasse in hand and says: We have no control over you. ..................................................... The Moderates want to completely release control of convicted persons leaving the prisons, Ellen Juntti. You do not want more electronic surveillance, as the Left Party wants. You don't want any more control over parole, as the Left Party wants. You do not want the treatment to continue in parole, as the Left Party wants. The Left Party wants rock-hard control of newly released individuals within a conditional release. We must have a long and good parole, because that is the only way in which the state can control these people and ensure that they behave, that there are no more victims and that relapses in crime are reduced. With the policy of the Moderates, every control mechanism of the parole system disappears, and that makes me very worried. Why do the Moderates fail all the victims of Sweden?
i-2cdc13fb2589f3a7-302	Madam President, I would like Yeah, what do you say? Linda Westerlund Snecker exaggerates as usual. I suggest that next time Linda Snecker reads through our motion before she claims something similar to what she claimed when it comes to obsessive medication. Before attacking another party, it is quite good if you actually read through and try to understand what is in the party's politics. It wasn't very hard to understand, but Linda Snecker is very used to attacking other parties and claiming that they want to do both. It is also a question of the victim perspective, if we are to betray the victims. In fact, the opposite is true, because those who do not want to go through treatment programmes in prison should not be released on parole as easily as possible. This really has to do with the victim's perspective. We want more people to go through these programs so they don't commit crimes when they get out. Then I think it's rather funny that Linda Westerlund Snecker brings up this thing with a ankle bracelet. A few years ago, we would decide to use anklets on more people, for example in cases of violence in close relationships. Linda Westerlund Snecker then reserved against it because it restricted the person's freedom too much. At that time it was not the freedom of the victim she was thinking about, but the freedom of the perpetrator. Yeah, it's pretty strong to start saying a lot of that stuff.
i-2cdc13fb2589f3a7-307	Madam President, I would like I think a little bit about the concept of throwing stones in glass houses when Ellen Juntti accuses me of not being so familiar with Moderate politics. A benevolent tip, Ellen Juntti : You are also not so familiar with the Left Party's legal policy. We have been advocating for years more electronic supervision of individuals, during prison sentences but also during parole. That's a good suggestion. I think the Left Party and the Moderates might feel the same way there now. In that case, we could put forward such a proposal to ensure that at least that part does not create more crimes and victims in Sweden. But, Madam President, I do not get an answer from Ellen Juntti to why the Moderates are so terribly dwindling with people who have been in a rather long prison sentence and are about to be released, to why Ellen Juntti and the Moderates want to leave these individuals at the wall and say that the state can no longer do anything for you. We won't control you. You can do just about anything, why the Moderates have no suggestions on how to lock these individuals back into society. As far as the lock-in is concerned in order not to relapse into crime – that you are controlled by the care provider and have electronic monitoring and checks and tests, and if you do not do so, you will go back in – you have moderates no answer, because you are not interested in the content. You as a party are not interested in ensuring that there are no more victims by ensuring that the inclusion in society of people in prison actually works. You're just interested in talking about how long you're going to be in prison. You are completely uninterested in the contents of the institution and what happens after the institution.
i-2cdc13fb2589f3a7-311	Madam President, I would like I, too, feel obliged to indicate against the statement made by the Left Party in the speaker's chair that people in our country should be forcibly prescribed and that parallels should be drawn to the Holocaust and to what happened during World War II. I think it is unworthy of being so ill-read in the face of a debate that one can lift something like that and indirectly accuse three parliamentary parties of wanting to do something that has caused a great deal of suffering in our country. As previous speakers have pointed out, this is about medical treatment for individuals who have paedophile traits and have been shown to be able to abuse children. I think there is a rather distinct difference that can be emphasised in the speaker's chair by more parties. I also have a question for Linda Westerlund Snecker regarding the very assessment of the dangers of those in prison. If I understand it correctly, the Left Party and Linda Westerlund Snecker are completely satisfied that a person who has undergone a treatment program and not misbehaved in the prison should come out on parole even if the person has, for example, a strong desire for revenge against an ex-girlfriend and the criminal services judge that there is a high risk of the person attacking and perhaps murdering his ex-girlfriend. We've seen this happen in real life. The warning signals have been in the prison service, and people have been paroled and murdered, for example, their ex-girlfriend. I would just like to ask the Left Party where the problem lies in making a hazard assessment of individuals in prison and allowing the risk assessment to jeopardise a conditional release. It is obvious to the Swedish Democrats that dangerous individuals should not be released. Capacities have a valuable effect – you cannot commit new crimes as long as you are in prison.
i-2cdc13fb2589f3a7-315	Madam President, I would like I understand that it's hard for me to remind Adam Marttinen of things that have happened in history, things that the state has gone in and done to individuals or groups, things that we should learn from to know how we shouldn't draft legislation and how we should oppose forces that are more authoritarian and want to control individuals incredibly much more – who might even want to make special legislation depending on whether you have citizenship or a certain nationality in a country or if you don't. I know it's hard. I will not stop reminding you of abuses that states have committed against individuals even if it is difficult. That's it. That's because I'm a left-winger. Well, back to Adam Marttinen's question. It is extremely important for the Correctional Service to make assessments of danger. We're not going to let individuals into freedom that's obviously dangerous. There I trust the competence of the Prison Service and that we in this House will ensure that the Prison Service gets the necessary resources. The situation in Sweden's institutions is extremely tough at the moment, as they are overcrowded. We know that clients in prison are not able to participate in treatment programmes because the resources are simply not enough. Swedish correctional services are in a critical situation right now, and I am very worried about it. That is why we must ensure that the Prison Service has the opportunity to make assessments of danger. I will not be involved in making sure that some man – because there are very many men, dangerous men, who sit in Sweden's institutions – comes out and commits abuse, especially against women.
i-2cdc13fb2589f3a7-319	Madam President, I would like I do not find it at all difficult to be reminded of the horrors of other regimes in other countries. I just think it is misplaced to bring it up in this debate and also attribute to three parliamentary parties what happened during the Second World War with extermination camps because they want the medication of those who committed serious crimes with paedophile traits to be a condition for parole. I think it is quite gross violation in the debate to come up with such insinuations when, moreover, one has obviously not read what the motion is about. That is my point of view on the whole. I am happy to have many discussions about what has happened in history, but such insinuations do not fit into this debate. I don't think I got a good enough answer. At least I am not satisfied with the answer – or, for that matter, with the Red-Green Government releasing dangerous individuals on parole so that they can commit new crimes. Even when there is a clear indication from the Correctional Service that a person has the will and ability to commit a serious crime, it will be released, regardless of whether we club through the government's proposals here today and regardless of the government's policies for those in prison. I find that unsatisfactory. I think that Swedish voters should take this message with them from the government and parties to the left. More punishment in freedom means that dangerous individuals will be released, for you think it is worth the risk. It is considered worth the risk that these individuals commit new crimes, for that may not be the case. You choose to take that risk. I find it sad that you do not even want to make a risk assessment before releasing people on parole, so that you do not want to make a risk assessment before the sentence has expired in order to be able to make the conditional release conditional. A great many victims have suffered as a result of this attitude, and the Swedish Democrats are opposed to the government's position on this particular issue.
i-2cdc13fb2589f3a7-324	Madam President, I would like I am very concerned about the policy of Adam Marttinen and the Swedish Democrats in terms of parole. The Swedish Democrats have no problem saying good-bye at the wall to people who have done long sentences and committed terrible crimes. When the sentence is over, you say, "Bye-bye! It was nice to see you. I'd rather not come back. There is the person with an Icakasse, and the state and the care of the outpatients are unable to control that person. That is what happens if the parole is removed, and you do. The Swedish Democrats want to remove the conditional release, which means that parole cannot control perhaps dangerous individuals with electronic surveillance, with controls and with alcohol and sobriety tests. The Swedish Democrats do not care about this! The policy of the Swedish democrats will create more victims. You ignore the parole and do not care about the inclusion into society of these individuals, so that they have the opportunity to stop committing crimes. All of this, Adam Marttinen and the Swedish Democrats, creates more victims. That's what your policy does. You think that if we just lock these individuals in, then - poof! - the criminal behavior will disappear. And they can be released without any control. But you're wrong. The policy of the Swedish Democrats creates more criminals and more victims of crime, because you are not prepared to control the people released from the prison. Here you have nothing to contribute to Swedish politics, and that surprises me. I am concerned, as a legal spokesperson, that you are so grounded in your legal policy that you have not come any further and that you are not standing up for all the victims in Sweden.
i-2cdc13fb2589f3a7-329	Madam President, I would like This debate concerns the Government's proposal to provide a clearer link between participation in relapse prevention and parole. The parole period should be able to be postponed to a greater extent than is currently the case for those who, in the meantime, are misbehaved or do not participate in relapse prevention measures. Although the Government's proposal is a step in the right direction, it is not, in my view, a sufficient step to motivate an inmates to behave during their time in prison or to actively participate in rehabilitation programmes to break the destructive path in life that has led to the sentence they serve. According to the Prison Service's statistics, a total of 357 decisions were taken to postpone parole in 2019, which was approximately the same number as in 2018 and 2017. The average length of the postponement ranged from 27 to 33 days. At the same time, more than 27,000 cases of mismanagement were decided in 2019, and 5,700 individual clients received a decision on mismanagement, according to the Finnish Prison Service's statistics for 2019. Thus, the link between mismanagement and postponement is not very marked, which demonstrates the need for requirements to be tightened. The maximum period for postponing parole is six months. It is to be welcomed that this is being extended and that parole is being completely abolished in particularly serious cases. Some of the most common cases of mismanagement are possession of unauthorised items and refusal to give a drug test. Although there are grounds for not delivering in the bill an exhaustive list of everything that may lead to deferred parole, this is something that should be mentioned as it does not necessarily fall under relapse prevention or serious neglect, which the new law considers to be grounds for deferred release. However, in our view, the proposal does not address the main problem of conditional release, namely that today it is in practice a general rule and something that happens almost automatically. The parole is governed by the Criminal Code, which states that a sentenced person must be released on parole after two thirds of the sentence period, but at least 30 days. This means that criminals are regularly released prematurely compared to the punishment to which they have been sentenced, rather than being an exception. We believe that this needs to change. Anyone sentenced to prison should be able to be released on parole, but this should not be done on a regular basis. The rule should be changed from the conditional release of a convicted person to the conditional release of a convicted person. This does not mean that we believe that there is no point in parole. On the contrary, it is an excellent incentive for a prison sentence to improve through, for example, education, work and drug treatment. But that automatic parole should be the norm rhymes badly with general legal awareness. Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats believe that people who do not behave in prison should not be able to be released on parole either. If you do not behave, the release must be made only after the entire sentence has expired. This creates incentives to comply with existing rules, to participate in treatment programmes and to take the drug tests requested. Today there is the possibility of postponing part of the parole. However, the example I related at the beginning shows that in reality this is very sparing. Therefore, changes should be considered with regard to the possibility of conditionally granted freedom. It is not reasonable for those who have relapsed into similar crime and are again sentenced to prison automatically to be released on parole. Relapse offenders should serve a time in prison that fully corresponds to the penalty value of the new offence or offences for which they have been convicted. We believe that the conditional release after two thirds of the sentence period should be abolished and replaced by rules allowing conditional release only after three quarters of the sentence period. As mentioned earlier in the debate, we believe that conditional release should be preceded by a risk assessment. The so-called Hagaman, who was convicted of a series of assault rapes and attempted murder, was still considered dangerous when released through parole. Madam President, I would like It is gratifying that a majority in the Committee on Justice is now calling on the government to remove the so-called presumption of conditional release and to take greater account of how the inmate has behaved during his prison sentence. Together with a majority in the committee, we believe that the current regime, with a presumption of conditional release after two thirds of the sentence period, undermines the principle that the sentence should be proportionate to the seriousness of the crime. On the contrary, conditional release should serve as an opportunity and be reserved to prisoners who have performed well during enforcement. The assessment of the inmate's care should pay particular attention to the motivation of the inmate and the extent to which he or she has participated in treatment programmes and other crime prevention measures proposed by the Correctional Service. Other restrictions that should be considered, as mentioned in the announcement, are that parole should be eligible at the earliest after three quarters of the sentence period and never for those who have relapsed into crime. Madam President, I would like As I mentioned earlier, we want parole to be preceded by a risk assessment. I therefore support the reservation number 6 of the Christian Democrats, the Swedish Democrats and the Moderates. I also support the committee's announcement, but I therefore only ask for the approval of reservation 6.
i-2cdc13fb2589f3a7-341	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation number 2. Reducing the recurrence rate is one of the most important issues in the area of justice in reducing the number of offences and victims. Every relapse that is prevented saves money, resources and, not least, human suffering. Therefore, we need to turn over all the stones to reduce relapses. Last week we had a press conference where we presented the direction for a future investigation to be set up regarding LSU, the law on closed youth care. The study will address, inter alia, the issue of a conditional part for young people convicted under LSU. It is extremely important to put this in place. Today we have a regime in which young people who have been convicted of very serious crimes are in principle released wind by wave. At best, there is feedback with social services, but there is no control from outpatient care or from any other authority. We must change this. Such a system must be in place in order for a convicted person to have better opportunities to acquire an honest, normal life. This principle is just as important for older people in prison as for young people in closed youth care. It is important to increase the link between conditional release and care. The draft legislative amendment that we are debating today changes this for the better, and that is very positive. It increases incentives to behave, and care is taken more clearly into account than has been the case so far. That's a good thing. Participation in relapse prevention reduces the number of relapses. This is also supported by the Crime Prevention Council. Madam President, I would like Another aspect of the reform is its impact on the Prison Service. At all times when we have tightened the penalties for different crimes or broadened the definition of what is to be considered a crime, it has consequences for how many people are in prison and how long they are in prison. We have taken far too little account of those consequences. It applies to this government as well as to previous governments. It is a historic debt that has been built up for a long time that we must take much more account of in the future than we have done so far. The prison service is under pressure today. They have been in staff positions for several months and have an overcrowding, which means that the opportunity for inmates to get better out and get better opportunities is worse than it would otherwise have been. It also reduces the security of both the inmates and the staff of the institutions. It is important that we follow this closely and allocate the funds that the Prison Service needs in the future. It should also be remembered that this is not something you solve in a quick turn. Building a whole new prison with a high-security class takes many years. But we need to follow this over time, because it is an incredibly important issue. Finally, it should be remembered that there are very good reasons why the conditional release system exists. These are systems that exist in many countries: in our Nordic neighbours, in Germany and in the United States, for example. The aim is for the inmates to re-integrate into society. There's no benefit in that it's flawed. The conditional part is an important time in which the person serving a sentence can try to get a job and an apartment and leave the criminal path behind. This is crucial for reducing the number and number of victims of crime and providing more security in society.
i-2cdc13fb2589f3a7-351	Madam President, I would like The government's proposal is a case in the future. It is therefore a good thing that there are proposals to tighten up conditional release. But it's taken over five years. It's a little too long, actually. I would like to talk about our announcement, specifically the point of considering that parole can never be obtained from the person who has relapsed into crime. As I mentioned in my speech, about half of those who have undergone these treatment programmes believe that it has reduced the risk of their relapse into crime. Then the question is what to do with the other half, that is, those who are going through the treatment programmes but are still relapsing. Take, for example, a robber who gets convicted, undergoes treatment programs, comes out, commits a new robbery, gets jailed again, undergoes treatment programs, gets released, and commits a new crime again, and then it keeps on going. We think that is wrong, not least in view of all the robbery victims. Everyone has heard of the robberies that are increasing and also have humiliations. Then my question to Rasmus Ling is: Does he think it is right that a robber or a person who has committed serious violent crimes should be released on parole time and again? The person has undergone the treatment programs, but they have simply not helped. Does Rasmus Ling think it's right?
i-2cdc13fb2589f3a7-356	Madam President, I would like To answer the question of whether parole is right, one must first ask what it is. This is, of course, the opportunity that the authorities have to follow someone after that person has served his sentence in an institution. If it is a good order for the authorities to keep an eye on people who may be dangerous after they come out of prison, the answer is obviously yes. My counter-question is, doesn't Ellen Juntti think you should have control of people who come out and who can be dangerous and commit the same crimes once more?
i-2cdc13fb2589f3a7-358	Madam President, I would like Then Rasmus Ling can look at the reservations we have on the matter. There is a risk assessment for parole. So we think we should be able to do that. If, as in Adam Marttinen's example, this applies to a rapist who is considered dangerous and believes will commit new sexual crimes if he is released, we think he should not be given parole. The announcement also includes the removal of this with the automatic release of persons on parole. It is not a right, but one should take into account how the person has behaved during the prison period. We want to introduce a new system in which an assessment is to be made of the behaviour of the inmate throughout the prison period. The wrongdoer will not be released on parole, but the one who has behaved may be. Then I wonder a little bit about the announcement: will this also be put on hold by the government and the Green Party? Will it again take five or six years before the government makes the announcement?
i-2cdc13fb2589f3a7-361	Madam President, I would like Ellen Juntti is asking if there's going to be a hazard assessment. Of course, there should be a danger assessment of people who are in prison. Of course it should be followed up. When it comes to sex crimes, it's extremely careful. More support and resources are needed from different authorities to protect the women who have been vulnerable and are at risk of being exposed in the future. However, this is about the conditional part. The question then is: should parole mean that there is a follow-up and a check? My answer to that is: yes, it must be done. It would be very stupid and dangerous for vulnerable women and others if one did not have such a follow-up part. So we should have such a system. The fact that we are now moving forward with the promotion of increased levels of care and participation is positive, and we seem to agree on this. But the fact that we are going to have this system is obvious to us. Finally, Ellen Juntti asks how long it will take. It is better to hear from the Government Office what the processes look like. After all, we are a committee in which we are very happy to make announcements without always considering that legislation must be prepared and investigated. Making changes of this kind sometimes takes time. We must have that order if the legislation is to work in reality.
i-2cdc13fb2589f3a7-365	Madam President, I would like I just Googled the phone and read about a case where a man was imprisoned after he tried to kill his wife. Then he was paroled and executed the murder of his wife. This is one of the many examples of problems. But the government is satisfied with how it works. We can take paedophiles as another example – we have a reservation about medical treatment. Convicted paedophiles who undergo treatment and perhaps behave in an institution may still have a high risk of relapse. The government and the Green Party want such people to come out into society prematurely. The parole is inviolable for the red-green parties, on the basis of the conditions I have just described. I wonder: where is the resistance to allowing a hazard assessment to jeopardise a conditional release? An example is a man who is in prison for trying to murder his wife and who feels a strong desire for revenge against his wife. Is it not reasonable, then, to make a hazard assessment? Is that person at risk of relapsing into crime? If so, is it not reasonable to keep the person in prison so that he cannot enter society and kill his wife? It is a very concrete example of what the Swedish Democrats think is wrong with the government's policy, namely that they do not take into account society and the individuals who live in society and who are at risk of being exposed to dangerous individuals when making their proposals. Is it unreasonable to allow a hazard assessment to precede a conditional release decision and jeopardise a conditional release? I would like to hear the Green Party and, for that matter, the government reason a little wider about its opposition to that proposal.
i-2cdc13fb2589f3a7-370	Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats and Adam Marttinen confuse how long the penalties should be with the question of whether to have a system of parole or not. The length of the penalty is one thing. In principle, the Swedish democrats always want to tighten the penalties, regardless of the crime involved. If there are exceptions so please correct me, but it usually is the entrance. This question is about whether or not to have a system of parole, with all that it means in terms of control, or not. Should we have a system in which the authorities follow up, or should we have one where the convicted person is released into the street without any control from the parole and from the correctional services? I think the answer is quite simple. To reduce the number of relapses, no matter how long you have spent in prison, it is necessary to have such a system. The fact that the Swedish Democrats are opposed to this is, I think, very strange.
i-2cdc13fb2589f3a7-372	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the clarification. There are clear differences in the view of parole. We do not think that those who want to murder people should be released from prison while the Green Party and the government think it is reasonable to take that risk because they may not. There is a clear difference between the Swedish Democrats and the Green Party and the Red Green Government. We believe that conditional release must be justified and clearly beneficial, not only for the individual who is in prison but also for society as a whole. If there is a high relapse risk for a person – a risk of that person attacking his ex-wife or raping children in society – we think it's a bad idea that that person is released into society. We think that's bad. Yes, we definitely want to tighten the penalties, basically most of them. It is like low-hanging fruit when the starting point is the government's penal policy in general. Yes, we basically want to tighten up all the penalties. It would be very good if we did, because then we would have the opportunity to keep people in prison for longer if they are dangerous to society. But the government's policy is clear on this point. You want to take the risk of letting people out after two thirds whether they have strong revenge motives against an ex-wife or something else. They may be paedophiles who have undergone treatment and who may have behaved in an institution. The Green Party and the Red Green Government think it's worth letting them out into society even if they may tell the correctional authorities that they intend to rape a child on the first day they come out. Then the Green Party and the government say: All right, go out into society! We'll take that risk. I think it is clearly a wrong priority on the part of the government when it does not take into account the interest of society in being secured from dangerous individuals. A hazard assessment must be a reasonable measure to ensure that dangerous individuals are not released from prison. It is better that they sit 100 percent of the time in prison and perhaps cool themselves behind the concrete walls than that they are released and raped and murdered in the community. That is the clear view of the Swedish democrats.
i-2cdc13fb2589f3a7-377	Madam President, I would like If Adam Marttinen tried to appear factually and calmly in a previous correspondence, he would fail here. It is the height of inquisitiveness to make the claims that he makes about the government wanting to release dangerous people prematurely. This is about a conditional part enabling follow-up. As long as the Swedish Democrats do not advocate a life sentence for all crimes – after all, we have not yet seen – the people will at some time come out of prison. Then I, the Green Party and the government, think that we should equip them as far as possible so that they do not relapse into crime. We shall do so not least in order to protect vulnerable women and other victims of crime. It is an absolutely crucial area. It is about reducing the relapse rate in order for us to have a safer country. I think it is a pity that the Swedish Democrats do not see it.
i-2cdc13fb2589f3a7-379	Madam President, I would like In Sweden we have a legal system that works relatively well. It is considered legally secure, fair and non-corrupted. The last is a cornerstone of a democratic rule of law and probably the single most important factor for all citizens of Sweden to have confidence in their judicial system. I do not think, for example, that our fellow citizens in Russia, at least Aleksej Navalnyj, have the same confidence in their country's judicial system. In this respect, we must criticise both the regime and the judiciary, if we so wish, without going to prison. After all, not everything works well in the Swedish judicial system. Sanctions, care and treatment for young people are flawed. Several penalties are too low and disproportionately low compared to what they are like for other offences. This applies not least to sexual crimes. And the situation of victims is anything but good. So there is much to do. That is why we from the Center Party are active, are proposing changes and improvements and are on the government in these matters. That is also why we are constructive and are involved in various parliamentary groupings in order to produce good joint proposals with broad support. Sweden needs it, and the crime situation needs it. Madam President, I would like What we are discussing today is partly the result of this. It is a point from the so-called 34-point programme, where the government invited for talks against gang crime. The issue is conditional release, which we believe must be clearly more closely linked to participation in preventive measures in order not to relapse into crime. These are measures that, of course, are equally important regardless of the type of crime that has been committed – gang crime or other crime. Restoring to a life outside the walls is just as important regardless of the crime committed. Today, all sentenced persons have the right to be released conditionally after two thirds of their fixed-term imprisonment if they have, as it were, behaved during prison time. There must be special reasons for postponing the parole. Visible reasons are equal to very strong reasons, i.e. the inmate must have misbehaved in prison quite grossly in order to be denied parole. For the Center Party, it is obvious that a conditional release should be associated with the sentenced person participating in various preventive programmes during the time in prison. Unless the inmate gets help and support to prepare for a life outside the prison is incredibly much lost. But it is also based on the fact that the inmate participates and actually wants to participate. Today there are few opportunities to postpone parole, but today's proposal makes it easier. But, Madam President, are all convicted to have the right to be released conditionally after two thirds? For example, why are six years sentenced to prison if you come out after four? It's probably questions that many people ask themselves. To be given a second chance, however, is a humane basic principle on which our legal society rests. But then, for real, a change of behaviour and a desire for a life free from crime should be very clear in the convicted. Today, too many people fall into crime after serving their sentence. It's a failure. Several measures need to be taken. A clearer requirement for participation in relapse prevention is one. Madam President, I would like Furthermore, the Center Party, like the majority in this House, wants to go one step further. It should not be self-evident to be examined for parole after two thirds of the sentence period. It's a little hard to answer the question I asked earlier. Why is another prison sentenced for six years if one is to be released after four? That principle, I believe, can contribute to a lack of clarity and to disrupting the confidence and legitimacy of the judiciary. And, as I began with, the greatest danger we could find ourselves in distrusting the justice system. The Center Party believes that participation in relapse prevention should allow for parole. If you do not actively participate, parole may not be self-evident at all. And believe me, my friends: if there is anything a center party has discussed in the last six months, it is precisely the question of the right to a second chance and the right to parole and how it is proportionate to the crime committed. Madam President, I would like I support the committee's proposal.
i-2cdc13fb2589f3a7-392	Madam President, I would like Undeniably, we are nearing the end of the debate on something very important. It is about parole from punishment and what relapse prevention work you should have in our prisons to ensure that people come out better than they were when they came in. Liberals have long wanted us to have a system where it is easy to do right and difficult to do wrong. On trips around our country, many visits are made; these were before the pandemic in which we find ourselves. What has struck me when it comes to visits to many homes where, not infrequently under duress, young people who have great problems with what is right and wrong are treated by using what is called sign economy. It is something that is very educational, that is, the young are encouraged to do the right thing. They receive rewards, as some call it, for steering, for training, and — after treatment and serving time — for things that they may not have brought with them from home. That is what we as parents try to give every day to our children. It is reasonable not to say yes to anything that a child wants, whether it be foaming gnomes in the middle of the night or anything else, but to help the child get on the right track and to be careful about walking in its tracks. This is a step in the right direction. The Liberals are in favour of the committee's proposal. But there is a strong announcement that shows that we want to take this even further in the direction of the sign economy, that is, that it should be easy to do right and difficult to do wrong. I would like to take this opportunity to strike a blow for a little perspective and to see that our entire legal system needs changes in that direction. We have, as we have debated, abnormal penalty rebates in our penal system that are counterproductive. There is a discount for many crimes, and that is a very low progression. Others here want very progressive taxes, but the same people are often opposed to having progressiveity in the event of a relapse into crime. This requires longer time with rehabilitation, assistance and treatment programmes, which have been mentioned by speakers earlier here in the speaker's chair. We need to move forward with this elsewhere. If we look at the penal services, which are the subject of the debate, Madam President, we can see that we have made progress. We celebrate the centenary of voting rights in the days, and when I started in the Riksdag, it was so that the Prison Service's institutions could lay on the bed and smoke. It was not necessary to participate in work or treatment, but to lie down and smoke. We've changed that. But it took time, because there were some who defended it too. We removed the regulations that said that you could take in any amount of money from outside in order to buy what you thought was necessary. Now there is more focus on working to get paid, educate or treat yourself. We removed the cash so that you can not play so much and continue with criminal activities inside the prisons. So we've made a journey. Now steps are being taken that are good, but it is important that we have the announcement, which the government representative and the Left Party regrettably object to. It has come to light that the care provider does not have much to contribute, but I and the Liberals think that it is doing a tremendously important job, not least the assistant supervisors who in various ways try to help these often broken individuals who have been in prison and who, if they behave, can come out, be in the care of the care provider and continue to adapt to get into a law-abiding path. I believe that the care of the state, Madam President, is worthy of a star of its own in our skies. Having said that, I and the Liberals, as I have said, would like to support the committee's proposal.
i-2cdc13fb2589f3a7-400	Madam President, I would like We have today to debate the implementation of the 2017 amending directive to the EU Arms Directive, and I would like to start by calling for the approval of the proposal, i.e. reservation 1. Madam President, I would like A proposal for a revision of the EU arms directive was presented following the terrorist attacks in France in 2015. The original rules are from 1991. The aim of the revision was to limit the ability of terrorists and criminals to acquire arms. During the discussion of the directive in the European Parliament, Moderate Anna Maria Corazza Bildt was responsible for negotiating the main parliamentary group, EPP. In view of today's tone, it may be useful to recall this very point. It is not common for me to quote moderate MEPs, but no rule without any exceptions. In the debate on the proposal in Parliament, Corazza Bildt said, "Today we are improving security in Europe without reducing people's freedom." Corazza Bildt went on to say in her speech that we must dare to be responsible politicians even if it is easier to be a populist. ..................................................... Madam President, I would like The directive was voted through in the European Parliament, and Sweden – like all other EU countries – is obliged to implement the directive and do so correctly. If the directive is not implemented, there is an imminent risk of Sweden being sued by the EU Court of Justice and having to pay a fine. Our view is that it is very unfortunate if the Parliament rejects the government's proposal to implement the directive. The Government's proposal contains the necessary amendments to implement the Directive and is at a minimum level. The Government has amended its previous proposal to introduce limited-term permits for certain so-called prohibited firearms and severely limited the proposal for regulation of weapons warehouses, despite the fact that the implementation can then be questioned and despite the wishes of the Police Authority and the Prosecution Authority. The opposition's criticism has consistently been harsh, but I perceive the criticism as general and sweeping. This makes it difficult, if not impossible, for the government to get any idea of what the opposition wants to change concretely in the proposals in order for them to vote in favour. The government obviously has a responsibility for the implementation of EU directives. But there is also the responsibility of all parties in the legislature to contribute to the timely and proper implementation of directives. Madam President, I would like A lot of focus has been placed on the regulation of weapons warehouses. It is clear that the arms directive requires some regulation of weapons storage facilities. The government has now withdrawn from all previous proposals and is making a proposal for minimum regulation. Only some large warehouses for semi-automatic central ignition weapons and fully automatic weapons are covered by the proposal. Other countries that have implemented the directive, such as Finland, already have a regulation of weapons warehouses. The proposal proposes that weapons storage facilities should be regulated in the same way as ammunition in principle. This means, we believe, that the need for holders of legal weapons to be able to freely acquire and hold several magazines for the weapons used for shooting is also met. It is also an advantage in the application of the law on the regulation of ammunition and weapons stockpiles can be designed in a similar way. The proposal therefore means that a person who has a licence or a right to hold a particular gun for shooting does not need to apply for a permit to hold a magazine suitable for the weapon. Madam President, I would like With regard to the issue of weapons warehouses, I would like to draw the House's attention to a survey that Swedish Hunting made on arms issues a few years ago. There I was particularly caught up in the answers of the Center Party and Johan Hedin to the question: Should weapons warehouses be equated with firearms and thus be licensed? The answer was: No, we see no reason for it. On the other hand, it is reasonable to show a licence for the weapon for which the magazine is to be used when buying it, just like when buying ammunition. Madam President, I would like The bill also proposes reliefs for silencers. They should no longer be equated with firearms. The proposal allows a person authorised or entitled to hold a particular gun for shooting without a special authorisation to hold a silencer suitable for the weapon. The proposal also contains some other proposals that comply with the Weapons Directive. For example, it is proposed to extend the labelling and registration requirements and to regulate brokerage activities in the same way as arms trading activities. Madam President, I would like Finally, a majority in the committee wants to abolish temporary licences. Today, only fully automatic and one-handed multi-shot weapons are subject to re-authorisation requirements every five years. As the government points out, these weapons are particularly arduous and dangerous. It is therefore important to continuously monitor and monitor compliance with the conditions for authorisation. We share the government's opinion and thus disagree with the majority of the committee.
i-2cdc13fb2589f3a7-421	Madam President, I would like Hunters and sportsmen shall not suffer from the government's over-implementing of the EU weapons directive. The Left Party, together with a united opposition, has put an end to the government's desire to go too far with legislation that would create many practical problems for ordinary shooters. I would like to thank my colleagues from the other parties for their good cooperation. In addition, the Left Party proposes that the Swedish legislation should make a clearer distinction between legal and illegal weapons. In its eagerness to stop illegal weapons in criminal gang environments, the government has gone too far. There is no big problem with the legal weapons of hunters and sportsmen being used in criminal circles in Sweden, as the government seems to believe. The Left Party is keen to combat the illegal handling of weapons, as well as the serious crime which, in its worst form, sharpens its power with weapons. At the same time, the law needs to be designed so that it does not unnecessarily make it difficult for hunters and sportsmen to use their legal weapons. The government has failed to do so. It's not legal weapons used in criminal circles. According to Brå, there has been a structural change. The use of legal and two-handed weapons, such as elk bouncers and shotguns, has decreased, while illegal and single-handed weapons have become more common in criminal environments. Brå estimates that access to illegal weapons has increased, which is a major and serious problem that is not solved by attacking legal weapons. Therefore, legal weapons used for hunting and shooting must have their own purely administrative part in the Arms Act, while illegal weapons must be handled in special order. Madam President, I would like According to the government's proposal, a sportsman who fails to renew a license would be immediately detained and convicted of serious gun crime. Clear and strict arms laws are important, but they have gone far too far. Any administrative errors and offences committed by a person who has or has been licensed for the weapon to which the offence relates should not be equated with possession of a weapon in a criminal context. This is a category of teams with a huge number of details and a lot of knowledge and, above all, commitment. I would like to thank you for the popular commitment that exists in this matter, the willingness to explain to us who may not find this with different weapons so very exciting. Maybe I haven't changed my mind in the first place. But I will confess, Madam President, that it is very fun to shoot with large sporting weapons. As a matter of fact, that's the way it is. A big thank you to Pia for that! Sportsmanship and hunting is a folk sport that unites across class boundaries. It is a commitment that takes time, and it is carried out in non-profit associations and takes many long hours in an uncomfortable environment to perform. We as legislators should be very aware of that. It's time for the government to redo and do the right thing. The Left Party will always stand up for good and balanced arms legislation. I request the approval of reservation 3.
i-2cdc13fb2589f3a7-432	Madam President, I would like Hunters, sportsmen and people who hold weapons for other reasons deserve all respect. That is what we are debating today. With regard to the entrance that came from the Social Democrats, it is worth recalling that we are talking quite a lot about a directive here. That's how it works in Sweden. Not least we Liberals think it reasonable that we have some common rules in Europe. The idea is also that we should be able to have ever more open borders. Common regulations are needed in the field of arms, for example. Then there are some parties who must feel responsible for the fact that we are now sitting with this directive – it is not possible to run away from it – and that does not belong to the Liberals. We have therefore reserved the right to have some points of view and feel that this is very consistent. Yesterday I was at a dinner and ate, among other things, wild boars. It was very good. It was well-fried and mixed with some beef. This meat was shot by itself. The people I met are engaged in hunting. I told you a little bit about the debate we were going to have today. They didn't know that. They did not quite understand the problems we are now discussing. One of these people is in line to join a gun shooting association. We from the Liberals are a little hesitant that the majority – the Center Party and the Swedish Democrats together with the Moderates and the Christian Democrats – say that one should now just cut off the rule of re-examination every five years for automatic weapons and for single-handed weapons, to say, solid guns that one has in one's gun cabinet. We know what it looks like, namely that it takes quite a lot to become a member of a shooting association. There's no one protesting against it. It is a matter of six months and then another six months, and then you can use large arms. It requires that you are active, suitable and have regular certificates. We Liberals think that these demands are fundamentally good. You have to respect them. It is a completely different matter for people who engage in other sports and interests. It is also good to have the ongoing review of the suitability of persons holding a gun licence. These are requirements for basic security in weapons storage, ongoing control against the criminal record or suspicion register. Then medical doctors should act if they become aware that someone is feeling ill. It is inappropriate to feel bad and have automatic weapons and small arms at home. Then there is the question of whether there should still be a review. The previous position of the Liberals has been that we should consider whether the review should be as it is today, that is, a five-year rule. Maybe it should be longer. Perhaps further administration and control work should be added to the shooting association. When you become a member of a shooting association, you need to be active, and it is important to monitor the activities. They are included when you apply for a renewed license for your, for example, two sturdy revolvers. Then there is an obligation to try that you have been active in the association's work, is sensible and has an interest. I think I'd be able to join an association. I've shot. The left-wing representative testified how much fun it is to shoot. Since I've done military service as a company commander, I shoot with most of it, and I've actually thrown hand grenades. That's it! I'd probably get a license, and it'd be fun if I had time. But is it reasonable that I should have that license forever, regardless of activity, regardless of whether I am skilled enough, whether it is verified that I participate in the association's activities, with the association's rock-hard requirements to become a member? We Liberals think that this issue should be considered. That is why the Liberals do not participate on the side of the majority because we think these issues are complex. It is not reasonable that all people who are non-criminal and healthy should be able to obtain revolvers and pistols and keep them at home for life, for the rest of their lives, without there being a review. I have listened to many dedicated and amazing shooters who tell me about complications in terms of the activity requirement and so on depending on the corona. It also affects this business. They must be resolved. The Liberal position is that the government must come back to this issue. We must look at other ways than simply abolishing the five-year rule without replacing it with anything else. In practice, it would mean the right to hold small arms in the home for ever. We don't think it makes sense. I would like to stress to everyone who listens that the Liberals do not believe that this in any way affects serious crime in Sweden or that it would be a huge leakage from those who are currently engaged in shooting. That is not the case. But is it still appropriate to remove the rule? I'll get back to the nice dinner I had yesterday. There was no one there who thought it was reasonable to have small arms at home forever, even if you are not active and engage in sports or hobbies in the association. That is why the Liberals are calling for the approval of reservation 3 in the report, just like the Left Party. It has already announced to the government in the past that it must return to the issue of distinguishing between legal gun owners and those who engage in crime and who, in 99.999% of cases, use completely different weapons that have nothing to do with sport. I therefore request the approval of reservation 3.
i-2cdc13fb2589f3a7-446	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to take this opportunity to thank you for your very good cooperation in committee. Many parties support the report and the proposal to reject the bill. Madam President, I would like The opposition in the Justice Committee has previously issued 16 announcements to make it easier for the country's hunters and sportsmen. Still none of these announcements are met by the government. Instead, the government has repeatedly put forward proposals that are detrimental to the country's hunters and shooters. Today, we will again reject one of the government's attempts to over-implement the EU arms directive. Despite the fact that the Committee on Justice has stated on several occasions quite clearly that it will not accept the over-implementing of the arms directive, the government is continuing its efforts to constantly over-implement the arms directive. The government goes further in its proposals than the EU requires, and the government does not want to use the derogation provided for by the EU directive. The government's failure to listen to the Riksdag is both remarkable and totally unacceptable. Once again, this S-led rural, hunting and anti-shooting government has delivered 222 pages trying to over-implement the EU Directive. Madam President, I would like These 222 pages now go straight into the trash. Instead, the Committee on Justice has given the government clear directives, namely that the EU directive should not be overimplemented in Sweden. The government should have studied how other countries have managed to implement the directive at a minimum level. Switzerland is an example of such a country. Madam President, I would like The government's actions are strange. Instead of implementing what Parliament has decided on the 16 previous announcements, it devotes time and effort to producing 222 pages in an attempt to over-implement the EU directive. It is remarkable that the government continues to burden Parliament, in these coronatids, with these proposals, despite the fact that the Committee on Justice has made it clear several times that it will not approve the government's attempts to over-implement. Madam President, I would like It is also remarkable that no minister is involved in the debate today – neither Mikael Damberg nor Morgan Johansson participate in the debate – if only because, for their own sake, knowledge acquisition would have been good. The government is repeatedly trying to regulate the possession of weapons warehouses. Sometimes gang crime is blamed, sometimes on the EU directive. You blame the police for not being able to seize a warehouse, which is not true. The police seized more than a thousand magazines in 2018. It is blamed that the possession of warehouses must be regulated in accordance with the directive, which is also not true. The directive only requires the regulation of certain warehouses in combination with certain weapons. This has been resolved by Switzerland in a way that does not affect legal hunters and shooters. The government should study that. Madam President, I would like In addition, the government wants to label old antique collectors' weapons, which the EU directive does not require because it allows countries to derogate from this requirement. However, the government does not want to use this exception, which means that old antiques and ancient weapons are at risk of being destroyed with new markings. The government simply wants to destroy our cultural heritage. The government clearly states in the bill that it has not made use of that exception, which is a self-goal in itself, given that in other contexts it claims to be at a minimum level. That's not true either. Madam President, I would like We live in a democracy. Every four years, members are elected to the Swedish Parliament. Here in Parliament, the country's democratic decisions are taken. Here we give instructions to the government on what to do, and here we make laws. The problem with this S-government is that one constantly ignores Parliament's decisions – that one ignores the implementation of Parliament's announcements. Let me take an example, Madam President. On 26 March 2015, the Riksdag decided that the Government would establish a game agency to which the hunting and game administration would be moved from the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency. In addition, the Riksdag has also decided to transfer the arms licence management to this new authority. Madam President and listener! What do you think happened? The answer is, nothing. It's been over five years – almost six years – and the government hasn't even started work. Instead, the government, eagerly encouraged by the Environmental Party, has taken the decision to remove the general commission from the Hunter Association and also put even more game work at the Environmental Protection Agency. The government is therefore acting just contrary to the decisions made democratically here in Parliament. It is not only remarkable, it is totally unacceptable. We must look after and protect our democracy here in Sweden. Then the government must also comply with the democratic decisions taken by the Riksdag and implement them. The actions of this government are not acceptable. The government should start cleaning outside its own door and follow the democratic decisions made by the Swedish Parliament. It has now been over five years since the decision on the game authority, and the government is still sitting on its hands. Madam President, I would like Today, Parliament will decide on two further announcements, which means that we are up to 18 announcements. Again, one of them is clear that we are asking the government to come up with a proposal for a minimum implementation of the EU directive. Sweden's arms owners and Swedish arms legislation already meet much of the directive's requirements today, and we do not need to over-implement the EU directive. Sweden does not have problems with its legal weapons or with its hunters and sportsmen, but Sweden has problems with illegal weapons and with the crime that the government has completely lost control of. Yet the government is engaged in the pursuit of the country's legal hunters and sportsmen. Madam President, I would like The second announcement in today's parliamentary decision is a sharply worded announcement that is now also timed. We now request that the government returns with a bill before the end of 2021 that removes the limited five-year licenses. The reason is that on 19 June 2019 – almost two years ago – the Riksdag decided to remove the fixed-term licences. Instead of doing this, however, the government came back with the desire to retain these five-year licenses, which is exactly contrary to Parliament's decision. Each year, the police deal with 3,000 to 4,000 arms cases involving renewal of the five-year license. This only creates jobs for the police and a lot of hassle for the country's shooters. Madam President, I would like A sportsman may have five to ten weapons and train and compete in several sporting disciplines. In order to have these weapons, strict demands are placed on training, training, tests, storage and fitness. It can also be good for all listeners to know that all gun owners in Sweden are controlled daily via data drive. Sweden's arms owners are not checked every five years, but are checked daily via data-driving. Anyone deemed unfit or guilty of any crime is in danger of losing their weapons immediately. The ability to have a weapon is therefore constantly being tested in Sweden. Madam President, I would like What if this government had had the same day-to-day control of the country's criminals as it has on the country's hunters and sportsmen? Those who have weapons and weapons licenses in Sweden are law-abiding people – otherwise they wouldn't have any weapons. Madam President, I would like The Parliament has previously issued 16 announcements to make it easier for the country's hunters and shooters. Here I will list some of these announcements to remind the government once again of what it is actually going to do and what the Riksdag has decided. The government will review the arms legislation to facilitate hunters and shooters and reduce police processing. The government will abolish the state of silencers. Today, the police have to work with about 15,000 silencers per year. The government will give hunters and shooters the opportunity to increase the number of weapons in their weapons wardrobe, both for hunting and for sporting purposes. Different weapons are required at different times and at different competitions and trainings. The government will review the acquis on the EU Arms Passport. Today, it is very difficult for a hunter or sportsman to travel into or out of Sweden – the processing times are completely unreasonably long. While criminals can travel back and forth with their weapons in the trunk of the car without any risk of being caught, an ordinary hunter or sportsman finds himself in a position where he displays his weapon, presents his license and wants to be able to take the weapon with him. Then the bureaucracy in Sweden begins. Here it is a question of the police putting the resources in the right places and chasing the illegal weapons instead of the legal ones. We want more stringent penalties for gun crimes and arms smuggling. Here the government is far too careful. Anyone who commits serious crimes with weapons should of course have long and severe punishment. We also want to divide arms legislation into some that regulate legal hunting and sporting weapons and some that regulate illegal weapons into the hands of criminals, in order to tighten the penalties even more for those who use illegal weapons and commit serious weapons crimes in criminal environments. Madam President, I would like We want to move license management to the new Wildlife Agency. It would reduce police work on legal weapons and give them more resources to hunt criminals and illegal weapons. We also want to facilitate the exchange of weapons for hunters and sportsmen and thus reduce the long processing times. Another issue we need to look at is the supervision of shooting tracks, which are currently being carried out by the police. This obviously means additional workload for the police, who are already suffering from a lack of time and resources. We Moderates want to investigate the possibility of moving surveillance from the police to the shooting associations and the Wildlife Authority. Finally, I have some clear and good advice for the government if you are to succeed in implementing the directive. Listen to the country's hunters and sportsmen! They are both knowledgeable and well-read, and they can help you. Your contacts with the police and your so-called experts over at the department, who want to over-implement the weapons directive, have not had enough help from you so far. Apparently, their skills are not enough to solve this problem. Look at the countries that have gone to a minimum – Switzerland is one of them. Stop chasing the country's hunters, shooters and collectors! Instead, spend the resources on combating serious crime. Madam President, I would like When will the revision of arms legislation, the division of arms legislation and the creation of the new Wildlife Authority? I would like to take this opportunity to make a contribution about the difference between the government proposal and a minimum implementation. The government wants to require authorisation for holding warehouses, but the EU only requires regulation of the use of certain warehouses in combination with certain weapons. Next time, maybe you'll land a little more right! Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to repeat once again that Parliament's decisions are not a loose recommendation to the government that one can do a little as one wishes with. Parliament's decisions are just parliamentary decisions, and they must be followed by both the government and the relevant authorities and works. I call for the proposal to be rejected and for the proposal to be approved in the report.
i-2cdc13fb2589f3a7-479	Madam President, I would like I can agree with much of what Sten Bergheden said about the regulations in his lecture here; it is not so difficult. However, I return to the question of what the Moderates have in mind. I fully agree with the analysis of leakage and that we should put in place strong measures against the crimes. We're not doing anything else. After all, when the previous report was debated a moment ago, we cleaned up a little bit in the prison system and much more needs to be done. Liberals are happy to be at the forefront of this. But I come back to a fact of removing the five-year trial, which includes fulfilling a great deal of the requirements that apply when you get the license for the first time, when there really is a check. Is the Moderates' opinion that, after a year's work, it should be possible to have two guns at home forever without in any way being active in any association or in any other way show that one is skilled at shooting or can still shoot and without in any way participating in this sport, which for some has more of a hobby character?
i-2cdc13fb2589f3a7-482	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question, Johan Pehrson! Before the year 2000, we had provisional licences for all weapons, so those who received their licences for single-handed weapons before the new regulation came in need not review the licences every five years, which means that a large part of the weapons that are already out there are single-handed weapons. Then came the rule that a sportsman can have six eight different guns in different classes. Every five years, he will re-examine weapon number four and the following year re-examine weapon number six. He still has the other weapons. But it is a review every five years of the weapons for which he has previously been licensed, which means that it is not the suitability of the shooter that is being tested but the suitability to keep the weapon or not. The requirements on the suitability of the shooter are, among other things, those that Johan Pehrson was upsetting. The requirement that you are part of an association and active shooter will remain. The second part is that suitability is checked. As I said, and as Johan Pehrson has also mentioned, all gun owners are checked every day, which means that we have a check on the suitability of the shooters that exist. The hunters have their weapons that they receive after they have attended the hunting school, made their launches and demonstrated suitability. Their weapons are often located in the same weapons cabinet as the sportsmen's weapons. There the hunter is allowed to have his hunting weapon next to a sporting weapon, which means that the hunter is no more unfit to have a sporting weapon if he has an elk bouncer lying next to him.
i-2cdc13fb2589f3a7-487	Madam President, I would like I can agree with that. Of course there's a big difference here. For the traditional hunter, it is not necessary to reconsider, but it is enough that you get your license, buy yourself a gun and then do your job to have it forever. However, given the situation that we have in society, I wonder whether it is really reasonable to simply abolish the licence. Then you have to check in some other way, such as that an association should report that I participate actively in the association. In that case, then, some other control mechanism must be put in place. I repeat the question of whether it is the Moderates' position that I should be able to obtain a license if I do not want to hunt some boars, as I just said people do, but I really want two three guns at home. Should it not be required any form of official control, other than if it spins in my head and I end up in medical care or is suspected of a lot of crimes or, worse, have committed a lot of crimes? Is everyone supposed to have guns at home?
i-2cdc13fb2589f3a7-489	Madam President, I would like I think that Johan Pehrson is simplifying things, given that it takes quite extensive checks, such as shooting tests, fitness checks and storage checks, to get his first, second, third and fourth weapons. The shooters put a lot of care into their weapons. They get equipment and other equipment to be able to shoot as well as possible. We've got a lot of top shooters in this country who've come across in the sportsman's field. That's about 160,000 one-handed weapons in the country that's at the sportsmen's house. As I said, I think it is reasonable to demand that you be active in an association. If you leave the association or quit the business, it is a different situation. But as long as you're a shooter, it makes no sense every five years to reconsider your weapons licenses. In addition, there shall be no re-examination of the possession of weapons, but the licence for each individual weapon shall be reviewed. This means defending why you have to keep weapons number four when you have six other weapons in other categories. The absurdity that arises when you work with sporting weapons is that the license for each weapon should be reviewed every five years. This rule came to 2000. Before that, this worked well. I can't get an answer to my question, so I'm gonna have to make it rhetorical. We have no problem with the sportsmen and their sporting weapons. It's possible to control them every 24 hours, so it's no worries. Why are we so afraid to believe them with their weapons, just as the hunters have their weapons?
i-2cdc13fb2589f3a7-494	Madam President, I would like I have spoken earlier from here about the importance of combating and combating illegal possession of arms. I want to make it clear that I stand by that position so that there is no doubt whatsoever about it. The implementation of the 2017 amending directive to the EU arms directive has been going on for a while, and it does not seem that we have reached the finish line quite yet. One of the reasons why this is taking so long is that the government is trying to use the amending directive to introduce more far-reaching restrictions than is required and also goes against the Parliament's earlier announcements in this area. Nor does the government make full use of the derogations provided for in the amending directive. It cannot therefore be said that the government is trying to achieve a minimal implementation of the amending directive. The Government believes in the bill that the issue of weapons storage facilities must be regulated in order to comply with the requirements of the amending directive. This has also been mentioned here in the previous speaker's chair, and Finland has been mentioned. I commissioned an investigation from the Parliamentary Investigation Service to clarify how other Member States have implemented that part of the amending directive. The vast majority of the 16 Member States that responded to the inquiry services' questions have not introduced a permit requirement for weapons warehouses. Finland is an exception, because they have laws similar to those proposed in the bill. Even Britain stands out with its very special arms laws. However, most of the respondent states have introduced a ban on bringing large warehouses into arms. However, authorisations for the entry of large arms warehouses are granted by most Member States in accordance with the exceptions provided for in the amending Directive. All Member States that have introduced the amending Directive have introduced a ban on large-inbuilt storage weapons in accordance with the amending Directive. It does not have to be any weirder than this, Madam President: ban on the entry of large warehouses into arms and the application of the exemptions granted. Thus, that part of the amending directive would be fully implemented without going beyond what is required. The problem with the regulation proposed by the government is that the same warehouse allowed in one weapon may be prohibited in another owned by the same person and even stored in the same gun cabinet. Holding a magazine can therefore be both legal and illegal at the same time. Such situations are not covered by the bill and could thus create major problems for both arms owners and judicial assessments. On the other hand, a ban on the entry of large warehouses into a weapon would not pose the same problems. The regulation of weapons warehouses also has other negative effects on the country's arms owners. A lost warehouse may constitute a breach of the Arms Act with the result that all weapons licenses of the gun owner are revoked, a worn-out warehouse or storage parts to be scrapped need to be taken care of according to special order, probably by the Police Authority, and so on. Sweden's gun owners look time after time tightening up in the Arms Act. Naturally, the negative effects on legal arms owners are greater than those of illegal weapons. I say for obvious reasons, because those who hold weapons without permission have already shown that they do not care about the law. It is therefore natural that they also do not have as much respect for the rules applicable to the possession of weapons as a legal owner has. Madam President, I would like The time-limited licenses, which would be a mere formality when introduced, have caused a lot of trouble for the country's shooters. An otherwise law-abiding arms owner who does not submit an application for a renewed licence in good time together with the results of competitions in which he has participated risks being convicted of an offence committed by negligence and which has not affected any other person. It was never intended when the law was introduced, and therefore this procedure should be abolished. In addition, time-limited arms licences are not necessary when gun owners are checked against the criminal record every day. This means that we are already meeting the requirements for controls on arms owners that come with the EU weapons directive. The Parliament has therefore repeatedly announced to the government that the temporary licences need to be abolished. However, according to the bill, the government does not share this view and does not intend to make such a change. The Government has thus declared that they do not intend to implement what the Riksdag has announced. Madam President, I would like It is therefore very gratifying that the Riksdag now announces that the Government will return in 2021 with a proposal to abolish the five-year licenses. Skyttesverige's legal gun owners may not rejoice over this but rather are sceptical about the likelihood of this happening. But it is undoubtedly another step in the right direction. I would also like to take this opportunity to say that I am very pleased that the majority of parliamentary parties are not engaged in placard politics on these issues, but are looking at what is necessary and effective measures to reduce illegal possession of arms.
i-2cdc13fb2589f3a7-508	Madam President, I would like Well, then we'll stand here again and discuss weapons issues. For what time in the order we are discussing precisely the implementation of the EU weapons directive, I leave it unsaid, but it is indeed a remarkable sequel in this House. For the sake of my own and any listeners, I'm going to recapitulate a little bit. In 2017, the EU adopted a new arms directive. The different opinions about Sweden's arms laws did not arise then, but it definitely got worse. Sometimes I think the government believes that the more weapons there are in society, the more crime increases. But that is not the case. All of Sweden's citizens could each have their own weapon if everyone behaved and used it for what it was intended for, i.e. for hunting, target shooting or collectative purposes. In principle, it is the legal use of weapons. The illegal weapons used by criminals come mostly from elsewhere, such as from war cores. No matter what laws we change in this House, a serious criminal will never apply for a licence for his gun possession. Perhaps it was this misconception that led the EU to go wrong in drafting the new arms directive. After the terrible acts of terror in Paris, political action was needed, but the target was met. Madam President, I would like The legal weapons are not the problem. The law-abiding gun owners are not the ones to be squeezed. Yet it often has the effect of the government's proposals. This continues to happen, despite the fact that a broad majority in the Swedish Parliament has clearly expressed what the represented people's will wants. The Center Party was against the arms directive then, and we are against what is being proposed now. For the sake of justice, let me remind you how our elected representatives voted in the European Parliament at the time. Those who voted 'no' were the Swedish Democrats, the Center Party, the Christian Democrats and the Liberals. Those who voted in favour were the Social Democrats, the Moderates, the Left Party and the Green Party. I think that the parties that supported the arms directive in the European Parliament also have a special responsibility for implementation. Madam President, I would like What does the Government's proposal for implementation then contain? Even though I'm hunting myself, this isn't everyday reading. Something more technical you have to look for. Interpretations are being made, and knowledge of the arms laws of different countries is a must for comparison purposes. Every comma is important in this bill. I would therefore like to hand it over with a warm hand to those who know this better, for example at the Ministry of Justice. I would rely on them to engage in a straight, open and honest dialogue with those who have an interest in this, that is, hunters and sportsmen. But it doesn't seem to have happened, and I'll get back to what it might be. However, I am amazed at how different people can interpret what is stated in the EU arms directive and what is actually meant by its being implemented at a minimum level – which everyone seems to agree on. Let me take a few examples. Permits for semi-automatic weapons warehouses that can be loaded with more than 20 or 10 cartridges are not required for target shooters. But, according to some, it is not necessary at all, because, as we have heard, it is a question of drawing a line between the formulation of the purpose of the magazine or whether it belongs to the weapon for which it is authorised. It should be said in this context that a magazine itself is a box with a feather in it, and it is difficult to regulate. The government also wants to add more weapons types in category A, that is, dangerous weapons. No, say others, it's not necessary at all. The EU regulates the use of weapons, warehouses and ammunition, not possession. Here, for example, problems arise for scorers in competitions and trips to and from competitions. The government believes that there is a need for increased record keeping. No, others say. The government says that there is a need for regulation of brokerage activities in the same way as for arms dealers. No, I mean other people. Arms brokers must today be registered as arms dealers, so they are already subject to these restrictions. What do others think should be introduced? Some feel that data should be stored in the weapons register for 30 years instead of 20 years. I can't find that in the government proposal. According to the government, what must remain? the extension of the marking of weapons, including historical weapons; No, it doesn't have to, some say. There is an exception that can be used. The government also wants to keep the five-year licenses. No, me and a lot of people with me. They do not need to remain but can be removed. Let me dwell a little on the five-year licenses. Despite the fact that the government in the bill says in principle that the daily register check against load and suspicion registers is acceptable according to the EU's amending directive, the government still chooses to propose that they be retained. Here we go against Parliament's repeated decisions to the contrary. It is a sharp text from the committee: in view of the government's position on previous announcements, the committee also believes that there is reason to make a sharper and timely announcement. 中 Taste it, my friends. It can't get any sharper. Madam President, I would like This gives me a sense of, well, I don't know what. Do we all have a lack of ability to listen? Is it that the experts at the department are unwilling to listen? Or are we who are calling for rejection so incompetent that we cannot read what the directive says? The truth is, of course, somewhere in between, and I note that this House will have to discuss the issue of the implementation of the EU arms directive once again. I call for the committee's proposal to be approved and for the government's proposal to be rejected.
i-2cdc13fb2589f3a7-529	Madam President, I would like It was an interesting speech by the Center Party. I agree with a great deal. We must distinguish between facts and fiction, faith and hope. However, I will return to the discussion I had with the Moderates' Sten Bergheden. The question was whether you should be able to have a license forever without in any way proving that you are active or skilled at shooting these small arms, whether you have one, two, three, four, five or more guns. I have great respect for Sweden's practicers of gun shooting, and we will do everything we can to make it easier for them. But there are trends in everything. Suddenly, all people are going to winter swim or ride mountain bikes, and now there are long queues to our shooting associations. However, not everyone has a huge interest in pursuing this activity forever. I have great respect for being able to change interest. It's not a problem if people have five mountain bikes at home rustling. But there is another problem. Should people who are healthy, unsuspected and unconvicted without any demand for activity or skill be able to have one, two, three, four or five guns at home forever? Is that the Center Party's opinion? Or does the Center Party, like what the Moderates suggested, want some kind of control in some other way? It could be self-policing, self-policing, that is, the shooting associations in some way report that – if it was about me and if I got such licences – Johan Pehrson has not been seen in the association for 17 years. They would have to decide if I am active and if I am really good. These were my questions.
i-2cdc13fb2589f3a7-535	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Johan Pehrson, for important questions! I listened to the last line shift, and I will probably repeat a lot of what Sten Bergheden said. For me, it is important that there is equivalence for those who own weapons. With today's rules, there is a huge lack of equivalence between hunters and sportsmen. Sten Bergheden mentioned it as an example before. I do not think that this is sustainable and does not give any legitimacy to the arms laws as they work today. As the government has written in the bill and as we have pointed out many times, the daily check in the registers and the like should be the basis for questioning that someone has a dangerous weapon. This collaboration can certainly be expanded and developed in healthcare, psychosocial interventions and the police. To answer your question clearly: Yes, I think there should be self-regulation. Perhaps stronger rules are needed than those that exist today that say that if you are to have such a weapon, you should be active and connected to an association. However, I still think that what is happening now is unreasonable. We have heard how re-applications for licences every five years can be crazy. Perhaps it needs to be developed in such a way that if someone cannot demonstrate that he is active in an association or is actively engaged in sports shooting, information about it should be given to the relevant authorities. The person in question may simply lose his weapon in that case.
i-2cdc13fb2589f3a7-540	Madam President, I would like I am very pleased with the answer. Liberals' entry into this is a re-examination of the five-year rule. For us, that does not mean that it should be abolished. Now a straight order is sent to the government. As the Liberals see it, this should be abolished with great respect, and it should be done in a way that facilitates those who engage in this sport. However, when it comes to people who are more trend-driven and testing something, they should not be able to have small arms lying in their weapons cabinet forever. It's really weird. It is important to take this with you. Liberals see this debate as a contribution to the government and future governments that will have to carry it out. They must ensure that there is a more reasonable way of dealing with the use of legal weapons by serious people and those who depend on a trend and may not use the weapons, do not actively participate and do not demonstrate their skills and the necessary trust. For me as a Liberal, this is about freedom under responsibility. This is a completely different matter from other sports. You can't compare it to bowling balls. As far as hunters are concerned, that is another matter. There are many problems there, but there is a check to see if the persons in question are well and are not under criminal pressure or suspected. However, there is no review. There's still a difference if you walk around with two guns in your bag. People are not always predictable. After all, most of them are healthy and uncondemned, and they are not suspects either. It is the normal state of the citizens of the nation of Sweden.
i-2cdc13fb2589f3a7-544	Madam President, I would like I agree with much of the reasoning that Johan Pehrson is in favour of, although I do not see a big difference in principle between walking around with two guns in the bag or, for example, having a rifle in the car. I see no difference between these examples at the potential risk if someone is feeling ill or not fit to hold a weapon. But as today's system works, there is a big difference in legislation if you are a hunter or a sportsman in terms of view of responsibility. As the five-year rules are constructed today, the answer is no; they are not reasonable. There is nothing in the bill or in the government's discussion that aims at the other approach taken by Johan Pehrson. I am prepared to look at other solutions in the future if it is necessary to address the problem raised by Johan Pehrson. I agree that there is a difference between sportsmanship and mountain bike sport.
i-2cdc13fb2589f3a7-546	Madam President, I would like Let me start with a historical look back in this debate on weapons. As mentioned, it is a subject that has often been debated, even during my short time here in Parliament. Historically, this was exactly how Helena Vilhelmsson reported. The Christian Democrats voted against the EU arms directive when it was discussed in the European Parliament. We did so even though we do believe that there is a need to tighten up the laws and control of weapons within the European Union. But we will not get to criminals and terrorists by attacking the legal weapons. On the other hand, it is an easy way of trying to prove itself capable of action. Swedish hunters and sportsmen are law-abiding people who would comply with new laws. Thus, it could be claimed that the intended effect is achieved. At the same time, however, nothing has been done to prevent the availability of weapons by criminals and terrorists. Of course, the Swedish parliament needs to deal with the EU's weapons directives, but like many in the debate, the Christian Democrats believe that this can happen without creating further problems for ordinary hunters and sportsmen. For us Christian Democrats, it is self-evident to try to have a sensible view of weapons and gun ownership. The ambition to address the serious societal problems of the extended shootings is not to lump together hunters and sportsmen with those who behave the worst in society. Tougher grip on gang crime requires strong action to ensure security in society. However, this should and can happen in our eyes without making life more difficult for law-abiding and responsible arms owners, for example, by over-implementing the arms directive. It is an approach shared by a majority in the Committee on Justice, as today's debate shows. Madam President, I would like In today's Sweden there are about 550 000 registered gun owners. In previous arms debates, I have referred, and do so today as well, to a study that was carried out some time ago. It showed that during the ten - year period of measuring the use of weapons in serious crimes, about one weapon a year came from hunting or sporting. Thus, each year a weapon came from the weapons registered by 550 000 gun owners. This fact should have prompted the government to reflect. This shows that other measures are needed to counter gang crime's use of weapons than to make it difficult, regulate or over-implement so that it affects half a million of Sweden's people who handle weapons responsibly. Of course, part of the weapons directive was good. However, the proposal was far too restrictive on other issues so that we could support it in the European Parliament. The government's handling of the issue then raises questions as well as how it has been handled since then. Every proposal put forward by the government, regardless of how restrictive it is, has argued that it is a minimum implementation. In a debate in 2018, the Minister of Justice promised not to proceed with magazine regulation. But now we are again dealing with a bill that will regulate the magazines. The government also tried to regulate the magazines in a bill during the parliamentary year 2019/ 20, despite non-existent data. In a follow-up motion from the Christian Democrats and the Moderates, an alternative solution was proposed for the regulation of magazines that had not restricted anyone and had been very quickly investigated. However, the government has rejected the proposal and is continuing with an over-implementing of the Weapons Directive. We will not accept that. That is why, together with a majority in the committee, I am calling for the proposal to be rejected. Christian Democrats believe that there is a considerable difference between the man handling a legal weapon and the man handling an illegal weapon. However, this distinction is not made clear in the legal framework, which v i think should be changed. There is an essential difference between the strict licensing system for hunting, sporting and collector weapons in Sweden and the illegal import or manufacture of weapons used in criminal conflicts. This should be reflected in the legal framework. Madam President, I would like We and a majority in the committee believe that it is very important to combat illegal arms management and the serious crime in which these illegal weapons are used. In addition, Sweden must of course comply with common EU rules. However, if the government notes that the Swedish legislation already contains many of the requirements set out in the arms directive and the amending directive, and it is our understanding that the government's proposal goes beyond what the directive requires, including the regulation of weapons warehouses. In addition, the proposal runs the risk of increasing red tape and costs for legal arms holders without tackling illegal arms handling. As the majority of committees has pointed out in previous years, it is important that arms legislation is designed in a way that does not unnecessarily complicate hunting and shooting. There are also two announcements in our treatment. They are, on the one hand, about not over-implementing the directive and, on the other hand, about the rules on five-year licences. Sweden has a lot of legislation with extensive demands on those who want to buy and use weapons. It is important to have clear and clear rules and to have a proper examination of those who apply for an arms licence. However, if the committee has put forward, both now and on previous occasions, society should not make it unnecessarily difficult for careful hunters and shooters. As far as the issue of limited-term arms licences is concerned, the majority of the committee has also pointed out in the past that automatic beatings are being made on a daily basis against pressure and suspicion registers, which may lead to the withdrawal of arms permits. This, together with the other con clusions which may open a review procedure, is also highlighted by the government as sufficient to meet the Directive's requirement for regular review. We therefore support the committee's announcement to the government that it will return to Parliament in 2021 with a proposal to abolish fixed-term licences for fully automatic and single-handed weapons. Madam President, I would like I hope that the government will now take on board the message of today's debate and the announcements made earlier in order to implement an arms policy that takes strong action against illegal weapons and their use but simplifies for law-abiding and responsible arms owners. To make it more difficult for hunters and sportsmen by over-implementing EU rules seems counterproductive, because it does not remedy the problems that exist on our streets today with shootings, but instead creates unjustified frustration and problems for those who today are already dealing with weapons in a responsible manner. Once again, the message from a large majority in the committee to the government is that you will not get the grade for your work. Do it again and do the right thing next time!
i-2cdc13fb2589f3a7-563	Madam President, I would like As a social democrat, I have as the overall objective of my political commitment freedom, but not only for a few and nothing at the expense of others. It is never as easy as just saying that rules, laws and penalties mean freedom. In a society without rules, anarchy prevails and the right of the strong. On the contrary, excessive authoritarianism leads to a stifling freedom of subjugated citizens. Anyone who wants to have a free society for real must be able to say a lot of things on the one hand, and a lot of things on the other hand. On the other hand, let's balance things, see the nuances and r esonera in a way that may not get the most likes in social media. When I was a kid, I went to AIK games from time to time. I remember Black Army wearing sweaters that said, "May they hate us, only they fear us." I would like to see a Social Democratic campaign sweater with the text: May they call us boring, if they consider us sensible. Every time I have to think something in politics, I ask myself how freedom is affected – not only for some, but for everyone – even in this debate. Anyone who has just had a break-in at the home does not feel free. Many have witnessed the loss of something far greater than the economic value of someone's rooting, destroying and stealing in their homes. Now the government is proposing a new penalty for burglary. The offence includes theft which has occurred after intrusion into a dwelling or other similar accommodation. The penalty is proposed to be imprisonment for a minimum of one year and a maximum of six years. Now it is also proposed to take further action against theft leagues. A few people plunder houses for houses in a total lack of respect for the safety of honest people. They should face a powerful society and not be allowed to compromise people's confidence in the same. In assessing whether the the theft or the heel is serious, the proposed legislative text should take particular account of whether the offence has been committed as part of a systematic crime. As a staff or customer in a store, you should never have to tolerate that your freedom is restricted by serious harassment, threats or violence. Traders should feel that the police have both the ability and the power to stand up for them and their customers when people steal, threaten or destroy. I therefore hope that today we can decide on a new law banning access to stores. With this law, a person shall be prohibited from entering and staying in a store if, due to special circumstances, there is a risk that he or she will commit a crime in the store or seriously harass someone who is there. It is proposed that a person who violates such an access ban may be sentenced to a fine or imprisonment for a maximum of six months. If always there are parties who want to go further. But where do we draw the line? I was so moved this week when I was scrolling on Facebook and saw Jonas Gardell's update. He had put out a picture of Mark Levengood with the text and cute and a little strange. The perfect combo. And a heart. What the world would be poorer without any strange people! I can be alarmed by the sound of the debate today. We must let the odd, the uncomfortable and unpolished be among us if we want a free society. Already with today's proposal, non-prosecution can form the basis for a restraining order. I think we need to be very careful about restricting people's freedom of movement even further when it is not a question of criminal behaviour to be curbed. When I worked at the H yres guest association, I represented all sorts of members. Sometimes I met people who were a bit of my own and found it difficult to fit in. I just loved those contacts. I saw how their way of being often led to anxiety and excessive reactions from the environment. The way they looked, the way they talked, and the way they laughed could be scary to some people. Therese Wap p sell is a leader in the funkis movement in Uppsala and a true role model. She's a remarkable person who's taking the fight against f uncophobia. She often reminds us that those with neuropsychiatric disabilities often face prejudice and incomprehension. Sometimes I represented members who were severely harassed by neighbors. Then we went to the rent board to get the landlord to resign. But I am pleased that the rent board was there and judged on the basis of legislation based on a balance between people's right to housing and being themselves on the one hand and people's right not to be harassed on the other. Again, on the one hand, on the other. As a society, we must distinguish between big and small. We must stand up for the working environment of the shop staff and, at the same time, be a free society. We do so with this proposal. I'll finish with Winnerbäck's lines: It's a neat gang that's the best in the class. They sing nice, but punk is dead. And I can't make time. I'm sprawling and vulnerable and red. In so doing, I call for approval of the government proposal.
i-2cdc13fb2589f3a7-580	Madam President, I would like 14 659. This is the number of residential offences reported to the police in 2019. Behind every burglary, victims are hiding. They are the primary residents of the dwelling. Families with children who no longer want to come home from school or from the elderly are deprived of their security in their own home. In addition, there is increased insecurity in the neighborhood and among relatives and friends each time someone breaks into their home. This type of crime is easily obscured by serious violent crime. But it affects people a lot, and crime is often organised with branches across large parts of Europe. The police estimate that international theft leagues account for up to half of all residential burglaries. It is important to combat this type of crime more effectively. It is both to ensure that we are all safe in our own homes and to get to the networks that account for a great deal of crime. The Swedish Parliament has therefore repeatedly issued announcements to the government, the first already in 2015, to increase the penalties for housing offences and to introduce a special crime classification. It is in many ways shameful that it has taken so long for the government to deliver on this call. However, the fact that we are taking the decision today to introduce burglary as a special offence with a minimum sentence of one year's imprisonment, rather than the six months which today are the lowest punishment for grand theft, will have an impact on the ability of law enforcement authorities to combat these crimes. Madam President, I would like It was a Monday morning last year in August. A 90 - year - old woman was on her way home in central Västerås. Suddenly, a man appeared on a bicycle and grabbed her bag from the walker. Much suggests that this abuse would have been unsolved had it not been because the Västerås-burdened football player Victor Nilsson Lindelöf had been nearby and took up the hunt. The perpetrator was soon caught up and held until the police arrived. The other week, the verdict fell. The perpetrator was sentenced for aggravated theft to probation and to pay 5 000 SEK in damages to the woman. I don't think I'm the only one being provoked by the fact that whoever steals from an older defenseless woman can get away with such a low penalty. But it is an effect of the way the legislation is designed. The minimum sentence for grand theft is six months in prison today. As the starting point of the legislation is that prisons should be avoided as far as possible, it is often possible to impose sanctions other than prisons, such as probation. We Moderates are again proposing today, together with the Christian Democrats, that the minimum penalty for grand theft should be raised to one year in prison. The Swedish Parliament also decided this spring to announce that the judiciary should take a particularly serious view of crimes against the elderly. If moderate politics had been Swedish law, Madam President, this type of situation would have been assessed differently. Increased penalties for grand theft would also have an impact on the judiciary's ability to combat other types of theft that are often carried out as part of international organised crime, such as theft of car parts, boat engines and agricultural machinery. I would therefore like to ask for the approval of reservation 4. In the bill, the Government also proposes the introduction of a new law on access bans in stores, as the Riksdag has also announced to the Government on several occasions. The proposed provision focuses on situations where there is a risk that a person will commit a crime in the store or seriously harass someone who is there. However, people who are involved in disrupting the scheme are also a major problem for some shops. In addition to the negative effects on customer safety and the working environment of shop workers, the disruption, if it results in customers being scared away, can also lead to financial damage to the store. The Government should therefore return to the Riksdag with a proposal that the risk of disorder and damage could also lead to a ban on access to a store. We also see it as a shortcoming that the Government does not go forward with the proposal for a ban on access to libraries and bathing facilities, despite the fact that Parliament has also announced this to the Government. It should always be safe to visit the library or swimming pool. Unfortunately, reports of disorder and sexual harassment in these environments have been common in recent years. The Crime Prevention Council has mapped out the occurrence of crimes and disorder in libraries and swimming pools. The survey shows that most libraries and swimming pools report that crime and disorder of order create insecurity and adversely affect the operation. For many libraries and swimming pools, there are relatively few and mild events. However, in some places the disruption occurs more frequently and affects the work environment of the staff and the visitors' satisfaction and safety is negative. It is therefore gratifying, Madam President, that the Parliament today calls on the Government to return to Parliament during the year with proposals for a ban on access to swimming pools and libraries as well.
i-2cdc13fb2589f3a7-597	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 2. The year was 1995. Ingvar Carlsson was Prime Minister. Sweden became a member of the EU this year. Windows 95 is launched, and the construction of the Öresund Bridge begins. I myself started my second year at law school this year. Now I stand here 25 years later and will debate a bill whose origins just started in 1995. The present proposal is based on a long legislative case which has been dealt with several times by governments since a judgment of the Supreme Court in 1995 brought an end to the use of the ban. Over the years, a number of announcements have been made to the government, and now we finally have a bill before us proposing the introduction of the possibility of prohibiting access to stores. Madam President, I would like However, the preparation of the case has also dealt with access bans to other types of premises than shops, which are also particularly vulnerable to certain types of crime. These are libraries and bathing facilities. The existence of crimes at swimming pools and libraries is examined in Brå's report 2020:10. It is noted in the survey that a majority of swimming pools report that many different types of crimes are committed, including vandalism and sexual harassment. The police authorities have also shown in the past that sexual harassment at swimming pools is a significant problem. Nearly 80 per cent of the representatives of swimming pools believe that it is the same people who regularly account for crimes and disorder of order in the facilities. In our opinion, when both visitors and employees are exposed in a public environment, it should be taken into account if access bans are to be communicated to these premises as well, given that crimes committed are not minor, that the vulnerability is obvious and that, according to the information provided by the responsible manager, it is the same perpetrators who commit the acts. There are therefore sufficient grounds for the prohibition of access to these premises. Furthermore, work is already under way in the Government Office on this issue, and there should therefore be no problem in coming back already in 2021 with a proposal for a ban on access to swimming pools and libraries, as the committee is now announcing. Madam President, I would like Every year, a large number of residential break-ins are reported in Sweden, where homeowners are affected in six out of ten cases. The burglaries are often made by travelling theft gangs that move across the country and break into the country, systematically and organized. These relatively few criminals create insecurity, damage and costs for many. The individual's right to a protected sphere for both his or her physical person and property is fundamental to us Swedish democrats. The criminal justice system must therefore provide the individual with strong protection against such privacy restrictions. The Swedish democrats have repeatedly exercised about introducing a special crime classification for burglary theft. On several occasions, Parliament has also issued announcements to introduce a special crime classification for burglary theft with a minimum sentence of one year's imprisonment. It is therefore very positive that this too is dealt with in the bill. We Swedish democrats, like the Moderates and Christian Democrats, believe that there is every reason to raise the minimum penalty for grand theft from six months to one year in prison. We therefore believe that the government should urgently take action and return in accordance with Parliament's earlier announcement to increase the minimum penalty for grand theft.
i-2cdc13fb2589f3a7-609	Madam President, I would like The right to move freely is constitutionally protected, and limiting that right requires extremely strong reasons. The ban on access to stores proposed by the government is not proportionate to what a constitution actually gives for rights. We are very hesitant about the proposal that some people should be able to have access bans on shops. Shop theft is a big problem, and I fully understand the great discomfort that staff and customers can experience if a threatening or affected person enters the store. However, it is very unclear how this ban would work in practice and whether it would really provide the protection to which shopkeepers are entitled. Several heavy consultation bodies, Brå, the Prison Service, Courts of Appeal, the Swedish Prosecution Authority and the Swedish Association of Judges, simply reject the proposal as a whole, because the change is not proportionate to the freedom of movement of the Constitution. The Prosecution Authority is uncertain whether the legislation will lead to a real reduction in crime. Madam President, I would like The major problem is, in fact, all of the cooperation that takes place in shops and that there is a link between cooperation and employees being subjected to threats and violence in the workplace. The trend towards the so-called 24-hour society means an increased burden on workers socially, physically and mentally. Those who often work in the evenings and nights also work more often alone and are at greater risk of being subjected to violence and threats. It is in care work and service professions that there are the greatest risks, and the most vulnerable to risky cooperation are working women. More than one in five women in a LO job stated in LO's large work environment survey that they work alone and are exposed to risks every week. In 2018, a ban on cooperation in the CIT transport industry was introduced. But in trade, the problem remains. A major change must take place here. The Swedish Work Environment Authority's regulations governing cooperation were written in 1982. It was a year before I was born. When they were formulated, shops were open at shorter times, and cooperation was not at all as common as today. It was simply other times in the 80's. The Left Party believes that the rules on cooperation must be modernised and adapted to the current situation in the labour market. This is particularly true in the retail sector. It is better that we create safe working environments with many employees than that we try to ban some people from entering stores. I ask you to accept reservation 1.
i-2cdc13fb2589f3a7-616	Madam President, I would like This debate is, among other things, about an issue that is important to many people. This applies to traders who struggle to offer a safe environment for customers, employees and themselves. It is about trade staff who need to have a safe working environment. It is about staff at libraries and bathing facilities who should be able to do their job without threats and violence. And it's about us ordinary people who should be able to shop, bathe and borrow books without the risk of being drawn into situations where violence and threats occur. It is time to ensure that these needs are met. There is a need for the possibility of a ban on access as soon as possible. We can see that in today's society we have many different problems related to crime. What we are debating today is evidence of everyday crime affecting traders, employees and library staff, but also ordinary citizens. We Christian Democrats see a ban on access as a measure to further mark on the part of society against unacceptable behaviour and also as a means of improving the working environment for employees. The government's proposal concerns trade, but we would also like it to include the needs of bathhouses and libraries. Already today there is the possibility of a ban on access in connection with sporting events. It would be natural to quickly create the conditions for a ban on access for shops, bathing facilities and libraries as well. Many trade associations and trade unions are also asking for the possibility of a ban on access. Madam President, I would like Today, the government has finally submitted a proposal to Parliament to combat theft more effectively. The proposals in the bill are based on announcements made by the Moderates and Christian Democrats together with other parties in the Riksdag to the government, most of which were already during the last parliamentary term. Some of the announcements were made over five years ago, and the government has not returned proposals until now, with entry into force only in 2021. The delay in close to two terms of office between parliamentary decisions and implementation is not acceptable. It is a fact that theft crimes must be combated more effectively than they are today. Once a person is prosecuted and convicted for one or more crimes, the penalties must capture the seriousness of the crimes. Behind every undisclosed housing offence is a victim who has suffered a violation, first in his own home through the crime and then by a judicial system that is not perceived to react. We Christian Democrats and Moderates have long been calling for a new offence – burglary theft – with the lowest penalty of one year in prison. We therefore welcome the fact that the government is proposing this very thing in the bill. Thefts of car parts, boat engines and agricultural machinery and other theft crimes also cause great harm to individuals and companies and contribute to increased social insecurity. In order for more theft offences to be assessed as serious, we have proposed to clarify the penal provisions on gross theft and gross theft, so that it is clear that systematic elements are factors that should be taken into account in particular when assessing whether the offence is serious. It is therefore gratifying that the government in the bill meets us. However, we believe that this is not enough. In order to fight more forcefully also serious thefts other than house invasions, we have proposed that the minimum penalty for grand theft be raised from six months to one year in prison. We are now repeating that demand. Madam President, I would like In the bill, the government proposes the introduction of a new law prohibiting access to stores. This is something about which the Riksdag has on several occasions addressed announcements to the Government. However, the Government does not propose a ban on access to libraries and bathing facilities, although this has also been included in announcements to the Government. It should also be safe to visit libraries and swimming pools. Unfortunately, reports of disorder and harassment in these environments have been common in recent years. For some libraries and swimming pools, it is a matter of few and mild events. However, there are also facilities that are exposed more frequently and where the interference affects the working environment and also visitors' satisfaction. The government should therefore return to Parliament, in accordance with the announcement proposed in today's report, with proposals for a ban on access to bathing houses and libraries by 2021 at the latest. Madam President, I would like The Government's proposal to ban access to stores focuses on situations where there is a risk that a person will commit a crime in the store or seriously harass someone who is there. The memorandum on the basis of which the proposal is based proposes that a person be prohibited from accessing libraries even in situations where there is a risk that the person will substantially disrupt the activity or cause significant damage to the property without being a criminal offence. People who are involved in disrupting the order or who cause damage to property are also a problem for shops. In addition to the negative effects on customers and employees' safety and working environment, the disruption, if it results in customers being scared away, can also cause considerable financial damage to the store. The Government should therefore return to the Riksdag with a proposal that the risk of disorder and damage to property should also lead to a ban on access to stores. I support the committee's proposed announcement and also the motion of the Christian Democrats, but in this debate I only call for reservation 2.
i-2cdc13fb2589f3a7-631	Madam President, I would like The Thin Blue Line is a drama series that is shown in SVT and on SVT Play. I have only been able to see the first episode so far but look forward to seeing the rest. The series depicts everyday life for the police in a fairly realistic way, at least compared to many others, and not only for the police but also for others in society. The first section described how a local small business owner with a small shop was harassed. This is a problem which unfortunately exists in society. Small traders should be able, to a greater extent than today, to influence who is not allowed to stay in their store. If someone has harassed or stolen systematically, his freedom of movement must be restricted in a way that is not possible today. It is the small entrepreneurs who are most affected by this. The larger stores in shopping centres and the like often have security guards or other resources to manage security together. Being able to make such a change is therefore a matter of justice and an opportunity to create more security, not least in vulnerable areas. People operating in such areas must have the same right to security as people in more prosperous areas. Shop theft and harassment have long been a problem. Action has been taken, but we have not made it all the way. This will be a tool for the police to be able to move people who harass. These should no longer, as they are today, be able to stand and pretend that they have done nothing. Instead, we get this tool, and there can also be sanctions for those who violate the ban. The question is whether this restriction of freedom of movement is proportionate to the benefits. For the Greens, we see that this is necessary in order to create more security and that the benefits outweigh. A proportionality assessment should be carried out taking into account, among other things, whether it is small towns with a few shops and so on. In larger cities, freedom of movement is not restricted in this way. Madam President, I would like There are more parts in the bill, for example on burglary and to consider whether thefts and fences have been systematic. Attempts at heeling will also be criminalized. With this, I would like to call for the proposal to be approved. It is important to get these changes in place in order to create more security.
i-2cdc13fb2589f3a7-638	Madam President, I would like A lot of good memories start in a grocery store. For my part, I think about when I ran around among the grocery stores on Gotland and chased crayfish, which I know my girlfriend loves, before I would propose to her, or when my son just a few weeks ago appeared the first time he tasted fresh fruit. If the Members of this House, those who watch at home and also the President-in-Office go to themselves, there are certainly such memories where the taste experience makes you have that memory with you for the rest of your life. This debate is about the security of the places where these memories begin in some way: the shops – the security of the traders and shop owners who run the shops but above all the security of those who work there. The legislation we are discussing has, among other things, been initiated and strongly enforced by the Center Party and our member Johan Hedin, who is currently on parental leave and is at home doing his important job as a father. I would like to thank him for his work but also to point out the crucial role of the Center Party in this discussion and to call for the committee's proposal to be approved. Madam President, I would like Creating this ban on access to stores can have a huge effect. I know that because, in everyday life, I actually work in grocery stores. However, I am on leave now to serve as a Member of Parliament. For me, this is not just about legal text, but about standing up for friends, colleagues and competitors in the trade who suffer from insecurity in an industry that in many ways is incredibly tough. A work in stores is in many ways a work in the heart and center of society. Then you'll also see the backside of society. Too many shop workers testify to harassment, violence or threats of violence. That is certainly also why the Association of Trade Workers welcomes this legislation. Swedish Commerce also welcomes it. They have told us that four out of ten supermarkets say that they find it difficult to recruit staff as a result of crime. Swedish Commerce has also shown that SEK 7 billion was stolen from stores in Sweden during 2018 – money that could have gone to develop the store, fix that door like sheaves, hire a new employee who can develop the fruit and green department or build a buffer for worse times. Crime in commerce has consequences in the wallets but also in businessmanship, entrepreneurship, the willingness to work hard and the desire to develop at work, in the heart and in the mind. Madam President, I would like The fact that Swedish politics contains many different perspectives is fundamentally good. But the perspective that the Left Party and Linda Westerlund Snecker bring forward is to me as a liberal completely alien. I had hoped that Westerlund Snecker would have explained a little more to us in here and to the voters what values actually guide the Left Party when opposing this legislation. Why is the right of a person who, day after day and time after time, commits criminal acts in a store to continue visiting that store more important than the right to stand up for the ownership of the owner of the store and the right not to be violated for those who work there? Madam President, I would like I would like to point out that access bans may not be served if less restrictive measures can enable the purpose of the access ban to be met. I know what the trade is doing because I have seen it with my own eyes. This involves close cooperation with schools and sports associations. It is about prevention together with civil society and long and many conversations with young people and adults to create safe stores. But it also happens that the good will of the entrepreneur and the shop owner is not enough, but society's hard hold is required. That is what this legislation will mean. If a person sees a grocery store as his personal pantry or a hardware store as his private toolbox, society should be able to draw a line and say: You are no longer welcome to this store. Madam President, I would like Since Birger Jarl's peace laws, via Magnus Ladulås, his son's, Alsnö's charter and until today, politics has sought to consolidate the individual's right in law. It has not always been right, and all those who have said that they have stood up for property rights have certainly not always been right. But what is important to say in this debate is that, as we stand up for ownership so clearly, it is not radical or something new, but something that has been done for centuries – not radical in our country but fundamental for our country. It is correct, Madam President, that the ban on access would restrict the rights of some people. The right to visit a store for up to a year could be limited. But even the most fundamental rights we have can be limited if it is because someone breaks and violates the rights and freedoms of others. On the basis that it is right to restrict one person's freedom in order to safeguard another person's freedom, we must vote for this proposal. It's everyone's right to visit a store. But it is no one's right to steal or to violate and threaten personnel. We are free in our thoughts but not in our actions. But far from these philosophical reasonings and political convictions, this is about standing up for honest entrepreneurs and people who work in commerce. When we vote this evening later and then go home and eat supper, whether it is fast macaroni or crayfish from Gotland, we can be proud that we have actually stood up for these entrepreneurs and for all those who have many hours left to work in the cash register and on the store floor.
i-2cdc13fb2589f3a7-652	Madam President, I would like It is a long time's work that is coming to an end today. I had the privilege of contributing to this in this speaker's chair back in 2005. Then we were some parties– we, the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Center Party– who came up with the brilliant idea that it is not a human right to step into Ica Maxi or Coop Nära, eat chicken and just go right out. It is not a human right to steal from other people. There is no right of access to a store to steal where people try to conduct their business. It is a threat not least to the employees there. So for 15 years I have been trying to push this issue on the Liberal side. I would like to add, when it comes to saying that I started with this in 2005, that it was a few years with a bourgeois government. I have to look at my esteemed moderate colleague here and say that it was eight difficult years when I tried and tried, but it never really happened. But now it's coming, and it's very good that way. This is very important. Liberals welcome the fact that we are now finally being banned from access to shops on the ground that apply to those who are notoriously, systematically and with zero respect for others stealing and engaging in this kind of crime. As regards the rest of the report, which is supported by the Liberals, although the government has it on its table, we note that the ban on access should also apply to swimming pools, libraries and other public places that are important to ordinary people. My mother and daughters or someone else's mother or daughters should not have to be afraid to go to the library or swimming pool because they may be subjected to harassment, violence or abuse. These are places that are important for democracy and recreation, and they are for those who behave and not for those who misbehave. That is where we mark the need for the government to come back. Otherwise, quite important changes are taking place, as we now have a special classification for burglary and the same for a sharper view of fences. We started this debate with Gustaf Lantz from the Social Democrats referring to Winnerbäck, which I myself appreciate, and the need to be a little weird. After all, there is no shortage in this House at times, I was about to say. But what we are really facing with this whole report is that we are moving forward the positions that systematic theft should lead to the classification of grand theft. We from the Liberals think that is very good. It ties in with the Ass Show of Kasper and Jesper and J Onata, which drags around between all sorts of places and not just steal marmalade and bread. They go around and steal systematically, and it is also mentioned in this childish song that they steal gold. It is important, once again, that we mark that the system should lead to a much more stringent penalty. People who go into Ica and steal may have other problems, but we also have pure theft leagues that now face a little harder resistance. Adding this to other demands put forward by the Liberals to abolish quantity discounts and other things will lead to these people being locked up until they have behaviour that includes not going in and stealing other people's property at home or in stores. I support the proposal in the report, Madam President.
i-2cdc13fb2589f3a7-660	Madam President, I would like The proposal proposes changes to the competitive environment. The proposals amend the anti-competitive redress mechanism. It is proposed that the Competition Authority, as the first instance, should decide on competition damages. Today it is the Patent and Market Court that makes such decisions. The proposal also contains proposals for legislative changes needed to implement EU directives on compliance with competition rules. The Competition Authority's powers in the field of site investigations are also extended. A sanction is also imposed on companies that defy decisions during such an investigation. According to the Government's proposal, the Competition Authority is to decide on a non-competition fee and on an investigation fee at first instance. The decision shall be subject to appeal to the Patent and Market Court. Competition damages will therefore be examined and decided in three decision-making bodies instead of two as at present. The aim of the proposal is to harmonise the decision-making arrangements in Sweden with those in other EU Member States. The proposal is also considered to provide an opportunity for more effective supervision. I would like to point out that the Law Council has criticised the proposal. The Legislative Council considers that there are no circumstances in the proposal that indicate that the duration of proceedings for damages to competition is reduced. Instead, according to the Swedish Law Council, there is a risk that the processing times will be longer, both at the Swedish Competition Authority and at the courts. The proposal has, however, been welcomed by the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise and Almega, among others. The Moderates consider that it is natural to proceed with the proposal to increase the powers of the Competition Authority, but that the criticism of the Law Council must be taken very seriously. The proposal must not lead to longer processing times and less efficient processes. Therefore, we believe that the Government should continuously monitor, evaluate and reconnect with the Riksdag if the reform has led to more effective competition supervision or not. According to several business organisations, there is a need to review the possibilities of granting the Competition Authority the right to decide in cases of unfair competition by public operators, so-called anti-competitive public selling activities. According to a study by the Swedish Competition Authority, more than a quarter of the companies surveyed indicate that they face competition from public operators. Almost two thirds of these companies see this as a problem. The Moderates have previously pointed to the need to evaluate the rules on public sales that were introduced in 2010. It is of the utmost importance to ensure that there is no unfair competition between private and public operators. We therefore welcome the government to come back with proposals to extend the legislation so that the Competition Authority is given the opportunity to act also in cases involving unfair competition from public operators. Madam President, I would like I ask you to accept reservation 1.
i-2cdc13fb2589f3a7-668	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the Committee on Economic Affairs' report 2020/ 21:NU10 The powers of the Competition Authority. The moderate Member before me explained very well what this bill means, so I will not dwell on that. The report contains three reservations, and the Swedish Democrats are all behind them. For time winning, however, I only ask for the approval of reservation 1, Follow-up and extension of the Swedish Competition Authority's decision-making rights, from the Swedish Democrats, the Moderates and the Christian Democrats. Madam President, I would like Market economy is one of mankind's great wonders. Through economic freedom and the constant competition that this entails, people in the free world have made amazing progress. However, a functioning market economy can never be an uncontrolled and unregulated anarchy. At the bottom, we must have laws and rules that guarantee fair rules of play, and competition law is, in this context, a key pillar. Without effective competition law, the principles of the market economy are rapidly undermined by the emergence of anti-competitive cooperation and oligopolies. When this happens, the enemies of the market economy are rarely late in rejecting the whole market economy system. Let me be clear: socialism is never the answer. Socialism always leads, sooner or later, to bread queues and lack of toilet paper. Having said that, the Swedish Democrats welcome strong competition law. It is a perfectly natural idea for any friend of the market economy system. In the future, I also see how competition law will need to be modernised and broadened as our society changes rapidly in line with digitalisation. A growing number are becoming aware of the unpleasant oligopolistic situation in the digital field, where a handful of global megacompanies are ripping themselves more and more and eating up everything that comes into the way. According to 2 Chapter. Paragraph 7 of the Competition Act prohibits the abuse of a dominant position, but so far, for example, Google, Apple and a number of other companies through their monopoly position and dominance have been able to grab advertising revenue from others' works or charge usury prices so that people can sell apps, for example, via their infrastructure. Here I want to be clear once again: if you are a friend of the market economy as a system, you must also want healthy competition that also applies on the Internet. Unfortunately, Madam President, I see how many parties are sitting on their hands on these issues while in many other countries they have actually breasted up against the oligopoly. In Australia there is a bill that obliges Google and Facebook to replace local media companies that profit from. Google has responded by threatening to make its search engine unavailable in Australia. I don't think we should be afraid of that kind of threat at all. On the contrary, we must take the fight and fight hard. For me, national sovereignty is worth something. In this context, I would also like to take this opportunity to highlight my concern about how these particular technology giants have gained enormous power to carry out, and in fact carry out, large-scale electoral influence in democratic elections. It is not possible for the Competition Authority to prosecute but nevertheless a dystopian development that seems to me to grow to the great issue of freedom of expression today. Here too, all parties except the Swedish Democrats are sitting on their hands, possibly with the exception of the Social Democrats, who have so far welcomed and continue to welcome censorship of these online platforms. It is very typical of the Social Democrats: when you see that only opposition voices are silenced and closed down, you welcome this. However, I think there would have been another sound in the bark if it had been Social Democrats who were shut down. It is my view that social democrats all too often lack the ability to follow principles. Madam President, I would like As I said earlier in my speech, the Swedish Democrats are in favour of strong and clear competition law. This does not mean, of course, uncritically buying all the proposals that strengthen the power of the state in this area; the legislation must, of course, be accurate and fair. On this basis, we have a number of comments on the proposal that is currently on the table. In the Swedish Democrats' reservation 2, we believe that the government has so far not done enough to ensure that the Swedish Competition Authority's investigative and decision-making roles are separated. This is an issue that we intend to monitor and, of course, if necessary, have reason to come back to. In reservation 1 we mean, together with other parties, that there is much more to be done when private companies face competition from a public operator. We believe that there is reason to look at whether the Competition Authority should also be given decision-making rights in cases relating to anti-competitive public sales activities. To conclude, I would like to ask once again for the approval of reservation 1.
i-2cdc13fb2589f3a7-683	Madam President, I would like There are a number of issues on which we agree with the government, but I would like to highlight two areas on which we Christian Democrats believe that the government does not reach all the way and where there is a good chance of sharpening politics some. As regards the Swedish Competition Authority's decision-making rights, there are some things to improve compared to the Government's proposal. Basically, we are in favour of the Competition Authority being given increased decision-making rights; we believe that this is the right way to go. In particular, it can be assumed that it provides improved opportunities for the Authority to combat more effectively the behaviour of various public operators who are at risk of disturbing competition. Having said that, it is extremely important to keep the banner of legal certainty very high. One may have concerns that perhaps not everything that needs to be done has been done by the government in separating the investigation and decision-making role of the Competition Authority. The government claims to be safe. I don't like to be suspicious, but I still have to say that I'm not quite as safe. That is why we Christian Democrats believe that the government should take greater responsibility on this important issue. It is a matter of taking the necessary measures to ensure that the decision-making and investigative functions of the Competition Authority are separated in such a way that legal certainty is maintained. No one shall even have to reflect on the possibility of shortcomings in this point. Madam President, I would like On certain issues of anti-competitive public selling, there are some things to be said in this House. We can probably agree that competition is necessary, at least most of us who believe that a market economy is preferable to other systems. It is not a necessary evil, but a self-evident part of a healthy market economy. Through competition, companies create jobs and growth in our country and enable people to get a job to go to. We also know that many consider it self-evident that the state should be the guarantor of clear, predictable and fair laws and rules that should be equal for all. The state must also have a well-functioning control so that those who cheat are stopped and those who do the right thing get the chance to do their business on fair grounds. Then, however, we come to an area where there is a bit of a grey area and a lack of clarity in the approach of politics. We have far too many examples of public operators entering an already functioning private market to sell goods or services. I am thinking of several state-owned companies which carry on all or part of their activities on a non-commercial basis, and I am thinking of authorities selling goods and services. One example is the Prison Service's work operation Krimprod, which can, among other things, provide inmates with meaningful employment during the prison period and promote their adaptation to society outside the closed environment in which they live. So far, of course, there is nothing strange, but since several of Krimprod's services are offered in the open market, it becomes a strange situation. It is not possible for private companies to compete with a state organisation that has completely different conditions and, in this case, comparatively small labour costs. Unfortunately, this is a pattern that can be seen in more areas. It is not only at state level that we have this problem, but there are corresponding examples at regional level. I am not going to read long lists, Madam President, but apart from laundry activities, I can mention the ownership or operation of conference facilities, camping sites, printers and so on. Only with a very broad interpretation of the municipal core assignment – which usually goes under the triol care, school and care – can you link in camping or printing there. The Christian Democrats believe that it should be an obvious starting point that the public should not compete with private business. This should be the general rule. As always, individual well-motivated exceptions can be found, for example if a specific effort in a well-defined area is required to promote growth and development over a limited period of time. Against this background, we would like to see a survey analysing the extent of the public's competition vis-à-vis the private sector, so that appropriate proposals for change can be made on the basis of the analysis. I therefore propose that reservation 3 be approved.
i-2cdc13fb2589f3a7-691	Madam President, I would like The issue of the powers of the Competition Authority, which we are now debating, is important. The role of the Competition Authority is extremely important, although it may not sound like that in the title. If you go in and read on the Competition Authority's own side what the work is doing, it says that its task in the field of competition is to pay particular attention to the formation of cartels and to intervene against operators who abuse their dominant position in the market. The work carried out by the Competition Authority in the early 2000s concerned the formation of a cartel, in this case in the asphalt industry. It ended up with the Swedish Competition Authority calling for a competition damages fee of just over SEK 1 billion, which was very noticed in Sweden. There the work did a really important and good job. Madam President, I would like The report we are debating today proposes amendments to the Competition Act which change the mechanism of the panel for the examination of damages. Instead of today's Patent and Market Court, the Competition Authority will be able to decide at first instance on matters relating to the competition damages charge. This includes proposals for legislative amendments needed to implement what is essentially the 2018 Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council. It gives Member States' competition authorities powers that are more harmonised and enable them to more effectively enforce competition rules and ensure the proper functioning of the internal market. Among other things, the amendments increase the powers of the Swedish Competition Authority in the field of site surveys. A sanction is also imposed on companies which defy the decision of the work during the ongoing investigation of the infringement of which the company is suspected, known as an investigation charge. The Competition Authority is proposed to decide on the new investigation fee. All parties actually indicate that these steps forward are important and correct, even if they have views on details. Following a decision here today, the amendment will enter into force on 1 March 2021. Our government believes that it is crucial for the Competition Authority to be able to take all the necessary measures to carry out effective competition supervision together with other European competition authorities. The aim is, of course, to harmonise the system of decision-making in Sweden and what applies to other Member States. I support the proposal in the report and reject the reservations contained in the report.
i-2cdc13fb2589f3a7-698	Madam President, I would like The government has now put forward a proposal to increase the powers of the Competition Authority, and that is what we are debating now. Basically, it is good that the work has opportunities similar to those of its counterparts in other EU countries. We fully agree on this in committee. According to the proposal on the table, the Authority will be able to decide as a first instance on matters relating to damages of competition, on which several have intervened, instead of this being done by the Patent and Market Court at first instance. The hope is that this will lead to less waiting times. Our courts are burdened with quite a lot of work, which is why the lead times and queues are long. In addition, the Competition Authority's powers in place investigations of companies are extended. The authority also has the right to decide on an investigation fee, which means that it is able to do so in cases where companies defy the work's decision during a specific investigation and may not want to give up requested material and documents. The Competition Authority is also proposed to decide on the new investigation fee. Basically, we have the Competition Act, which exists to counteract things that may damage competition between companies. These are mainly anti-competitive cooperation, abuse of a dominant position and mergers. The company or companies that violate the bans may be subject to sanctions. The Competition Act was supplemented in 2010 by rules allowing competition disputes to be settled when the State, a municipality or a region sells goods and services in competition with private operators. They are called KOS rules in our official or political language. They complement the prohibitions of anti-competitive cooperation and abuse of a dominant position. I am delighted that these rules were introduced – by Maud Olofsson, who was the Minister of Economic Affairs at the time, and the Alliance Government – because there was a great need for them. I was at the time a municipal politician in Skellefteå, and unfortunately there were then and even before many cases where the municipality's companies distorted competition. I remember so well that Skellefteå bus drove shopping tours to Ikea in Sundsvall with coffee and all that it was. It ended later. Other examples are municipal gyms and cafes, which were and still are reality in several municipalities. The problem then, I experienced, was that many companies did not dare complain loudly about this. They said it between bowl and wall, but they did not dare complain because Skellefteå Municipality dominated the market for industrial properties and business premises. They did not want to conflict with the municipality's management, because that would perhaps put you at a disadvantage when it came to different types of premises. It's gotten much better. We have a very good councillor in Skellefteå. He's sosse, but he's still very good. Even if I'd rather have seen someone else, I still have to give it to him. Ten years have passed since these rules were introduced, and the Swedish Competition Authority says that they have worked well. They have also impeded part of the distortion of competition between the public sector and the private market. But there are still problems in some places. I hope that we can come back to the House and discuss proposals where we have ground the rules. It is always important to review and see how we can do things better.
i-2cdc13fb2589f3a7-709	Madam President, I would like Actually, I wish the Competition Authority did not have quite as much work as they do. The Competition Authority has an extremely important role to play in ensuring effective competition in private and public activities for the benefit of consumers. Effective public procurement should also be promoted for the benefit of the general and market players, and cartel formation and unfair competition should be stopped. With today's system, where everything in the public sector is to be procured, it is of course extremely important to keep track of that it is done in a fair and transparent way. But it is also important that procurements be given political control in the form of collective agreements, environmental objectives and so on. Contracts should not only be about the cheapest or most accessible, but should also lead to improvements for several. One example of how important it is that we have the Swedish Competition Authority is Region Stockholm's relationship with the healthcare company Kry. Region Stockholm, which today is led by the Moderates, the Center Party, the Liberals, the Christian Democrats and the Green Party, has thus given Vårdguiden 1177 directives to refer certain incoming calls to the healthcare company Kry. This is without any tender being made. The references went only to Krys app. No other healthcare companies or the region's own app received references. It is a clear example of how distorted competition works, but also of the fact that the more areas where the public meets the private, the more control it needs to have in order to ensure that it takes place without corruption. Last Monday, Region Stockholm was notified to the Swedish Competition Authority by the Left Party. This proposal proposes that the Competition Authority should be given more powers on the basis of an EU proposal. It proposes amendments to the Competition Act which, inter alia, amend the anti-competitive redress mechanism. The Competition Authority shall be able to decide, at first instance, instead of the Patent and Market Court, on matters relating to the distortion of competition. This will probably lead to shorter processing times. I support the committee's proposal.
i-2cdc13fb2589f3a7-714	Madam President, I would like I thank you for an important debate on competition, a well-functioning market economy and how we ensure that there are no monopolies or other activities that threaten competition and the efficient market economy. Madam President, I would like I should like to begin by stating one thing which has not so far come up in the debate. It is that, historically and in reality, most harmful monopolies or constellations similar to monopolies arise and have arisen as a result of the state's involvement in the economy in Sweden and other countries. Thresholds are created through tough taxes or too tough regulations and ensure that it is difficult for new entrants to enter the market and compete. In fact, in a pure market economy with capitalism, that is, universal and equal ownership, it is very difficult for monopolies to arise. They usually occur after the state interferes. Given this, the best policy would be to combat barriers to competition and ensure that there is more competition and, of course, to combat monopolies, to lower the thresholds for new entrants to enter and compete. It would be to reduce taxes and make it more profitable to invest in new ideas and to employ, less hassle and lower thresholds to compete. This is also the way to ensure that the market works from a political point of view. But, Madam President, there are of course times when there is a need for state intervention. In Sweden, we do this with the Swedish Competition Authority, among other things. The Liberals are behind what we are discussing in this House today. We also think that there is a need for a great deal of efficiency in this area. There is a need for shorter lead times and shorter queues and a better way to handle the Swedish Competition Authority's work. Therefore, the Competition Authority also needs better powers. Nevertheless, I would like to remind you that the big problem if you want more competition is that it is difficult for new entrants to enter the market if there are too many barriers. Madam President, I would like In the debate here, there has also been criticism of the fact that, for example, municipalities operate laundries or cafés or other activities that might actually be run privately and in a competitive market. I fully share that criticism. This type of activity is far beyond the core of well-being and what municipalities and the public should be concerned with. You should do what's at the core of the mission and do it better. There are very few places where you run that mission so well and have such low taxes and so on that it is justified to engage in frill business such as laundries or cafes. For my personal part, I would like to see that activities that are so far beyond the core of well-being in this type of direction should not be carried out. But, Madam President, no matter what I personally know and no matter what would be the most effective in a market, some of this must be up to the municipality and the municipal self-government to govern. Me and the Liberals are very open to continue this discussion in the future. We need to get rid of these anti-competitive activities, and it is clear that it is embarrassing when politicians think they can run cafes better than the market does.
i-2cdc13fb2589f3a7-723	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of Amendment No 9 and, in addition, for the committee's proposal to add the letter of the Government to the record. I call for all motions and other reservations to be rejected. The State-owned companies each have an important role to play in their own right and, for each of them, state ownership can therefore be justified. The state-owned company portfolio consists of 46 companies, of which 39 are wholly owned and 7 are jointly owned. In total, they employ 129 000 people throughout the country. Several of these companies have been set up as business activities by an authority and then moved to become state-owned companies. It is therefore when the public sector has noticed a shortage or a need that the company has started. It has simply been taken into its own hands, started and run the business and thus not had to wait or rely on the market. We know that when the market controls almost always it is the economic interest of an increased profit that takes precedence over everything else. Of the 46 state-owned companies, almost half have a community assignment that we in Parliament have jointly decided on. This means that, in addition to the objective of increased economic profit, these companies also have other objectives which they must give at least the same priority. For example, we have the company Apotek Produktion & Laboratories, which manufactures and provides specially manufactured medicine and ensures that we have medicine for everyone throughout the country. The Royal Dramatic Theatre and the Royal Opera also have both community assignments. They offer high artistic quality and ensure that we all have access to this form of culture. The main purpose of ownership is to secure important functions for society and to benefit everyone. The driving force is always that it should be for everyone's good, from both a long-term and a short-term perspective. We will never give up ownership or sell an existing company because there are those who, for ideological reasons, believe that the state should not own companies at all. Nor will we acquire companies or retain companies in state ownership when this does not serve any purpose or purpose. Our main driving force is and will always be our common best. We secure this by being an active and responsible owner and manager. Through our joint ownership, we can promote and prioritise what benefits the owners, that is, the entire Swedish people. We will show that it is possible to run companies with good working conditions, ethical investments and sustainable thinking at all stages and that it is possible to be an employer that does not exclude or discriminate. When it comes to working conditions and wage levels, state-owned companies must always make tough demands at all stages. There should be no excuse for not having sufficient transparency on the part of subcontractors. If we can make visible in owner directives and through the companies' managements that there are problems in several different industries, we can then also work together to solve them. The concept of sustainability contains a great deal. Our companies are not only working to reduce the amount of emissions and increase the quality of the services produced. We have also included in the concept of sustainability the well-being of staff, reducing sick leave and eliminating workplace accidents. In this area, there is still a great deal to be done, but at least we are on the right track. For example, LKAB, which is today the world leader in iron ore production, recently came with the news of a new venture to reset. The new strategy will lead to zero emissions from its own production from 2045 onwards. When it comes to exclusion and discrimination, the Government aims to create a gender balance within all companies' boards and management. The requirement is that the proportion of men and women should be at least 40%. The annual report for 2019 shows that the gender balance in the boards of state-owned companies was 48 per cent for women and 52 per cent for men. By comparison, the distribution on the boards of listed companies was 34 per cent for women and 66 per cent for men. Without the clear directives in the ownership policy, state-owned companies would probably have had similar figures. We cannot expect or believe that one day we will wake up in an equal and equal society without actively working for it. All major and lasting changes in society have come out of a long time of hard work and commitment. This is something that we Social Democrats have a history of being a part of and something that our Social Democratic-led government does by, on the one hand, showing the way as a pronounced feminist government, and, on the other hand, being an active and committed steward. Madam President, I would like As I mentioned earlier, it is an important function of society that the state owns companies. As the report shows, there is criticism of this. It is believed that the state sits on double chairs as both owner and legislator – that the government would act as judge and player in the same game. If we're going to stick to game metaphors, I think better about the parable that in a game where the state companies belong to a team, the government is their coach, who stands by the side line, making sure that the right player is in the right position and speaking tactics. Wins the team with the state companies will all benefit from that profit, no matter which team you have cheered on. I would also like to remind you that all state-owned companies operate under the same laws and rules as the other listed companies in our country. There is no sour cream or specific rules for state-owned companies that would give them a more favourable position on the market. If things are going very well for most state-owned companies, this is more a sign of good leadership and direction than of there being benefits or reliefs that other companies are not allowed to take part in. Madam President, I would like The last year has been and still is a trial for everyone in our country. The current pandemic has limited our private and family life. Our work and study lives have changed. Both workers and employers have been affected. It's a tough life we're in. But we now have a vaccine, and the vaccinations are going on throughout our country. If we all pull together, together we will be able to get out of this faster and hopefully with fewer losses. We simply have to endure. The broad and large support decided upon by the Government and the Riksdag is unprecedented in modern times of peace. For example, employees have been reached by an improved unemployment fund and employers by the possibility of short-term lay-offs and rental facilities. Through short-term lay-offs, Swedish workers have been able to keep their jobs instead of losing them, while the companies have been given the breathing space they need. The pandemic has hit everyone, both state-owned and listed companies and small businesses. Among the state-owned companies, for example, SJ and SAS have felt the changes in travel habits we have received, and they have therefore had to cancel several of their departures. But there are also many examples of good initiatives where companies have tried to contribute in the way they can. There is Vattenfall, who has donated oral protection to the care. This pandemic is clear proof that, in reality, the Social Democratic Government is here for everyone, both small businesses and large limited companies, both employees and employers. We are pursuing a policy that leaves no one out of it. When we talk about solidarity, we mean it at all times and at all levels. Madam President, I would like The Social Democrats maintain that we have a responsibility to meet the needs of the Swedish people for a secure and stable society. We also have a responsibility for it to apply to everyone, regardless of where in our elongated country you live or how much money you have in your account. Through state-owned companies, we have historically been able to secure the right to various important social functions that the market has not been able to offer. We have done this to ensure that the whole country will live, from the most sparsely inhabited parts of Sweden to the most urban environments outside our parliament. We do this best by continuing to have state-owned companies and by being committed and active managers with the people's best interests as a purpose and constant driving force.
i-2cdc13fb2589f3a7-747	Madam President, I would like The main task of the State is to set out the framework and rules that apply to the business sector, not to own and operate companies. It's a good basic principle to carry with you. On the other hand, in some cases there are reasons for the State to own and operate in company form, including where there is a specific social mission. I would like to emphasise the word, in particular, here. The state is a major owner and will continue to be so for the foreseeable future. It places high demands on clear principles, wise governance and responsibility. The state-owned companies should focus on creating long-term values, and the state should be an active, professional and responsible owner, especially in those companies that have just a social mission. The last year has been tough. The Coronapandemia has struck with full force against Sweden and the world. Many have been severely affected, not least by business. Many companies have lost large parts of their revenues but remain with costs for salaries, premises and more. To support the business community in this difficult time, the Riksdag has decided on a number of support packages, which the Moderates have essentially supported. This is a time for gathering and action, but some support has had obvious problems. One example is the discount on rental costs, where landlords are compensated by the State if they lower the rent for their tenants. The state has not set an example here. Here, the state has not shown its strength and its power of action. On 25 March 2020, Minister for Financial Markets Per Bolund stated that the government should set an example and grant its tenants a rent reduction. Unfortunately, that was not quite the case. One example is the state-owned Jernhusen, which owns railway properties. Jernhusen did not allow for a reduction in rent until the Moderates raised the issue in the Riksdag's Committee on Economic Affairs. Exactly this points to the government's poor governance of state-owned companies. What Per Bolund said on 25 March 2020 should be a matter of course, not a loose wish. Against this background, we believe that the government should be given the task of analysing the governance of state enterprises and how it can be developed for the better. I think it's the least you can ask for. Recently, government companies and authorities have taken a completely different place in the social debate than before. The obvious mission to implement the decisions taken has now been complemented by more people taking the place to influence the development of society. Freedom of expression and of the press is a matter of course, including for state authorities, service providers and companies. I think we can all agree with that. However, it becomes deeply problematic if you act as Systembolaget did when they tried to influence the members of the Riksdag before a decision on the farm sale of alcohol. This type of violation shows that it is time to clarify where the boundaries are between freedom of expression and the formation of public opinion. That is why I would like to support Amendment No 7. Madam President, I would like State-owned companies should be examples – I have mentioned this before – and this applies to both management and governance. State-owned companies shall not exercise a dominant position or otherwise contribute to unfair competition against other operators: This has become even clearer, if possible, following a review by Svevia. The review raised questions about unhealthy business culture and possible exploitation of dominant positions. This shows how important it is for the government to ensure that state companies act as examples. That is why, Madam President, I would also like to support the committee's proposal for a decision under paragraph 5. The government should be given the task of ensuring that state-owned companies act in such a way that fair competition is maintained. The last point I would like to make in this speech is that the Swedish gambling market has been re-regulated. On the market, there are now several different actors in addition to those where state-owned Svenska Spel also continues to have a monopoly. The main political task is to take responsibility for the rules of play and other regulatory issues as well as to take responsibility for the gaming activities in which the state has a monopoly. On the other hand, we see no reason why the state should long-term own those parts of Svenska Spel that operate in the competitive gaming market. We therefore believe that the Riksdag should authorise the Government to reduce and eventually phase out this ownership. This should, of course, be done in a responsible manner, and it should be ensured that it is done at a reasonable price. Account should be taken of the business and its employees and ensure that the payment is used to amortise the public debt. That is how I believe responsibility is taken.
i-2cdc13fb2589f3a7-761	Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, at the turn of the year, Ringhals 1 was closed. Two weeks later, Vattenfall notified the Radiation Safety Authority that the reactor was finally decommissioned. It is a sad development, and this happened despite the fact that there were stakeholders who wanted to buy the reactor for continued operation. In Sweden, nuclear power has had to take a fading life under the red-green government, something that has happened in contrast to the strong opinion of the electorate on nuclear power and in contrast to the fact that nuclear power has increased globally in each individual year in the corresponding period. As late as 2012 and under the alliance government, Vattenfall was working on replacement reactors, and an application had been submitted to the Radiation Safety Authority as part of this work. The intention was precisely to analyse the conditions for future investments in new reactors, and work began to develop regulations for these requirements. There was also interest in the construction of a fourth-generation nuclear research reactor, which received great attention during the electoral movement at the time. However, this changed drastically after the elections, when the Red-Green Government in its first budget ordered Vattenfall to stop the work on replacement reactors. There was no question of a research reactor, and funds for energy research would not go to nuclear research. It is difficult not to draw a parallel to the former so-called ban on thought, which has been over nuclear power in Sweden and has stopped its development in the near future. Because, Madam President, neither the Social Democrats nor the Green Party seem to have ever thought that there is and was a reason why nuclear power is built in southern Sweden, close to a large part of the electricity consumption in the country. In order for us to have sufficient transmission capacity from north to south, nuclear power as planned power generation has helped to keep the voltage up and thus also the transmission capacity. If this production is reduced, transmission capacity will also decrease and the network will become more unstable, with the indirect consequence that electricity price differentials will increase within the country. For example, the spot price in southern Sweden was almost ten times as high as the system price that applied to the whole country in July summer 2020. There have never been such large price differences since Sweden was divided into four electricity price areas, which made it possible for the reserve power plant in Karlshamn to burn heavy fuel oil on a commercial basis in the middle of high summer. Swedish power networks were then forced into bilateral agreements for the operation of the Ringhals 1 nuclear reactor, which is owned by Vattenfall. It was possible for summer 2020, but it will not be possible for the coming summer. The completion of the decision to close down thus contributes to the state, with its wholly owned energy company, now impairs Swedish security of supply and reduces the margins of the power system and makes it more unstable, which risks destroying the conditions for energy-intensive industry and for the social development that most parties want to see around electrification. This is something that can lead to significantly greater socio-economic consequences than a more possibly limited additional cost of continued operation would have meant. Madam President, I would like At the same time, a large part of Europe's energy supply remains fossil-based – in many cases coal-fired power plants. Swedish nuclear power is clean and stable in relation to the alternatives for planned power generation. This would have been a great effort, not least for the climate, as fossil-based production could have been pushed away. This could have been done in the form of electricity exports or for use in the Swedish industry. For example, if the amount of coal power corresponding to the production of electricity from the reactors that have now been closed prematurely in Vattenfall had been suppressed, it would have meant emission reductions equivalent to emissions from all car traffic in Sweden for a full year. However, for some parties it has obviously been more important to close nuclear power and fossil-free power generation than to save the climate and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The Swedish democrats think that it would have been very reasonable for a wholly-owned state-owned energy company to have looked primarily at the country's energy supply rather than at the economic profits of the individual company at the cost of major socio-economic damage. Our entry has therefore been that it should have acted by giving Vattenfall ownership directives to stop the early decommissioning of the Ringhals nuclear reactors. We think this would have been a good policy for Sweden's households and industry, but above all for the climate. Especially when we can now see that industry by industry wants to reduce its fossil dependence precisely through electrification, it is clear that we will need much more electricity in the future and not less. To conclude, Madam President, I would like to endorse reservation 11 in the report.
i-2cdc13fb2589f3a7-772	Madam President, I would like I support the Center Party's reservation 4 in paragraph 3, which deals with the long-term ownership of the state. The Swedish economy is characterised by the fact that we have a variety of company forms and types of ownership. The state is an actor among many. The basic structure of the Swedish business community is mixed economics, which has proven to serve the country well. The Center Party does not consider it a core task for the state to own and operate businesses, but in some cases it may be justified. As has been mentioned earlier, there is a built-in problem of state ownership in essence. It is a problem that you are both legislators and corporate owners. There was also a reason for complementing the Competition Act in 2010 with public activities competing in private markets – including the State. It would hardly have been done if everything were solidarity and great. On the other hand, we do not think that we should sell all companies directly. We have some state-owned companies that have social mandates or are important from a security policy perspective. That must also be taken into account. In addition, the State is a major shareholder and will be a major shareholder for the foreseeable future. It is therefore important that the owner operates the companies in a long-term, professional, value-creating and sustainable manner. Many of the state-owned companies have worked very much with climate change, and they will be involved in implementing Sweden's commitment in, for example, Agenda 2030. We know that many companies do this very well and that they see both climate benefit and business benefit. But the Center Party's basic view is that the state as owner should ask itself whether the market itself can solve the task of a state company. Then we'll try it. However, just as we cannot rule out sales, we cannot completely close the door to acquisitions or to the creation of new companies. It may also be necessary, but everything must be tested commercially and with social and market benefits as a guiding principle. Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, for a long time we have seen how it has deteriorated in terms of services and jobs in rural areas. In fact, the state bears a great responsibility here. I think that we could use state-owned companies more to supplement weaker markets. In fact, the state has great opportunities through its companies to conduct a regional development policy, through forward-looking corporate governance. As an example – I have mentioned this in previous debates, but it is still as topical – I can mention SBAB Bank. It is a wholly-owned public limited liability company that competes with other banks. Not many years ago, SBAB, with the blessing of the then Minister of Economic Affairs Mikael Damberg, decided in practice to leave business customers north of Dalälven. In other words, SBAB no longer wants business customers in rural and small towns. Now it is Stockholm, Gothenburg and Malmö as well as major growth or higher education locations that apply. One might wonder why the state should own SBAB when the company only exists in functioning markets. If you ask me, I do not think it is particularly joint and several that half the country is excluded. Another example that I am considering is the state-owned venture capital company Saminvest, which was founded in 2016. Inland Innovation AB was to be phased out. 2000 million were previously invested in venture capital for northern Sweden, Värmland and Dalarna. But even after a few years it began to live again. I remember being very new to the Committee on Economic Affairs. Then both environmentalists and social democrats began to talk about how unjust it was to invest as much as 2 billion in northern Sweden. That money wasn't used. It takes quite a long time to inform companies that they exist and then make the necessary investments, but this was not taken into account. Instead, Inland innovation was phased out, and the money went to Saminvest, which now has its headquarters in the inner city of Stockholm instead of in Östersund, as before. We know that there is already a lot of private venture capital in Stockholm and the Mälardal area, but this is not the case in rural areas and northern Sweden. There the banks are not very keen to lend money to entrepreneurs. This is evident not least in Corona days, when entrepreneurs are turned down by the bank when it comes to loans to the company. But the bank will be happy to lend if the entrepreneur takes a loan on his house instead, i.e. privately. I think it's a little strange. Now it is four years since Saminvest was formed, and not once have I heard either the Green Party or the Social Democrats say a single word about Saminvest's activities. What about Saminvest – do you invest in the whole of Sweden? You've had quite a few years now. Actually, I doubt it. Since the interest may not have been huge before, I hope, with this small input, that we in the committee can together invite Saminvest, who may be able to talk about how you have invested in the whole of Sweden. Because that's what was meant to be, isn't it? Otherwise, it's not exactly solidarity, is it? Finally, I have to say a few words about the policy of state-owned companies, and there is also a specific code of conduct for some of them, especially for the larger ones. Sveaskog has, in addition to the ownership policy of the state, its own code of conduct. It's important how you relate not only to decisions made by parliament and government but also to communication with the people you do business with, the local people simply. Unfortunately, I have to say that it has not always worked very well. I really hope that there are only a few exceptions and that Sveaskog is also careful to implement its own code of conduct. It's about the hunting lease, where people who have had leases for 50 years suddenly get rid of them without the company wanting to communicate with the individuals at all. People are desperate and call us MPs. I have received calls from all over Sweden, so this is not just a case. There are plans for national parks that affect forest owners, who get very worried. Then I have another very good example from Lessebo Municipality. The municipality, I heard just now, wanted to create a new industrial area next to its existing. The municipality then contacted Sveaskog because they owned the land next door. The municipality suggested a change of land. It was 34 hectares of stony land that the municipality wanted from Sveaskog, but to make the change Sveaskog wanted to have back 87 hectares of fine forest land. I don't think that's very nice, especially since the municipality has spent several million on preparing the operating land. Very well. Then, in the case of Lessebo, it should be added that the Public Employment Service has in the meantime closed its office there, and it is perhaps not surprising that the municipal management does not think that the state accepts its joint and several responsibility. The state's companies should of course be run with profitability and sustainability, according to the regulations and instructions that exist, but the examples I have mentioned show the importance of dialogue, that is, a dialogue that works. As I said earlier, it should not only be with those who give owner instructions, but also with people throughout the country who are directly and locally affected by companies' activities.
i-2cdc13fb2589f3a7-790	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating state-owned companies, in the form of a government letter. It is simply a statement of companies with state ownership. In the letter, the Government states that it will actively manage the state's assets in the form of the shares of the companies with state ownership so that their value development and return will be the best possible, given a balanced risk-taking, and ensure that the specifically decided social mandates are carried out well. In order to achieve this, the Government states in the letter that it is important to give the companies the conditions and opportunities to develop and continue to compete in their markets. It also states that it is important that the state is an active, professional owner with a focus on long-term value creation. Sounds great, doesn't it? Madam President, I would like Let me first make it clear that the report that we are going to debate contains so many companies and challenges that I do not have time to clarify the Left Party's view of how we view the governance of everyone, but I will try to make some important dives. As far as the specifically decided social missions are concerned, I will return to one of them. I'll start with the flagship of Vattenfall. The fact that we have a state-owned energy company is, I believe, very valuable in the transition to a renewable electricity system. To lower the return requirement a little so that the environmental objectives can also be achieved and so that you can better count home investments at home would be something that one could proudly write in the history books, for example n is SBAB has been mentioned here before. It is the bank that the state owns but which withdrew from the periphery to exist only in larger places where there is definitely no lack of competition. How clever was that? Or the Post, which the Center Party chose to play a deal with-- how successful has it been? Hand to heart, my colleagues! In the case of Postnord, as it is now called, they chose to join Denmark's post, which at first had completely different terms of employment. And geographically the country looks anything but the same compared to our elongated country, where it is very sparsely populated and where it is still not possible to digitise due to a lack of functioning infrastructure for the purpose. Then I could lift up other companies where the state is a whole or a part-owner and could definitely increase the value of exports and social benefits with a more active commitment and not always be afraid of bourgeois criticism of distorted competition or, for that matter, the EU's criticism of state aid rules. Not to mention LKAB as a northern resident would probably be misconduct. I just note that it feels great to follow the news headlines – you really go all-in to make steel production in Sweden fossil-free. Then there are municipalities that do not understand their role in the matter. Then you're thinking, what does he mean by that? Well, when municipalities choose to slow down wind farms with their veto, they actually undermine the hydrogen strategy that is a prerequisite for LKAB to be able to complete the plan on fossil freedom and for us to have sustainable mining production that lives up to the high climate targets that they are actually trying to have. Indeed, the belief that cheap political points at home are the protection of the environment may cost us a failure in a much larger project. I'm just saying, don't forget that out there in the municipalities! Madam President, I would like In order not to forget to ask for our assent, I do so now, that is to say, in favour of our reservation 15. Of course, I support all our reservations, but for time-winning, I only support it. Now back to the specifically decided community missions. Sveaskog was commissioned in 2002 to sell 10 per cent of the area it owned at the time of its formation. I myself have been in the group that carried out a follow-up and evaluation of how the social mission was carried out and whether it was as the Riksdag decided on the current goals of the sale. These 10% will certainly be reached. However, I strongly doubt that it would have strengthened individual agriculture and forestry with better livelihoods and development in rural areas. Clearly they did not care about the ambitions with which the idea was sold to Parliament, i.e. that rural areas, rural areas and local people would be winners. No, it has become an investment opportunity for those who have money squalpandes, and there the forest is of course a safe location. Madam President, I would like I'm going back to Sveaskog. No one who follows social debates or is interested in forest, reindeer nutrition or Sveaskog in general has well missed the headlines about the CEO who had to go with immediate effect. Of course, I will not take a position on the specific event today. But I will comment on a few things. Sveaskog as a state-owned forest company with relatively large forest holdings should be able to take into account values other than specific timber value. That's something the owner should be able to control, isn't it? Of course, consideration will affect the outcome of the return, but we can afford that in the country. It is therefore not reasonable for Facebook groups to control what is protected forests or what can be harvested and by what methods. I come from the forest and have worked throughout my working life, before the parliamentary mission, in the forest and in that industry. I would like to insist that I live close to the various industries concerned or affected by how the forest is managed and managed. Sveaskog can and should, or even should, act in some other way in those places where conflicts of interest are evident. But without the right sense of fingertip, this will add to conflicts that are completely unnecessary and ultimately disadvantage forestry as a whole. You should remember one thing, namely that there are forces out there that have a completely different ambition than that forestry should be able to coexist with other industries and that we should have active forestry. These other actors are riding on the conflicts, and they are taking advantage of the opportunity and putting on hold something that, in the long run, is disadvantageous to all parties who need to work together in these areas. We who live and work in these forest areas with reindeer farming, tourism and forestry should also be able to have active forestry, but thus not said that we should fell in exactly the same way as we have always done in areas where several will coexist. Madam President, I would like I must draw your attention, for example, to images that are distributed in the field. Pictures of the skin are displayed and compared to deforestation in the Amazon. And the New York Times publishes pictures of a greenery where the text explains that Sweden's forests are being destroyed and not replaced with forests but with plantations. Of course, the scallops are ugly, and you can limit their size in many ways. There are rules in the certification system for this already today. But why aren't there pictures of the huts that were bare 50 years ago and what the forest looks like there today? Because there's forest there today. Further claims that are often thrown out are that forestry would be bad for the climate. It's completely wrong. When the whole is counted in terms of what forest raw materials can replace in the form of other fossil products, it is a climate-smart activity. But there are, of course, both good and bad examples of felling, whether it is a matter of horticulture or continuum forestry. The word natural forest has begun to be used extensively. I have seen forests that have just been named. But when I look at the history, these stocks have been both cleared and culled. Are they what they are said to be? I agree that these stocks, as described, are fine and may be important for other values. But human influence has contributed to the fact that the stocks are what they are; you do not get away from that. I realise that I will not be able to convince you of the excellence of forestry today. But I'm more than happy to be available to help take out your decision-makers, so that you can see good examples of community practice and then also good examples of more gentle methods that work, and of course some examples of what absolutely doesn't work. I would not be able to look myself in the mirror if I did not do my utmost to give my grandchildren the same conditions to use the fantastic renewable resource that the forest actually is and everything that it can give us in the transition to fossil freedom and circular economy, but of course at the same time as we fix biodiversity and climate goals. The same is true if I did not do my utmost to get a consensus and consensus with the other industries operating in forest areas. We must also be able to coexist with active forestry. But remember that the solution then is a state-owned forest company that actively manages and uses forests in a sustainable manner and combines this with biodiversity, but at the same time, public confidence is widely enjoyed at home by all of us who live and work in these forest areas, and not controlled by groups that collect tens of thousands of signatures via digital platforms, where most of the signatories are not actually affected by the industries. But, Madam President, I would like to point out that we must not then start with further sales of our common forests, which many bourgeois politicians are actually pushing for.
i-2cdc13fb2589f3a7-824	Madam President, I would like We Christian Democrats think it is important to review public activities and how they are justified over time. The state currently owns 46 companies, and we need to consider whether all these activities are really suited to owning the state. The task of the State should be to set out the framework and rules applicable to business and businesses. The task should not be to own and operate companies. On the contrary, entrepreneurship should be reduced or phased out, especially when such changes lead to better functioning markets or more efficient public services. The government should therefore phase out state ownership of companies that do not have a specific social mission or are important from a strategic and security policy point of view. A first step in such a direction would be for the government to set up an audit commission to review the social benefits of state-owned companies with community assignments and which companies are strategically or security-important. The review should include an analysis of the manner in which these companies compete with private companies and then submit proposals to the government on how it can further work on issues of state ownership and management of these companies. The conclusions of the review commission should, of course, be presented to the Riksdag. Madam President, I would like I would like to take this opportunity to emphasise that all sales of government property should, of course, be made in business and at the best possible price. Some state-owned companies are at risk of breaching the Competition Act, while at the same time increasing the State's influence on commercial markets. It is a development that runs counter to how we Christian Democrats view state ownership and how vital business should operate. In recent years, public authorities have also taken major steps in the open market by participating in procurements of goods and services. There I am calling on all my fellow party members in municipalities and regions who think that they are doing fantastically good activities but do not have the idea that they can actually turn their backs on existing private actors who operate in exactly the same areas. Here, we Christian Democrats believe that it may be interesting to have a transparent review of the activities of state-owned companies in the form of internal developments that extend outwards and are taking place in competition with other actors. In this respect, we believe that all authorities should also review which activities are in competition with private companies. As I said, we do not believe that all state-owned companies should continue to be owned by the state. However, what is owned by the State should not, in any case, compete on the private market and with the private activities. Madam President, I would like Over the past year, Sweden and other countries have been severely affected by the ongoing pandemic. The Swedish business community has been subjected to pressures that none of us have experienced before. Of course, this is different for different sectors, but in many industries it is almost a dark situation. They have lost most of their revenue but remain with most of their fixed costs. It means great restrictions on people's ability to get a new job or keep the job they have. We all understand that. In order to support the business community, the Riksdag has decided on several support packages, which we Christian Democrats have essentially supported. However, I would like to point out that significant shortcomings in the governance of state-owned companies have now been identified. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to touch on one more area. I would like to say a few words about one of the most classic Swedish basic industries, namely forestry. The forestry industry creates many jobs and contributes to the sustainable development of Sweden. The forest is also a fantastic source of recreation and is of great importance to all of us. Natural values in forests that have not yet been formally protected are usually found on privately owned land. Forestry on state-owned land is conducted to a greater extent from purely economic points of view. The fact that the state has taken over large parts of ownership of land and business in Sweden means that many people depend on politicians' goodwill rather than being able to rely on their own ability. As it stands today, Sveaskog is the largest Swedish forest owner and by far the largest state forest owner. Sveaskog received instructions in 2010 that 10 per cent of the area the company had to be sold off at market prices. So far, Sveaskog has sold 9 of the 10 percent to be sold according to Sveaskog's social mission. Here we Christian Democrats believe that it is time to give a new assignment that obliges the company to sell 30 000 hectares of productive forest land per year to private landowners who intend to conduct commercial forestry on the ground for the benefit of our country in terms of both the economy and the environment. For time winning, I plead for reservation 1, but of course I support all our reservations.
i-2cdc13fb2589f3a7-839	Madam President, I would like What has Mr Brodin missed in the follow-up to the previous Sveaskog sales plan, i.e. the 10%?
i-2cdc13fb2589f3a7-840	Madam President, I would like I don't really understand the question. We Christian Democrats are making proposals to move on with selling. We want 30 000 hectares per year to be sold by the holdings of forest land that Sveaskog still has.
i-2cdc13fb2589f3a7-842	Madam President, I would like We've just done a follow-up, Camilla Brodin. There has been a sales plan and a social mission that did not give what there was an ambition that they would give. Still, Camilla Brodin and the Christian Democrats believe in something that does not work. I'm surprised. What has happened is an investment opportunity for people with a lot of money, and I have no doubt that it is a good placement. But this has not led to the development of rural areas. I really do not understand that the bourgeoisie still wants to sell government property. I said in my speech that it is even more important that there is a large company that can take other considerations into account in other industries. There is a smouldering conflict that we have to deal with, and it does not improve with the sale of state-owned companies.
i-2cdc13fb2589f3a7-844	Madam President, I would like I believe that Mr Birger and we Christian Democrats have different views on what the state mission means with regard to forest land. We obviously have different points of view here. Nevertheless, I stand by the fact that we Christian Democrats believe that we should move on with this issue.
i-2cdc13fb2589f3a7-845	Madam President, I would like There is much wrong in this world with widespread injustice, ongoing oppression and the constant exploitation of nature. We in this House, and humanity as a whole, are good at writing fine words about everyone's equal value and how to protect the planet. However, many of our declarations and fine goals remain fine words on out-of-priority attachments. One example of many forgotten and ignored but fine documents is the environmental objectives of 1999, which the Riksdag has decided on. Of the 16 environmental objectives, we are reaching two today. It is a disgrace, and it also shows a lack of action. The goals have no connection to what we do in our everyday lives, no connection to our economy and no connection to the companies. Madam President, I would like We need to change this – not for my sake, not for the sake of the Green Party, but for the sake of everyone. The climate crisis and the species crisis that piles up over humanity are, in fact, crises that threaten the conditions of life to exist on planet Earth. All the knowledge that exists by now leaves no excuses left to us decision-makers. Everything we do needs to be framed by the capacity of the earth. It's simple facts and no opinion. Instead, it is the religion of exponential growth that governs our decisions. All companies need to relate both to the climate agreement and to the Convention on Biological Diversity, but instead the interests of shareholders are prioritised before the rights of future generations to a habitable planet. Madam President, I would like I believe that if anyone should take the lead, it is the state. The Swedish companies shall implement the environmental objectives decided by the Riksdag directly in the Articles of Association. There are 46 companies owned in whole or in part by the State. So there is great potential. Of course, there should be a greater meaning for these companies than to supply the market with cheap raw materials and be competitive. This is also stated in the state's policy for state-owned companies, namely environmentally sustainable development with reduced climate and environmental impact. The companies within their industry should be examples in the environmental and climate field and work for the Riksdag's national environmental and climate goals. What strikes me is the enormous contrast between these fine words and Sveaskog's ugly palate. I have been committed to Sveaskog for a long time, and recently, as has been mentioned in the debate, there has been a loud but well-founded criticism raised against Sveaskog. I think the truth is catching up. Madam President, I would like I do not agree with Birger Lahti of the Left Party on this issue, but on the issue of Vattenfall, which I will come back to later. I think that Swedish forestry should be criticised. We do not achieve the environmental objectives relating to forests. There is no sustainable forest management in Sweden, and there is no defence against the giant greenery that is spreading in Sweden right now. Soon, no one can turn a blind eye to reality. The reality is trees in perfect rows, even on the palate that has been standing there for 50 years. It is not a beautiful sight, and there is no biodiversity or recreational value there. It is an industrial landscape that spreads at the expense of everyone else. The equation more of everything doesn't add up – not on a limited planet and not on a limited forest area. Sveaskog's CEO's resignation suggests that the company still sees a great need for change, as the environmental movement and Sami villages have demanded – quite rightly, for Sveaskog is not a limited company like others. Sveaskog is the forests of Swedish citizens, which we own together. The question is whether it is even reasonable for the state to use its land for the forest industry with large bare-cuts as the norm. I don't think so. Madam President, I would like If you look at Sveaskog's articles of association you can see that the environment shines with its absence. The only thing stated there is that the state company should engage in the forest industry and related activities if it contributes to increasing the company's return. Everything that is not a forestry industry can only happen if it can increase returns. When biodiversity, clean water and Sami's right to their grazing land must be conditional on increased profit, we understand why it looks like it is today. Madam President, I would like There are 29 Sami villages that have joined forces with common demands for Sveaskog to stop the felling of hamlet forests and forests with earth lichens. Both of these forest types are important pastures for reindeer. The Association has issued a joint opinion that Sveaskogs forestry must be adapted to ensure that Sami's constitutionally protected right is respected. The Forest investigation also requires change. The study proposes that Sveaskog detain a land area worth 5 billion and that four of the ecoparks be transformed into national parks. This is therefore in a situation when Sveaskog hardly has any forest left to cut. They can't deliver their annual billion to the state if this is going to go together. The equation doesn't make sense. In order to really reduce the level of conflict in the polarised forest debate, Sveaskog's mission now needs to clarify new priorities where the environment weighs more than short-term profit. Madam President, I would like More than 45 000 people have signed up to make their voices heard and to reach us decision-makers. They demand a new ownership directive for Sveaskog where the environmental objectives rather than the profit distribution are governing. Just like Sveaskog's counterpart in Finland, the Danish state has chosen to stop the logging of state forests in order to increase carbon stocks and preserve biodiversity and living ecosystems. Madam President, I would like Sveaskog's indefensible actions can be prevented, but this requires us, as politicians, to give clear directives. In fact, there is a point in the January agreement that a Sveaskog programme should be implemented and that the state should be a forerunner. We need to be sensitive to all the voices that have now been raised regarding a new ownership directive for Sveaskog, which is in line with the rights of the Sami people and which is governed by the environmental objective of Living Forests. I believe that this should also apply to Vattenfall, which has enormous potential to protect our lakes and rivers. But it was under Vattenfall's leadership that Sweden in the 60's drained Lule River in order to deliver maximum profit and energy. The question is how this benefited the local population. At first, it gave rise to about 30 local employees, Madam President, but with the automation of more systems and functions, only two three people are employed today. Instead of a living ecosystem that offers recreation, rushing water and rich biodiversity, Europe's longest dry furrow was created. It's a stone desert with no equivalent. By regaining a flow of ten cubic metres per second, a variety of species would be given a new chance, and the landscape would regain its vital vein. It would in turn represent 0.6 per cent of Sweden's electricity production. The question is: can we afford to give up 0.6% of electricity and to respect nature and the local population? I believe that we can afford it, Madam President, and that Vattenfall should work to ensure that their activities are accommodated within the environmental objectives of Living lakes and streams as well as a rich plant and animal life. Working ecosystems, the preservation of our fellow species, fresh air and clean water are a win that beats any monetary gain. I support the proposal in the report.
i-2cdc13fb2589f3a7-866	Madam President, I would like I would like to put a question to the Green Party via Rebecka Le Moine, because the honourable Member referred to the greenery. I also don't think the scallops are nice or that you should just wear the scallops. But I would like to ask about the Green Party's view of forestry. I assume that you do not want to completely abolish forestry as an industry in Sweden, because it is important. What is it the Green Party wants out of the woods? I hope that somewhere there is a production forest that you want to use. What do you want out of that forest?
i-2cdc13fb2589f3a7-868	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question. If forestry is to be carried out, it is not necessary to take up 50 hectares of cleat. It doesn't create local jobs. There is no local economy in this, and there is hardly even any profitability in it. It provides a constant and steady flow to an industry that wants to buy in forest raw materials for as little money as possible. However, if we are to put the local landowner – the individual – at the centre, we should move to decent forestry that actually provides more profitability for the private forest owner. Then the money can also stay locally, and we can invest more in the processing of forest raw materials while retaining recreational values and investing in ecotourism. Of course, we will conduct forestry, but in international comparisons that I have been helped to do through the Swedish Parliament's investigation service and also in research that comes from SLU, Sweden stands out in terms of forestry. We have no legal limit to the size of a bare-hugger in practice. We also, internationally, take unbelievably little consideration of our services. The large kerbs are not a prerequisite for efficient and sustainable forestry, but rather the opposite. We want to promote small-scale forestry and multi-use – a profitable forestry that puts the individual rather than the industry at the centre.
i-2cdc13fb2589f3a7-872	Madam President, I would like I thank you for the description, but Rebecka Le Moine did not answer my question about what she wants to get out of the forest that is in production. In order for us to use the raw material as well as possible – furniture, houses and everything that stores carbon dioxide in the long term – we need to get a timber share. If I harvest pine stocks in our boreal forests and pray that there will be continuity forests, it is not I who choose what grows there. I'm likely to get some leaf spreads and a little bit of everything, but I don't get what I want. I want to get the timber cut out. I agree with your description, Rebecka Le Moine-- we don't have to just do the caleves. There are a lot of things you can do, but there are chips where cale cutting is actually best if you're going to have pine-dominated chips, like in boreal forests. Then I choose as landowner, whether small or large, to get as much timber as possible, because it is best for the climate. Unfortunately, however, I did not get that answer. I have seen bad examples and good examples, and I am convinced that the truth is there somewhere in between. It is absolutely not that we should not wear bare-cuts at all, because it is very suitable in some places. But I agree that it's not just what we're supposed to be doing. You have to know where there are fertile land with a high bonyness – then you can use these methods. Then there are chips that – unfortunately – are only suitable for use in the field, and they work well. You should visit these 50-year-old stocks, Rebecka Le Moine, because there is a lot of biodiversity and living species. They are also good production forests, and they were bare 50 years ago.
i-2cdc13fb2589f3a7-878	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the clarification and the question. Of course, we should not use the forest to produce pulpwood that goes to coffee mugs that we use half a time, but we should focus on producing long-lasting products and building in wood, as well as producing furniture and things that can really bind carbon dioxide for as long as possible. But that is not the case today. We really need to promote that transition. There are also major climate problems. Every time we see a green house, we see a climate disaster that stands and leaks greenhouse gases, and it takes several decades before the next planting has compensated for this. We need to invest in our forest from a climate perspective and ensure that it becomes long-lasting and not short-lived products. I hope that was the answer to that question. For an individual landowner, it would also be good if we could invest in local sawmills. Through close to nature and clean forest management, we can get away from the costs of thinning, planting and soil preparation. All of this costs, while we save a lot of money if we let nature help us, while at the same time we can get up deciduous trees, which are actually much more well paid than spruce and pine trees. With the help of such forestry, we can also escape major natural disasters that affect precisely monocultures. We're talking about spruce bark drills, various fungal attacks, droughts and fires. All of this we must build a resilience for, and we do best with nature-related forestry.
i-2cdc13fb2589f3a7-883	Madam President, I would like Thank you for an exciting debate! Personally, I don't think a lot of small, state sawmills will save either the forest, the climate or the economy. Madam President, I would like It is clear that there is a major and deep problem in having state-owned companies. This means that it is the same people who own who make laws and rules. And it's about funding. In a state-owned company, there is no need to be afraid of funding running out. Bad business decisions can be made, as the state will always help in the end. In essence, it is also socially inefficient. Why? Because the market is better at feeling price mechanisms and allocating resources efficiently. Of course, the best thing for taxpayers would be for the economy to grow free from government entrepreneurship, so that we could have a larger economy then tax to finance welfare. Madam President, I would like If a state-owned company is profitable, it works on the market, and then we should not have it under government control. Then we should get rid of it so that it can be managed with reasonable market mechanisms. However, Madam President, if a state enterprise is not profitable, it would also be completely unreasonable to keep it under government control, simply because it is either a waste of tax crowns or a wrong form of organisation. Of course, there are a lot of things that it makes sense for the state to take responsibility for. However, if it is to be carried out in a company form, it should also have to be profitable, and if it is profitable, it should be able to manage in a free market and thus not have to be state-owned. Madam President, I would like There is a third problem, and that is that there is easy political governance in state enterprises. One example that has been mentioned here earlier in the debate is Vattenfall, where government governance, state interference and political wills made it impossible to do what might have been reasonable, to ensure that nuclear power could continue when there were private actors who wanted to be involved in paying for it. Madam President, I would like There are, of course, many examples of state enterprise or municipal entrepreneurship, for that matter, which is directly inappropriate. But one of the things that I find most inappropriate is Svenska Spel. It is clear that an activity in which people can actually end up in destructive dependence should not be governed by the state and in a way that is simply about getting profit out of people who fall into a vicious spiral. I find it terribly doubtful. This means that the state, when we are going to make laws and regulations and have a social policy to help people in addiction, will end up in a dependence on the revenue from Svenska Spel. It is clear that it makes the state less free to make the social efforts that would be required to overcome the major problems. Madam President, I would like Let me say something briefly about the forest debate. It seems that the right wing thinks that you should be allowed to clear all kinds of things any way you want. It seems that the Green Party thinks that you should hardly get anything. And it seems that the Left Party mostly thinks that it is the state that should harvest and send subsidised timber to the industry. Madam President, I would like This is the case: we must protect forests and have fair rules of play, but that is not the role of the state. It is the free market that must decide where and when to harvest but under government regulation that protects climate and environmental values.
i-2cdc13fb2589f3a7-893	Madam President, I would like To be liberal is to be split, should have been said by the now-to-be popular party leader Gunnar Helén, and that certainly seems to be true for the Liberals. Prior to the 2018 election campaign, the Swedish Democrats were initially alone in pushing the proposal to give Vattenfall an owner directive to push Ringhals 1 and 2 further. When the matter was dealt with in Parliament in the first year of the parliamentary term, we were alone in proposing and voting in favour of it. The Liberals' representatives then pointed out in the debate that they were absolutely convinced that Vattenfall had made a correct decision that should be respected and that politics should not be in there rooting. In the following year, the Liberals instead chose to join the Swedish Democrats' proposals wholeheartedly. However, when the proposal was to be dealt with in the present report, a majority decided to postpone it, much later, during the Parliamentary Session. The Swedish Democrats argued that it should be dealt with as quickly as possible, since the issue was and is urgent and had previously been dealt with in this report. But here the Liberals chose not to support this view but instead to vote to deal with the issue later in the Parliamentary Session and very many months after the emergency situation when the reactor was to be closed down. What I wonder, Madam President, is why the Liberals did not consider the issue of Ringhals to be urgent. Why did they vote to delay the process for as long as possible?
i-2cdc13fb2589f3a7-897	Madam President, I would like I have to start by saying that I am very happy to have this question from the Swedish Democrats Mattias Bäckström, because in the political debate on nuclear power and energy it can sometimes sound like there is one side that is against nuclear power and one side that is for nuclear power. It is absolutely the case that there are certain parties that are always in favour of nuclear power, absolutely regardless of whether they are in favour of nuclear power or not, and some parties that are always against nuclear power, regardless of what they are. Madam President, I would like It was mentioned here to be liberal is to be split, and perhaps it is true. We are basically peoples' parties and liberals, of course. We have a fairly balanced view of this. I believe that energy policy must achieve the overall objectives. It is about efficiency, cost-effectiveness, security of supply and climate and environmental benefits. Basically, I share the view with the Member from the Swedish Democrats that nuclear power plays a crucial role in the energy system. There is nothing to suggest otherwise. Obviously, if we are to have security of supply and high quality, if we are to dare to invest in Sweden and if we want to be sure that the light is on, but also be sure that we can handle high, short-term loads and problems in the networks, we will need nuclear power. But a mix of different types of energy will be needed. Madam President, I would like Liberals in this context are technologically neutral. I believe that nuclear power will be needed. But basically, my political work is about creating the right rules of the game and the right incentives that do not subsidise an energy type so much that it will not be profitable to build nuclear power. I want a system that makes it profitable to build nuclear power, but in the end it should be the market's choice of energy that determines the issue.
i-2cdc13fb2589f3a7-902	Madam President, I would like We believe that Vattenfall as a wholly-owned state-owned company is important to the state. At least it should not help to reduce security of supply, make the power system in Sweden more unstable and threaten the competitiveness that industry can enjoy from the power system. There is no intrinsic value in the energy system as such, but the value lies in the benefits connected to it. It is regrettable that the issue was not considered urgent enough and supported a process in connection with the early closure of the Ringhals 1 reactor. Now I am slipping into more energy policy, but there are many proposals that have been joined as and when. For example, last summer the Liberals went out with the idea that it should be opened up in order to build reactors beyond the places where it is possible to build today, which is only in three places in the country. That was, of course, good. More regrettable is the fact that it did not vote in favour of this earlier. They voted against this as late as the previous year. It has been similar when it came to fourth generation nuclear power and research reactors. Sooner or later you get into the fold and agree with the proposals that the Swedish Democrats have put forward in the Riksdag. It requires a number of years to go by, but then you join. And at least we can enjoy that.
i-2cdc13fb2589f3a7-906	Madam President, I would like I am slightly opposed to the honourable Member's history. When the Swedish Democrats entered the Chamber for the first time, they brought with them a radical cultural policy and a dubious migration policy. However, they lacked developed policies in the vast majority of policy areas. Then they stole some energy policy there, some school politics there and some business politics there and tried to wash their clothes to act like any party. Madam President, I would like For that reason, the words that will be wrong do not need to be because they come from a Swedish democrat. All parties can have representatives with good politics. I am pleased that the Swedish Democrats are pursuing an energy policy that will hopefully lead to more nuclear energy. But the Liberals are the party that, for many years, long before the Swedish Democrats entered the Chamber, has represented the opportunity we are now talking about: to have nuclear power. Madam President, I would like It is basically the case that the energy system needs nuclear power to be stable and work. For this to be possible, we need to allow nuclear power to be built in more places and remove subsidies that distort the market and make it unprofitable. We will have to create the conditions for energy modes to compete with each other in a fairer way. Then nuclear power is both profitable and absolutely necessary for the security of supply, which is one of the core values we are trying to achieve, for ecological sustainability and climate and for a cost-effective electricity supply in our country. I hope that the Swedish Democrats will continue to steal politics from the Liberals so that we get a little more nuclear power.
i-2cdc13fb2589f3a7-915	Madam President, I would like This is going to be a little curious. The Liberals will have to stand at the head of shame if the honourable Member is not present. Mr Forssell mentioned that I would not like anyone to be in charge of forestry other than the state. It may have its origins in the fact that Mr Forssell has entered Parliament four years after me. I have constantly debated that what makes us have our diversity in the forest is that we have private forest owners and large companies. This means that we have a fantastic diversity of different management methods. That's where Joar Forssell definitely got it wrong. One thing that bothered me a little bit in the speech of Liberals and Joar Forssell was what he said about state ownership of companies. He mentioned that the state should not really have companies, it was unique cases. Where would Joar Forssell and the Liberals think that state ownership is good, that it is good that the state is active and has ownership in companies or companies?
i-2cdc13fb2589f3a7-918	Madam President, I would like The first member of the Left Party speaks out here is the view of ownership. I also think it is good that there is a variety of different companies in any industry. Now we were talking about the forest industry. It is always positive with many companies with competition. In any case, only a few companies are never positive. In answer to the question as to whether there are activities that should be carried on in corporate form from the state, I go back to what I said in my speech. If it is a profitable business, it would also be profitable on the market, and probably more profitable because the market is better at responding to pricing mechanisms and other things. Then there is reason not to have it under government control. We would have a higher proportion of tax crowns if the economy were to grow, quite simply. If companies are not profitable, companies are probably not the right form of organisation. There are activities that the State should engage in but which should not be carried out in company form. There are many tasks that the state has. Madam President, I would like I agree with the left-wing party here that there are a few rather narrow examples where the state can do things in corporate form. It is above all if there is a security policy interest. It is one of those things in which I think it is clear. For example, there are parts of Telia that would be completely unreasonable not to have government ownership for security reasons. But there is never any economic reason to have state companies if that is what the honourable Member is after here, because we still have a policy debate in essence.
i-2cdc13fb2589f3a7-921	Madam President, I would like I draw a conclusion from the answer given by Joar Forssell, for example, to LKAB, which has generated billions and billions to the Treasury. In the early 80's there was a crisis in the steel industry. If it wasn't a government company, the whole mountain would be filled with water today. No capitalist had gone there with the money that the state pummeled in that saved LKAB and made sure it was alive. That money has come in many times to the state because it was a state company. I conclude a little bit that Joar Forssell's picture is that everyone else can make money from companies but not the state. I definitely claim that LKAB is a typical example where it is good that the state owns the company. I think it is natural that we should have a large ownership of forests and natural resources. Then we can take a little more account of sensitive areas where we have Sami villages and others who are struggling in the same areas. There I am really glad that there is such a clear dividing line between the Liberals and the Left Party. Then I was equally surprised when Joar Forssell mentioned Svenska Spel. I agree that it is tragic that we have gaming companies advertising every month just before wages expire. If there are ten commercials, eight of them are from gaming companies. It's just as tragic that people get caught. The government should not be able to make money there. But for all the other capitalists who have gaming companies, it's okay, according to Joar Forssell. I would rather ban gambling companies in Sweden if it is a question of people being squeezed instead of shutting out a state gaming company when there are seventy eleven private companies. I am glad that there is a dividing line between the Liberals and the Left Party.
i-2cdc13fb2589f3a7-925	Madam President, I would like I am also pleased that there are dividing lines between the Liberals and the Left Party. I do not know which committees Mr Lahti has served in during his years in Parliament. I was on the tax committee before, and I'm now on the business committee. My perspective on whether the government can make money from entrepreneurship is: Yes, absolutely. We'll do it through the tax bill. Every day that people go to work and every day as an entrepreneur pushes an idea to become a successful company, it ticks in crowns to the Swedish treasury, which we put on social reforms, for example help to people who end up in a gambling addiction. Madam President, I would like If we are to discuss whether or not the state can make money out of entrepreneurship, this is the wrong debate. That's how we're gonna have a tax debate. Just like the Left Party, I'm in favor of having taxes. Then I want a little lower taxes than the Left Party might want. Madam President, I would like I also think that the state should be able to own things. The state should be able to own things and perhaps, above all, determine rules on, for example, how to handle the environment. But it's not to make money. It is because there are environmental values that need to be protected. Then it may usually be most effective with rules and laws rather than ownership. Madam President, I would like There is a question about LKAB. The honourable Member is waving a piece of paper about it. There is no proposal to sell LKAB. There is nothing concrete we are discussing. But it is very difficult to have a discussion about alternative historical events. I can say from the economic literature that I have read that it is difficult to set costs and profits that we have seen against costs and profits that we have not seen. We do not know what would have happened if the economy itself had to distribute its money. We do not know what creative destruction had arisen, as Joseph Schumpeter had said. We do not know what we see and what we do not see, as Frédéric Bastiat had said. Neither I nor the Left Party know that.
i-2cdc13fb2589f3a7-931	Madam President, I would like Now is the time for a debate that I find difficult to see that it is needed at all. It is about the Swedish National Audit Office's review of Kommerskollegium's work against trade barriers. Madam President, please get me wrong: I am more than happy to debate trade policy. Foreign trade is extremely important for Sweden, and the work against trade barriers is of course of the utmost importance for us free trade-loving Social Democrats. However, I do not think that the letter on which this is about should give rise to debate, because we are in fact in agreement. Kommerskollegium is Sweden's foreign trade authority. Its main task is to improve in various ways the possibilities for free and open trade with clear rules of play. I believe that foreign trade is extremely important for the Swedish economy, for Swedish jobs and, in the long run, for Swedish welfare, has not escaped anyone in this House. Some 1.4 million Swedes have a job to go to because of foreign trade. What the Swedish National Audit Office has reviewed is whether the National Board of Trade is based on the overall Swedish economic interest in its handling of trade barriers in the light of the trade policy objectives. The Swedish National Audit Office has found shortcomings in the National Board of Trade's information collection because they believe that the National Board of Trade has used too small a number of companies without assessing whether the information they receive from these companies is representative in relation to the whole. There are also shortcomings in the systematic follow-up of information. The Swedish National Audit Office also believes that both the Government's and the National Board of Trade's reporting should be improved. Now the interesting thing is: the government agrees with the criticism because there is room for improvement. The Government has stated in this letter that it intends to take the criticism into account in its future governance and follow-up of the National Board of Trade and in its own reporting to the Riksdag. That's good. Yet all bourgeois parties demand that the government draw up an action plan for this. Why? The measures are included in the regular control system and will be taken into account. And there can surely be no one in this House who seriously believes that the officials of the Government Office should spend time working on a plan of action for things that are already taken care of, while a pandemic rages and Swedish companies fight like animals to cope with their market shares in a global market? It cannot be socio-economically profitable, even if one has a bourgeois view. I believe that the letter that has come from the government can put an end to the debate. The deficiencies are discovered, they are recognised and they will be taken care of. I can understand that parties that are not part of the government want to take every opportunity to give the government a snap in the nose – that's quite natural. One way to do that is to make a statement from the committee. And it can be okay in this case because there is actually reason for improvement. That is why, Madam President, we Social Democrats, together with the Green Party and the Left Party, proposed that the Committee on Economic Affairs should make a unanimous announcement to the government. It would show that the committee has noted that there are shortcomings that need to be addressed and that the committee will follow that the government is actually taking the measures they promised. Then there would have been no debate. But it was so important for at least the Swedish Democrats that it was precisely an action plan that would be required, and the other bourgeois parties unfortunately agreed. That's why we're here today. But we are not here to debate which choices are important to support Swedish companies' competitiveness in the global market. We are also not here to discuss the outcome of Sweden's participation at the important Expo 2020, which is now unfortunately postponed. Nor will we discuss how we can translate the export strategy into concrete measures around the country so that we get more companies that dare to go out internationally and export so that jobs are created. Instead, we stand here to debate whether it is precisely an action plan that is needed to make the work of the National Board of Trade against trade barriers even better. Madam President, I would like In order for all the people in this House and the viewers to feel that this debate is not a waste of time, I now hope to get clarity from all the bourgeois parties: what is the plan of action that you are demanding of the government actually to contain? At what price should it be produced? And what difference do you think it will make in relation to the work that the government has already announced it will do? I request the approval of reservation 1 and the rejection of reservation 2.
i-2cdc13fb2589f3a7-942	Madam President, I would like We are debating today the report on the Government's letter concerning the National Audit Office's report on the National Board of Trade's work against trade barriers. The Swedish Democrats are, as you know, a free trade friendly party, and we have repeatedly worked in the Swedish Parliament for increased free trade. Some of the proposals that we have put forward in this area concern Sweden's trade relations with important trading partners like the United Kingdom, Taiwan and the United States. Other proposals concern the modernisation of the World Trade Organisation and Sweden's export opportunities. With our broad trade policy, it is impossible to avoid paying attention to the fact that the National Board of Trade plays an important role for Sweden in international trade. By producing data and analyses, the Agency contributes to better decision-making. In addition, the work of the National Board of Trade on trade barriers is also important, which is why it is regrettable that this work today seems to be in need of a series of improvement measures. The Swedish National Audit Office's report highlights, among other things, that the information obtained about company experiences is not representative, so the overall Swedish economic interest is not taken into account. It points out that there are shortcomings in monitoring and evaluation of information gathering and that knowledge of the National Board of Trade is considered to be very low among SMEs and low among other companies. The latter is particularly remarkable given that it severely restricts the possibility for the National Board of Trade to support companies if they are not even aware of the important work of the agency. Furthermore, the Swedish National Audit Office's report problematises that the government's performance report of the National Board of Trade's results is generally held and lacks available information of various kinds. This is worrying as it restricts Parliament's transparency of activities and gives the government a constant information advantage. It is a problem that is reinforced in the light of the fact that the Riksdag has previously announced to the Government that the Government should develop a clearer performance report for the field of foreign trade, exports and investment promotion. In the Government's response to the above comments, the Swedish Government fully or partially agrees with several of the Swedish National Audit Office's assessments and considers that there is scope for improving and further developing the Swedish National Board of Trade's work on barriers to trade in order to increase the efficiency of the use of state funds. The Government therefore intends to take into account the Swedish National Audit Office's recommendations and review the governance and follow-up of the Swedish National Board of Trade's work on trade barriers and review the Government's accounts to the Riksdag. The same applies to Kommerskollegium's work on information gathering and to improving the knowledge of companies and other actors about the agency. ..................................................... This is, of course, desirable, but only to state that it is intended to review it does not feel satisfactory, at least not to me as an opposition politician. It is possible that work is currently under way to develop the National Board of Trade's reporting in accordance with changed rules and that some of the comments, for example regarding the reporting and collection of information, are included and contained within that work. Since the work should be considered to be of such importance, there should still be a need for an action plan in response to the Swedish National Audit Office's observations. I am therefore pleased that we in committee have found a majority in favour of this very thing. Once the Riksdag has made a decision on this report, we will have sent a notice to the Government that the Government should present an action plan for how it intends to use the Swedish National Audit Office's recommendations as well as a timetable for how the Government intends to take these measures. According to the announcement, this timetable should also clarify when the Government intends to present its conclusions to the Riksdag. Madam President, I would like Now, surely, someone from the government parties is thinking: Stupid Committee majority, who does not understand that the government already intends to take all the appropriate measures in the world based on the criticism of the National Audit Office! I understand them. It is in the nature of the matter that the government parties are working to minimise the number of announcements made by the Riksdag against the government. That does not mean, however, that they are right in substance. On the contrary, the Swedish Democrats believe that there is justification for proposing a further announcement in this report. Against this background, we have our own reservation on the subject of knowledge of the work of the National Board of Trade, because the Swedish National Audit Office's report clearly shows that the knowledge of companies about the important work that the National Board of Trade is doing is appallingly low. We propose that the agency's regulatory letter be supplemented by a mandate to work specifically to increase awareness of the agency's work. In this way, we can help to spread knowledge about the Swedish National Board of Trade's work and create the conditions for more companies to take part in any support and support. Madam President, I would like Having said that, I would like to endorse our reservation.
i-2cdc13fb2589f3a7-954	Madam President, I would like According to its instructions, the National Board of Trade will provide the Government with expert support and contribute to increased knowledge of foreign trade issues as well as the EU's internal market and EU trade policy. The Agency will also promote free trade and free movement in the EU's internal market. I thank the Swedish National Audit Office for its solid work. In their recommendations to the government, they want to ensure a broad representation of companies in order to create the best information base possible to cover the entire business community and economic interests. In this way, you get with more perspectives in the formation of knowledge and the support that the Kommerskollegium then provides. They also highlight that awareness of the National Board of Trade is very low among small and medium-sized enterprises. It is a great loss, we believe. In its reply, the Government states that it will review the governance and follow-up of the Swedish National Board of Trade's work on barriers to trade, review information gathering and improve the knowledge of companies and other actors about the agency. In addition, work is ongoing to develop the Government's performance report and the National Board of Trade's reporting. The conclusion to be drawn from the government's response is that this is an ongoing work – a much-needed ongoing work. The National Board of Trade must be better at reaching out to more companies. They need to broaden their ground. They have simply been a stagnant authority. By not having width in the bases we also get a stagnated and not future driven foreign trade. We simply need more voices to shape our trade policy. On behalf of the Left Party, I call for reservation 1.
i-2cdc13fb2589f3a7-959	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal for a decision to be approved. It is not possible to stress enough the importance of reducing barriers to trade in order to achieve the objectives of Swedish trade policy. Swedish companies rely on a well-functioning trading system with as few trade barriers as possible. The time during the pandemic that we are now going through, with experience of what happens when products and goods are to be transported between and through countries and what happens in places where production is going on, demonstrates the importance of our country making statements and driving trade issues constantly and clearly. Madam President, I would like This report concerns the Government's letter in response to the Swedish National Audit Office's review of the National Board of Trade's work against trade barriers. The National Board of Trade receives its commission through government regulations. Based on this, they are also responsible for central work based on the overall economic interest of Swedish companies. Sweden is therefore dependent on effective authorities and high quality information in order to strengthen the competitiveness of companies, where high quality and precision information are assets that can be turned into competitiveness for the country's companies. On 24 September, the committee was drawn by what the Swedish National Audit Office had obtained in its review. What has been examined is the Swedish National Board of Trade's work for free trade and free movement in the EU's internal market, how the agency works based on the overall Swedish economic interest and the agency's work to take into account, among other things, the interests of industry. The report contains conclusions and recommendations concerning the National Board of Trade and the Government. Madam President, I would like For the sake of clarity with regard to readers of the Minutes and viewers, I would like to say that there are a great many things that work in our country. This particular debate, however, is about things where improvements are needed. We Moderates believe that this is worrying news when the Swedish National Audit Office's report shows that the potential of the National Board of Trade is not fully exploited in the Swedish work against trade barriers. The Swedish National Audit Office has concluded that the National Board of Trade's information collection from the companies is inadequate, that the information collection is not systematically followed up and that both the Government and the National Board of Trade's reporting is inadequate. The Swedish National Audit Office's overall conclusion is that these shortcomings, as it writes, can be seen in part as insufficient efficiency in the economy with state funds, a conclusion that is embarrassing when it is partly about funds but also about the importance of export promotion being adapted to the reality of companies. The Swedish National Audit Office states that the Swedish National Board of Trade's information collection should reflect all the Swedish companies' activities in order to be able to provide representative information in terms of the entire industry. The Swedish National Audit Office addresses the concept of representativeness and its importance for building the right picture with the amount of information in relation to the total population, i.e. companies of different kinds with different possibilities in place. It will be extremely important for the overall Swedish picture and for Swedish interests. Therefore, selection for compilations in markets does not make it a too narrow picture, which may be the case if not all companies have been included. This is particularly important in a situation such as the present situation during the pandemic, due to our country's great need for effective trade and its importance to the country. If the situation is based on a limited number of companies and perhaps not all kinds of companies – that is, small, medium-sized and large enterprises – the situation can be very misleading. If it is not correct, the Swedish efforts will not solve the problem, or only partially. It affects our companies' business opportunities, and as a result it affects growth and competitiveness. That is why, Madam President, we are keen to see a systematic and structured follow-up by the government. The Government says in its reply that it intends mainly to take into account the views of the Swedish National Audit Office within the framework of the overall development work, including regarding the government's reporting back to the Riksdag. That's good. But for us it is important that it really becomes clear, systematic and structured, with an action plan for how the recommendations should be taken into account, and that the recommendations are followed by a timetable for when the government intends to present its conclusions to the Riksdag. It will be particularly important to know that the report's content with recommendations will be implemented. We base our response on the fact that the Swedish National Audit Office made similar recommendations on improvement work when Statskontoret carried out a public authority analysis on the same theme in 2013 and that the Swedish National Audit Office is now returning on the same theme in 2020, seven years later. Madam President, I would like Sweden is an innovative country on the outskirts of northern Europe. We depend on being able to trade with other countries. The aim of trade policy is for companies of all kinds – small, medium and large – and our industry to be able to sell its products, goods and services as optimally as possible. Then they need to be competitive. The aim is also that companies should employ to be able to manufacture and sell. It gives jobs to the country. Finally, the aim is for growth in companies and jobs to give money to welfare. In connection with the pandemic, the importance of trade policy, previous recommendations and now recurring recommendations, we would like to underline and use the Swedish National Audit Office's conclusions and provide a timetable for how the government intends to implement these measures. As we say, this timetable should also include a clarification of when the government intends to present them to the Riksdag. As a result, Åsa Eriksson from the Social Democrats has also received an answer to her question.
i-2cdc13fb2589f3a7-974	Madam President, I would like I will read out the text of my eminent colleague, Hanne Hervieus, on the work of the National Board of Trade against trade barriers. Just a few minutes ago, he had to leave the Chamber because of family matters, so you will have to take good care of me and my possible stakes. Madam President, I would like The fact that through trade we strengthen our society, that through trade we enrich our society and that through trade we bring our society closer to the world and the world draws closer to us is an ancient insight that has marked generations of politicians and rulers. Protecting good conditions for trade with both our neighbours and countries far away is one of the most important tasks we have to work with to create prosperity throughout the country. What we are debating today, Kommerskollegium, is one of the country's oldest central agencies, run from the genius and administrative sense of Axel Oxenstierna. In 1651 the National Board of Trade was founded, and its employees have since served our companies and our country well. It is important to understand the Swedish National Board of Trade's historical perspective in order to understand how we can best develop the National Board of Trade to be effective today and in the future. Madam President, I would like The National Board of Trade began its work before the industrial revolution, and when the United States was founded in 1776, the National Board of Trade had already served Sweden for over 120 years. It is longer than we have today had universal and equal voting rights. Think about it! The fact that the National Board of Trade and its employees have worked for the country, trade and the company's best interests for so long is not a reason not to constantly seek opportunities to develop and streamline management and operations – on the contrary, it is our duty to the important task of the National Board of Trade and its historical importance to Sweden. Madam President, I would like Sweden as a trading nation with a high export dependency depends on effective authorities and high quality information in order to strengthen the competitiveness of companies. Companies that work hard to develop their products and services depend on high quality and precision information that can be turned into new contracts and new customers, which strengthens our country's competitiveness and gives more opportunities to get a job and be able to stand on their own feet and support themselves and their family. Madam President, I would like I would like to support the committee's proposal for a decision. It is good that the Swedish National Audit Office in its review of the National Board of Trade's work clearly points out recommendations to the government. The assessment by the Swedish National Audit Office that the sample of companies from which the information has been collected is small in number and thus affects representativeness is worth taking seriously. Knowledge of the important tasks of the National Board of Trade is judged to be very low among small and medium-sized enterprises, unfortunately. The government's profit and loss report is thus assessed as general. There is a lack of information on the results of the SOLVIT Centre, whose activities include dealing with barriers to trade in the EU's internal market. However, the letter shows that the Government essentially shares the Swedish National Audit Office's description. What is more remarkable, Madam President, is that neither the government nor the National Board of Trade seems to be striving for greater efficiency in the collection of information and that, as a result, information can be incomplete or misleading. The conclusion drawn is that the resources spent can make more use of them in other ways, i.e. that the taxes paid by the bus driver, the IT technician and the nurse, which are allocated to the National Board of Trade, can be better used. It is therefore remarkable, Madam President, that the government does not state more clearly that it will act. The government needs to show greater respect for the Swedish taxpayer's worn-out money and take the governance of an incredibly important authority even more seriously. We therefore consider it necessary for the Government to return to the Riksdag regarding the measures it intends to take to ensure that the National Board of Trade develops the methods of information gathering from companies, increases companies' awareness of the activities of the National Board of Trade and produces better reporting of results, including regarding the SOLVIT Centre. We know, Madam President, that the government has a lot to do. But so do the Swedish companies. The government's good work is crucial to their prerequisites for trade and development. This was the case for the East India Company in the 1700s, and so it is for the Swedish startup companies today. The National Board of Trade has had a very important task for hundreds of years, and the government needs to put more effort into securing the conditions for successful work for hopefully hundreds of years to come.
i-2cdc13fb2589f3a7-987	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by calling for the proposal to be approved in the committee's report. Sweden is a sparsely populated country in Europe's geographical periphery and is heavily dependent on well-functioning international trade. This is a fact, and it is essential that we adapt, but also that we provide the best possible conditions for our companies. In other words, we are a nation that is heavily valiant to have as few trade barriers as possible, and this is something that we Christian Democrats are strongly in favour of. That is why I am pleased that there is a majority of committees that have supported, among other things, a motion from us in which we want the government to sharpen its ambitions a little. In the report we can read that the Swedish National Audit Office believes that the economy with state funds is lacking in efficiency. Information collection takes place from a limited proportion of enterprises without assessing their representativeness. The Swedish National Audit makes the assessment that neither the Government nor the National Board of Trade seems to strive to increase the efficiency of the information collection which can thus be misleading. The monitoring of the information lacks systematics, and although the companies in contact with the National Board of Trade are satisfied, the Swedish National Audit Office states that few companies know the authority. The Swedish National Audit Office also considers that the Government's report on the results of the National Board of Trade is generally held and does not give a picture of the quality of the Swedish SOLVIT Centre. In response to these observations, the Swedish National Audit Office makes recommendations to the Government, for example that the Government should ensure that the Authority works for a representative information gathering and increased awareness among companies. The Government should clarify the reporting requirements and improve the reporting of results to the Riksdag. It also recommends the National Board of Trade to develop information gathering on company experiences by following up different methods and to more clearly include monitoring and evaluation in the agency's operational planning. Madam President, I would like These are recommendations that we Christian Democrats agree with and wish to highlight in this House. We know that the government is not ignorant of the criticism. On the contrary, the government itself fully or partially agrees with a number of the Swedish National Audit Office's assessments. But we must also want to do something, and not just say that there are shortcomings and then stay there. We want to see measures. The government simply does not present sufficient measures in response to the recommendations. In view of the shortcomings observed, we believe that the report must be followed up in a structured manner. The Christian Democrats therefore propose that the government produce an action plan for how it intends to take advantage of the recommendations and within what time frame this will take place.
i-2cdc13fb2589f3a7-996	Madam President, I would like Thank you for a good debate. The National Board of Trade is a fairly unknown authority for many. This is one of the problems also highlighted by the Swedish National Audit Office. But basically, the agency's activity is actually one of perhaps the most important things we have. It is about, Madam President, that if I have something that you want and you have something that I want, we must be able to trade these things with each other. Maybe you're wearing a nice jacket, and I'm wearing a nice puddle, and we want to trade them with each other. And why would it be different if you wanted to trade your jacket for the Speaker of Denmark or Taiwan's nicest puddle? There's no good reason. Everyone, whatever man is, must be allowed to trade, trade, and move freely across the world's borders. Then you'll be happier, Madam President, for getting my puddles, and I'll be happier that I got your jacket. Somewhere like that, the wealth of all of Sweden and everyone in the world has been built: by people creating value by exchanging things with each other so that each person gets more than it had before. What is one of the most important tasks of the state, and which is definitely a matter for the National Board of Trade, is to remove as much of the obstacles as possible. Madam President, I would like When you engage in politics, make laws and perhaps make up barriers to trade, I think you should ask yourself what right it is. In fact, I don't think there is anything that gives me the right to put up obstacles for someone else to trade their puddles for someone else's jacket or whatever it may be. Madam President, I would like Moreover, when we do this we do not just get richer and get more tax crowns that we can buy welfare for and so on. Nor do we simply stop standing in the way of people's right to do what they want with their resources. It is also the case that our culture is developing. We develop as people and have peace in the world, because it is more difficult and costly for countries to go to war with each other if the peoples of the countries have an economic exchange. Madam President, I would like It is for this reason that it is so incredibly important that this activity works, that we identify barriers to trade so that we can ensure that they are removed. Then people will be more free to decide for themselves over their own economy, and so will we build prosperity for tomorrow as well. This is why better follow-up and increased awareness among companies will be so incredibly important to provide information on the barriers to trade that are discovered. It is about better information gathering so that we can continue the strenuous work that has been going on for a very long time in removing obstacles to people being able to trade with each other, cooperate with each other and be able to contribute to each other's prosperity worldwide. This is not actually how people believed in the time when the National Board of Trade came to the conclusion that Sweden only becomes rich if someone else gets poorer, and if someone else gets rich we become poorer. That's what they thought. It was mercantilism and other bullshit. But the truth is that we become richer when others become richer, for then we can trade a greater prosperity with one another. Then we can trade a greater value with each other. That is why every trade barrier must be identified and eliminated so that people can create prosperity. That is how we can have both prosperity and prosperity in the future as well.
i-Fuhz8xXEUSvJSP2joPtf25	Madam President, I would like Now we are going to debate 2020/ 21:NU12 The National Audit Office's report on regional Structural Fund partnerships. I am in favour of reservation 3 in the report. The report concerns the government's letter to the Swedish National Audit Office's report on regional Structural Fund partnerships. There, the government reports its assessment in relation to the report. The government welcomes the review and shares the assessment that there is a need to review the regional Structural Fund partnership system. The government also says that it intends to investigate alternatives to the system. I note that the announcements in the report are about what the government says it should do. The Government agrees with the Swedish National Audit Office that there is reason to carry out a broader review of the system and to investigate alternatives, but that there is also a need to review and clarify the division of responsibilities between the authorities. The government intends to do what the announcements want, although I can agree that one announcement is a little more detailed than what the government says it should do. The parties behind the announcement want the government to set up an investigation immediately, something that in the vast majority of cases it feels that the government too often hides behind – i.e. to set up an investigation. I take it that this is a very important issue that really needs to be properly investigated. Madam President, I would like Those of us who have worked with the regional structural funds know that they are of great importance in the country with projects that are important for the development of the regions and for testing new methods of development. An example from my own region is KKraft, which is run by Interior Cluster Sweden, the furniture cluster, which is a limited liability company owned by a non-profit association. The owners are five municipalities in Kronoberg and Jönköping County, and TMF, Trä- och Möbelföretagen. KKraft consists of about 100 players, of which 90 are companies in the industry. The furniture cluster received money for a preliminary study by the Eruf, which then led to the project where they received both 1:1 funds and money from the Swedish Agency for Growth. The goal of the project is internationalisation – 60 per cent of production is exported – as well as business development, cluster development and information dissemination. What has been achieved with the project, which ended at the end of the year? Corona made a mess last year, of course, but the project started at the beginning of 2019. The intention was to gather at fairs with a clearer identity of Swedish furniture design on the international market, and that has been done. Since then, the fairs have become digital, and it has therefore not been quite as planned in the project. The project has also made a film about Swedish furniture design, involving 16 companies. KKraft also made it to Paris, where the film was shown to journalists together with the Swedish Institute, which generated a number of articles down there. The project has increased trust between the companies and has also increased visibility, which has given a stronger identity of the Swedish furniture industry with a more comprehensive message. Now the project is over, but collaboration continues. Week 6 will have a corona-proof tour at Stockholms Auktionsverk, something that would not have happened without the project. The evaluation of the project has not yet been completed; the project just finished at the end of the year. But this is an example of what the money in the Structural Funds partnerships does. The Swedish National Audit Office's report deals with how effectively the Structural Funds programmes are implemented. The Swedish National Audit Office proposes that the Government look at alternative systems and how the responsibility for processing and selection of applications should be divided between authorities and actors. The situation is also addressed in view of the composition of the Management Board of the Structural Funds Partnerships. So there are criticisms in the report. The government agrees with this and also sees a need to investigate alternative systems.
i-2cdc13fb2589f3a7-1018	Madam President, I would like Do regional Structural Fund partnerships provide the conditions for the effective use of EU funds? The Swedish National Audit Office has reviewed and written a report on this. The conclusions and recommendations are addressed to the Government, the Growth Council, the European Social Fund Council in Sweden and the eight regional Structural Fund partnerships. The Swedish National Audit Office invites the government to review the system of Structural Fund partnerships. The Swedish National Audit Office says in its review that according to previous evaluations it is unclear what role the partnerships were supposed to play in the implementation of the Structural Funds programmes. It is also said that many applications lack clear descriptions of the purpose and method of the projects. The system is also considered complex and involves many stakeholders, and there is a lack of clarity as to the division of responsibilities between the actors concerned. There are also shortcomings in coordination, as many decisions are taken before project applications reach the partnerships. These deficiencies risk increasing the time from application to decision, leading to an inefficient system. The Swedish National Audit Office believes that the division of responsibilities between the regions and the partnerships should be reviewed. It also considered that the government should review the quality of the partnership's opinions and investigate the existence of conflict in the partnership. The government itself says that it considers that there is a need for a broader review of the regional Structural Fund partnership system, in order to ensure that there is a structure that provides the conditions for the effective implementation of the programmes. Madam President, I would like The Government should immediately set up an investigation to review an alternative to the regional Structural Fund partnership system, in accordance with the recommendations of the National Audit Office. On 1 January 2021, a new programming period for the Structural and Investment Funds will begin in the context of the EU's new multi-annual budget. The government will then set up new Structural Fund partnerships and appoint new presidents to the partnerships. In addition to a comprehensive review of the Structural Fund partnership system, the Swedish National Audit Office believes that the government should address a large part of the problems already ahead of the next programming period. That is what Monica Haider has mentioned earlier about why we want this here and now. We want an investigation and do not want to wait. The Government should, in accordance with the Swedish National Audit Office's recommendation, draw up a plan for how it intends to remedy these shortcomings for the next programming period, Madam President. Such content should clarify the responsibilities of Structural Fund partnerships alongside those of the regions, set quality requirements for justifications and opinions and ensure that Structural Fund partnerships apply the existing provisions on conflict of interest in their management. In addition to exploring an alternative to the Structural Fund partnership system, the Government needs to present concrete proposals for addressing these shortcomings for the coming period, which is from 2021 to 2027. The government's response to the report is that it agrees that there is a need to review the system of regional Structural Fund partnerships. The government suggests that it therefore intends to investigate alternatives to the system. Madam President, I would like The Moderates believe that the Riksdag should urge the Government to immediately set up an investigation in order to review an alternative to the partnership system, in accordance with the recommendations of the Swedish National Audit Office. We also want to see the Government present concrete measures and remedy the shortcomings in the Structural Fund Partnerships identified by the Swedish National Audit Office. Why? Is it because we dislike these partnerships and because we do not want the kind of project that Monica Haider mentioned in her speech, where the furniture industry can do something? No, it's to get these other questions off the table. After all, it would be a pity if it caused the partnerships to have such questions. That's why we're very anxious to get them on the table. The partnerships are intended to make the implementation of the Funds more effective through joint commitment and responsibility for Union policies. At home we want to see an improvement in how we can use and take advantage of the different ideas in the best possible way. We want to see transparency and transparency. Madam President, I would like The Moderates and Christian Democrats have agreed in this report. I request the approval of reservation 2.
i-2cdc13fb2589f3a7-1027	Madam President, I would like We are now debating the government's letter in response to the Swedish National Audit Office's observations and recommendations in the report Regional Structural Fund Partnerships – do they provide the conditions for an effective use of EU funds? Of the tens of billions we pay into the EU every year, we get a fraction back through various European Structural and Investment Funds. Of course, the best thing would be to keep the money from the beginning, but as a Swedish democrat you cannot have everything in the world. The next best thing is to ensure that the funds that come back to Sweden do as much good as possible. In order to ensure regional influence over the distribution of EU funds, Sweden introduced the Regional Structural Fund Partnerships in 2007. These consist of a considerable amount of money; between 2014 and 2020 it was about SEK 12.2 billion from the EU, which is subsequently matched with the corresponding amount from Sweden. You heard correctly, Madam President: Sweden must co-finance the projects by 50% in order to benefit from a fraction of the money we have previously given away to the Union. It is, of course, possible to say for a long time how stupid, inefficient and costly this approach is, but that is not why we have gathered here. In addition, there are enough criticisms in the Swedish National Audit Office's review report to allow me to shift the focus to it and thus fill the rest of the time in this speech. The Swedish National Audit Office's overall observation is that there are several problems with the system of Structural Fund partnerships, which means that the conditions for effective implementation of the programmes are lacking. The Swedish National Audit Office therefore believes that the Government should take the initiative to investigate alternatives to the system of these partnerships. This should include examining whether responsibility for the handling and selection of applications for Structural Fund resources should be further divided between authorities and other actors. At the same time, the Swedish National Audit Office believes that the Government should clarify what responsibility the Structural Fund partnerships should have in relation to the regions. The government should also require Structural Fund partnerships to establish the basis for prioritising and the justification for their opinions to be clarified. Finally, the Swedish National Audit Office considers that the Government should ensure that the Structural Fund Partnerships apply the existing provisions on conflict of interest and review the grounds for the appointment of the members of the Structural Fund Partnerships. Madam President, I would like It should upset most people that tens of billions are being paid out for projects even though the work is characterised by a lack of transparency, unclear priorities and risks of conflict – all of this according to the Swedish National Audit Office. It is true that the Government welcomes the Swedish National Audit Office's review and, overall, agrees that there is a need to review the system of regional Structural Fund partnerships and intends to investigate alternatives to the system. At the same time, however, the Government makes the assessment that several of the Swedish National Audit Office's recommendations are dealt with within the framework of a current regulatory framework. This has been questioned by a majority of committees, which has contributed to the two announcements in the report. Madam President, I would like If the Swedish National Audit Office's attention has already been paid to the shortcomings, I wonder how it is that, as the Swedish National Audit Office writes: Most of the partnerships in their opinions also do not give clear reasons, in some cases none at all, for which projects they prioritise or not. Many members of the partnerships are closely linked to the projects and actors seeking the funds that the partnerships give priority to. ..................................................... This is, to say the least, gross criticism, which the government does not respond adequately to in its letter. I am therefore pleased that we have found a majority in the Committee on Industry to address two announcements to the government. The announcements call on the government to review and clarify the division of responsibilities between managing authorities, regions and Structural Funds partnerships. The Government will then return to the Riksdag with an account of the review and what concrete measures have been taken in response to the Riksdag's announcement. The first announcement also stresses that the government should, if necessary, return with concrete proposals for action for the Riksdag to take a position on. The second announcement stresses that the Parliament should invite the government to carry out a broader review of the regional Structural Fund partnerships in accordance with what the committee has said. Madam President, I would like These are necessary announcements. At the same time, I note that the Conservative bloc still has a common reservation to take further note of the Swedish National Audit Office's criticism. In it, we propose that the Riksdag should invite the Government to present concrete proposals on how the shortcomings highlighted by the Swedish National Audit Office in its recommendations should be remedied for the 2021–2027 programming period. I support this reservation.
i-2cdc13fb2589f3a7-1039	Madam President, I would like This is then a report based on the government's letter on the National Audit Office's report on the regional Structural Fund partnerships. I was just going to tell you about them. Sweden receives different types of funding from the EU through the so-called European Structural and Investment Funds. Here in Sweden, regional Structural Fund partnerships were created – that's a long word – to ensure regional influence based on the EU's request. The funds can be used to support, for example, research, conversion, activities for people who are far from the labour market or skills development. In Stockholm, it has included projects for sustainable urban development and digitalisation in welfare. We agree with the Swedish National Audit Office's conclusion that there are problems with the Structural Fund partnership system, which together means that it does not provide sufficient conditions for the effective implementation of the programmes. We agree that the government should investigate alternatives to the system where responsibility for the handling and selection of searches is also divided between authorities and other actors and where priorities are clarified and rules on conflict are applied. In its reply, the government clearly states that it intends to explore alternatives to the regional Structural Fund partnership system. In addition, the current regulatory framework includes part of the Swedish National Audit Office's recommendations. That is why we can reject the motions put forward. I call for the approval of Amendment No 3 by the Left Party together with S, MP and L.
i-2cdc13fb2589f3a7-1044	Madam President, I would like The Structural Funds are very important. I would add that regional Structural Fund partnerships are also very important and represent decentralised decision-making on these important issues. In particular, the Eruf is important for climate change, with the declared focus on supporting the low-carbon economy. Today in the afternoon, I have talked to four project owners from the Uppsala region looking for new, healthy EU funds for, among other things, circular business development and systems for future electricity systems. This is an issue that we talk a lot about here in Parliament – meeting the challenge with the lack of impact not least in the big cities of Mälardalen. They are also looking for funds for the development of industrial processes to get better technology development for the production of batteries and solar cells and new ideas for how companies will meet the skills supply challenge. These project ideas will be decided by the Eastern Central Sweden Structural Fund Partnership in just a few days' time. With EU funds, we can create a mobilisation force for the long-term development potential of the regions. Now that the Swedish National Audit Office has reviewed the Structural Funds partnerships, there are many comments and recommendations. However, I would like to say that the points that have been made have been discussed in the Structural Fund partnerships and the government for several years. According to the Government, the Swedish National Audit Office's recommendations are taken care of by the current regulatory framework. We also have cooperation between the January parties on the Structural Funds. That is why I think it is a little strange that the Center Party, which is one of the January parties, is putting forward motions in this area and also agreeing to an announcement. One hand doesn't seem to know what the other is doing in the Center Party. As regards the question of the responsibility of the Structural Funds partnerships in relation to the regions, we note that it is quite clear from the legislation that the Structural Funds partnerships should consult the regions concerned and that there should be consistency between the efforts made and the regional growth efforts of the different counties. Each region now has a regional growth manager, called the RUA. The role of the regions together with the RUA staff is important. One thing that is now being discussed around the regions is whether we should also have identified regional politicians responsible for this work. But it can actually be done without changes in the law. Regional leadership is needed; that would suffice. The role of the RUA is to synchronise regional development strategies with the EU's programmes to achieve optimum accuracy in each region. Long-term is the most important thing in this work. I can promise you that innovation in AI, for example, was underway early, thanks to the work of the Structural Funds even before the politicians here in Parliament had gathered around the issues. The fact that the regional players are so fast-footed, we in Parliament must really welcome. We note that the Government considers that the Swedish National Audit Office's observations and recommendations together point to the need for a broader review of the regional Structural Fund partnership system. This period has already started on 1 January, but for the next period there is certainly an important reason for this review. According to the Swedish National Audit Office's recommendations, the review should include examining whether responsibility for the processing and selection of applications for Structural Fund funds should in future be divided between authorities and other actors. I should like to add that it is important to detract from the forms of multi-level governance. I believe that one of the main points of the Structural Funds partnerships is the presence of different actors. There are academia, regional and local politicians and the important authorities in, for example, the social area, such as Arbetsförmedlingen and Försäkringskassan. This is a wide-ranging exercise in which there is genuine synergy for the good of the regions and development. One issue raised by the Swedish National Audit Office is the problem of the conflict. As an environmental party, I believe that it is extremely important that we reduce all forms of corruption, and that is why we must regularly examine issues of civil war in all contexts. However, the Swedish National Audit Office has missed an important issue in its review, namely the question of whether it is really reasonable for a conflict to be assessed on the basis of the rules of the Administrative Act or whether it would be better to start from the conflict rules in the municipal law in these contexts. This would make it easier for the regional politicians in whom we want to participate and to carry out this work, with clear rules of conflict, if the municipal law is the starting point. We agree with the Swedish National Audit Office's conclusion that the new order, in which all regions have been responsible for regional growth since 2019, provides a good opportunity to review multi-level governance and that this needs to be included in a broader review. But there is certainly no reason to advocate an announcement because it is breaking open doors, Madam President. I therefore propose rejecting the motions and agreeing to reservation number 1.
i-2cdc13fb2589f3a7-1058	Madam President, I would like This is my fourth debate today. Now you're starting to feel a little tender; I think most people in here do. I would first of all like to support the committee's proposal for a decision on the National Audit Office's report on regional Structural Fund partnerships. Before I became politically active, I worked for three years to lead an EU project, where the money came from the Regional Fund. We would promote a touristic area with the help of a famous cheese from northern Sweden, namely Västerbotten. We're not allowed to advertise in here, so I kind of have to talk around. I was employed by Robertsfors Municipality. I'm from there. It is a small municipality with 7,000 inhabitants. If we had not had the opportunity to get co-financing through the EU Regional Fund, the project would never have happened. And to be honest, I do not think it would have happened if the money had been managed only by national decisions. They had probably been put into other black holes somewhere, where they might also have been necessary. With this, I would like to say that I believe that the Structural Funds are extremely important, not least for Sweden's rural areas and smaller municipalities, so that various projects that can be useful can be implemented. I am also absolutely convinced that, once the coronan has laid down and tourism resumes, there will be a great opportunity to promote Sweden as an interesting destination in terms of, for example, food tourism. Now I'm last on the track for the day. As far as the National Audit Office is concerned, this has been looked at with regional Structural Fund partnerships and the organisation itself. It proposes improvements because it feels that there is sometimes a conflict in Structural Fund partnerships and that it takes too long from decision-making by state authorities until it seeps down to the local level. Furthermore, the labour market is being reformed, which means that the regions will have a different role. Labour market policy will fundamentally change. I also believe that decisions need to be speeded up a little. My own experience is that it took a very long time before the state had made its decision and it had trickled down and become an actual decision of the local project. This is different in different Structural Fund partnerships. I think it is very important to have the opportunity to review this. We are in favour of this review, just like everyone else, but perhaps we are a little more impatient. The government doesn't usually like announcements, regardless of party color. You want to hold them back and say it's breaking open doors. The opposition thinks differently. For the Center Party, we are very concerned about the projects and about the municipalities that are waiting for information. We want it to go as quickly as possible, and we want to make sure that decisions, even if we do a review, will focus on being local and regional. I say this because the experience of the Riksdag is that these interests are not always taken care of – unfortunately not always by the government either. That is why we want to be overly clear.
