i-021ff1a0858c0e30-0	I request that Your Majesty declare the Parliamentary Session open.
i-021ff1a0858c0e30-1	Mr President, I would like to Ladies and gentlemen! Although you are more widely distributed than usual, I am pleased that all Members can once again gather here in the Chamber of Parliament. There are many of us who hope that today's ceremony will be another step on the way out of the pandemic and towards a more normal existence. Ladies and gentlemen! This year it is 400 years since King Gustav II Adolf founded Gothenburg, Borås, Sundsvall, Luleå and Piteå. Today, hundreds of thousands of Sweden's inhabitants live in these cities. There are authorities, universities and many other things. Decisions taken in 1621 still shape our country, four centuries later. In the same way, it is with the decisions made here in Parliament and all the work that lies at the heart of them. This is how the guideline is set out for Sweden. A decision taken today can have consequences for a year, ten years, even centuries into the future. Over the last 18 months, the pandemic and its management have marked our country and public conversation. But other challenges are not lacking. There are always worrying clouds, both within Sweden's borders and in our surrounding world. Ladies and gentlemen! You have a great task in equipping our country and our social institutions for the future and in thinking in long lines, just as King Gustav II Adolf did when he founded cities. His daughter, Queen Kristina, wrote more than 1,000 aphorisms during her lifetime. One of them I've been particularly attached to. It reads: a country's happiness and prosperity stands and falls with the knowledge and education we give to our young people. This is as true today as when it was written in the 17th century. Knowledge and education are central, and each of us has a responsibility to ensure that every child in our country is given a safe upbringing, good values and good opportunities to develop. Ladies and gentlemen! The decisions you make in this House shape our country. At every moment you are involved in creating Sweden's future. I wish you, elected representatives of the people of Sweden, the power, courage and wisdom of your important work. I hereby declare the opening of the Parliamentary Session in 2021 of 22 years.
i-021ff1a0858c0e30-7	I'm ordering the Prime Minister to make his government statement.
i-021ff1a0858c0e30-8	Your Majestys! Your Royal Highnesses! Mr President, I would like to Honourable Members of the Swedish Parliament! Swedish democracy is no more than 100 years old. At the end of the 1910s, poverty was deep and inequality crying. But even though it was a troubled time, 1918 has come to be called the year when Sweden became Sweden. Parties that had previously found it difficult to cooperate had joined forces and put differences aside. In the following years, universal and equal voting rights were introduced for women and men. Poverty auctions were replaced by social responsibility for vulnerable people. Eight-hour working day was introduced. A seed of the welfare society was sown. Thanks to cooperation, Sweden was able to move forward, even though the land trembled around Europe. But it was never obvious that this would happen. Let it be a reminder that democracy cannot be taken for granted. It begins and ends with us citizens. The construction of society is never finished or immune to those who want to destroy it and, instead, rate people's value by sex, gender identity, sexual orientation, skin colour, religion or class. Mr President, I would like to In the book The Story of Bodri, a little girl describes her best friend, Marika and I were almost as tall and we could whistle just as well. –– We had abrasions on our knees and both had new front teeth. The difference between us was just that we prayed different prayers. The girl's name is Hédi Fried. She's scared, but above all, she can't understand. Why is she no longer allowed to play with her friend? Why is she hated, even though she hasn't done anything? Dressed in prison clothes and hard shoes, she yearns for Mom, Dad and her dog Bodri. In a month's time, I will be hosting Remember React, Malmö's international forum for the remembrance of the Holocaust and the fight against anti-Semitism. The forum brings together leaders and researchers. Concrete commitments to the remembrance of the Holocaust and to counter anti-Semitism and racism in our societies will be made by the political leaders present. In March, Sweden will take office as Chairman of the International Alliance for Remembrance of the Holocaust, IHRA. The Swedish Museum of the Holocaust will receive its first visitors in July next year. Racism does not belong in Sweden. We will intensify the work against anti-Semitism, Islamophobia, afrophobia and anti-Ziganism and the work against racism directed against Sami people. The basis for this work is the national plan against racism. The culture and language rights of indigenous peoples of the Sami and other national minorities will be strengthened. The Government wants to strengthen the Discrimination Act by providing more comprehensive protection against discrimination. Before the end of the parliamentary term, a new modern gender law should be able to be decided by the Riksdag. On 1 January, an institute to promote human rights in Sweden was set up in Lund. Mr President, I would like to EU cooperation makes Sweden stronger and safer. Threats such as the climate crisis, pandemics, terrorism and organised crime cannot be solved by a single country. Together, we will strengthen our readiness to cope with crises. The EU will continue to play a leading role in the climate transition in order to strengthen competitiveness and speed up digitalisation. We also need to deal with migration jointly in the Union. The government is working for a more equal Europe with better working conditions and increased gender equality. The EU must be open to the outside world and protect human rights. The tendencies we see where the freedom of academia, the media and civil society is limited and the independence of courts is called into question must be countered. Effective European cooperation is based on a clear division of responsibilities between the Union and the Member States. That allocation is fixed. Taxes should continue to be decided in Sweden. The social partners shall agree on salaries and conditions. Forestry should not be regulated in detail in Brussels. In times of increased protectionism, Sweden is driving free, sustainable and fair international trade and a strong internal market. The government is promoting new free trade agreements and safeguarding the environment and human rights in these contexts. In this way trade can contribute to meeting the objectives of Agenda 2030. Sweden's security policy line is solid. The military freedom of alliance serves our country well and contributes to stability and security in northern Europe. Sweden will not remain passive if a disaster or attack affects another country in the Nordic countries or the EU. We expect these countries to act in the same way if Sweden is affected. We live in a time of shifts in power – geographical, economic and technological. Global developments underline the EU's importance as Sweden's most important foreign and security policy arena. Through membership of the Union, we can contribute to a secure, democratic and prosperous Europe, while our values and positions in foreign policy have a greater impact. The transatlantic relationship is central to Sweden's and Europe's security and prosperity. Our current Presidency of the OSSE gives Sweden further opportunities to defend the European security regime based on international law and the UN Charter. Security can only be guaranteed in cooperation with others and with respect for democracy, human rights and the rule of law. Swedish migration policy must be legally secure, effective and humane. A new legislation that upholds the right to asylum and strikes a balance between rights and obligations has entered into force. The possibility of introducing state reception centres where asylum seekers are to live and participate in community introduction during the very first time in Sweden will be investigated. Labour migration to Sweden is important for many companies that are growing and developing. The so-called competence expulsions are to cease and a special visa for highly qualified workers is to be introduced. It is equally important to address the problems of foreign workers being exploited. Only if cheating and injustice are curbed can the legitimacy of labour immigration be maintained. Mr President, I would like to The security policy situation in Sweden's neighbourhood and in Europe has deteriorated over time. The threat to Sweden has broadened and become more complex. A new, updated national security strategy is therefore being developed. Swedish foreign, security and development policy is intertwined and mutually reinforcing. The world's armed conflicts are becoming more and more prolonged and have increasing humanitarian consequences. The number of refugees is greater than ever. Development cooperation between the EU and Sweden creates the conditions for better living conditions for people living in poverty and oppression. The commitment that Swedish aid should correspond to 1 per cent of gross national income remains unchanged. The need for common security has never been greater. Strengthening bilateral and multilateral cooperation, such as UN cooperation, benefits international peace and security. Sweden deepens its defence cooperation with Finland, with other Nordic neighbours, in the EU, through the transatlantic link and with NATO. The government will continue to develop defence collaborations that strengthen Sweden's security. A strong military national defence is being rebuilt. Five regiments and a flotilla are re-established starting in autumn 2021 and are fully operational after 2025. This is the Dalregement in Falun, Västernorrland Regiment in Sollefteå with education détachement in Östersund, Norrlands dragonregement in Arvidsjaur, Bergslagen's artillery regiment in Kristinehamn, Älvsborg's amphibious regiment in Gothenburg and Upplands flyflottilla in Uppsala. Sweden also needs a strong civil defence. The ability of society as a whole to cope with increased preparedness and extreme war will be strengthened. This means that society's ability to deal with peacetime crises is also strengthened. In Afghanistan, Yemen and Mali there are difficult to resolve conflicts with extensive humanitarian consequences. A long-term peace between Israel and Palestine calls for a two-state solution. Sweden and the EU condemn Russia's military aggression against Ukraine, including the illegal annexation of Crimea. The increasing repression in Belarus terrifies. In all these issues, Sweden is deeply involved. The evacuation from Afghanistan reminds us of the efforts of Swedish personnel in the world, often under difficult conditions. Personnel from the foreign authorities, the Swedish Armed Forces, Sida and other authorities, representatives of civil society, journalists and many others make invaluable contributions to peace, security, democracy and development. Thank you very much for all of you. The threat of nuclear weapons is a matter of global destiny. The Stockholm initiative is a key political initiative for nuclear disarmament. The government is pushing for clear progress in the UN's work on nuclear non-proliferation and disarmament. Mr President, I would like to The government has four overarching priorities: jobs, the climate, welfare and security. Jobs are the foundation of our country's prosperity. Jobs build the freedom of the individual and the hope of younger generations for a better future. Jobs take Sweden forward after the pandemic. The largest reform of freedom and security is now taking place in the Swedish labour market in decades. The new transition study grant gives tens of thousands of adults in the middle of their working life the opportunity to further train themselves in order to stay strong in the future labour market – without their economy significantly deteriorating during their studies. The knowledge boost provides more training places throughout our country. Mälardalen University becomes a university. A regional dimension of upper secondary education that better reflects labour market demand is introduced. Long-term unemployment plagues families and local communities where it has stuck. It must be combated with an active labour market policy. More extra services and introductory jobs, strengthening new start-ups and more opportunities for work placements are important measures, not least for older people and for women born abroad. The Government is working to introduce start-up jobs, in accordance with the proposals of the parties. The quality of Swedish education for immigrants should be increased through tougher scrutiny, and more adults should be able to combine Swedish studies with vocational education. Employment services are strengthened and the reform of the agency continues. The number of matching services is being significantly expanded to allow more people to get support to get into work or education, regardless of where they live in the country. Arbetsförmedlingen must ensure local presence throughout the country. Good collaboration with municipalities, social partners and other actors is necessary to meet the employer's recruitment needs and create more pathways to jobs. In Sweden, Swedish salaries and conditions shall apply to everyone who works. More controls and more effective exchange of information by the authorities are needed to stop rogue businesses exploiting people. The government will establish a new national delegation against labour crime. It should pay to work in Sweden, and it should also pay off to have worked. The pension supplement is now being paid to pensioners who have worked a long working life and work with low pay. But more steps need to be taken, and therefore the government proposes an increase in the housing allowance and the introduction of a security pension so that those over 60 years of age who are worn out will not have to withdraw their old-age pension early. The government believes that contributions to the pension system must be increased. The initiative is taken in the Pensions Group. In Sweden, disease should never mean poverty, and therefore the government proposes a comprehensive effort to strengthen financial security in case of illness and more time for rehabilitation in order for people to be able to get back to work. Mr President, I would like to The climate is the destiny of our time. The consequences of a warmer climate, fires, droughts, floods and rising sea levels continue to affect people. Sweden will push down climate emissions and become the world's first fossil-free welfare country. Our future depends on our ability to do what is necessary now. The green industrial revolution has only just begun. Through the Government's Green Credit Guarantee proposal, the State contributes to reducing risks and lowering the thresholds for new major industrial investments. An investment in regional export advice is being made to enable companies across the country to reach international markets. 20% of Sweden's emissions come from the construction sector. The introduction of climate declarations reinforces the possibility of imposing reduced emissions from the construction sector. The Government wants to accelerate the transition to more sustainable construction and to a more resource efficient use of building materials. Based on the Swedish Forest Investigation, the Government will make proposals to strengthen ownership rights, regulatory simplifications and efforts to increase sustainable forest production. In the transition, it is crucial that all actors assume their responsibilities and that the state is an example. The ability to set climate requirements in procurement is improved. In the tracks of the pandemic, more and more Swedes have found their way out into our nature. The mountain hiking trails and nature reserves record, and this development should be confirmed. The tourism industry will be strengthened. A green new industrialisation will be made possible by increased electrification of society. A national electrification strategy is being developed with proposals on how electricity generation can increase in order to create the conditions for the transformation of industry and for an electric vehicle fleet. The Government's climate policy promotes Swedish companies and Sweden's competitiveness and creates new jobs in Sweden. The European Commission has presented a comprehensive legislative package to achieve the EU's climate goals. Sweden will push for too high ambitions in the further work. In June next year, the UN's first environmental conference, which took place in Stockholm in 1972, commemorates the 50th anniversary. Sweden is hosting the UN conference Stockholm 50+, which will contribute to a higher pace in the implementation of the global sustainability goals in Agenda 2030. Together we will change our society – for the sake of the climate, for Sweden. Mr President, I would like to If it is to be possible to work throughout the country, you must also be able to live and live in the whole country. Housing construction is now growing at a higher rate than the population. The pace of construction shall remain high and sustainable, and investment support shall continue to develop. It will create attractive living environments in the municipalities that are now growing thanks to new jobs. It will be easier to build close to the shore in rural areas. Local influence on beach protection will increase and beach protection will be strengthened in highly exploited areas. The government is now making the biggest railway investment in modern times with both new tracks and the renovation of existing tracks. New high-speed rails will be built. Norrbotniabanan will be built in its entirety. Record investments are being made to ensure that we are safe on our roads, and further efforts will be made to bring order to the roads. Work is under way on developing a new national plan for investment in road and rail between 2022 and 2033. The goal is for the plan to be decided next year. Good access to commercial and government services is necessary throughout the country. The specific operating aid for grocery stores in vulnerable areas and vulnerable locations is made permanent, and support is given for the necessary investments to fuel stations in areas where the service is sparse. The substantial expansion of government service offices is being completed. The government continues to strengthen culture and support the recovery of culture throughout the country. Culture will flourish after the pandemic. Sweden needs a diversity of independent media throughout the country and a strong public service. The newspaper distribution is strengthened so that everyone can get the newspaper home in the mailbox every day. Media support is being modernised to be better adapted to today's media landscape. Mr President, I would like to The government will continue to prioritise resources for welfare. Health care, school and care rests on the shoulders of the employees. They need more colleagues, more education and better working environment. Therefore, it will be possible for those who work in the care of the elderly to study as a nurse on paid working hours. The right of all home carers to a permanent care contact is laid down by law. The government continues its efforts to develop a new older care law to strengthen the quality of care and make it more equal throughout the country. Health care should be strengthened. Accessibility will increase and primary care will be expanded. More people will have a fixed doctor's appointment. The new National Council for Health Care will help to ensure that properly trained staff are available. Continued efforts are being made on cancer care, maternity care and women's health, mental health and ambulance care. Emergency preparedness in the healthcare sector will be strengthened in the long term. The pandemic has shown that it is necessary. The government continues to strengthen the right to personal assistance. During this year, the Government will make proposals for support for self-care measures, a narrowed-down parental responsibility and strengthened support for supervision. Mr President, I would like to Swedish school will return to world-class knowledge. But if the results are to continue upwards, the school must be more equal. Pre-school and leisure centres will be improved, a strengthening of school libraries will start and more resources will be directed to those schools where the needs are greatest. Students should be able to choose schools, but schools should not be able to choose pupils. That is why common admission and fairer selection rules are needed. Municipal schools have a greater responsibility than free schools. It shall be reflected in the financing. The state needs to take greater responsibility through a regional presence and through the introduction of a national professional programme for principals, teachers and preschool teachers. Focus on knowledge and order in school continues. It will be easier to close schools that do not meet the standards. A stop to new non-confessional schools should be introduced and the existing ones should be better controlled. The National Security and Study Plan proposes a mobile ban and clearer powers for school staff to intervene when the situation requires it. The Pandemine has been hard on our society. Not least the pupils at school have been affected. The school is therefore given additional resources for, among other things, school holidays and homework help. Every student should know that it is not earlier slumps but the will to fight hard to learn more that is crucial. Therefore, subject grades are introduced in upper secondary school instead of course grades. The conditions for ideas-based actors in welfare will be improved. The activities of non-profit associations granted state grants shall be consistent with the principles of democracy. Mr President, I would like to In the book Until everyone dies, a woman in Rinkeby in Stockholm utters the heartbreaking words: We need help. ..................................................... The gang crime is to be crushed with the collective power of society. The investment of 10,000 more police workers by 2024 continues and allows for a stronger police presence throughout the country. Anyone who commits multiple crimes should be punished more severely. The penalty for young adults should be removed in the event of serious crime. A review will also be carried out of the law on special youth care in order to ensure that the penalty corresponds to the seriousness of the serious crime we now see at an ever lower age. Without witnesses, the task of the police and the prosecutors will be very difficult. In the long run, the rule of law is under threat. The punishment for abuse of justice and perjury should be tightened, the penalty for those who help investigate someone else's crime should be imposed and better support should be given to witnesses. Preventive work must be intensified. That is why social work should be possible even without the consent of the parents. Municipalities shall be given statutory responsibility for crime prevention work. A restraining order shall be investigated in order to protect children from destructive areas and environments. More, secure investments will be created on the National Board of Institutional Affairs. Safety and staff skills shall be increased. For three weeks this spring alone, five women were murdered by their husbands. Children lost their mothers, and relatives were left in shock and grief. Men's violence against women must be fought with force and determination. A new penalty for crimes motivated by hatred of women should be investigated, and criminal protection against psychological violence should be considered. Access to high-quality protected housing should be ensured throughout the country. Children should also be protected from violence. An investigation looks at the protection of children in dealings with a parent who has exercised violence or committed any other serious violation. Children's criminal protection against sexual abuse shall be strengthened. A comprehensive national strategy to prevent and combat violence against children is now being developed. During the next year, a lex a little heart is decided, which strengthens the security of placed children and young people. No children or young people should be forced to live under oppression. The government continues its efforts to stop the crimes of honour. A national centre of competence against honour violence is established and a special honour crime is introduced. Mr President, I would like to It is now over 20 months since the government decided to classify the new coronavirus as a social disease. Anyone who has not yet vaccinated has an important task to do so — for himself, for others, and to facilitate care. Today, over 70% of all adults in Sweden have received two doses of vaccine. It is a huge success for research, for health care and for European cooperation. Thanks to increasing vaccination coverage, Sweden is in a new and better position. We all long for a situation in which restrictions can be completely removed. There we are not yet. The government has set up an investigation to take advantage of the experience of the covid-19 pandemic and strengthen society's ability to deal with future pandemics and epidemics. The Pandemine is still the highest in all parts of the world. Therefore, the government is actively working for a global and equal vaccine supply. Nobody's safe until everyone's safe. Thanks to responsible fiscal policy, Sweden entered the pandemic of strong public finances. The government has pursued an offensive crisis policy to save jobs and businesses, to ensure that welfare is delivered with and to reduce the economic consequences of the pandemic. A powerful recovery is now taking place in the Swedish economy. Slowly release the covid-19-pandemin grip. The pandemic becomes another chapter in our country's long history. Before us lies an unwritten future. We have reason to feel confident about it. Our democracy is strong. We live in peace in one of the world's most equal countries. Our country is characterised by trust between people and a desire to contribute here in our world. We have social problems, yes, but we also have tools to solve them. We will meet our challenges together. We do so in the conviction that we should leave our children a stronger and more sustainable society than the country we inherited. Thank you for listening!
