i-7144cc748cf5f3b0-0	Madam President, I would like On 3 March 2020 Sweden received its first death linked to covid-19. One year and eight months later, over 15 000 people have been killed here in Sweden. It is, of course, an enormous tragedy and a failure for our whole society that will set a deep mark for a long time to come. Madam President, I would like In order to stop the pandemic and protect the risk groups, vaccination against covid-19 is an important tool. It should be remembered that vaccination is one of the most effective medical measures to prevent infectious diseases. Effective vaccination can reduce suffering and save lives. But it can also lead to a wider opening up of society, which can have a positive impact on human health and the economy. Madam President, I would like Very high demands are placed on the safety of vaccines in terms of their benefit and risk profile, as well as in terms of content, manufacture, storage and use. Vaccines can cause side effects, but most often they are both mild and short-lived. In a few cases, however, those who vaccinate may experience unusual side effects that may be severe. These side effects are often not detectable in clinical studies on which the authorisation is based. Therefore, all vaccinations are followed closely after approval in order to constantly increase knowledge. And as more people are now vaccinated, such very rare side effects are also detected. Madam President, I would like It is important that as many people as possible vaccinate against covid-19. Only then can we end the pandemic. In order for as many people as possible to want to vaccinate themselves, it is important that there is no doubt as to what applies if you are injured by the vaccine. It is therefore a good thing that the legislative proposal clarifies the liability of the state in the event of damage caused by the vaccine and cannot be compensated by the pharmaceutical insurance. It is extremely important that the insurance cover for the individual is strong in the event of adverse consequences of vaccination. The Swedish Democrats are therefore in favour of the proposal that the state should compensate for personal injuries caused by vaccines against the disease covid-19 and which are not reimbursed by the pharmaceutical insurance. Madam President, I would like However, we see some shortcomings in the legislative proposal that we believe should be addressed. We believe that the law would have worked better if the government's proposal had contained the measures we propose in our accompanying motion, for example in the case of expatriates. The Government has assessed that those who are posted abroad and who have received covid-19 vaccine abroad should not be covered by the proposed law. Instead, the Government has instructed Kammarkollegiet to reach agreements with the relevant authorities on claims regulation and compensation for drug damage involving vaccination. This means that employees of a state authority may receive compensation for injuries caused by vaccination abroad if the employer has reached a special agreement with Kammarkollegiet. But we believe, Madam President, that this compensation should be paid regardless of whether or not the employer has reached a specific agreement, so that it is an equal assessment. In this way, we ensure that all expatriates are covered by this protection. There shall be no doubt or uncertainty that this group shall be entitled to compensation. We also believe that accompanying adult family members and accompanying family members under the age of 18 should be included if they are included in the recommendation submitted by the Public Health Authority on vaccination against covid-19. Madam President, I would like Finally, I am pleased that, together in committee, we have made an announcement to the government to review the compensation to children for injuries that may arise from vaccination against covid-19 and that this review should begin in the first quarter of 2022. I therefore support our reservation 1.
i-7144cc748cf5f3b0-11	Madam President, I would like It has been a long and difficult trip with covid-19. And we'll be living with covid-19 for quite some time. Yesterday, however, 81.3 percent were fully vaccinated against covid-19 among those 16 years of age and older. And I have to say, that's an amazing number. When we sat in this Chamber a year ago, we didn't know what was going to happen. We didn't know when the vaccine would come, if it would work and so on. I can feel a great deal of gratitude for the fact that it has rolled so well. To you who are not vaccinated, I just want to say: Vaccinate you for your own sake, for the sake of others and for the sake of care! Society's efforts to achieve a good level of vaccination against covid-19 have meant the largest vaccination campaign in Sweden's history with a rate of vaccination that shows our society's ability to change rapidly. Madam President, I would like The side effects of the vaccine are what I can see briefly. Covid-19, however, can hit hard. The vaccine has been tested in different batches. And, as I said, the side effects are still not so extensive at present. But I want you to know... and I want you to know... that if you get an injury from the vaccine that significantly changes your life, the state should go in with compensation. This is a type of insurance we're talking about today. The thresholds for taking the vaccine should be perceived as low for you and for me, and a personal injury benefit is likely to contribute to this. Madam President, I would like The Left Party supports the government's efforts to develop this comprehensive legislation that compensates the individual for damage caused by the covid-19 vaccine. However, we believe that Swedes working abroad on behalf of the state have been given special treatment in the legislation we are now discussing. The Left Party agrees with the referrals we have looked at from, for example, MSB and the Swedish Armed Forces who point out that Swedes and their families working abroad on behalf of the state should be part of the group available for compensation in case of injury. Madam President, I would like We believe that the Government's proposal puts this particular group disproportionately at a disadvantage, i.e. the Swedes who are posted abroad as diplomats, on behalf of the Swedish Armed Forces or on behalf of Sida and who have vaccinated themselves abroad with vaccines that are approved here in Sweden as well. Of course, they represent Sweden to some extent in their work and should, according to the Left Party, be protected by the same legislation as those who have been vaccinated in Sweden. Madam President, I would like If those working abroad on behalf of the State have vaccinated themselves with a vaccine authorised for use in Sweden, the legislation should also apply to them. That should be a matter of course. The government believes that this falls within the scope of employer responsibility. We believe that it is negative to have a differentiated approach depending on the place of employment of state employees. The Left Party defends Swedes who work for the state abroad and wants them to have the same right to compensation in the event of damage as their colleagues at home. The government should therefore include in the legislation persons who are employed by the Swedish State and who have been vaccinated abroad during foreign service with a vaccine that was approved in Sweden at the time of vaccination. That is why I am in favour of reservation 2. Several parts of the Government's proposal regarding the perspective of children's rights are good. The Left Party welcomes the fact that compensation for damages should also cover minors; that is a matter of course. The wording that the limitation period can be appealed if, as a result of the parents' neglect of the event itself, the possibility of applying for the allowance within the limitation period is also good. However, the Left Party, like the Ombudsman for Children, believes that the law should confirm the need that may arise for children to have assistants who can legally represent the child in the event of a conflict of interest between children and guardians in order to be able to make claims for compensation. Madam President, I would like The Left Party considers that the age of the child needs to be taken into account when the benefit is to be paid. A loss of income resulting from life-long disability can be a major economic loss in the form of loss of income from work. We are very pleased that the government is coming back on these very issues, thanks to the committee which often cooperates on a number of issues. You have to be grateful for that in these times. There are expensive experiences from swine flu. The process of appeal against a decision on the level of compensation is very complicated. I myself have met families who have had huge problems and who have had to hire expensive lawyers to get the right to compensation. The Left Party defends the citizens' right to a legally secure appeal process. That is why we have also looked at the Bar Association and the Narkolepsy Association, which, in their referrals, has pointed out the need for the individual to be able to receive compensation for the costs of representation in connection with the handling of the case. Otherwise, this will be a class issue. The Left Party also shares the position of the Bar Association and the Narcolepsy League and believes that the government should come back with proposals that go in this particular direction. Of the reservations we have made, I therefore call for reservation 2.
i-7144cc748cf5f3b0-27	Madam President, I would like Friends! For the last two hundred years, vaccines have one after one revolutionized our lives all over the world, mostly in Europe but gradually in other places as well. We have vaccines against smallpox, typhoid, diphtheria, yellow fever, polio, measles and rubella. Quite recently a vaccine came against rotavirus, and now we finally have a vaccine against covid. This is about the lives of millions of people every year. It is extremely important that we each vaccinate ourselves, that anyone who can take the vaccine syringes they need to protect themselves and others. That's the only way we can meet. That's how we can go to work and contribute to the common. That's how we can let health care breathe. At the same time, of course, each of us must be compensated for the times that the vaccine not only helps us but also hurts. If the pharmaceutical insurance does not pay, the state needs to do so, and I am pleased that we are now proposing that the Parliament decide on this. Madam President, I would like If a child is permanently injured, the lasting damage will affect a long life and make the economy extremely difficult compared to an adult who has been able to create a stable life that can handle more mentally and economically. There needs to be a review of the compensation for children in the event of harm to children, and I am very pleased that the committee is united in this. On one point, however, the Liberals' proposals differ from the committee's main proposals. We are talking about reservation 5, paragraph 5, about compensation ceilings, Madam President. We are not convinced that vaccines can be completely equated to a health care injury from medicines for a disease that you suffer from yourself. If I'm sick, I'm the one who needs that kind of care and that particular medicine to make myself feel better. Perhaps I can then be expected to accept a certain risk in another way. In the case of vaccines, it may sometimes be that my own profit is quite insignificant but that other people really need the protection given by taking the syringe. As I said, vaccines save lives, but they do not only save our own lives, Madam President – we are also vaccinating ourselves for the sake of others, sometimes mainly for the sake of others. It may therefore be that an injury that we, as healthy ones, suffer when protecting others, should be replaced higher. We Liberals think that the government needs to review this possibility, and so we are calling for reservation 5 to review and analyse precisely the ceiling for vaccine damage compared with care injuries and disease-related medicines. Madam President, I would like In conclusion, vaccines are solidarity. That has been the case for two hundred years, and I very much hope that it will continue to be so. The whole issue of vaccines needs to be about solidarity, from start to finish. This is what today's decision is about, and I am very pleased about that.
i-7144cc748cf5f3b0-35	Madam President, I would like Vaccines save lives. This applies to pneumococcal vaccines, which hopefully will soon be offered free of charge throughout the country to specific risk groups. This also applies to vaccines against HPV, and this applies to vaccines against covid-19. I am among those who gladly accepted the offer of vaccination against covid-19. I am pleased that the offer has been made and that I have had the opportunity to take two syringes that give me a pretty good protection against severe illness in covid-19. It also reduces the risk of infecting others. I very much hope that as many people as possible will take the chance to take the vaccine because it provides both individual protection and helps us create protection in society. As my colleagues in the committee have highlighted, this is an act of solidarity. It is an act that protects the entire population when I myself participate in taking vaccines, unless there are medical reasons against this of course. Vaccines save lives. At the same time, there are side effects of vaccines. Most people do not experience side effects at all. Some get side effects that are mild, and there are those that are really hard hit. This may involve side effects when using common drugs containing paracetamol, and it may involve side effects of the vaccine currently recommended to avoid severe disease and infection during the pandemic. That is why it is essential that there be financial protection that gives us just the protection we need if we are affected by personal injury. The term "personal injury" is used in insurance. The pharmaceutical insurance provides such protection if I suffer from personal injury both in the case of ordinary medicines and in the case of vaccines. However, all the vaccines recommended and used during the current pandemic are not covered by the pharmaceutical insurance, and it is therefore necessary for the state to be there and to provide protection for those vaccines that are not currently covered by the pharmaceutical insurance. I am very pleased that the Government has drawn up a proposal to provide state compensation for those who are not covered by the pharmaceutical insurance. It is a reimbursement that takes place if it is not covered by the ordinary pharmaceutical insurance and is equivalent to the conditions of the pharmaceutical insurance. Therefore, it makes no difference whether it is the pharmaceutical insurance or the state compensation that pays. It is good that the terms are equal. The bill states that the Government intends to review the compensation to children for injuries that may arise from covid-19 vaccines. We in the Christian Democrats welcome this, but we have called for this to happen urgently in a follow-up motion. I am pleased that the whole committee welcomes such a review. According to the committee, the government should implement the review urgently; it should begin in the first quarter of 2022. Thus, our demand is met. We believe that a higher compensation for children and young people who suffer personal injury should be considered. There is a difference between being affected when you're young and being affected at my age. The need for compensation should in some way be linked to age. It is therefore important that this is investigated and that it is done urgently. Although we know that the compensation that is now being introduced will also be given retroactively to those who have received vaccines in the past, it is important that the investigation that is being carried out now aims to provide adequate protection to children who may be affected by the covid-19 vaccine. While I would like to make a clear recommendation to receive the vaccine offered, because it provides protection to myself and everyone else, I am pleased that we are also covering up with financial protection for those affected by personal injury. We know there are side effects. Most are mild, but for those who are hard and hard hit – perhaps lifelong – we need to have common financial protection. That is why the Christian Democrats are in favour of the committee's proposal.
i-7144cc748cf5f3b0-45	Madam President, I would like This case concerns compensation for those who might experience side effects as a result of the covid-19 vaccine. If you're watching this debate, maybe you're thinking that this is scary and that you might get hit-- you could have these nasty side effects. For this reason, I intend to dwell for a moment on the enormous benefits that vaccines actually bring to citizens and to you and me in this country. There is an old saying called a peace, the potatoes and the vaccine. This saying would explain how it could be that life expectancy in Sweden began to rise more and more strongly and that our children did not die suddenly – most children survived the young years. Much of it is possible to thank the vaccine. The vaccine has helped – and helps – many people to survive severe diseases. The World Health Organization has calculated that about 3 million children are saved annually because of the success of vaccinations on our globe. Vaccines are amazingly good. I think you should go and vaccinate yourself if you haven't already. The thing that scares me a little bit is that there's an increasing vaccine capsis. There are those who spread rumors, myths and other strange things about vaccines. We see this not least when it comes to the recognised and well-proven vaccines that exist against measles. Due to the fact that the vaccine capsis in the case of measles is spreading in Europe, we see an increasing number of children suffering from measles, which is a potentially life-threatening disease. In 2007 we had 7,100 measles cases in Europe; in 2019 we were up to 82,600 measles cases on the European continent. It is a deadly development if vaccine capsis are allowed to continue to spread. We need to help make people understand that vaccines are not dangerous, especially those against measles, but save lives. I am pleased that most – or all – members of the Social Committee share this view. We've had a pandemic of 15,000 dead so far. It is a terrible disease that is ravaging our country, and it is a disease that is by no means over. We are now seeing how our neighbours are closing down. We see how Denmark is starting to think about introducing vaccine passports again. Our best weapon to avoid more shutdowns and more deaths is that people go and vaccinate themselves. There are encouraging figures that we have a high level of vaccination, but even more should go and vaccinate. Then we may not have shutdowns and deaths in Sweden. After all, all vaccines, and all medicines, often have some kind of side effects. If you go home and open your medicine cabinet and look in the medicine box, you will find a small piece of paper. It's the package leaflet. It contains a list of various possible side effects that you might experience. Even with ordinary medicines, which you use on a daily basis, there is always a risk that you will get side effects. Therefore, the package leaflet is included. As a rule, however, mild side effects occur. This is also the case with regard to how vaccination against covid-19 has gone. So far, we've distributed 14 million doses of vaccine. There is no one who has died from the vaccine, but 15 000 people have died from covid-19. Against this background, it is important that we get people to go and vaccinate themselves. Then it is also important that we, as political representatives, jointly take responsibility for talking to the citizens and making them understand that it is not the vaccine that is the danger, but the pandemic that is the danger to life and health. It is also important that leading representatives of political parties do not use concepts such as our poison sprayer and that leading representatives in the Swedish Parliament do not fail to go and vaccinate themselves. It is quite dangerous if you have that attitude towards vaccination against covid-19. I hope that we have seen the end of this, and I hope that we can agree to talk to the citizens together about the need to vaccinate. This matter, Madam President, is, as I said, about the state going in and compensating in the event of long-term damage to citizens who take the vaccine. I believe that the cost to the state of this will be very low. However, I think it is a good thing that we are putting this regulation in the water. For this reason, Madam President, I am in favour of the proposal put forward by the Committee on Social Affairs and Employment to the House.
i-7144cc748cf5f3b0-60	Madam President, I would like As many have said before, many of us are very positive that we are now finally seeing the light in the tunnel. We feel that the pandemic has affected a lot of people, but now there are actually several kinds of vaccines. It's amazing. This is the result of a great many researchers and long-term basic research on viruses. Now the researchers have come to a point where there are several kinds of vaccines. Yesterday, 14.8 million doses of covid-19 vaccine had been taken in Sweden. This is an incredibly good figure, although it can of course be even better. Among people over 16 years of age, 81.3 percent have taken vaccines. I'm very happy about this. I myself have jumped in as a doctor and vaccinated many. I've been able to see the positive feeling when a person got his vaccine and got one step closer to a normal life. I've seen 95-year-olds like you said, now life begins again! It is amazing that the vaccine is coming and that it has actually helped this many. Of course, it follows, as many have said, a responsibility with vaccination. That is why we have this report and this proposal, which the Moderates support. In the event of an injury to the vaccine, the compensation that may be justified must be provided. It is important that we get this rule in place as soon as possible. Indeed, the legislative amendment that needs to be made will apply from 1 December. I'm a member of the Medical Claims Board. Unfortunately, we have seen the cases of those affected by narcolepsy in 2009. Young people in particular are affected by the impact on schooling and education. It is a whole life that is affected – of course also future income. It is very important that we look at this. There has been an announcement to review the compensation for children. It is absolutely very difficult for those who suffer from narcolepsy. Of course, as many have said, serious side effects are very rare. Side effects are common, but the occurrence of a personal injury is very rare. However, we must ensure that there is protection if that is the case. In these words, I would like to say that we from the Moderates are positive– sometimes we are actually in favour of what the government says. We would like to call for the committee's proposal to be approved.
i-7144cc748cf5f3b0-68	Madam President, I would like It is a great honour and a privilege for me to give my maiden speech here today in this House. The Covid-19 pandemic has caused great devastation, not only in our country but throughout the world. In Sweden, nearly 15 000 people have been killed, as mentioned earlier here today. In addition, tens of thousands have suffered severe illness and chronic illness. The indirect consequences have also been difficult. Children and young people have had their education affected. Many older people have been forced into isolation and thus loneliness. Unemployment has risen as a result of the fact that many companies, not least in the tourism and transport sectors, have been affected. People living in the vulnerable areas have paid a high price in the form of many deaths and an even higher unemployment as a result, among other things, of the integration debt, to which we have all contributed. When the pandemic struck with full force at the turn of February/March, few dared to believe that Sweden and the world only a year later would be in the midst of a mass vaccination of historical magnitude. Nearly 4 billion people have received at least one dose. In Sweden, more than 80 percent of the population are fully vaccinated. The fact that we have come so far depends on a combination of several factors. Firstly, the pharmaceutical industry quickly switched to research and development of vaccines. Second, the nations of the world took care together to finance the development of vaccines. Madam President, I would like Vaccine in a glass ampoule does not make anyone healthy. It is only when there is an organisation that can ensure that the vaccine comes from the factories to vaccination clinics that it can be useful. In addition, perhaps most importantly, a population that is well-educated and well-motivated actually receives the offer of vaccination. Only when the vaccine is injected into a person's arm can it protect against severe illness and death. We Swedes were well prepared. There is also a strong understanding among our population that vaccination not only saves one's own life but is also crucial to protecting fellow human beings. An important part of maintaining confidence is the proposal in the report that Parliament will decide today, namely the financial compensation for those affected by side effects. All medicines have side effects. Common side effects affect one in ten people taking medicines, while a rare side effect affects one in ten thousand. When you vaccinate 8 million people, some people will experience extremely rare side effects that may affect only one in a million. It is therefore crucial that the State guarantees that these few will be compensated financially. After the last mass vaccination ten years ago, when a few young people were affected by narcolepsy, all parties in Parliament were able to decide unanimously that the state would compensate the victims financially. Today, I and the Center Party are very pleased that we can once again have a consensus between the parliamentary parties to issue the corresponding guarantee. As a result, the high confidence that the Swedish people have in vaccinations can be maintained. Should children experience severe side effects after the current vaccination, it is important that the maximum benefit level is so high that no one hits the ceiling. It is therefore very good that we in the committee have been able to agree to press the government for it to be corrected. I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved in its entirety.
i-7144cc748cf5f3b0-78	Madam President, I would like On the table here today we have a proposal on which I am absolutely convinced that virtually all the citizens of this country expect us Members to decide in agreement. Sweden has a high degree of vaccination based on trust between residents, professions and states. Our medical experts review, evaluate and accept the risks in relation to the benefits. And in the case of covid-19 vaccines, so far, there is no doubt that the benefits far outweigh all risks. However, there is still a risk of harm associated with vaccination, which is why today's decision is important. That of trust is important. Madam President, I may have a Gothenburg twist on this. A strong and solidarity-based society does not leave its inhabitants in the lurch, but we take joint and several responsibility together if someone should suffer from side effects or disease in connection with vaccination. In other debates, I have highlighted precisely the issue of the importance of trust in our society. Today's decision is a good way of manifesting that we want to build on and safeguard this trust. Today's decision guarantees compensation for those who rarely experience long-term side effects. I would also like to take this opportunity, as many in the debate before me here, to remind those who have not yet vaccinated themselves to do so. The latest figure is 82% vaccination rate, so a few percent have not been vaccinated. I do not address you who, for various medical reasons, cannot vaccinate you, because there is no need to discuss it. But I am thinking of all of you who, perhaps out of fear of needles or because you have different issues about the risks, have still not vaccinated you. My advice to you is to talk to your health center. Talk to someone in healthcare that you trust, ask your questions and give your thoughts! If you're afraid of needles, there are great ways to get help over fear. As has been said before: the more people who have this protection, the more lives we can save and the faster we can get back a society that works a little more like before the pandemic. I support the committee's proposal.
i-7144cc748cf5f3b0-84	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for approval of the reservation that we Moderates have together with the Swedish Democrats and Christian Democrats on this issue. Madam President, I would like In Sweden, age and experience are rarely valued. On the contrary, this is often downgraded. According to a World Values Survey, only 20 percent of the Swedish people have respect for the elderly. Even after the age of 40, the chances of getting a new job are reduced if you are unemployed. And if you are 65 years old and looking for a new job, the probability is virtually zero to be contacted by the employer at all. That someone would become Prime Minister at the age of 78, and thus be equal with US President Joe Biden, would be completely unthinkable in Sweden. Madam President, I would like On the labour market, ageism is clear. Now that long-term unemployment is holding on, we know that it is the over 55 who are most affected. We Moderates have long warned that they are at increased risk of long-term unemployment and that they need special support to come back. Madam President, I would like Despite this, the government has not presented any solutions and today there is absolutely no specific effort for this group. The government's budget presents only more of the same bad job policy that has led to Sweden's long-term worst development in terms of unemployment across the EU, even before the pandemic. It is clear that the government and the Center Party lack policies to reverse developments. The honestly devastating national audit report we are now discussing notes that the government's governance of the Public Employment Service has failed in relation to the vulnerability of older people to the labour market – as well as the government's governance of the Public Employment Service has failed in almost all respects, according to almost all the reviews regardless of who has done them. This is serious because we know that older people who become unemployed are more likely to get stuck in long-term unemployment. They have also been severely affected by the recent decline in the labour market as a result of the pandemic. The government must ensure that older people receive the right support. For example, people with longer work experience must be given greater opportunities for practical skills development. It is about being given the opportunity to make visible and develop their skills in a workplace instead of getting stuck in passive non-interventions at Arbetsförmedlingen. This approach to age discrimination on the Swedish labour market results in skills being wasted. It is above all serious for the person who gets caught up in unemployment but also serious for those employers who lose valuable skills and ultimately for Sweden as a whole and our opportunities. We Moderates already highlighted in the spring the need to lower the thresholds into the labour market for older people who are stuck in long-term unemployment. We considered and believe that employers who employ older people who are long-term unemployed for a long period of time should have clearly lower employment costs because this is demonstrably working. Although the government is now forced to take on board certain elements of this, action is slow and not enough to any extent. Madam President, I would like Let me conclude by saying that in two years the number of long-term unemployed over 50 years has increased by 17 000 and is now about 70 000, a record high and unprecedented figure in Sweden. It is as if the government and the Center Party are not taking seriously the problem of record long-term unemployment, and it is remarkable for a government that took office with the solemn promise that Sweden would have the EU's lowest unemployment rate. Madam President, I would like Sweden really needs a new government.
i-7144cc748cf5f3b0-98	Madam President, I would like Finally, we are going to debate the extremely important issue of job seekers over the age of 55. It is a group which, unfortunately, is not given priority by the government in its governance. I am pleased for Sweden that, in this report too, we see a growing opposition, resulting in reservation 1 by M, SD and KD, which shows that many of our positions are equivalent. This is good for Sweden's future. On several issues, however, the Swedish Democrats want to go further in comparison with both the government and other opposition parties. That is why I support the Swedish Democrats' reservation number 2. The Swedish Democrats have received the Government's letter and have taken note of the Swedish National Audit Office's report on job seekers over 55 years of age. The report shows shortcomings that we as a party feared and highlighted in different contexts. Job seekers over 55 years of age do not receive the support to which they are entitled. However, we must not forget that this is a heterogeneous group in which individuals can have very different conditions to live in their daily lives as well as to get to work, even if we speak in many ways in these contexts in general terms. We are aware that there are 55-year-olds who, like Rönnerdahl, skip with a laugh out of bed every morning – you younger ones may google on it. At the same time, however, there are those of the same age who have had a hard working life both physically and mentally. Then it can be tough to change working life, and the opportunity to retrain may be missing. While more and more people of higher age are working, many older people are also getting caught up in long-term unemployment, and that is what this debate is all about. Madam President, I would like As I said, the group does not give priority to older job seekers. The government is busy prioritising other groups in its governance of the agency. The group of jobseekers over 55 years of age has neither been subject to specific objectives nor to the monitoring of the activities by the Public Employment Service, which must of course be done. The lack of sufficient efforts persists despite the fact that the statistics over the last ten years show that, as a 40-year-old, much of their attractiveness to employers has been lost. The fact that the government has not done more for this group is regrettable. In the regulations letter for 2021, the Government has commissioned Arbetsförmedlingen to introduce statistical assessment support. That's good, but far from enough. Adequate efforts to get this group to work and not to get caught up in long-term unemployment must be presented and introduced as a matter of urgency. This group's difficulties in getting into work also very badly rhyme with the demands that we as a population should work longer to contribute to our common tax funds. Madam President, I would like In order for all jobseekers to receive the support they are entitled to, the Swedish Democrats believe that the instructions for authorities should be changed. The Government should instruct the Authority to carry out the mission in accordance with needs management as current governance towards specific target groups creates problems with priorities and displacement effects. Older job seekers are thus allowed to get the last in line and hope to be needed by the community. This leads to several difficulties. The person who suffers from unemployment, often long - term unemployment, is at risk of depression as well, a depression that in the worst case leads to a loss of life. The loss of many years of work experience in the labour market is also serious for the development of our society. Views of our elderly must change fundamentally. The prejudices that exist against older people today must be suppressed. When you are employed, you must of course take care of the skills of the job seekers, not only their age. The government's social development is based on more people having to work longer to contribute to our welfare. The Swedish Democrats are pushing the idea of the obvious in that if you are to demand your right, you must first do your duty. That, Madam President, is exactly what most of the unemployed in the group over 55 years of age have been doing for most of their lives. They've kept their end of the community contract. They thus deserve to have their fair share of it back.
i-7144cc748cf5f3b0-112	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the joint reservation of KD, M and SD to be approved. There is no doubt that Sweden is facing a serious problem where fewer and fewer people in the labour force are going to support more and more people who are not in the labour force. In this situation, it is important that the 55-plus does not disappear from the labour force, as unfortunately can be said to be quite extensive today. There are several studies that show that today's 70-year-olds are in many ways comparable to yesterday's 50-year-olds. This is fantastic and is due, among other things, to the fact that the generation that is now 55-plus has grown up in an environment that is better than that of previous generations. They have had better working conditions, better working conditions and access to good food and longer leave, which has made 55-plus a very healthy and capable generation. Madam President, I would like In addition to a general improvement in public health, 55-plusers have acquired both life and work experience which should, even must, be exploited, both for the benefit of the individual and for the benefit of society. Being unemployed at 55-plus and then never coming back to work is an incredible waste of resources, for the individual and for society. The Swedish National Audit Office points out a number of shortcomings in the Swedish Public Employment Service's working methods that mean too little or wrong support for 55-plus. Therefore, we want Arbetsförmedlingen to be commissioned to adapt its support and efforts for 55-plus with, for example, practical competence development. I note that the Swedish National Audit Office is quite critical of the government's lack of governance of the Swedish Public Employment Service to provide the elderly with the right help. The majority of the committee and the government do not believe that 55-plus needs defined assistance from the Public Employment Service, but to be honest this is not the way to put it. Instead, reference is made to statistical assessment support, which in itself is good, budgetary spending in general, investigations, which can come and go on quite a large scale, and then at the end a generally pleasant attitude towards the elderly. That may sound good, Madam President, but it is not enough. That is not to say that the government or the majority of the committee does not want to do well, but it is not able to take the necessary decisions. It can feel like a disappointment. Madam President, I would like It is tragic that ageism exists and, unfortunately, is widespread, but even more disturbing and almost fascinating is the fact that ageism begins so extremely far down in the ages. Today's 70-year-olds can be said to be equivalent to yesterday's 50-year-olds, and by the same token to today's 55-plusers yesterday's 35-year-olds. And there you're almost gone if you're long-term unemployed. The 55 - year - old has 15 to 20 working years ahead of him, years of professional experience and a lot of life wisdom. Most 55-plusers no longer have young children at home, which means that their absence from work may be rather low. What 55-plusers possibly lack in speed and strength is usually well compensated by experience and knowledge. Sometimes you can hear a bit of a fuss that older people can't learn new things. Of course, it is not at all in harmony with the truth. Possibly it may take longer, but it is not impossible. Here, Sweden's employers, both private and public, must be properly sobered up so that ageism must not continue to prevent our further development of welfare. Sweden cannot afford to give up a large group of 55-plus that is placed or at risk of being sidelined. Sweden will need more in the workforce in the future, not less, and the 55-pluses are what you usually call low hanging fruits. They are in place, and they have experience and knowledge. 55-plus is an important group both now and in the future, and it should be obvious that the government is making efforts to ensure that 55-plus does not disappear from working life prematurely. Unfortunately, however, this reluctance to take action to help 55-plusers who are outside the labour market is no surprise. It feels like the government does not have much action in terms of long-term unemployment, which is manifested by the fact that few or no proposals are sent to Parliament. Until Christmas, as we have been able to read, proposals and proposals to the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs in this area and all other areas are extremely scarce. The government's meekness inevitably leads to Sweden's need for a new government that sees everyone as an important resource, including 55-plus.
i-7144cc748cf5f3b0-124	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the proposal in the report to be approved and for all motions to be rejected. Today, as I said, we are dealing with the Swedish National Audit Office's report on job seekers over 55 years of age. The report problematizes in a commendable way the relationship between steering towards the prioritisation of groups while simultaneously capturing and meeting individual needs. The report highlights the structural difficulties of older unemployed people in a labour market where age and experience are at risk of being estimated as a burden rather than an asset. Studies and research also confirm that age discrimination in connection with recruitment is widespread today in the Swedish labour market. Madam President, I would like According to the Discrimination Act, employers must work with active measures to prevent discrimination and promote equal rights and opportunities regardless of age and other grounds of discrimination. In the case of older unemployed, there are currently no specific programmes or actions specifically targeted at the group. I therefore assume that Arbetsförmedlingen's activities are designed to combat age discrimination in working life. Madam President, I would like The Swedish National Audit Office's report is therefore a valuable basis for further work on developing the labour market policy assessment. The introduction of statistical assessment support makes it easier to analyse which measures are successful on the basis of certain factors. There is age in a more accurate way that can help Arbetsförmedlingen to better fulfil its task of prioritising those who are far from the labour market. It is important that Arbetsförmedlingen also actively works to raise the issue of age discrimination and ageism with employers in order to influence attitudes. In addition, employers have their own responsibility to ensure the skills of jobseekers regardless of age. At the same time, job seekers must also be open to changing careers. Madam President, I would like Lifelong learning is important for the possibility of staying for a long time in working life. The labour market is changing rapidly today, and a large number of jobs are in danger of disappearing as a result of automation and digitalisation over the next decades, which means that more and more workers will face new skills requirements. The Government's proposal for a new public conversion organisation that will offer and finance basic conversion and competence support in line with the agreement of principle between the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, the Negotiating and Cooperation Council PTK, IF Metall and the Swedish Association of Local Authorities will provide good conditions for competence development and retraining for both employees and those whose employment has ceased. Madam President, I would like Furthermore, we must work to create a longer and sustainable working life. That is why we need to take advantage of older people's skills and experience. Employers' attitudes to and use of senior workers need to be improved. Age discrimination should be combated with broad measures, and a good working environment throughout the working life is essential. Madam President, I would like Older job seekers are at greater risk of long-term unemployment. I therefore welcome the fact that the Government will allocate SEK 20 million in the budget proposal for next year to enable people aged 55 or over to take part in new start-up jobs for a longer period. The proposal aims to strengthen the opportunities for the long-term unemployed to re-enter and establish themselves in the labour market. In the budget proposal for next year, the government also proposes a strengthened employment policy with new measures so that everyone can take Sweden forward after the pandemic. For example, more people will receive labour market training, long-term unemployment will be countered, older job seekers will be given extended opportunities for new start-ups and more unemployed with disabilities will be introduced to work. Madam President, I would like I would also like to say a few words about the Swedish democrats' motion, among other things. I am pleased that we have a government that, unlike the Swedish Democrats, is taking a clear stand against discrimination in the labour market. The spokesperson of the Swedish Democrats mentioned not so much about discrimination in the labour market here in the speaker's chair, but in their motion the Swedish Democrats claim to want to combat age discrimination in working life. At the same time, they halve in their budget for next year the grant to the Equality Ombudsman. The Swedish Democrats not only want to slaughter the agency's budget but also want to close down the Ombudsman for Discrimination. I believe that the Equality Ombudsman has a very important role to play in combating discrimination in the labour market and in society. The agency's supervisory work and information efforts contribute to more knowledge and enhanced implementation of the Discrimination Act, which in my opinion is a way of approaching the goal of a society where we are judged on what we can, want and do rather than according to gender, age, sexual orientation or where we come from. Madam President, I would like We Social Democrats will always stand up for the equal value of all people and fight discrimination in both streets, squares and the labour market and in both words and deeds. The Swedish democrats, on the other hand, promise loudly in their motions but deliver little. The Swedish democrats are hardly credible in their work against discrimination in streets and squares and in the labour market. I therefore cannot help asking the Swedish Democrats: How do the Swedish Democrats want to combat discrimination in the Swedish labour market today? Does the closure of the Equality Ombudsman contribute to less discrimination in the labour market and in society today? It would be interesting to get answers from the Swedish Democrats.
i-7144cc748cf5f3b0-142	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank a Social Democrat for standing in the pulpit of the Swedish Parliament and spending minutes of his speech to the Swedish Democrats and our policy. Thank you for asking me to dance. Let's dance. What I find extremely remarkable is that a representative of a government party, as has been said, is standing in the speaker's seat and debating such an important issue as the fact that older job seekers are having a difficult time in the labour market. The fact that, as a representative of a government party, you devote the time you have in the speaker's chair to talking about the policy of the Swedish democrats, I think you should say a great deal about what policy the government is pursuing. So the government, and the largest party in the government, i.e. the Social Democrats, are not interested in spending their time on improving anything. You spend your time in the speaker's room talking about us. I can reassure the Social Democrats and Serkan Köse that we would come to power and have something to say if it would not look as it does today with discrimination against the elderly. That is what we are seeing today, and it does not devote Serkan Köse a minute to talking about in the speaker's chair. I think that older job seekers should take that on board.
i-7144cc748cf5f3b0-145	Madam President, I would like It feels like Ann-Ann-Christine From Utterstedt is a little disappointed in her own politics. In the report, the Swedish Democrats have six toats, and many of them are about discrimination. I spent five and a half minutes of my speaking time telling us what we Social Democrats think we should do, how we take this report and the National Audit Office's report and about the measures and efforts we want to make to combat age discrimination, and I problematized this whole discussion. The last 30 – 40 seconds of my speech I spent asking the Swedish Democrats: Are you serious about what you are writing here? If you want to combat discrimination in the labour market, my question is: why do you want to close down the authority, the Equality Ombudsman, which fights discrimination in the labour market?
i-SG7PeKZkJDAcoAtdjMPAqR	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Serkan Serkan, for the questions! Sometimes you get a little stunned, I have to say. Serkan Köse continues to talk about the policy of the Swedish Democrats. I very much welcome that, because it is good for the voters to hear what we want. What the government does is set groups against groups. It is done time after time, year after year and term after term of office. The Swedish Democrats do not want to do that. I hope that this will be made clear, both to the honourable Member and to the party and, by all means, to the government. What I wonder is why the government has not taken a strong stand against this in the past. As I said in my speech, these developments have been seen for at least ten years, which mean that older job seekers over 55 have difficulty returning to work and are stuck in long-term unemployment. Why hasn't the government done anything before? You have had ten years – a few years fewer than that in government, i.e. current government – and have another year. Why don't you guys get a good hold of this? Why do you let it just move on? I don't feel like you're taking this seriously at all. I think the government is guilty of the answer. Why don't you do more for this group?
i-7144cc748cf5f3b0-152	Madam President, I would like As I made clear, the government obviously also prioritises this issue as well as discrimination in general. There is clear anti-discrimination legislation that prohibits all discrimination, including age discrimination. We also emphasise and note that it is important for Arbetsförmedlingen to work on this particular issue. This statistical method is important in order to be able to see what measures and actions need to be targeted at the group. I also mentioned that the employer has a great responsibility to work systematically against discrimination. And I would like to remind you that the government has adopted a new strategy on health and safety at work that clearly points to how we should look at lifelong learning. V i also has the Knowledge Lift. The Swedish National Audit Office's report is an important contribution to the work that we will continue to work on. We have set up a delegation for senior workers. It has presented its proposals for measures, which are being processed by the government. Last but not least, there is the Equal Opportunities Commission's work on how to combat age discrimination in the labour market and so on. So there is a battery of measures and tools that we, as governments and social democrats, will continue to work with. I continue to ask my question, to which I have not been given an answer. How will the Swedish Democrats combat discrimination in society and in the labour market by closing down the Ombudsman for Discrimination? It is an important authority and a source of knowledge, but also an important player for us to continue to have a labour market for all people.
i-7144cc748cf5f3b0-158	Madam President, I would like It is fair to say that the matter we are dealing with today is not very spectacular. The Swedish National Audit Office has reviewed the governance of Arbetsförmedlingen and labour market policy, in this case concerning people who are 55-plus. It is welcome, and there is certainly a lot to learn. The problem is that it is not particularly relevant to discuss the recommendations at a time when the government's ongoing and ill-considered change in the Public Employment Service risks making it increasingly difficult to pursue effective and coherent state labour market policies at all. It will be a bit like discussing the interior of a room while the building is being demolished. The Public Employment Service absolutely needs to be reformed in order for the Agency to be better able to carry out its mission than it is today and to have the resources and tools to do so. The Left Party has addressed it in various ways for a long time. As I said, our country needs a coherent state labour market policy. In that case, the central authority in that job, i.e. the Employment Service, needs to be given the opportunity to put the needs of the jobseekers at the centre and match this with the needs of the labour market. The change now dictated by the government is more focused on compensation for private operators and on how that system should be rigged. This undermines the ability to find effective governance in relation to different target groups, in this case job seekers over the age of 55. We will come back in other contexts to the issue of the reform of the Public Employment Service more generally. However, it is important to note that this policy, which most people have long been aware of and knowledge of labour market policies, continues to move from ambiguity to ambiguity. And it is now a social democratic policy, since the fall of the January agreement. Nevertheless, the market experiment that has been thrown into politics and administration is further baffled, despite the fact that the client of it is not even in this House today, that is, the more neoliberal parties of the Center and Liberals. I think we need to remind ourselves that the labour market situation of people who are 55-plus is significantly more affected by other things than the processes and governance documents that the National Audit Office is looking at. We have a situation in Sweden today where many people work. In comparison with other countries, there are also particularly many older people who work. But it is also more difficult for older people who lose their job to return to the labour market. There are a variety of reasons for this, including structural and existing age discrimination. But if you look at what is fundamentally affecting the situation of older people in the labour market, you can see, among other things, that job security is important. There are now new plans to weaken, which we know will affect older people disproportionately. The risk of extortion is increasing for older workers, especially in many older professions. We heard here that there would be SEK 20 million in the budget bill to strengthen labour market policy for the elderly. In all credit, this corresponds to approximately 50 full-time jobs at national level. It is not really proportionate to the risks that more elderly people will lose their jobs with less job security. The relationship of older people to the labour market is also greatly affected by health insurance, by whether it helps or destroys those who have been worn out. For quite a long time it has been clear to most people that there have been big holes in our health insurance system over the last 15 years. That is something that we in the Left Party have fought very hard to remedy. We will continue to do so until improvements are made. I would like to come back to this matter in a more strict sense. The Left Party has a special opinion in the report. We do not see that there is a reservation that raises reasonable objections. Rather, it must be said that it is quite strong for the blue-brown parties to resort to breast tones, as we have heard in the debate today, when their own proposals go in the opposite direction to what would make the situation better for the working and unemployed in general and for the elderly in particular. I also noted that the Member of the Swedish Democrats was almost shocked by the fact that someone else had read the Swedish Democrats' motion on the matter and commented on it in the debate. It may say a lot about the view on how parliamentary work and democratic work in general can work. Finally, we support the committee's position in this regard.
