i-b6128c74c324252a-2	Madam President, I would like Sweden has the world's highest taxes. Armand Duplantis is the world's number one pole jumper, and Sweden is the world's number one in spending other people's money. We are amazing at taking away people's money that they have acquired with hard work and then handing out that money relatively arbitrarily. It must pay off to work. Why else do we have a society? For what reason does the state have the right to tax people with 50 - 70% of their income? During the 60's, 70's and 80's, the Social Democrats tried to make socialism a reality by introducing a mixed economy: employee funds, restrictions on ownership, taxes of more than 100 percent, extensive public economic activity and strong regulation. It was a huge failure, and during the 1990s many of the decisions had to be torn up. The then Minister of Finance Kjell-Kjell-Olof Feldt was the first to confirm that it was a failure. But the stripes never break out of the tiger. Instead, the Social Democrats began to try to realize their socialist ideals through the policy of subsidies. Taxes were increased, and contributions were increased even more. Everyone would get the same, whether you were working or not. More than the equivalent of 1 million people full-time were supported by grants in 2006. Everyone knew someone who was retired early despite the fact that some form of work capacity was often left. We Moderates made arrangements with Grant Sweden for parts under the government Reinfeldt, but over the past seven years the government Löfven has in small steps expanded the benefit systems. Not surprisingly, we see an increase in dependency and exclusion, especially in vulnerable areas. The economic drivers of work are crucial for more people to work. It is also important to increase the overall resources for public finances. For low-income earners, it is not good enough to move from a benefit to a job. It has a major impact on integration. For example, unemployment is four times as high for foreign born as for domestic born, and a majority of foreign-born women of working age are not working. Madam President, I say it again: a majority of foreign-born women do not work. This means that the tax on low incomes will need to be further reduced in order for us to cope with integration by creating incentives to choose work for all those foreign-born women who are currently trapped in exclusion. Madam President, I would like At the same time, a major review of contributions should be carried out in a new grant reform that needs to be developed in a good parliamentary spirit. Is it reasonable for people without citizenship today to have more benefits than our pensioners have in the month after going to work and working throughout the years, perhaps under 40 years of steam? Of course, in order for work to pay off, the tax on labour must be reduced. It's way too high. If you earn above the breakpoint, you pay 52% in tax. I believe that municipal taxes and excise duties are in principle enough. In addition, the State tax provides only 3%, 55 billion, in revenue to the State. A strengthened work line creates more jobs while ensuring that the Swedish people's total tax money is spent more often on welfare and the justice system than on grants. It wins all of Sweden. Reducing taxes on those who work strengthens the driving forces to work. We are doing this because it is right and it increases employment. We'll make it more fair: exertion should pay off. The possibility of stacking allowances on top of each other, such as child allowances, multi-child allowances, housing allowances and subsistence allowances, greatly reduces the driving forces of work. In particular, this prevents women from coming to work as the driving forces are decreasing in line with the number of children. Work is one of the most important tools for prosperity because work creates independence and independence for the individual. We therefore also want to commission the government to investigate the possibility of exchanging certain allowances, such as child allowances and housing allowances, for tax deductions in order to increase the driving force for work. The population is ageing, and fewer and fewer people of working age have to support more and more people. This requires that more people work longer but also that those who work do so more hours. For example, many people with foreign origin need to get to work to contribute to pensions and not least to health care. In the coming years, significant retirements are foreseen both in the public sector and in the private sector. At the same time, there is a great demand for skilled and experienced employees. If more of those who are now approaching retirement can be induced to work longer, the short-term shortage of labour will decrease and welfare funding will also be strengthened in the longer term. To achieve this, we want to strengthen the economic drivers for more older people to work longer. There are also a couple of other income tax issues which we Moderates consider important and which I would like to highlight. The route deduction and the grid reform developed under the Reinfeldt government is one of the most successful reforms introduced. Tens of thousands of jobs have turned white, and services previously performed by households themselves or on the black market have become white. The new jobs have often gone to people who have previously had a weak base on the labour market, such as foreign born and young women. More than half of those who run businesses in the grid industry are women. The Ruth reform has been important in facilitating the puzzle of life in general, but above all it has been important for women who want to go to work and get relief in the case of unpaid domestic work. Research shows that married women in households buy 40 to 80 hours of street services and increase their income proportionally by the size of the deductions. In this way, the employment rate will increase and strengthen Sweden's economy. To facilitate people's everyday lives and to get more easy jobs to grow in Sweden, we want to implement a new comprehensive grid reform. The elderly are among the busiest users of the square and use it frequently. An increased need for help at home should provide a more generous cut-off. Developed and broadened grid deduction enables innovation and growth in the grid sector. The travel allowance is also important for people who are going to work. We live in different places in Sweden. According to the new proposal put forward, those who have less than 30 kilometres of one-way travel, which many have in the Stockholm region, should not be allowed to make any deductions at all. Those who travel up to 80 kilometres will have this deduction but no more. In large parts of Norrland people have a 100 km one-way trip to work or more than that. We do not think this is a good thing, and we hope it will not be implemented.
i-b6128c74c324252a-20	Madam President, I would like Sweden's income tax is of particular importance as two thirds of public sector revenue comes from income taxation of employees, companies and capital. Sweden will charge taxes to increase and finance security and welfare. At the same time, Sweden needs to think about being competitive in the tax area vis-à-vis others – towards the outside world – as we are quite dependent on exports. Taxation should also be transparent, understandable, fair and stable over time, so that we can plan our lives. Madam President, I would like Today, different basic deductions apply to income from services depending on the job tax deductions and the income you have. A fairer system would be a flat basic deduction, which would be obtained equally from all employees and pensioners but would have the greatest impact on those with the lowest incomes. A flat basic deduction has a more social function. This can give people who are far from the labour market an incentive to move from being supported to being self-sufficient. Madam President, I would like Of the 300 000 pensioners in Sweden who are called poor pensioners, two thirds are women. Every sixth pensioner receives a guarantee pension. The pension system we have today means that the entire life-time income, i.e. at least 40 years of earned income, should be pensionable. Instead, before 2002, 30 years of service were in place, and the 15 best years would be the basis for the pension. Unfortunately, the change in the design of the pension system has been devastating for women, largely because women already have a lower taxable income due to lower wages. This is also due to the fact that women give birth to children and care for the elderly when society is not enough, leading to a further reduction in the income of women. This is a fundamental problem. We need to carry out a review of the pension system in order to get justice. Always patching up the system doesn't work. Co-taxation was abolished in 1971 so that women would become self-sufficient and equal. None of these objectives have been met, and the new pension system created a new female trap. In Sweden, which claims to be the most equal country in Europe, two thirds of the poor pensioners are women. Madam President, I would like The so-called pensioner's tax actually came about by implementing job tax deductions in several stages for the working population but not for pensioners. This led to lower taxes for ordinary wage earners, which was good, but unfortunately pensioners did not receive tax relief. It is not reasonable, for reasons of principle, for a person who has worked for an entire working life to pay higher taxes than a person who has worked his first hour. Our starting point is therefore that the pension should be regarded as deferred salary. There is no reasonable reason to have two different tax systems concerning income from services. We therefore propose that the concept of pension income be abolished. Pension income shall be regarded as income from service. In practice, the so-called increased basic deduction disappears and is replaced by existing job tax deductions. Madam President, I would like The previous pension savings system was perhaps flawed, but the effect of the loss of the private pension savings allowance in 2016 makes residents wonder if it is worthwhile to save pensions. Unless there is more dependence on the public old-age pension system, which is currently unable to deliver sufficiently high pensions. The Swedish Democrats are therefore proposing a renewal of the private pension savings scheme, which does not make tax deductions at the time of the deposit, nor does it suffer from capital gains tax when selling funds or shares, but instead pays a very low standard tax according to how occupational pensions work. The proposal is that flat-rate taxation amounts to 15 per cent of the previous year's government loan interest rate, which is the same as for occupational pensions and which for 2018 amounted to only 0.8 per cent. Similarly, the tax on investment savings accounts should be restored to the level it was at prior to the government's latest increase. This should reasonably be encouraged with favourable tax conditions rather than vice versa. I request the approval of reservation 2.
i-b6128c74c324252a-32	Madam President, I would like Taxes are one of the most effective instruments we have in terms of social development. From the Center Party we are clear that we control what we want more of and what we want less of with the help of taxes. It is of the utmost importance that we choose right – otherwise the consequences can be great both for the individual and for society as a whole. I am very proud that the Center Party, both in alliance context and in January, has contributed to reducing the tax burden both for those who create jobs and for individuals. The abolition of the military tax and the reduction of the tax on people with low incomes are very clear examples of the Centre Party's impressions in tax policy. However, I would like to respond to things that my moderate fellow Member, Kjell Jansson, said in this speaker's chair. He suggested that we in Sweden have some kind of leeway and that anyone can receive any kind of grant. I would like to distance myself from this. Madam President, I would like In my speech, I would like to focus on three tax problems that should be addressed as soon as possible, such as some of the tax effects that have arisen in the wake of the current pandemic management. As I mentioned at the outset, taxes are an important instrument, but if they are wrong, they will be legally insecure. We must then have both the courage and the power to correct quickly. Let me take a concrete and clear example where the coronapndemin has caused tax problems for cross-border commuters. Nordic border commuters who have worked from home under the coronapandemine may have to pay taxes in two countries. This is the result of the fact that the Nordic finance ministers do not agree to an exemption from the tax rules in force. According to the Nordic tax treaty, a border commuter is required to pay tax in the country where the person works. Many commuters have worked from home at the request of their employers during the coronapem, which means that commuters must pay taxes in the country where they live for every day of work from home. In the Öresund region there is also a special tax agreement, the Öresund agreement, which means that if domestic work lasts more than 50 per cent over a period of three months, the usual rules do not apply, but the tax will be paid in the country where you live. This means that the commuters concerned must declare and pay taxes both in the country of residence and in the country where they work. In some cases tax money is to be sent between countries, which leads to increased additional work for the employee, employer and authorities. Unfortunately, there are more examples of tax problems that arise for cross-border commuters. When the problems became clear last year, the answer came from the Minister for Finance that he does not intend to take any action. Of course, this needs to be resolved here and now for those it concerns, but at least as important is learning and redoing for the future. Madam President, I would like We in the Center Party have a reservation under paragraph 3 of the report, which states that green tax exchange is a strategic approach. With increased taxes on things that are bad for the environment, emissions and people's environmental impact are reduced. We also believe that a continued green tax shift in the transport sector should be investigated. It is a system that enables people to live and operate throughout the country. Such tax reform must be designed in broad dialogue with all concerned. To the extent that traffic is to be taxed, it must be seen that today's tax base, fossil fuel, is greatly eroded. If and when that tax base is to be replaced by other tax bases, these must, among other things, involve differentiation in the taxation of road traffic in cities and rural and sparsely populated areas. It is also a question of allowing taxation to vary between times and places. Madam President, I would like We will always do everything we can to avoid hypocrisy and insecurity. When we note that something is perceived as twitchy and quite frankly wrong, we must act. For companies, long-term and transparent tax rules are always a priority in the tax field. Since a judgment of the Supreme Administrative Court in 2017, it is no longer permitted for board members to invoice their fees through companies. Instead, the fee shall be paid as salary, while the employer shall pay the employer's contributions. In 2009, a legislative amendment was made which opened to invoice the board fees through its own company in certain circumstances. Since the amendment, the Swedish Tax Agency has given the board of directors the green light to send invoices from their own company as long as they have at least three assignments and are not partners in the companies. We were driving the change of law, because it broadened the scope for companies to recruit competent, external members. The reform has worked very well and has been valuable until recently. Since 2017, we have been pushing for the law to be redesigned now that the Supreme Administrative Court has failed the Swedish Tax Agency's interpretation. In particular, smaller companies, including growth companies and non-urban and rural businesses with less financial resources, are at risk of being particularly affected.
i-b6128c74c324252a-46	Madam President, I would like I failed to demand approval of the Moderates' reservations. That is why I asked to speak. I support all the reservations expressed by the Moderates in their report on Income Tax. ( FIRST VICE TALMANN: We have an agreement with the group leaders to ask for a reservation in each report, so I urge the honourable Member to opt for a reservation. ) I'll have to get back to you.
i-b6128c74c324252a-49	Madam President, I would like Let me begin by saying that at the beginning of this debate I was a little provoked by the Moderates' speeches that tax money was arbitrarily distributed. Yes, one can say to the health professionals, who are currently fighting in the front of the pandemic, and to the school staff, who are facing cuts, that these are arbitrary activities. And you can say to the cancer sufferer who needs care: Gud, how arbitrarily we are handing out this tax money! I guess this says a little bit about the Moderates' view of society. Madam President, I would like It is always inspiring to come up after the Center Party in this Chamber. At this point, however, we know what has not worked, that is, the neoliberal policy that has eroded welfare, not least through major tax cuts, privatisations, hourly contracts and precarious jobs, which in the long run also make it difficult for us to face a crisis. Every year, Sweden becomes more and more unequal. After all, it is the core of neoliberal economic policy that causes so many to lag behind. In terms of income, Sweden is one of the countries where income inequality has increased fastest in the OECD. LO recently released its annual review of the income of society's power elite. In addition to a gloomy picture, it gives an indication of how inequality in income looks, how the value of ordinary employees' work ends up in a few's pockets, how money is concentrated on those who have the most and how it leaves a lot of people behind. One example is that the average income of a CEO of a large Swedish company corresponds to more than 60 industrial workers' salaries. Maintaining these class divisions cannot be an option. We can look back to 1980, when Sweden was much more equal than today. Then the CEO had nine industrial workers' wages. It may then be thought that this must be corrected, that the economic gaps are too great for a sustainable society and the income differentials between men and women, between the rich and the poor, between the sick and the working and between the city and the country. Instead of correcting it, however, the government is taking the opportunity to abolish the military tax — money that primarily goes to rich men. This is what the representative of the Centre Party was so proud of here in the speaker's chair. After that, reducing the tax further by 30 billion during a pandemic rather than making large public investments or evening out the economic gaps is absolutely unbelievable. But it is, after all, many times neoliberalism's logic that those with lower incomes should have lower wages to work more while the rich should have lower taxes to work more. Whip to the working class, carrot to the cream shelf is not very new. It's a crazy development, considering who's supporting the whole community. For nine out of ten workers' jobs, the work is located in the regular workplace during the pandemic because workers can only perform their profession on site. These are often the very ones who are facing cuts, low-cost staffing in the workplace, neglected work environment and precarious employment. It is mainly women workers who have paid a high price during the pandemic, both financially and in terms of health and safety at work. It's not just a crazy development. This is a very cynical development, not least because the tax cuts neo-liberals in this House are seeking have been tried for decades without positive effects. Today it can be concluded that tax cuts have only led to a sharp increase in income differentials, with the richest percentage deducting and the workers remaining and supporting society. If it were the case that tax cuts for the richest create jobs, with which it is justified every time and which has been tried throughout my life, why are we not being flooded with more jobs? Many of those who have become unemployed are among those with low wages, hourly employment and precarious jobs. How do tax cuts for the rich fix their lives? It is, of course, the major tax cuts that have led to cuts in welfare and weakened our ability to face a crisis. That is why, more than ever, a tax shift is needed that benefits workers and ordinary people, that is to say, that is to say, that is to say, that is to say, that is to say, that is to say, that is to say, that we need a tax shift that benefits workers and ordinary people, that is to say, that is to say, that is to say, that is to say, that is to say, that is to say, that is to say, we need more than ever, a tax shift that is to the benefit of workers and ordinary people, that is to renovate welfare and our common To achieve this, tax cuts for the rich must be set aside, and we must begin to correct all system errors. It is also time to correct the abolition of the military tax and introduce an extra welfare tax on high incomes so that we secure the long-term financing of welfare. It is also time to reintroduce a tax reduction on trade union contributions so that we can reduce the cost of trade union membership and enable more people to join the union. We know that what creates increased and fair income for workers is to join forces and demand it, and this must be made possible to a greater extent. The time for taxmers must be over so that we can say no to any policy of cutting back, whether it be health care or children's preschool. Cutbacks should never be an option. On the contrary, we need to rearrange society with strong public investment on all fronts. I'm in favour of reservation 14.
i-b6128c74c324252a-64	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by calling for the approval of reservation 3 – if that was not stated in my speech. Madam President, I would like When I heard Tony Haddous's speech, I thought oj and became thoughtful. There were a great many headlines: tax cuts for the richest, cynical, neo-liberal and cutting policies. I'm getting confused. Where does this statement of reality come from? It doesn't make any sense. Is there really evidence of all Tony Haddous's claims? As I said, I am extremely proud that the Center Party has contributed greatly to the fact that the tax has been reduced for the hardworking people who are involved in building Sweden strongly. We have provided historically large resources to Swedish welfare. To me it is incomprehensible that Tony Haddou and the Left Party do not see the reality that we all see. I really wonder what are the Left Party's solutions to the social problems we see. Do Tony Haddou and the Left really want to raise taxes for hardworking nurses, nurses, doctors and others who are in the front line fighting the pandemic? Is that really what the Left Party thinks is the solution to the challenges we have in Sweden today?
i-b6128c74c324252a-68	Madam President, I would like I'll start where Alireza left off. He deliberately misdescribes my speech, for example, that I want to increase the tax for everyone who works in health care. Those who listened to my speech know that this is not true. The growing divides are one of our biggest social problems, and this is where I criticise the Center Party. What we want to do is, above all, to engage in major public investment to equip society, not least after the pandemic. In the last budget, therefore, we spent 70 billion more than the government. I understand that you are proud of your work, but we take the welfare and long-term considerations much more seriously than the Center Party does. After all, you are making cuts, and we know that there are cuts going on around the country, including in the municipalities. I don't know if Alireza has been in the school world lately, but there are schools where you cut down on staff and so on. As far as income and defence taxes are concerned, I have a counter-question to Alireza. If a CEO gets 2 million extra in his pocket because of your tax reduction, the tax you were so proud of that you took away, how does that benefit society? It's probably a male CEO who gets these 2 million. It does not benefit society at all. That is what we are criticising. We also want to introduce an extra welfare tax on high incomes. Not only do we think it is worth the effort to tax rich people, but we think it is necessary. But you don't, and that's what separates us.
i-b6128c74c324252a-75	I would remind the honourable Member that we are speaking through the President and are not saying you or you.
i-b6128c74c324252a-76	Madam President, I would like I thank Tony Haddou for the question. I really wish I had more speaking time so that I could hold a basic course in economics on how economic theories interact with social development in general. Tony Haddou may know about the Laffer curve. There is clear economic evidence that the military tax is directly detrimental to the development of society and that the state actually receives less tax money that can go to welfare and to the efforts of the people that Tony Haddou and the Left Party claim to be protecting and burning for. Tony Haddou and the Left Party skilfully avoid answering the question why they want to raise the tax. Why did they vote against the tax cut for those with the lowest income? Why did they vote against having more nurses and doctors on the front line to fight the pandemic? To hide this in theoretical calculations about a CEO who suddenly gets 2 million more because we removed the defense tax, which relates to income over 56 000, is quite incomprehensible to me. We also see the divides in society, Tony Haddou. However, they are not solved by creating new problems by making less money available to the state.
i-b6128c74c324252a-81	Madam President, I would like I don't know if I just got a pat on my head. But a basic course with Alireza Akhondi will unfortunately include how to break the labour law of all those in the front line against the pandemic. I believe that the Center Party, with its neoliberalism, is the last to give a basic course to a left-wing party in economics. There is clear economic evidence of exactly the opposite of what Alireza Akhondi is highlighting here. It will be difficult in this debate because we are in fact in favour of reducing taxes on low and middle-income earners. I don't know where you get your information, Alireza Akhondi, but I think you'll have to look back at our tax policy. I do not think it is possible to go much further when we get such claims.
i-b6128c74c324252a-83	Madam President, I would like Most of us probably know how much we pay for our apartment every month. Most of us have some control of what the phone costs, what we pay to have the internet at home and what other bills usually cost. But there are studies that show that most of us do not know how big our expenditure is. Our biggest expense is the tax we pay every month. The Christian Democrats believe that the tax burden must be made visible. Public employers must lead the way by more clearly reporting all taxes and contributions on the wage statement. It is only right to the citizens – all those who are the real owners of the money. We must highlight and inform about the functioning of our social system and the foundations on which it is based. Madam President, I would like We Christian Democrats are working to reduce the tax burden in Sweden. The reduction in taxes is an end in itself. It is a goal that people retain as much as possible of the money they have earned themselves. Reducing income taxes is particularly important. If it is something that is important for Sweden and Swedish welfare, it is that more people work more hours. Tax cuts that result in more people working more also lead to the long-term strengthening of local government finances. What is most important for municipalities and regions to maintain and develop welfare is that the tax base develops positively. During the time of the Christian Democrats and the Alliance at the government power, welfare was strengthened. It can be seen, among other things, how the tax force, i.e. the tax base per inhabitant, developed during this time. During the eight years in which the Alliance ruled, the tax force increased from SEK 162 600 to SEK 185 800, calculated in constant 2014 prices. This is an increase of 12 per cent – a long-term strengthening of municipal tax revenues and opportunities to develop welfare. Reducing taxes on labour provides an opportunity to develop well-being. The policy pursued by the Christian Democrats and the Alliance in government meant that the resources for school, health care and care increased by more than SEK 100 billion, at constant prices. Resources increased per inhabitant, per pupil and per inpatient. The number of doctors, midwives and nurses per inhabitant increased. Resources for school increased per pupil, in all forms of school, again in constant prices. Increasing growth through reduced taxes and improved business environment pays off – for everyone. Madam President, I would like Despite relatively large housing construction for a few years, the thresholds to the housing market have become very high. Over the past year, house prices have risen considerably. At home in Gothenburg, where I come from, the prices of flats in the last year have increased by almost 6 per cent. At the same time, prices of small houses have increased by over 15 per cent in one year. In line with price developments, there is also an increasing need for a substantial cash contribution. To help more people to afford the first home, the Christian Democrats want to introduce tax-subsidised housing savings for young people aged 18 to 34. The tax credit shall be made for the first 60 months. In our model, all young people should get this automatically, but it should of course be possible to leave the system for anyone who wants to. Together with a start-up loan for first-time buyers, which means that the government assists by lending part of the cash transaction, more people can have the opportunity to buy their first home. Last winter, the government set up an investigation into just starting loans. We welcome that. Now we also need an investigation into a favourable housing saving for young people. Madam President, I would like We Christian Democrats have a number of reservations in today's report. I am, of course, behind them all, but I would particularly like to highlight and call for the approval of reservation 27, which deals with donations for non-profit activities. We want a strong, viable and independent civil society. That is why we have worked for and introduced a gift tax deduction. This means in practice a tax relief for those who give gifts for social purposes and for research. The gift tax deduction strengthens organizations such as Stadsmissionen, Rescuemission, Heart-Lungfonden and Cancerfonden. We introduced this for the first time in 2012, but unfortunately the gift tax deduction was removed by the Red-Green Government during the last parliamentary term. It was a very hard blow to civil society organisations, and we Christian Democrats therefore fought hard to restore it. We succeeded in this when the Christian Democratic and Moderate Budget was adopted at the beginning of this term of office. Since the summer of 2019, the gift tax credit has been back again. But we're not happy. The gift tax credit needs to be substantially extended. The ceiling must be raised so that more can give far greater gifts. More types of organisations need to be covered, the lower limit for each individual gift needs to be reduced and the administration needs to be simplified for the organisations concerned. The gift tax credit is no wonder. Almost all of Europe's countries have some kind of tax deduction or reduction for gifts, but the most interesting example for us is probably our neighbour Norway. It introduced the deduction in 1999. In the beginning it was just like here, rather modest and involved only a few types of organizations, but then it came to evolve. Today, more than 600 organisations are covered. These are organisations that work with care, human rights, culture, the environment, nature and animal welfare. In 1999, Christian Democrat Kjell Magne Bondevik was Prime Minister of Norway, and since then Norway has had governments both to the right and to the left, with prime ministers such as Solberg Erna and Jens Stoltenberg. There were different governments, with different policies in many areas, but everyone has developed the gift tax credit. Madam President, I would like The Norwegian example should be a model for us in Sweden.
i-b6128c74c324252a-98	Madam President, I would like Since the Rules of Procedure do not allow those of us who have not given our main speeches to take a reply, I would like to take this opportunity to comment on the previous comments made by Mr Jansson and Mr Kjell. I fully agree that the integration policy that has been pursued for decades has been devastating not least for the opportunities of foreign-born people to get into work and self-support. I agree that the so-called work line, which has been running for a number of years, has not lowered the thresholds for foreign-born people to come to work and self-support. We need to take seriously the integration failures and, from the bottom up, build a clear integration policy so that we can create the opportunity for all people, wherever they originally come from, to have the same conditions for getting into work and providing for ourselves. It's the best way to freedom. But I am opposed to the kind of argument that sets groups against each other. I am strongly opposed to putting foreign-born people against Swedish pensioners with poor pensions. That's not how we solve problems, Kjell Jansson. So we cannot think whether we are seriously going to face up to the challenges of overcoming the failures that have been allowed for decades. Madam President, I would like Now I will address what I was going to talk about and which is also important. Not least, we are talking about all the important efforts that have been made in this horrendous year of the pandemic. We Liberals, together with the government and the Center Party, have presented countless emergency packages to ensure that companies are rescued from bankruptcy and that jobs are protected in an emergency. We have regularly reinforced the incentive packages with regulatory simplifications, substantial reductions in employers' contributions, direct payments, investment aid and so on. The list can be made very long over all the measures that have been taken. But we Liberals have not done one thing. We have been neither passive nor irresponsible during the crisis. On the contrary, we have taken responsibility for Sweden through the most vulnerable situations we have been in since the introduction of democracy. If we are to facilitate the re-launch of the economy and safeguard competitiveness when the acute phase is over, much more needs to be done. For us liberals, it is a matter of course to start from companies when we are going to restart the economy, because it is companies that are the basis for welfare and important job creators. I know the Left Party disagrees with me. Mr Haddou has made this clear in his introductory statement. On the contrary, the Left Party is obsessed with witch-hunts against companies and blackwashing them as greedy venture capitalists. It is of course very sad to black-paint the important welfare creators as many companies are literally on their knees and bleeding. I am proud that the Liberals in budget negotiations with the Government have received tax incentives for experts, researchers and other important key people from other countries to be able to come to Sweden through the fact that the expert tax has now been extended from three to five years. I have also noted that in the report there are a number of claims relating precisely to the expert tax. But it is not just the expert tax that has been extended. This has been combined with a reduced corporate tax rate with a new deduction for investments. New provisions have also been implemented on deductions for group-subsidised deficits and deductions for business. We have also helped to extend the R & D deduction with a substantial reduction in employers' contributions. The rules for the taxation of employee stock options will be reformed and extended so that young companies with growth ambitions that both want to attract and retain key employees in their companies will be given the opportunity and that Swedish rules will become competitive internationally. This proposal will enter into force on 1 January 2022. All these changes together will strengthen the attractiveness of Swedish companies by giving them the opportunity to compete on a level playing field in the global market. We must not forget the global market. It is incredibly important to us as a small and export-dependent country. A large part of our business is trade with other countries. At the same time, it is important to remember that the Swedish labour market will on the whole become more attractive to people from other countries, that they want to come here and contribute their skills and knowledge. This is an important message to the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise and the companies. The changes that have been made and made in the near future is a great victory for a stronger business environment in Sweden. Madam President, I would like I would like to conclude my speech by saying a few words about the tax reform that we have agreed in the January parties to implement this term of office. I think it's just as good to be honest. There will be no tax reform this term of office. That is because of two things, but it is not because the Liberals have not wanted it or have not had it as an ambition. We have a tax system today that has 30 years on its neck and is dysfunctional and barely understandable to many ordinary people. It's a patchwork where we've added things and removed things. It does not work long-term if we are to have a strong, solid and robust tax system. But the pandemic has gotten in the way. Over the past year, we have had to devote all our energy and time to dealing with this crisis. The second is that we do not believe, now that two years have passed, that it is possible to make such a solid tax reform that only has the support of four parties in the Swedish parliament. We believe that a broader consensus is needed on the new tax reform, which hopefully will last 30 years in time. This presupposes that more parties than just the Liberals, the Centre Party and the government parties sit at a negotiating table. This presupposes that the two largest parties in Parliament also agree – the Social Democrats and the Moderates. Therefore, it would be irresponsible to rush through a reform that is incredibly important for Sweden's future growth potential. Over the past year, there have been a number of different reports with proposals on how to implement a new tax reform. Some suggestions are good. And I think it's important to take inspiration from not least the ESO reports. But there is a suggestion coming from the Think Tank Time. It's a so-called shadow investigation. I can assure you that we Liberals will take no inspiration from it. Two things we can tell you here and now are that we will not contribute to the introduction of the old property tax or to changes in the tax system that mean going back to a system where we will once again get the world's highest marginal taxes on labour income. It is not good for Sweden, either from a competition perspective or to stimulate the work line and get more people to go from grants to work. It will be an important issue for all of us parties to deal with in the next parliamentary term. Clearly, we have begun a number of important steps in the right direction. But to stand here and say that, for the remainder of this term of office, we are going to bax through a tax reform that does not even have a majority in the Swedish Parliament and which no more than four parties are behind would in fact be irresponsible in the difficult economic crisis that Sweden is in. Madam President, I would like Of course, I support all our reservations. However, in order to gain time at voting time, I only agree to reservation 31.
i-b6128c74c324252a-117	Madam President, I would like The Swedish dream: During the 80s, when I was born, Medelsvensson's life goals could be a little joked in three words: villa, Volvo, doggy. Three brief words were ultimately a measure of the material standard of living that promised happiness and success. It was a middle class aga that spread around the world and became synonymous with the description of both rich and equal Sweden – the country where every person would not only dream of but could also expect to have the security and happiness that life with these three words symbolized. In the background there was also a broad welfare state that was taken for granted – one of the world's leading education systems that was free and open to all, a growing and increasingly extensive childcare, health care and care for the elderly without private elements, libraries and recreation centres in each neighbourhood. As I grew up, this ideal began to be challenged. The security of the welfare state began to be perceived as an obstacle to the freedom of the individual. This also led to political decisions. My generation is often accused of being dissatisfied because we have such high expectations. But the 1990s crisis shook our country and opened the door to the rise of market liberalism and its effects on welfare. The Government of Bildt in 1991 also played an important role in the return of inequality and class divisions. It was a harbinger of what would later come during Reinfeldt's long prime minister's time. Madam President, I would like I remember the conversations my teachers had with their parents about the cuts that would come to school. Years later, my high school class ran out to an even more precarious labour market, an uphill to the first home and more insecurity than the generation before us. Today, the world looks fundamentally different from 30 years ago, and so does Sweden. Many may be better off materially, but inequality has increased. The richest tenth, to a greater extent the richest percentage and even more the richest per mil in Sweden have deducted all others to a very large extent in the 21st century. We see this also globally. Both the billionaires and the homeless have become more numerous. Working is not always enough to make a living, as wages and, by extension, pensions are too low in the low-wage sectors. In the United States, the poorest are already allowed to take two or three jobs to make it. At the same time, dividends and capital gains are rushing. Madam President, I would like The symbol of happiness may change over time, but I am convinced that people have always striven for it. Perhaps it is not always security that is the purpose but the opportunities that come with it. If we are to be free, we also need to be safe. It is when school and education are free and equal that everyone can have the opportunity to shape their lives. It is when we have the right to work with good conditions that we can live, travel and live without being dependent on anyone else or feeling worried about how the month should go together. It is when the justice system works that we can be safe out there and in our homes. It is when there is good parental insurance and preschool that we can give our children a safe start and return to work when the time comes. It is when there is workable health care and health insurance that we can feel secure if life takes a different turn. And this is not least about the survival of the planet – we will not stop global warming, shrinking forests and poisoning of the oceans, there will be no security left. In a stronger society with decreasing class divisions, you can work for the life you want yourself. If something unexpected happens, you're not alone. Then the community is there. We can continue where we were or start over. When we're safe, we're freer. But when we are insecure, we are also free. Growing economic and social gaps mean both insecurity and insecurity for all. Madam President, I would like When we discuss politics, we are obliged to deal with today's issues while looking ahead. We need to deal with the ongoing pandemic. We also need to rebuild better once it's over. We are not doing this through the tax cuts proposed here today. Moreover, taxes are rarely an end in themselves. For us Social Democrats, the issue of taxation is rather about space to build the strong society in which everyone can participate. I welcome the high expectations people have of society, of politics and of themselves. People have every right to expect security, equality, equality and a bright future. Expectations make us develop and improve. Although neither dreams nor happiness are shaped by political decisions, it is in this Chamber that we legislate on what conditions we give people. For me, the Swedish dream is about the possibility of an equal and safe society where everyone can define and choose their own happiness. It is our duty as elected politicians to make that possible, both today and for future generations. Having said that, Madam President, I am calling for all reservations to be rejected.
i-b6128c74c324252a-131	Madam President, I would like Once again, I am the last on the list of speakers. It has been fun and interesting to listen to my colleagues in the committee in this debate on taxation. There have been few lines, so I hope I can get you moving now. I would like to start by saying that I agree with and appreciate the speech by the previous speaker, Mr Kayhan. But this debate was opened by Moderaten's Kjell Jansson. We like different things quite a lot. Kjell Jansson complains that people become dependent on grants and need society's contribution in order to be able to live and get their daily lives together. Kjell Jansson resents the fact that people retire too early because they are prepared and the body does not last. Kjell Jansson wants to create jobs – it is extremely fluffy to want to create jobs – and increase the willingness to work with financial incentives. Kjell Jansson breaks down on various types of contributions that we have built up in our welfare society. I can certainly agree there – on what I will come back to later in my speech. I think these are important issues that are raised, but I also want us to back up a few steps and land in values. I do not see the driving force for working and contributing to society only in economic incentives. I don't believe it. I believe in man's innate will to do something for others and for society. I have seen it not least in the non-profit sector, and it has been very much talked about its importance. People want to get involved in various issues. These could be humanitarian issues, environmental issues, natural issues, etc. We also know as politicians that most people who engage in politics work without fees on evenings and weekends. It's because we're driven by something. We want to do something, whether we get paid or not. Therefore, I think it is not the economy or how much we get on the balance at the end of the month that determines how much we are passionate about something. It's coming from inside. What, then, do we value? When I meet a fellow human, I meet a fellow human being. It's not that I see a robot and think: You have to work longer and harder. I don't see hours of work, but I see a fellow human being whom I value. I value time. I value the little things in life. I value my family. I value time with my friends. I value recovery. I value recreation. I value nature. I am often out in nature and see the forest – not just for all trees but as an ecosystem and as a life in itself. For example, when I'm in nature, I don't value the forest just for the mass of wood or the number of cubic metres. But you can have different basic views. Former Minister of Finance Anders Borg may show what he values when he goes on a trophy hunt in Africa and shoots endangered animals. You can take your elephant feet home and keep them like trash. It's another kind of basic evaluation that I don't share. Yet, these values are the basis for how we then act politically. It is also reflected in this debate and in taxes at large. Kjell Jansson's proposal on how to deal with this is a grid reform. It is a disguised benefit system for those who are already wealthy. In fact, it does not benefit the foreign-born women that Kjell Jansson says she wants to protect. I appreciate the statement by Liberals Member Gulan Avcis that we cannot set groups against groups in this context. I fully agree with that. I would like to add another dimension. We can't put shareholders against workers. We cannot pit employers against employees. I do not believe in the trickle-down economy, from which we have built our view of work. The member of the Center Party comes up in the debate and wants to teach with a quick course in economics and proudly defends the removal of a tax, the defense tax, for those who serve the most in society. It's beyond my understanding. However, while trying to teach each other economics, I would like to point out once again that economic growth is neither desirable nor realistic in the long run, because it is measured exponentially. Biologist as I am, I know that if something grows exponentially in nature or biology, we refer to cancer, because that's what it's all about. With a planet, it is not possible or desirable to have an economy that will increase more than the planet itself has carrying capacity. Madam President, I would like I hope that it is clear that I do not believe in neoliberalism, which really permeates our debate and, in general, our policy now. I do not believe in anyone who liberalises the destructive mechanisms of capitalism. That is what drives inequality and, at the same time, effectively impoverishes our ecosystem the planet. I agree with Kjell Jansson on one point. Of course we could simplify the systems. Why not introduce a basic income? It would be so much easier. Me and the Green Party are pushing for a government public investigation to get more answers on how it could be implemented. The Green Party also agrees with the Center Party on the green tax shift. I believe that we should use the tax system to drive away from what is bad and against what we appreciate and are good. We want to reduce taxes on income and increase taxes on what is environmentally damaging. We want to reduce normal working hours. It was a reform that all parties agreed 50 years ago, but since then nothing has been dared to do with it. It is precisely because we value time that we want it. This also applies to engagement, as we have heard from the Member of the Christian Democrats. It is about commitment and non-profit participation in society. We believe that. We want to put an end to the skewed taxation. Today we have incredibly high taxes on labour but incredibly low taxes on capital. It says something about what you value. You don't value hard work. You value the one who is born rich, the one who speculates or the one who is lucky. There's a big difference between us. Having said that, I am in favour of the committee's proposal in the report.
i-b6128c74c324252a-147	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Rebecka Le Moine, for the mention in the speaker's chair! I noticed that Rebecka Le Moine was looking for a line. I thought: Why not, it's always good to be a little alert. Madam President, I would like I am very pleased that we are debating taxes and not biology. I would like to take this opportunity to remind Rebecka Le Moine that the Green Party is de facto in the government. It seems to be a small detail that Rebecka Le Moine has overlooked in her commitment. The Green Party has been involved in abolishing the military tax. It's important to remember. We know economically, according to economic theories, that reducing the tax burden on labour generates both growth and resources for welfare. These are resources that we can use in the green transition that must take place here and now in order to achieve the climate goals that the Green Party and the Center Party think are extremely important. Finally, I would like to take this opportunity to ask Rebecka Le Moine what the Environment Party's alternative is, given that you are still in government with the tools and departments that are working to achieve the climate targets.
i-b6128c74c324252a-151	Madam President, I would like May I be so rude to remind you how my last name Le Moine is pronounced, so we know it? It is clear that my party is part of the government, and the Center and Liberals are part of the January Agreement. On the other hand, I don't believe in gag. It is important for democracy and anyone following the debate that they know where the parties stand. Otherwise, we can delegate the whole political discussion to Stefan Löfven, but I do not see that as something that revitalizes and drives democracy forward. We're part of the government. But I'm not a minister. I'm a Member of Parliament. I am concerned about the views and policies that I pursue. It is my hope that we will continue to be able to do this whole term of office. I do not see that as an obstacle to say what I and the Green Party stand for. It is of course in the government that we have to try to push and change with the tools available. Let's do that. In every negotiation and in every room, for example, we nag about environmental values and increasing the budget for natural investments. We are fighting for the green tax shift to be carried out with as much impact as possible on nature and the environmental objectives that we have jointly decided on in the Riksdag. One thing doesn't stand against the other. I'm a Member of Parliament, and we're part of the government. We also operate there in all the negotiations that we are part of. ( First VICE TALMAN: I apologise for the wrong pronunciation of the name. I'm gonna get my act together. )
i-b6128c74c324252a-158	Madam President, I would like I, too, would like to apologise to Rebecka Le Moine for the wrong pronunciation. This with last name is not easy all times. I know that from my own experience. Nevertheless, I would like to take this opportunity to say that Rebecka Le Moine did not answer my question. I have heard that kind of argument earlier from environmentalists. But the answer and what the solutions and alternatives might be as always glowing with their absence. Given what our society looks like and the challenges that we face, it will in any case be very problematic for me with my liberal compass as a guiding principle to try to understand how Rebecka Le Moine discusses how to remove the concept of growth and that it in itself would be harmful. Since we are still debating taxes, I really want to know how the Green Party sees us as being able to have a welfare society where we take responsibility for the weak in society. It is about the fact that we can still have a well-being without in any way getting into a situation where from my horizon, excuse this, it becomes a retrograde one. I don't really get it together in my role.
i-b6128c74c324252a-162	Madam President, I would like Of course, we have thought this through when we criticise growth as a concept. We can end up having it as a political objective and seeing the economy, as the previous speaker mentioned, as a tool for achieving the real objectives. So what exactly is our task? What is important to all of us? I think we can agree on that. There is somewhere a welfare and a quality of life within the planet's only limit, which we exceeded the day before yesterday. Yesterday we had a debate on excise duties. There, I hope, I made it clear that the Green Party has a number of different proposals on how to increase the tax on natural resources. Today it's basically free. Nature is seen as something we will drill up and devastate and then turn into something more useful, because that's what creates jobs. I believe that it is fundamentally a misapprehension of nature that we should quickly get rid of and redeploy natural resources. We have to tax that more. If we are so positive about the future in terms of technology development and IT solutions – as I also think we are – how can we at the same time want to create jobs for the sake of it? That's what I think is very fuzzy. Then the question is: how do we tax value again? Should we not consider taxing the work that robots are doing in the future? It is a new idea that we should actually consider and think about so that we do not create a class society where, for example, those who have automated labor and robots get away with it more easily. It's also about using the green tax exchange – which I also think we agree on – as a tool to shift focus.
i-b6128c74c324252a-168	Madam President, I would like I'll make this clear with the reservations. Of course, I support all moderate reservations, but I am in favour of reservation 1 in the report on income tax.
i-b6128c74c324252a-169	Madam President, I would like Sweden has the highest tax burden in the world, I said in my previous post. I'll say it again, because it can be reminded. The central government's total tax revenue is approximately SEK 2,100 billion annually. Many of our citizens pay up to 70% of their income in taxes, 30% in municipal taxes and 22% in state income tax for those above the cut-off point, as well as VAT and excise duties. The state is the winner at all times of drifting people. Every misused tax crown is a theft from the people, said Social Democratic engineer Gustav Möller once in the world. And he was absolutely right about that. What legitimacy does the state have to levy such high taxes? You can think about that. The answer is socialism and an over-reliance that the state should manage things in society that can be made more efficient and better by the private sector. Taxes should generally be reduced. Then more capital will generate higher revenues for the state through the dynamic effects. It is also wealth-building for individuals and companies. People who build businesses and risk capital must be rewarded to a greater extent. For decades, Parliament has built up an enormous state apparatus. Today we have some 450 agencies with 230 000 employees in the country. Many are needed for the rule of law, such as police and defence, etc. However, many authorities today are also dealing with issues that may be called into question, including those relating to forests. During the seven years that have passed under the government Lövven, 50 new agencies have been formed. At the same time, the state has several areas that need to be strengthened, such as defence and police, as well as education and health care. A strong review of state authorities would have to be carried out. Several authorities are currently pursuing politics, which I was dealing with, and attacking the forest and property rights. They put biotop protection on privately owned forests, which is highly questionable. If the forest owner is in on it, it is fine, but often the landowners are not on the bill and are forced to do this against bad compensation – and in the form of a one-off compensation. The forest is traditionally cared for by generations in Sweden; that's why we have such a nice and well-kept forest. As soon as a social problem arises, a new authority will be created. The aim is also to redistribute money according to socialist ideology, to parts arbitrarily. Personally, I believe that there should be a tax ceiling of 30% of one's earned income, as well as excise duties and VAT, which should nevertheless give the State strong revenue. As you know, the government tax is a total of 3% of government revenue, 55 billion. Madam President, I would like Corporate taxation is a large income for the Treasury, about 120 billion annually for corporation tax. It is 20.6 percent, and it is a tax rate where I think we are right in Sweden. I do not think we need to lower it, but it is quite internationally in line with the countries to which we are competing and selling goods. The export industry is an engine in Sweden. 52% of bnp comes from exports. 640 billion in social security contributions and special payroll tax are paid by companies. In addition, tax revenues and self-taxes come from small businesses by EUR 12 billion. I would like to point out that entrepreneurs thus make a strong contribution to our prosperity. Sometimes you suspect all entrepreneurs of being bandits and swindlers, but that's not the truth. The truth is, on the contrary, that it is they who carry Sweden, and this applies to both export companies and small businesses. Small companies are the root of society – that people can live in rural areas, run their small business and support their family on it. This has been the case as agriculture has fallen so sharply. In 1950, 50 per cent of Sweden's agriculture industry was agriculture. Today it is about 1%. Without business no prosperity! Capital taxes are a large tax base. It is also 3% of government revenue, such as government income tax. The normal tax rate on capital today is around 30%; it is a little different. Then there's the 3:12 rules, and there's 20 percent. Coupon tax with dividends from companies is approximately 30 percent. That gives the Treasury 9 billion a year. The sales tax on sales of dwellings is 22 per cent. It's way too high. It stops the mobility of the housing stock. If you sell a villa, let us say in Vallentuna, for 5 million and pay taxes on it, you get at best one in the inner city for the money, or hardly it anymore. You might get a one in the suburbs. That's what it looks like. This is not a good thing, but we need another review here. We should be able to do something about this without destroying the state's finances. The ISK account was created under the government Reinfeldt via Anders Borg. That is very good, and there is 30% flat-rate tax on it. Return tax on capital insurance, capital pensions and pension insurance provides approximately SEK 5 billion. Capital insurance is taxed at 30 per cent of flat-rate income. For pension funds it is 15% in tax. Personally, I think it would be desirable to simplify this. I think there are eight different levels of capital taxes in Sweden. It is confusing and aggravating for the ordinary little person to keep track of this. Perhaps we should strive to have two different levels of capital taxes. Madam President, I would like Now I come up with something that will surely make my political opponents react. If the capital tax were reduced to 20%, it would have huge positive effects on jobs and growth– I know that not everyone likes growth, but if you do, if you believe in a society that grows and manages the finances. According to a study by the IFO Institute, 35 000 new jobs would be created if the capital tax was reduced to 20%. That would be 3% higher bnp, 6% higher investment in the economy and 81⁄2 billion in increased tax revenues. The property tax is a contentious tax, which has been partly up here today. It was abolished by the government of Reinfeldt. Now many economists have come to life and want to restore it. Why do I not know, because it is extremely harmful both to the housing and the economy of the country. It is another form of wealth tax that is confiscatory. To have to pay taxes on property with already estimated money can anyone figure out is confiscatory. Now the tax is 1% on unbuilt plots and then a municipal fee. That's very reasonable. But it is not just economists who are in favour of the real estate tax being introduced again. Several leading environmentalists and social democrats have also fallen into the choir with the same message. In particular, the Minister for Finance and Anders Ygeman have stated that they want to reintroduce the property tax. I would like to state once and for all, once and for all, that we Moderates will never contribute to the reintroduction of this confiscation tax. I commend the Moderates' reservation number one.
i-b6128c74c324252a-189	Madam President, I would like This report deals with the taxation of companies, capital and real estate. The report deals with the general exercise period on the taxation of companies, capital and real estate. In the case of companies, the Swedish Democrats have over the years put forward a wide range of proposals to make it easier for SMEs in particular. In this report we have seven reservations, and I would ask you to accept reservation number 2. Companies are the backbone of the tax base, that is to say, business activity is what sustains society economically. When the situation of companies means that they feel forced to move abroad in order to compete, we lose tax power. We must therefore have a tax system that makes it attractive for entrepreneurs to locate and develop their business in Sweden. The Swedish economy and Swedish companies have long struggled under demanding administrative regulations and burdensome tax burdens. Sometimes you can experience the system obstructing and locking in. The Swedish democrats see a need for a clear regulatory framework, and there must be reasonableness in the systems. In addition, the total tax charged by companies must not exceed the level that makes entrepreneurship less interesting than it could otherwise have been and what it should be. We therefore want to invest in improving and simplifying tax conditions both in terms of capital and skills supply and in terms of taxation related to the production and export of companies. It is good to have a broad share saving in the population, partly to strengthen the individual's financial situation but also for the country as a whole with high domestic ownership of companies that mainly operate in Sweden. The Swedes are supposed to be an owning people, we have previously coined. That is why it is important to extend the opportunities for investment through improved deductions and re-imposed tax increases on investment savings accounts and capital insurance, while at the same time stimulating savings in general and countering over-indebtedness at the other end. So we believe that Swedish households should be strengthened. The investment savings account, ISK, was introduced as a flat-rate form of savings in 2012. It is important that the tax rules make it easier for individual small savers to have active savings, which can reduce red tape, not least when making declarations. There are many elements in direct investments that constitute obstacles or difficulties in, for example, equity savings, such as new issues, bonus issues and redemption procedures. When the investment savings account was introduced, none of the eight current parties in the Riksdag had any other idea of how the flat-rate income from the investment savings account would be calculated. This is said to have been a clear signal to the small savers who opened the account that there were long-term, predictable rules on how their holdings would be taxed and in what forms it would take. In the 2016 budget proposal, however, the Red-Green Government decided to change the conditions for the savings form and add a supplement of 0.75 per cent of the entire fee base, only four years after the introduction. To change the conditions so soon after the introduction was perceived by many as a betrayal of the small savers. For example, those small savers who would now like to return their savings to an ordinary stock depot as a consequence of the change in long-term conditions, or even the absence of them, are now forced to dispose of all securities because securities cannot be moved out of the investment savings account. The tax rules on the calculation of the fee base should be restored, as public finances allow, to the rules in force at the time of the introduction in 2012 and which have also been the basic condition for most of those who have opened such an account – a measure that is keen to demonstrate credibility around long-term prospects in this form of investment. Madam President, I would like The Coronapandemia has had a major impact on the Swedish business community, and we have not yet seen the overall effects. Even if several support packages were presented during the year, we will also need to review in the aftermath of the pandemic how we create the conditions for Swedish companies to overcome the strained situation and how we can equip the business community for the future and strengthen its competitiveness. In that work, there must be no sacred cows, but all potential measures should be raised for discussion. One proposal that might be of interest to review in this work is a change in the current system for a company's earnings compensation over the years. At present, a loss-making company can only offset it against any profits in the coming years, even though the future is uncertain. The system is therefore more speculative than if the company had had to offset the loss against the real profits of previous years. The latter system, known as ‘carry-back', is currently used in several countries as part of their corporate tax systems, including the United States, the United Kingdom and Canada. In practice, such a system means that companies that have been taxed for profits in previous years but that then show losses in one year – pandemic or not – are given the opportunity to recover the tax they paid earlier than the year after the loss year. The difference compared to today's system is therefore that the company's solidity and liquidity can be strengthened earlier than if you can only offset the loss against potential, but uncertain, future profits. At the same time, the company that has already proven to be profitable under normal circumstances is benefiting. If this system had already been in place, it would have allowed a much-needed capital injection for many companies that are currently strained but have generated a profit in their operations in previous and more normal years. In addition, the fact that the system would be easy to administer and difficult to cheat also speaks in favour of the proposal. Several countries, including Norway, Belgium and the Czech Republic, have come to understand during the pandemic the potential benefits of the system and have therefore implemented a carry-back to support domestic business. However, this should not be confused with the already existing possibility in today's Swedish tax system to set part of the profit through a accrual fund and then dissolve it during a loss year. It is only 25% of this year's profits that can be set aside for the accrual fund, and it must be dissolved within six years. In addition, the tax provisions are subject to interest payments. The Pandemin has demonstrated the need to urgently investigate the possibility for a company to offset losses against previous years' profits, thus taking a step towards the carrier-back systems found in other countries. As mentioned earlier, Sweden's entrepreneurs are important to our prosperity, our well-being and our security. It is important to understand that each company is unique, that each start-up has its own special journey and that each business cycle has its time typical outcome. This means that it could be useful for companies to offer the accrual funds in a system that was simpler and somewhat more flexible. Not least in the wake of the coronapndemine, we can see that companies' needs may not always be cyclical over the year but that sometimes there may also be a need for untaxed reserves to use to ensure the survival of the company in the event of an unexpected decrease in turnover. We want to review the rules for accrual funds so that they are optimally adapted to the needs of companies at different stages. We are therefore proposing a study with the aim of producing proposals that create greater flexibility and freedom for businesses. I'll say a few words even about product development. The development of products in companies requires research and development, which in turn generates growth, jobs and, in the longer term, tax revenues and thus a secure welfare. The Swedish Democrats want to see an increased economic space for the early innovation processes in companies and their departments or subsidiaries for research and development. We are therefore proposing a study on the possibility of introducing special tax incentives specifically for research and development.
i-b6128c74c324252a-206	Madam President, I would like It is important that taxes are designed so that the competitiveness of Swedish companies is further strengthened. Taxes must be designed in such a way that people dare to take risks and start businesses, we all agree on that. Taxes will contribute to growth throughout the country, facilitate job creation and stimulate green tax exchange. Taxes must also be predictable, legally secure and long-term. Sweden's competitiveness is based on the fact that companies have a high level of competence and, to a large extent, on the fact that many companies invest a great deal in their employees' further training and skills-enhancing efforts. This is incredibly important not least now in pandemic times. However, since there is always a risk of companies losing the value of such an investment, for example if the employee changes jobs, not all companies dare to invest in skills-enhancing measures. It is therefore particularly important to create specific financial incentives to invest in employee training. The Center Party has, through the budget collaboration we have, among other things, created additional opportunities for deductions for people who work with research and development. Madam President, I would like Investing in a crisis is also a good idea that the state should reward. Therefore, the Center Party proposed a tax reduction for investments in this year's budget, as a further strengthening of existing investor deductions, which was passed. There is also a strange debate in the country about forestry. It is the nutrition that is most important for the transition to a fossil-free society. It is a nutrient that can replace fossil fuel and fossil materials such as plastics and can replace less climate-smart building materials. At the same time, we know that it is an industry that has an enormous impact on Sweden's economy and net exports. Wise economic measures for Sweden's forest owners, such as the possibility of depositing money from logging on a forest account, are crucial for the forest owners' economy. This means that money from a felling – and then we are talking about an orbital period of perhaps 80 years – must be available over time and not collected and taxed at the time of felling. The tax simplification investigation came in 2014, and it was proposed that this should end and be repeated. Since then, Sweden's forest owners have in principle lived in uncertainty about these issues. It is time that the government now puts its foot down and also develops the forest account so that compensation for conservation agreements can also be made available in exactly the same way. Madam President, I would like Sometimes small and to the vast majority of completely unknown parts of tax legislation have enormous consequences. There are great differences in how financial resources are allocated in women's and men's sports, for example, although there is a relatively balanced distribution between women and men in terms of the number of practitioners. Sponsorship is a large and significant part of the financial resources for sports activities. However, the biggest sponsorship efforts are made for men's sport. One reason why it looks like it does is that the right to deduct is much greater when sponsoring men's sports. This is because it is the market value and the counterpart of the sponsorship that forms the basis for calculating the deduction. When you enter the Swedish Tax Agency's website you can see an example of direct compensation, for example that the sponsor receives a number of tickets to the sports or cultural event that is sponsored. Another example is that the sponsor is given an advertising space in, for example, the sports arena, theatre premises or programme leaflets. However, we are now writing in 2021, Madam President, and it is not the paper-format match programme that is sold for SEK 40 outside a football stadium or a small sign alongside the handball field that is the company's reason to sponsor. First of all, it is for many companies a strategic decision to contribute to sport, for example. We are talking about social sustainability, which is becoming increasingly common for companies to be involved in. But the choices are, of course, governed by costs when one becomes a lot more expensive than the other. If there are no deductions for the company sponsoring a youth team's training camp one summer week – yes, then there may not be any sponsorship. Of course, when a company is seen on a sweater on a women's football player, it reaches an enormous number more than just those who are physically at the game or watching it on television. For example, I can look at the Swedish team I support myself, KIF Örebro, where most players have around a thousand followers only on Instagram. This compares with the audience average, which in 2019 was around 800 per game. Only these simple examples show that the regulatory framework is outdated. And please note that I say, my friends, that you should listen to this: there is today no direct legislation regulating the right to deduct sponsorship! In 2020, the ten largest affiliates in sponsor income raised a total of SEK 502 million together. Of course, the fact that we do not have clear legislation at all then is a problem. That is why it is not right that the government and the majority of the committees should write as they do, namely: It is also one of the underlying principles behind tax policy. In the Committee's view, therefore, the issues of a more equal sport or of sponsorship of culture should not be resolved by way of exemptions from the tax rules. ..................................................... First of all, there are no tax rules, but everything is based on the practice of judgments in cases before the Supreme Court. Secondly, it is precisely the practice and exceptions that need to be changed if they are the ones that lead to the unequal – in this case the structurally unequal. We know that it takes time to influence standards, but we need to remove the systemic shortcomings that currently make it difficult for girls and women to exercise sports on equal terms. Girls stop playing sports at an earlier age compared to boys. Madam President, I would like Inequality in sport starts from the first crunchy training on baby bones and is a problem that is multiplied over time. Developing solutions that highlight obvious tax barriers that stand in the way of equal sponsorship should be high on the list of priorities for everyone in this House. We can't duck for this anymore. Women's sport needs working conditions now – a system for the 2020s and beyond. That is why I am in favour of Amendment No 21.
i-B7opAbBBVyVyDnEuqWR2qP	I would like to welcome the ministers. Questions are answered today by Minister Mikael Damberg, Minister of Justice and Migration Morgan Johansson, Minister Ardalan Shekarabi and Minister Anders Ygeman. An issue shall be of a horizontal and general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties. The Government Mikael Damberg answers both general policy questions and questions within its own area of responsibility.
i-b6128c74c324252a-218	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister of Justice and Migration Morgan Johansson. This summer the Social Democrats supported all 26 proposals of the Migration Committee. The impact assessment said that those proposals would lead to the same level of immigration as we had at the time. At that time, Sweden was sixth in the EU in terms of both the number of asylum seekers and the proportion of the EU population. Today we have found it black and white that the Social Democrats instead support the Green Party's proposal for new migration legislation. This means a series of loosenings on a number of points. The demand for Swedish and knowledge of Swedish society is being abandoned. It wants to see a completely new basis for residence permits for adults without asylum reasons, and it introduces a number of derogations from the dependency requirement for relatives. What has happened since the summer?
i-b6128c74c324252a-223	Mr President, I would like to To begin with, the Moderates will probably not try to teach any other party to conduct migration policy. When the Moderates ruled Sweden, Sweden received 12% of all asylum seekers who came to the EU. They came to Sweden. Today that figure is 3%. By comparison, we should know that Sweden has around 2% of the EU population and barely 3% of the EU's GDP. We're now about where we're supposed to be. Last year Sweden also had the lowest number of asylum seekers in 20 years. The austerity that we did in 2015 and 2016 gave us control over this. No, we have not joined any other policy. What we have presented today, a few hours ago, is essentially based on the Migration Committee's report with some supplementary proposals. This means, I believe, a continued long-term sustainable policy that will preserve stability in this area.
i-b6128c74c324252a-227	Mr President, I would like to I asked the Minister about the policy he himself pursues. I did not ask the Minister what he thinks of the policy of the Moderates long ago. The difference between us and the Social Democrats is that we have changed our policies. In our only vote in this House, we have voted in favour of reducing immigration. The Social Democrats went to elections on severely limited immigration but have, instead, deceived their own voters and are now pushing for more immigration. It is a great betrayal of the people, and this will not be a sustainable policy. It has to be changed.
i-b6128c74c324252a-229	Mr President, I would like to I would just like to point out that the Moderates brought Sweden into the refugee crisis. I was part of a government that brought Sweden out of the refugee crisis. Since we took over just over six years ago, the number of asylum seekers has fallen by over 90%. Sweden's share has also decreased, and we now have control over this sector in a way that we certainly did not have in the time of the Moderates. We will retain that control. That is also the meaning of the legislation on which we have now tabled a legislative referral. Temporary residence permits and the possibility of permanent residence permits if certain requirements are met – this is a tight and sustainable policy.
i-b6128c74c324252a-231	Mr President, I would like to In my hometown of Gothenburg came a recent situation analysis from the municipality that states that Salafists work openly to create a parallel society with their own norms and values. Salafism is a pure branch of Islam that literally speaks the religious texts. The presence of these groupings is particularly evident in the suburbs, where people linked to the environment try to influence housing in terms of how to live and what is allowed. In addition, the city has had several high-profile cases where schools have employed at senior positions that, according to Säpo, pose a threat to national security. In total, there are now 2 000 individuals in the violent Islamic environment, and this is the fastest growing form of extremism in Sweden. This is therefore the case four years after the attack on Drottninggatan. My question to Minister Mikael Damberg is therefore: How many Islamists have been expelled in the last six years?
i-b6128c74c324252a-236	Mr President, I would like to I note that the Swedish Security Service estimates that the greatest threat of terrorism against Sweden comes from Islamic violent groups but also from far-right groups in Sweden. What has happened in recent years means that the Security Service today equates the extreme right-wing threat with the Islamic threat. This was not the case just a few years ago, when the Islamist threat dominated. We are doing a great deal of work since the terrible deed on Drottninggatan. We've strengthened the police. We've strengthened the Secret Service. We have trained the police in how to intervene against deadly violence. We have set up the Center against violent extremism. We have tightened the requirements for those who conduct school activities. Säpo has thus succeeded in closing down a number of schools whose principals did not meet the requirements and saved perhaps 400 to 500 children and students from these environments. We are fighting extremism no matter where it comes from, and we will continue to do so.
i-b6128c74c324252a-239	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for his report on what has been done and intends to do. It sounds like the government has accomplished some investigations and a little ambition for the future. But the fact is that during the same time they have been able to expel zero Islamists. Why are there so few? How is it that you have been so passive, and why are people in Bergsjön, Angered and Kortedala forced to live side by side with violent Islamists?
i-b6128c74c324252a-241	Mr President, I would like to The Government has made several decisions to expel people that Säpo considers to be security threats to Sweden. However, according to Swedish laws, the government is not able to expel persons when courts say that there are enforcement obstacles to expulsion. The present government, previous governments or future governments cannot do anything about that. Swedish governments act under Swedish laws.
i-b6128c74c324252a-243	Mr President, I would like to Around our country, spring use is now starting to start. At least in the southern parts of the country we can see how plows, harrows and seed drills begin to move across the fields. But it's springing not only in agriculture, it's springing for the theft leagues as well. After a corona-related dip last spring, thefts have taken off again. There have already been a number of reports of GPS theft from tractors, and we can expect that the theft of diesel, plant protection products and other inputs will increase during the growing season. We in the Center Party have been pushing for a long time on this issue, highlighting, among other things, the need for penalties for systematic theft. It is now in place, but since we see the progress of the theft leagues now increasing again, I would like to ask Minister of Justice Morgan Johansson what further measures the government intends to take in the future to strengthen the security of the countryside and halt the progress of the theft leagues among the farms.
i-b6128c74c324252a-246	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Kristina Yngwe, for the depiction of spring use in Skåne – I feel at home in it! It is true, as Kristina Yngwe says: We have tightened up the legislation in recent years, not least in the area of burglary, which some of these theft leagues have also devoted themselves to. We have new legislation in place that tightens the penalty for this. We have also given special missions to the police to fight theft leagues. In fact, in recent years we have seen a decrease in the rate of theft leagues. As we gradually ensure that more police officers come out every six months, we need to ensure that we distribute the increased police resources in such a way that the whole country has access to them. Both I and the Minister for Home Affairs, who is responsible for the police, can promise that we will continue to do so.
i-b6128c74c324252a-250	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. We have certainly seen a decrease, but last year it was very much linked to the Corona that the foreign leagues did not advance in the same way as otherwise. It is a good thing that action is being taken, but we also see the need for a well-developed strategy that makes crime never happen. An important part of this is the prevention of crime. Unfortunately, we see how rural areas have so far been completely forgotten in this work. Yesterday, the Parliament approved the Center Party's motion to develop a specific country- and rural-specific crime prevention work. I would like to ask how the government intends to take this work further.
i-b6128c74c324252a-253	Mr President, I would like to We'll be happy to share that with you. I do not rule out at all the need for us to have something further specific towards rural areas. The activity of the gangs has not only been restricted by the Corona – it has been part of it – but indeed also by the border controls that we already had in place. We noticed immediately in 2015, when we introduced the border controls, that the activities of the theft leagues decreased. A lot of them come from Poland, Romania and Lithuania, for example. We will also continue to work more closely with those countries and their police to counter these gangs.
i-b6128c74c324252a-256	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to the Home Secretary. Just before the Easter weekend, we were able to read in the media news about health care professionals who had problems getting off during the holiday and the weekend to both stay home with their family and get a long awaited recovery. The pandemic is a huge crisis, seen both how long it has been going on and what effects it has had on our society, our health and the lives of many people. We live in a more uncertain world, where we believe that more crises will occur. Many of the activities closest to people – healthcare, preschool and care for the elderly – are managed by municipalities and regions. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for Home Affairs how well he believes that Sweden's municipalities and regions are equipped to deal with this type of major crisis.
i-b6128c74c324252a-258	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Hanna Gunnarsson, for an important question about the pandemic! We see that the spread of infection has increased in recent weeks and thus also the burden on health care systems around Sweden. We are still living in the midst of the pandemic, and it is incredibly important that we continue to reduce the spread of infection and work with great efforts to provide, for example, financial support to municipalities and regions so that you can increase staffing and have the necessary resources. My picture is that we have homework to do, not least in terms of our contingency planning, the expansion of civil defence and our emergency preparedness in the future. We are making great efforts there on the part of the government, and I see that we are doing so in a rather broad political consensus in the Swedish Parliament. I think that's good.
i-b6128c74c324252a-260	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister of the Interior, for your answer. I believe that we are putting the hookbones to ourselves in terms of how we have built our society today. We see out in regions and municipalities how to live according to just-in-time, with non-existent stocks, and how big cuts in the public sector in recent years have led to major problems. We see privatisations and problems with foreign ownership of socially important activities. How does the Minister of the Interior view these problems?
i-b6128c74c324252a-261	Mr President, I would like to I agree with that description of the problem. We have an excessively fragmented system today, in some areas without clear responsibilities. It needs to be addressed. We have more private actors in Swedish society who run activities that are important for our civil crisis preparedness and our preparedness for future wars. This needs to be addressed in the context of the reconstruction of civil defence. We also need to clarify the responsibilities. It must be that everyone takes responsibility in crisis and ultimately also in war.
i-b6128c74c324252a-263	Mr President, I would like to I am convinced that equality is best served by politics highlighting and solving the problems faced by ordinary women, not by symbolic politics. So instead of gender pedagogy, quotas on company boards and parental insurance, gender equality that wants to make a real difference should make it possible, for example, for career and family life to be combined, for you to get down the high sickness rates and for girls to feel safe in streets and squares. But gender equality is also about pensions, so I would like to ask Minister Shekarabi my question. Women's and men's pensions are not equal. We Christian Democrats have proposals on how to reduce this difference here and now. So what does the Minister think about us automatically dividing the premium pension between spouses who have children up to 12 years of age, introducing a fifth year of child rights into the pension system and introducing a conversion pension for people over 65 years of age and not just for those under 65 years of age?
i-b6128c74c324252a-265	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mr Eklind, for the question and commitment to pensions. We definitely need to work on gender equality in our pension system. There is a process going on that is part of the agreement between the parties in the Pensions Group, where we will look at various possible ways to strengthen the gender equality aspects of the pension system. But what we do not come from is that pensions must be increased for everyone. We have too low pensions in our country. If we want to raise pensions for women and reduce the gender gap in our pension system, we must continue to raise pensions. There will be a pension increase in September, the pension supplement, which will mean that women will benefit and that the low-paid women's workers who have low pensions today will receive higher pensions. But this must be followed by more pension increases if we are to seriously attack inequality and inequality in the Swedish pension system.
i-b6128c74c324252a-267	Mr President, I would like to Yes, Sweden needs a new, modern gender equality policy instead of today's, where gender equality is reduced to mathematics or attempts to dissolve the sexes. I had three proposals that I mentioned to the Minister, and the Minister did not comment on any of them. The difference between men's and women's pensions is largely driven by the pay gap. If we reduce the pay gap, we will also close the gap between men's and women's pensions. But the three proposals are measures that can reduce the difference here and now. I hope the Minister can be involved in that work.
i-b6128c74c324252a-269	Mr President, I would like to I am convinced that the parties belonging to the Pensions Group can take action here and now. One of the steps taken is the introduction of the pension supplement, which means that we increase pensions not least for low-paid women. This will mean a pension increase that will be paid out already in September. If we can take more steps, based on the proposals that Hans Eklind raised here, we are taking another step towards gender equality in the pension system. I look forward to such cooperation.
i-b6128c74c324252a-272	Mr President, I would like to My question also goes to Minister Ardalan Shekarabi. The Swedish Social Insurance Agency's procedures and application have been questioned by a lot of people recently, and it feels like there are more and more people. In the long term, questioning also means a failing confidence in security and a failing confidence in the entire health insurance system, which is an important cornerstone of our welfare society. As far as sickness and activity benefits are concerned, it has even gone so far that Försäkringskassan questions itself and has initiated an investigation and review of its own applications and procedures. We'll get some answers soon, I guess. It is Försäkringskassan's assessment that they themselves are best at assessing themselves. I now wonder about the Government's assessment and conclusion regarding the Social Insurance Agency's applications. Is this something the Government has been thinking about? He knows the picture, just like I do.
i-b6128c74c324252a-275	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Bengt Eliasson, for the question! We have serious problems in Swedish health insurance. It affects employees and entrepreneurs and has reduced the security of the sick, not least long-term ills. Against this background, we have now begun a journey in which we are changing the legislation. Today, the Government made a decision on a proposal that proposes that the Riksdag amend the regulations for normal work and an adjusted regulation letter for Försäkringskassan, in which we make it clear that the reduction in sickness rates should not be made through the answer This is a very important step. Do we need to do more? Yes, we need to keep changing the regulatory framework. We need to continue working to change the governance of Försäkringskassan, and we need to continue reviewing Försäkringskassan. I am very pleased that the Social Security Inspection presented an evaluation on the issue raised by Bengt Eliasson. And we need to do more reviews.
i-b6128c74c324252a-279	Mr President, I would like to Yes, making changes for pandemic reasons is very good. The changes are welcome, and more needs to be done. At the same time, however, the question is whether it is the Authority's own review that is the most valuable. Is it not an independent review of external reviewers that can actually lead to concrete results?
i-b6128c74c324252a-280	Mr President, I would like to Yes, reviews are needed. As I said, we have the Social Security Inspection, which continuously examines not least the Social Insurance Agency. But to be honest, we know what needs to be done. We need to change the regulations for day 365. We need to change the regulatory framework for sickness and activity benefits. We need to change the regulatory framework as regards sickness benefit for the elderly and sick who are close to retirement age. Let us work together and resolve these issues, not postpone them with further reviews!
i-b6128c74c324252a-283	Mr President, I would like to For several years, the proportion of refusals in health insurance has increased sharply. Many rejections seem incomprehensible. On behalf of the Government, the Social Security Inspection has examined how the Swedish Social Insurance Agency applies the duty of investigation in the handling of sickness benefit and activity compensation. ISF's review shows that the Social Insurance Agency has not complied with its investigation obligation in 11 per cent of the rejected cases examined. It's very serious. Something must be done even if in nine out of ten cases the Swedish Social Insurance Agency is considered to comply with the investigation obligation. Therefore, I would like to ask Minister of Social Security Ardalan Shekarabi whether the increase in the number of refusals in health insurance can be explained by the shortcomings in the duty of investigation shown in the report. Or is the problem bigger than that? What does the government do to make health insurance safer and more understandable?
i-b6128c74c324252a-286	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Sultan Kayhan, for the question! We have problems with the regulatory framework, which is too restrictive since the changes in 2008. Now we are changing the regulatory framework step by step. The rules for the day 180 were amended on 15 March, and today the government has decided on a proposal to change the concept of normal work. We have a journey to make regarding the governance of Försäkringskassan. Today we are amending the regulations for Försäkringskassan. We have a close dialogue with the new board and with the other authority management in Försäkringskassan. And we have given special assignments specifically related to Försäkringskassan's handling of health insurance matters. In turn, the Swedish Social Insurance Agency has initiated its own process of changing the work on health insurance and the handling of health insurance matters. We also have an ongoing review in the Social Security Inspection, which includes health insurance. So there are a number of things that are about restoring the security of illness.
i-b6128c74c324252a-290	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. ISF also points out in the report that there are bordering problems and that it may be difficult for the individual case officer to determine where the limit is to continue investigating the case. It's something I can recognize. I've worked at Försäkringskassan myself.
i-b6128c74c324252a-292	Mr President, I would like to As I described, the Swedish Social Insurance Agency has received a special assignment specifically concerning the handling of health insurance matters. It also concerns the duty of investigation, which was affected by the ISF review. We have today decided on a change to the regulations for Försäkringskassan, and we are conducting a continuous dialogue with the head of the agency and the board about the process initiated by Försäkringskassan itself, which is about changing the work with health insurance.
i-b6128c74c324252a-293	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Mikael Damberg. It has recently been noted in Expressen that several Swedish celebrities go to Africa to pursue trophy hunting there. True, it may seem horrible and disgusting in itself, but the hunt also takes place on endangered animals, such as lions and elephants. It is therefore an active contribution to species extinction. There are now only about 200 000 lions left in the wild, and the African elephant has fallen by 96 percent in the last 100 years. Although we cannot ban Africa from allowing trophy hunting, we can work for more species to be included in CITES, Appendix I, and stop allowing the Swedish Agriculture Agency to import these trophies. I am curious about how Minister Mikael Damberg believes that Sweden can stop actively contributing to the trophy hunt for endangered species.
i-b6128c74c324252a-297	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Rebecka Le Moine, for an interesting question, to which I have no answer! It is not in my area of responsibility, so the Member of Parliament will have to return to the responsible minister at another time.
i-b6128c74c324252a-298	Mr President, I would like to Another simple measure is to give customs priority to searching for endangered species found in CITES, just as they are now looking for weapons and drugs. You can also ban trophy hunting within Sweden. For example, the scoring race is about to start. That's where you score the more animals you shoot. And you get a reward if you're photographed with them. You can also end the hunt for the protected lynx. So there are things you can do also within Sweden.
i-b6128c74c324252a-300	Mr President, I would like to It is not only in Skåne that it is spring and spring use. Even in the fertile Östergötland, spring has come, and spring use has started. That's why I thought that Minister Damberg would have to talk about agriculture. As previously lifted, we see an increase in the thefts now on the spring side. It is about GPS equipment, plant protection and other things. It is for agriculture quite valuable goods that disappear. These are tools that are currently required in modern agriculture to be able to be precision growers and be at the forefront, as Swedish farmers often do. If you get rid of your GPS equipment, you stand without it for much of the year to come, and then you cannot use modern technology. My own farm has been hit by theft. In these thefts the police do not come because there is no money for it. The government often says that there is an increase in the number of police officers. You want to claim it. When will rural areas also see that there will be more police officers and more police officers taking this type of crime seriously?
i-b6128c74c324252a-303	Mr President, I would like to It is an important issue of security throughout Sweden. I can briefly say that we have given several missions to the police and other authorities to work together against international theft leagues. We also work to prevent theft leagues from entering Sweden, i.e. they have committed crimes, they should not even enter Sweden. In addition, we are now giving customs new powers to stop stolen goods on their way out of Sweden. But the most important contribution is the preventive work and the cooperation that is taking place with the police around Sweden. We have now seen a growth of the Police Authority. It is about 5 000 people since growth began. But most of them are civil servants. The great growth of police officers will take place this year and in the coming years, and it will be felt throughout the country. Already last year we saw that all police regions had more employees of police officers. It will continue every six months.
i-b6128c74c324252a-305	Mr President, I would like to That's great, because I mean the big problem is that you don't see cops and you feel that the police don't care about this kind of crime. It is clear that the values vary. It can be anything from a chain saw, worth 10 000 crowns, to a GPS equipment, which may be worth 200 000 crowns. Still, it is a rather severe crime against the victim. That is why I would like to stress once again that agriculture and Sweden's rural areas need to see that it is policemen in motion who are doing good.
i-b6128c74c324252a-307	Mr President, I would like to We are in complete agreement on that. That's why we're going to continue police growth. Sweden has never had as many police officers as it is now. But we will have about 5 000 more police officers over the next few years, which is important. We have also tightened the penalties for systematic theft and systematic heeling. We have also introduced camera surveillance, which makes it easier for farmers around Sweden. So we are doing a lot and will continue to do so. But more policemen all over Sweden are looking forward to it.
i-b6128c74c324252a-309	Mr President, I would like to Representatives of the government have recently expressed their views on whether Sweden should donate vaccines to countries outside the EU. For example, in an interview with Dagens Industri on 2 April, the Minister for Development stated that Sweden should give up vaccines in favour of other countries' risk groups when we have vaccinated our own risk groups. Instead, the latter message from the Minister for Social Affairs was that it is not appropriate to give away large doses of vaccine before the summer, a statement that does not directly clarify whether the Swedish people should give full priority to existing doses of vaccine. I would therefore like to see the Government's position on this matter clarified by Minister Mikael Damberg. Does the government intend to give vaccine doses to countries outside the EU before the entire adult population in Sweden has been vaccinated?
i-b6128c74c324252a-312	Mr President, I would like to The government has one and the same message: we have a responsibility to protect people's lives and health in our country. That is our ultimate mission, and that is what the pandemic is all about. This means that our focus here at home is on ensuring that everyone who wants to be vaccinated can be vaccinated. We also have an agreement with the Swedish Municipalities and Regions on this, and it will roll on. It shouldn't be disturbed. However, if we are to protect life and health in Sweden, we must also work internationally. Therefore, Sweden is one of the largest contributors, given our size, to the international funds that work to also vaccinate other parts of the world – because if we do not succeed, this virus will survive, mutate to a greater extent and thus threaten life and health in Sweden as well. We must therefore be able to do both, but our focus right now is to make sure to vaccinate everyone who wants it throughout the Swedish population.
i-b6128c74c324252a-315	Mr President, I would like to However, reports from the EU talks in Brussels show that the Swedish Government is pushing in the EU for Member States to give up doses in favour of poorer countries outside Europe. It would, of course, be remarkable if the government were to push for something that it does not intend to live up to itself, and so I would like to know whether the government believes that the issue of global access to covid-19 vaccines in any context can be considered more important than vaccinating its own population.
i-b6128c74c324252a-317	Mr President, I would like to I think I was clear in my first reply. If Sweden is to succeed in our strategy to protect the lives and health of Swedish citizens and those living in our country, we must also work internationally. We have ordered many more doses to Sweden than the number of people in the population. We will have to contribute this to international work. We will push for more countries to also contribute financially to reduce the spread of infection in other countries, otherwise we will see more mutations and thus risk of life and health in Sweden as well.
i-b6128c74c324252a-320	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Anders Ygeman. By 2025, Sweden will have access to high-speed broadband. According to PTS, more than 66 per cent of Sörmland's households outside urban and small towns currently have access to at least 1 gigabit. In Gnesta municipality it is barely 45 percent. In addition, Gnesta is currently in danger of not being able to access the state broadband money for the roll-out of high-speed broadband, as mobile solutions are being built. Mobile solutions do not reach the objective of speed and do not offer access to all citizens, but there is a risk that it will nevertheless be interpreted as broadband in the area and therefore broadband money will not be granted.
i-4NyTqGF3AbbWmvcuSBZLfv	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Martina Johansson, for the question! I can reassure Martina Johansson: The Government's goal is for all Gnesta residents to have access to fast broadband. 98 per cent of Swedes should have access to broadband faster than 100 megabits. That is the objective set by Parliament. This applies to Sweden, and it applies to Gnesta. It should not be hindered by the extension of mobile connections in Gnesta, and it is clear that those who expand these solutions will only notify the addresses where it is expanded. It will therefore not be an obstacle to fast broadband for the rest of Gnesta.
i-b6128c74c324252a-326	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. The fear that exists in, among others, Sörmland municipalities and broadband coordinators in the country is that the interpretation will be a concern when it comes to access, and then we also talk about the proximity of being able to connect. If what the minister says is true, I'll feel calm. I may not be entirely calm in any case, but I hope that is how it will be that everyone will have access to the fast broadband.
i-b6128c74c324252a-329	Mr President, I would like to I will also say that, apart from the measure whereby those who build fixed wireless access, i.e. wireless solutions, will not report anything other than the addresses they have built clearly so that no one needs to be set against fixed broadband, we will also work for the EU rules to be redesigned so that in future it will not have to compete at all. Our goal is very clear: It is speeds over 100 megabits that apply, regardless of the technology used to reach it.
i-b6128c74c324252a-331	Mr President, I would like to I would like to address my question to Minister of Home Affairs Mikael Damberg. A few weeks ago, Ekot revealed that sex offenders can keep naked images that they have obtained through abuse if they have saved them in a cloud service. In order to secure evidence from cloud services, a so-called remote search would have to be carried out, but there is a lack of clear legislation on this in Sweden. The interpretation by law enforcement authorities has thus been that today you do not have the right to enter the suspect's account through a so-called remote search. When Ekot contacted Mikael Damberg and asked for answers, he promised that he would deal with the matter. However, it is not worthy that journalists are required to reveal that rapists terrorise their victims with images of abuse before a government acts. My question to the Minister for Home Affairs is therefore: why has the government not acted to change the law to prevent repeated violations from being made against victims with images from cloud services, which today cannot be seized in connection with sexual offences?
i-b6128c74c324252a-334	Mr President, I would like to The fight against sexual crimes is a very high priority of the government. We've done a lot of punitive work. The police are making power collections to access, not least, this kind of digital crime that is often involved. We have acceded to the Budapest Convention after very many years, and it provides law enforcement authorities with new tools in the fight against the sexualised crime that is taking place internationally. We are very active in international cooperation, and we are also preparing proposals to move forward on issues relating to better access to information saved in cloud services. So this is definitely an issue on which we are working and which does not depend at all on whether or not the media reports on it.
i-b6128c74c324252a-337	Mr President, I would like to The shortcomings in the legislation were identified in an investigation already in 2017. The Christian Democrats have called for the law to be amended, and changes are being requested by various law enforcement bodies. So the government has left the investigation in a drawer for over three years now. When Ekot asked Mikael Damberg, he promised a change of law but cannot specify a time when the change of law should take place. I would therefore ask the Minister for the Interior to give an estimate anyway. When will the law be amended so that victims can avoid repeated violations?
i-b6128c74c324252a-339	Mr President, I would like to It is rather complicated legislation and rather complicated legal issues linked to the investigation that have been out for consultation. Therefore, the preparation in the Government Office takes some time. My firm opinion is that I want to make changes in the regulatory framework, and I do not want to wait for that. But I cannot set a timetable until I see the work going to the finish, and so I am careful to promise something that I may not be able to keep later. As soon as possible, the answer is.
i-b6128c74c324252a-341	Mr President, I would like to A united parliament has for many years been demanding that the government come here with a change of law that stops the mistake that has made Sweden recognise the polygamy among refugees for years. By April at the latest, all eight parliamentary parties demanded a total stop. Imagine my surprise when S and MP have changed their position in less than a year! The government recently submitted a bill that retains an exception to recognise polygamy, but does not specify when, according to social democrats and environmentalists, polygamy is considered to be okay. Mr President, I would like to There is no reason why Sweden should acknowledge an extreme oppression of honour, where young girls should be married to one and the same patriarchal old man. It is a huge betrayal of the vulnerable girls and a mockery of Swedish gender equality policy. The government will most likely be run over by the Riksdag when the law is being dealt with. My question is therefore: when does Minister of Justice Morgan Johansson, the Social Democrats and the Green Party think it is okay for patriarchal men to be married to several women?
i-b6128c74c324252a-345	Mr President, I would like to Either this is a conscious misunderstanding or it is an unconscious misunderstanding. The whole purpose of the draft legislation that we have put on Parliament's table is that we should not recognise polygamy. That is clearly our proposal. It is possible that what Robert Hannah refers to is that we say that in retrospect there may be situations where the effect of a marriage may need to be taken into account, such as an inheritance right – where the old man in question has died and a woman with whom he has previously been married wants to claim part of the inheritance. In those situations, she can be said to claim part of the inheritance. This does not mean recognizing marriage, but simply making sure that she can get out better in that situation than she would otherwise have. Do not confuse this with recognizing marriage. There we have no other opinion whatsoever. We're not gonna do that.
i-b6128c74c324252a-348	Mr President, I would like to It seems obvious that the Minister of Justice has not read his own legislation. What the government chooses to do is to keep an exception that has existed all along. It was a mistake then, and it's a mistake now. That exception does not only apply to the situations referred to by the Minister of Justice. On the contrary! There are experts who have read the legislation, unlike the Minister of Justice. Göran Lind, professor of civil law at Stockholm University, recently sent a letter stating that, unfortunately, the exception is not only for exceptional reasons but for economically burdensome cases. He writes that the general rule is ineffective and that many polygamy will be recognized.
i-b6128c74c324252a-350	Mr President, I would like to Here's Robert Hannah out in undone weather. We do not disagree on this. The only space available is to be able to deal with legal effects afterwards so that the woman in question does not come badly out of such a process. In certain situations, for example, she should be able to claim an inheritance long afterwards. It's for her rights to be respected. However, the draft legislation does not seek to recognise polygamy but aims to stop that exception.
i-b6128c74c324252a-353	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister for Energy and Digitalization Anders Ygeman. Around society, a change is currently taking place at a level that is different from what we have seen in the past. In northern Sweden, major investments are planned in, for example, the production of batteries, hydrogen and fossil-free steel. These are good examples of how the transformation affects the Swedish industry in a fundamental way. This will require energy. Energy use will be more efficient, new sustainable products and services will be developed and much production will be electrified. What is certain is that in the future we will need to use more energy than ever before.
i-b6128c74c324252a-357	Mr President, I would like to I thank Linus Sköld for the questions. I will say that we will use more electricity but not necessarily more energy, because, for example, the shift from fossil-powered cars to electric cars greatly reduces energy consumption. The electrification strategy that I initiated in October is now taking the height for a doubling of electricity generation in Sweden, a triple of the pipeline building in Sweden and a halving of lead times to build new electricity lines. This is important not least in the constituency that Linus Sköld represents because we see large investments in carbon-free steel production there. Sweden occupies a world leading position there. This is also important in Västerbotten, where we see Europe's largest battery factory being built. We see new investments in Sweden; we see a green transition – and we will lead that development.
i-b6128c74c324252a-361	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for his reply. Of course, I also thank you for the correction for more electricity but not necessarily more energy. It sounds reassuring with a tripling of the wiring capacity and a doubling of production. What is the plan for achieving the objectives?
i-b6128c74c324252a-363	Mr President, I would like to Basically, we aim for a market-driven expansion of electricity generation in Sweden. The reason why we are doing this is that Sweden has the EU's lowest electricity prices for industry. It is in itself a competitive advantage. Not only will we greatly increase energy production, but we will do so by means of competitive electricity prices so that we can attract more investments from the equivalent of Northvolt or H2 Green Steel.
i-b6128c74c324252a-365	Mr President, I would like to In the first months of the year, the number of shootings has decreased, and this is of course positive. The reason is that French police have managed to crack an encrypted service, Encrochat, and the information has been provided to Swedish police, who have obviously done a good job with the material. Several major gang-crime trials are currently under way, based entirely on Encrochat. The French police have the right to intercept known gang criminals without any concrete criminal suspicion. This must not be done in Sweden. The head of the Swedish police has said on several occasions that Swedish police also need this tool. We Moderates want to give Swedish police the tool against active gang members. The government has set up an investigation to review the issue of secret coercive measures, but the investigation should not consider the possibility of using secret coercive measures without concrete suspicion. Is the government prepared to give a supplementary directive to the investigation?
i-b6128c74c324252a-368	Mr President, I would like to It is important that we can now see that there is a decrease in the number of shootings and blasts in Sweden. That's a good thing. This is partly related to the issue of electronic evidence in various forms, such as Encrochat. Now comes the Sky ECC cooperation at European level. This means a lot to Sweden. Secret data reading, the new secret coercive agent, has been in force in Sweden for about a year. The head of the National Police says that when the new secret coercive device is fully built, there may be a new Encrochat a year. But even more stringent penalties for, not least, gun crimes mean a lot to the fact that several of the gang criminals are in prison. We will continue with the expansion, and we are only at the beginning of the collection of forces against crime that we have begun in Sweden.
i-b6128c74c324252a-370	Mr President, I would like to I thank you for your answer, but it was not an answer to my question. The head of the Swedish police has said on several occasions that Swedish police also need this tool. My question to the Minister was this: is the government prepared to give additional directives to the investigation? I can read the question one more time so that Damberg does not forget: is the government prepared to give additional directives to the investigation?
i-b6128c74c324252a-373	Mr President, I would like to It is incredibly important that we get a new order where we can use secret coercive measures in more cases. That's why we set up the investigation. Prosecutors ask for the possibility to be able to sum up penalties and thus be able to use secret coercive measures in more cases. HDA, secret data reading, can be used without investigation. There are also certain types of offences where it is possible for police and security services to use secret coercive measures without prior investigation. We are in favour of an active dialogue with the authorities on this.
i-b6128c74c324252a-376	Mr President, I would like to During the time of the Social Democrats in the government, the rejection of sickness benefit has skyrocketed. In 2013, during the time of the Alliance, the number of insurances was around 5,000 cases, and in 2020 the figure was around 47,000. This happened after the government introduced a tough governance with the aim of bringing down sickness benefits, with severe consequences for many sick people. Last week, we tabled a proposal for a committee initiative that removes the wording of the regulation letter to Försäkringskassan to strive for low sickness rates and instead focus on rehabilitation and move on with the bill that the sick letter should be tested against real jobs instead of fake jobs. Today, the government is going to implement these very proposals. It is fortunate that the government has the Swedish Democrats in opposition who come up with proposals for improvements and that the government has finally begun to listen to our proposals.
i-b6128c74c324252a-379	Mr President, I would like to Let me express my satisfaction that a party that stood in this House and wanted to reintroduce the backlog of health insurance has finally realised that health insurance is an important part of the Swedish social contract. It is good that more parties see the need for strong health insurance. We have begun a journey to rebuild all parts of health insurance. We make decisions today in the regulation letter on changed targets for Försäkringskassan. We are putting forward proposals at Parliament's table to change the legislation. We have changed the legislation – on 15 March we did – regarding the examination of day 180 of sickness benefit. We have an investigation that looks at the sickness and activity benefits. We may be in the process of accusing each other, but what we are not getting away from is that it is the duty of the government and the parliament to restore financial security for the sick. It's time to put away the prestige and change the law where it's needed.
i-b6128c74c324252a-382	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start by being clear that with the same legislation there were far fewer insurances during the time of the Alliance than has happened now. They've skyrocketed after government control. Having said that, I think it is good that the government is making legislative changes, because they are necessary. It is a good thing to go forward with changing in normal work, but I miss the change regarding day 365. We have many long-term patients with covid who are now hitting the border. Why were we not allowed to see that proposal presented here today?
i-b6128c74c324252a-385	Mr President, I would like to The government sees a need to change the regulations for day 365. We have a concrete proposal on our table that the investigation into safer health insurance has left. So far, we have not reached an agreement with the cooperation parties with which we have budgetary cooperation. We respect the rules of procedure for budgetary cooperation. The Government's ambition is to change the regulations for day 365. We've been very clear about that. It is clear that these regulatory changes are needed, not least in order to protect the people who have suffered from post-covid problems.
i-b6128c74c324252a-388	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish hydropower industry is entering a twenty-year programme of re-evaluations with the aim of providing uniform, modern permits and greening at the power plants, all in accordance with a decision here in Parliament. The agreement was that Sweden should apply all the simplifications and exceptions permitted by EU law, with a great focus on facilitating small-scale hydropower. Now the water authorities have recently sent out action plans for the next six years for consultation. What do we find there? Not as much of what Parliament has decided. Few or none of the classifications that would provide simplified requirements for authorisation can be found in water authorities' plans. The consequence of this could be, in the worst case, that many power plant owners are forced to dismantle their power plants with the result that both natural and cultural environments may be demolished. My question to Minister Ygeman is how he views the action of the water authority. Does he believe that the authority has followed the intentions of the government and parliament?
i-b6128c74c324252a-391	Mr President, I would like to The Agency's proposal is for consultation. I have no reason to review it. We'll see what the referrals answer. I can only say that I wholeheartedly support the decisions taken by the Riksdag and agreed by the majority of the parties in Parliament in the energy agreement that was signed. There is a great need for hydropower in Sweden. It is a regulatory force that is a good complement to other renewable energy sources. There is also a great need to make environmental efforts in hydroelectric power, but this must not lead to a reduction in the amount of energy that has been said in this work. The work will continue for a long time, and it is important that it be right and proper. I will follow these developments closely.
i-b6128c74c324252a-394	Mr President, I would like to We know that this has been a long discussion for the small-scale power plant owners in particular over the years. This is extremely important for trust in authorities and, not least, for small-scale energy production. That is why I think it is important to send out signals right now that the authorities do not have their ear to the ground and are not playing on the same track as the legislators have said they should. I want to send it with me.
i-b6128c74c324252a-396	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Helena Vilhelmsson! I'll take that package very seriously. In the near future, I will talk at the annual meeting of small hydropower owners and listen to their views on the future process. It is important that, throughout the entire period of this implementation of the EU directives, we meet the objectives set by Parliament for this work – both in terms of the environment and in terms of maintaining or developing water resources in Sweden.
i-b6128c74c324252a-398	Mr President, I would like to My question is addressed to the Minister for the Interior. Recently, there has been a discussion about the principle of immediateness, which means that a court may only judge on the basis of what is said in a main hearing. Witnesses and victims of crime often testify to threats and pressures in order to change their story, which in many cases may result in their no longer wanting to participate in an investigation. Yesterday afternoon, the Minister of the Interior presented a decision on a Council of State referral for early questioning. The referral contains, inter alia, suggestions that it should be allowed to take up hearings in court at an earlier stage than today, even in the pre-trial investigation if appropriate. Both witnesses and victims of crime are important parts of a criminal investigation, and their testimony can in many cases be decisive when a person is convicted of a crime. My question to the Minister for Home Affairs is how witnesses and victims will be affected by the new legislation.
i-b6128c74c324252a-402	Mr President, I would like to I believe that this is an important reform that we are now proposing. It is a modernisation of the procedural framework – for the first time since the Second World War, in fact. A great deal has happened in society, and there are also complex criminal cases that are large and lengthy. I believe that by being able to use early interrogations you can reduce the pressure on both witnesses and plaintiffs in these proceedings. It can also be ensured that these hearings are conducted early in court proceedings and thus reduce, for example, detention periods and restrictions. I think this is a long-awaited reform that both the police and the prosecutors have been waiting for but which is important to implement in a legally secure way.
i-b6128c74c324252a-405	Mr President, I would like to After all, the question of being able to use previous hearings and partially alter the principle of immediacy has been the subject of discussion. It is wanted by many but has also been the subject of some criticism. In addition to what the Minister for the Interior has said, what are the main benefits? The Minister can also say something about the criticism that has come.
i-b6128c74c324252a-407	Mr President, I would like to When the proposal was out for consultation, there were some critical comments. We have taken them on board in this legislative work, for example, that it is courts that are doing the aptitude test and that we are playing these video hearings, where appropriate, and not just reading out a text, as in the Danish system, which describes what has been said in previous hearings. I believe and hope that this will lead to shorter detention periods, that more people will dare to testify and that the pressure on both witnesses and plaintiffs will be reduced.
i-b6128c74c324252a-410	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister of Justice Morgan Johansson. For example, both in the Agenda in 2020 and at today's press conference, it seems a little unclear what will apply to those covered by the Upper Secondary Education Act in some cases. My question is therefore: will people covered by the Upper Secondary Education Act be able to be tried against the new humanitarian protection basis proposed by the government with a final decision on expulsion?
i-b6128c74c324252a-412	Mr President, I would like to The question is posed in the light of the fact that today we have presented a Council of Law referral on a new migration legislation to come into force on 20 July this summer, when the temporary law expires. It is legislation that is sustainable in the long term and does not differ from the rest of the EU, but is roughly at the same level as the other EU countries. This means that we continue to maintain the control over migration policy that we acquired with austerity in 2015-2016. The group of high school kids that Arin Karapet highlights is here legally. This means that these young people will be able to be tested, just like everyone else, on the humanitarian basis. But in order to stay on that basis, they must also reach the threshold of particularly distressing circumstances. If you can demonstrate this, you will have the possibility of a temporary residence permit but not a permanent residence permit, because then you must have established yourself in the labour market according to the regular rules that exist.
i-b6128c74c324252a-414	Mr President, I would like to Yesterday was the anniversary of the terrorist attack on Drottninggatan. Of course, our thoughts always go first to the victims and their relatives, but as politicians we also need to be able to lift our eyes and work to minimise the risk of similar acts happening again. The terrorist Rakhmat Akilov was illegally in Sweden. He had been rejected according to all the rules of art and in a legally certain way but chose to stay. So in the left language, he was a paperless refugee. Today, the Swedish Democrats submitted a follow-up motion to the bill. It points out that the government has chosen to completely disregard several detailed proposals that would provide the police with better tools to expel more illegal immigrants.
i-b6128c74c324252a-418	Mr President, I would like to We do, and it is against this background, among other things, that we have put forward proposals for increased possibilities for photography and fingerprints for those who are found in an internal foreigner's check. After all, we have strengthened both police activities on this page and legislation in recent years. The truth is that from an EU perspective, Sweden is quite effective in ensuring that those who really do not have the right to stay here also leave Sweden. Between 2014 and 2020, almost 90 000 people have been asylum seekers who have left Sweden; it is over 1 100 per month. The exit operations and the possibility of returning people to Afghanistan, with which we now have an agreement, to Morocco, with which we have much better cooperation than before, and to a number of other countries with which we are now working bilaterally, we take very seriously. The person who has been refused his/her asylum application must leave Sweden.
i-b6128c74c324252a-421	Mr President, I would like to I would also like to put my question to Minister of Justice and Migration Morgan Johansson. The Swedish legal system is based on strong trust in society. It is a question of the guilty being judged, but also of those who have witnessed being protected by society when it is necessary. There is a fear of coming forward and pointing out guilty of serious crimes under threat to one's own or the family's safety. The culture of silence surrounding the criminal gangs must, of course, be broken. Last year a young man was shot to death in Linköping. It turned out that a relative took the courageous and important step to witness despite threats of reprisals. This case, of course, concerns. What happened was tragic in many ways. When, despite threats, someone dares to come forward and testify, society must back up the person. Can Minister of Justice Morgan Johansson say anything about the investigative work that is going on with regard to witness protection? And how does the Minister of Justice view the division of responsibilities between municipalities and states for more municipalities to take responsibility for the functioning of the system?
i-b6128c74c324252a-426	Mr President, I would like to It is just as Eva Lindh says: This type of crime can be system threatening. If victims do not dare to report crimes and if witnesses do not dare to testify, we end up in a vicious spiral where it becomes quieter and quieter and where we cannot get to the criminals. This simply has to be broken. There are no shortcuts here, but it is about making sure that the individuals involved are apprehended and prosecuted. Now, let's go hard on the criminal gangs. We have 1 000 more prisoners now than we had just a few years ago, and we are strengthening the police in this part too. But we also need to do more about the legislation. The investigative mission that Eva Lindh mentioned – I will receive the report in just over a month's time – includes, among other things, investigating a severe penalty for abuse of justice, i.e. to threaten plaintiffs and witnesses. Doing this not only attacks the plaintiff and the Witnesses, but also attacks the judiciary. This must cost us, and then we shall have a great deal of punishment for it. I look forward to such a proposal in a few months' time.
i-b6128c74c324252a-430	Mr President, I would like to The police's efforts to maintain the now strengthened border control place a very heavy burden on the authority. In my own constituency of Fyrbodal, we now have police officers who control the border crossings at Svinesund who otherwise fight gang criminals in vulnerable areas. This has consequences, particularly in view of the fact that the number of police officers in external service in Sweden has decreased over the last five years and is far too small. Per Engström, police commander during the pandemic, stated in an interview in DN that the security of citizens is changing. He went on to say, "We're trying to push back gang crime and drug sales, but it's going to suffer." ..................................................... My question to the Minister for Home Affairs is: What is the government doing to ensure that the work against gang crime and against the already inadequate police density and presence, not least in my own constituency of Fyrbodal, will not suffer further because of the border guard and the fact that one in ten police officers in external service are now being used for that task?
i-b6128c74c324252a-433	Mr President, I would like to It is quite correct that the border guard is a new heavy task for the police during the pandemic. It is ultimately carried out because the Swedish Public Health Agency makes the assessment that we should check that those who enter Sweden – from all countries – can actually show a negative covidtest. The Swedish police are very proud to be able to help reduce people's suffering and the number of deaths in Sweden due to the pandemic. Of course, we continue to allow the Police Authority to grow. I also have great confidence that the police prioritise their resources. You can work in different ways, and I have great confidence that the police are balancing where you are and when you are along the borders. This must be decided by the Police Authority. The big thing, of course, is police growth. We expect about 1,400 new police officers to come out of the Police College this year and will take employment around Sweden – also in Fyrbodal.
i-b6128c74c324252a-437	Mr President, I would like to The government has been enriched by a Minister for Gender Equality, who in media statements divides the population's possibilities in life depending on whether you are born in the country or abroad and whether you are white or coloured. We who are white and born in our own country, Sweden, are devalued and are expected to give up positions to foreign born. Women should, based on their skin colour, compete out women, regardless of their skills or personal suitability. Yeah, what do you say? Strong work, our so-called feminist government! Damberg Government! How should the selection of white Swedes be carried out? And is it the government's intention to distribute positions in the future according to skin colour or country of birth?
i-b6128c74c324252a-439	Mr President, I would like to I am proud to belong to a feminist government that sees that there are differences in power, influence and resources between, for example, men and women in our society, and we are actively working to break this. I am also painfully aware that there is a class division in Sweden where people with low incomes and with other positions in society do not have at all the same opportunities to influence their lives. They also suffer discrimination. It is no secret that people with foreign background are more often discriminated against and held back in Swedish society. If you want to give all people who live and work in our country the same power and the same opportunities to influence their own lives, you have to work against these systematic problems. Then you have to work actively with gender equality. This is something that my government continues to work very actively with. I would also like the Swedish Democrats to take the issues of gender equality a little more seriously.
i-b6128c74c324252a-442	Mr President, I would like to The task of the Pensions Group is to safeguard the agreement and care for its reforms and fundamental principles. The Pensions Group shall consult on reform issues and initiate adjustments. At least that's what the government's website says. But one wonders a little bit, because it is becoming apparent that the government is not really so interested in this pension agreement. The Minister for Social Security seems to be more interested in short-term media action than in consultation and joint initiatives. It is irresponsible and bad for Sweden's pensioners. There will also be new information on the fact that the Minister for Social Security has given a public relations office the task of preparing an inquiry into the increase in pension contributions without anchoring this in the group concerned. This suggests that S actually wants to leave the pension agreement. It also raises a lot of other questions about how the Minister views the PR Office's involvement in fundamental legislative issues. Of course, I wonder: what risks does the Minister see in placing an investigative mission on a public relations agency? I also wonder whether the government has checked the PR agency compared to other customers who have interests in the pension issues that have now been put into the hands of these PR consultants.
i-b6128c74c324252a-446	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Emma Ahlström, for the question. I can assure Emma Ahlström Ahlström that the government spends every minute of this term of office producing evidence that leads to increased pensions. Swedish pensioners deserve increased pensions. The average pension for women in our country is SEK 11,800 a month before tax. These levels have our nurses, our cleaners and our bus drivers, and it is the duty of the Government, the Riksdag and the Pensions Group to raise pensions. Anyone who has struggled and worn out an entire working life deserves a higher pension. Then let's remember that 11 800 kroner is the average. We have many who have worked hard with lower pensions. So let us work together to raise pensions! We owe this to the Swedish citizens.
i-b6128c74c324252a-449	Mr President, I would like to According to the Crime Prevention Council, deadly violence has increased sharply in the last ten years. During the time of the Red Green Government, it has increased by over 40 percent, and it is the deadly violence of firearms that accounts for the greatest increase. Criminal policy can be discussed, and there is much else to be desired from the government. However, this is basically based on the immigration policy of the last few decades, which must play an elevated role in the debate. As segregation spreads rapidly, there will be room for a rapid expansion of organised crime. The rapid growth of organised crime is also the very reason for a low degree of rationality among the gangs, creating the increasing deadly violence. Mr President, I would like to Does the Minister for Justice and Migration share the view of the Swedish Democrats that an extremely limited immigration policy and an effective expulsion policy are the very basis for the long-term stabilisation of and Swedish areas which are currently in an extremely negative spiral of immigration-related organised crime?
i-b6128c74c324252a-453	Mr President, I would like to The short answer to the question is no, and it is in view of the fact that I know what the deadly violence has been like for the last 30 to 40 years. The fact is that the deadly violence per capita, the risk of being killed in Sweden, was greater 30 years ago when I graduated from school, that is, around 1990, than it is today. This is not always heard in the debate, but it is indeed so. And it was before the large immigrant groups came to Sweden, that is, those that Adam Marttinen so badly wants to blame for all sorts of problems that exist in our society. So, after 1990, we saw a decrease. But then we have seen developments in recent years with, above all, increased deadly violence in gang-related environments and firearms violence. It is precisely this violence in those environments that we are now taking action against, and we are ensuring that these individuals are caged up one by one. We have a thousand more people in custody now than we had a few years ago. And we will continue to put in place precisely the gangs that are involved here with increased pressure against them, both police and criminal law.
i-b6128c74c324252a-457	Mr President, I would like to Major crisis measures have been necessary to help crisis-stricken companies and save jobs, but it should be remembered that Stockholmsbörsen's companies distributed SEK 1 718 billion in the ten years preceding the crisis. This can of course be described as the good years for the big owners, who have been able to increase the private wealth of capital owners and managers. And now we have a number of other big companies that are moving forward with dividends despite the fact that they have received the support of society, which creates a system that increases inequality. This is completely unreasonable when the purpose of the crisis money has been to save jobs. We have repeatedly called for a more balanced response to the economic crisis. If you raise your eyes, it is not hard to see that the whole crisis is about class. We have seen what large class markers, for example, are for health, morbidity and mortality. Then we cannot maintain the class society and the differences we see. There is no need to concentrate the money at the top of the income pyramid and let people fall behind. It is not just a question of billionaires and super-rich people who are pulling away from the increase in economic disparities; it is a question of how decades of tax cuts and subsidies for the rich have failed and how a broken economic system needs to be fixed so that the majority can get better. The question we need to ask ourselves is: When will the rich pay back in the form of capital and wealth? In designing post-crisis policies, those benefiting from tax policy must be involved in financing the necessary efforts to improve welfare and to renovate society. Health care needs to be upgraded, housing needs to be built and rails need to be laid. Strong public investment is needed, and here the tax system is crucial if we are to put an end to economic inequality and start redistributing more to our common. The crisis has not only made the class divides visible and how vital the class issue is. It has also shown that neoliberalism and tax cuts have come to an end. In Sweden the wealth of the richest percentage has doubled since the 1980s, and on that line the government seems to continue. It is a well-known line which, after decades of tax cuts, privatisations and welfare cuts, has given us a society that is not equipped enough to deal with crises, while at the same time leaving the rich and the poor behind. Previously, we were the world's most equal country. Sweden has now become the OECD country where the gaps are increasing most. In fact, income differentials have increased faster in Sweden than in any other analogue country. If we look at capital income, they have been concentrated in the richest. They are also one of the main reasons for increasing income inequality. The total property income amounts to nearly SEK 400 billion. 90% of them go directly to the tenth of the population with the highest income. If we look at the Swedish distribution of wealth, the wealth is even more unevenly distributed than the income. And they are more unevenly distributed than in countries such as the United States and Britain. The tenth of the population with the largest wealth is estimated to own almost 78 per cent of the total private wealth in Sweden, of which the richest percentage owns almost half. Moreover, the richest are often able to convert labour income into low-taxed capital income. They are simply making money from money that would instead have been redistributed to, for example, renovate care and general welfare and ensure that the nurse has more colleagues and better working conditions. Instead, capital and wealth are concentrated on those who already have the most. It is more like a few empire, where the money is concentrated in the richest tenth and the richest percentage in the country. This happens while schools in the country have saving requirements, budgets include cuts in welfare and community-supporting activities are under threat of closure. It is, of course, possible to break this trend. It is a question of taxing individuals in particular very richly in order to make it better for the majority. There are countries that are now taking the lead in doing this and in particular taxing wealth and capital, and with all reasonableness they give the coronanota to those who are in the best position to do so. It is not surprising, because it is actually those who have benefited from economic policy for decades. Taxes on capital income and wealth mean not only more fair and well-functioning societies but also a shift of power away from a few capital owners. I request the approval of reservation 19.
i-b6128c74c324252a-469	Mr President, I would like to For more than a year now, our whole world has been marked by crisis. The Coronapendemy has brought enormous suffering to many people, especially to those who have been affected themselves and to their relatives. The response to the pandemic has also led to a very severe impact on many entrepreneurs and employees. Directing aid to companies in order to maintain and retain employees has therefore been the right approach, although there are very justified criticisms both of the design of the different aid and of the many delays in the payment of the aid. But there will also, hopefully soon, be a time when we can begin to return to a more normal life. If we are then to be able to rebuild prosperity and prosperity quickly, it will require good conditions for companies to develop and employ. Then taxes and rules need to be designed so that it is attractive and as easy as possible to start and run businesses, because without companies we have no welfare. There is much in this area that could be better. But not everything is really negative in Sweden today. There is a wide range of world-renowned companies that have been started here in recent years: Skype, King, Spotify and Izettle are just a few examples. They show that we are actually one of the world's most innovative countries. We'll be proud of that. There are many reasons why companies like these are emerging here in Sweden. But one reason is that after gift taxes, inheritance taxes and wealth taxes have been removed, there are conditions for retaining and reinvesting capital here in Sweden. It is extremely valuable to Swedish society both now and in the long term. It is therefore worrying when social democrats and left-wing parties talk about new or higher taxes on capital. It would hit investment in new companies. This would also hit the jobs of the future and the well-being of the future. On the contrary, the Christian Democrats' message is that the tax rules that have provided the conditions for these new companies should be protected. If changes are to be made, it must be about Sweden with its tax system becoming more competitive, more attractive to run companies in and attract more investments. Mr President, I would like to We have various proposals in today's report. Of course, everyone is good, but I would like to highlight our proposals on improving the investment savings account and the tonnage tax. The investment savings account, or ISK as it is called, was introduced in 2012. Since then, it has grown rapidly and become the most common type of savings account. The purpose of this form of savings was to make it easier for individuals to save money by having a simple flat-rate taxation that makes it easy to sell and buy and to move holdings between different banks. But there are still things that need to be improved. In recent years it has been noted that the legislation is ambiguous and that banks interpret the law differently. This means that not all savers are treated in the same way. The problem arises when listed companies are to issue both newly issued and existing shares, or when companies are to be listed and both newly issued and existing shares are part of the offer. As banks make different interpretations of the legislation, some savers have been given the opportunity to subscribe for the issue or listing, while others have been refused. We Christian Democrats want the government to come back with changes that allow existing shares in an offer of issue or listing to be handled in the same way as newly issued shares. In this context, I would also like to point out that we Christian Democrats have said no to the tax increases made by the government in ISK and that, on the contrary, we have proposed that the tax be reduced again. However, it is being dealt with in connection with the autumn budget and is not part of today's report. Mr President, I would like to I would also like to highlight the Christian Democrats' proposal to develop tonnage taxation for shipping. Tonnage taxation is a flat-rate tax that helps to simplify the conditions for Swedish shipping. Maritime transport is a very important industry for Sweden, and the introduction of a Swedish tonnage tax system has helped to improve the conditions for Swedish shipping. But now is the time to start developing our tonnage tax system, to investigate the limitations that exist and to minimise the uncertainties that exist for shipping companies in the current system. I have asked the Minister of Finance on several occasions whether it is not time to review the tonnage tax system. In addition, several other Members from other parties have also done so. The standard response from the Minister for Finance is that it must go a few years first in order for it to be relevant to evaluate. But we are now in the fifth year of tonnage tax. So it has been a few years and an evaluation is certainly appropriate. In other countries, taxation is constantly being turned on to make their own model the most attractive. Denmark in particular is very good at this. We need to keep up with developments. We have to be offensive. Our ambition must be that Sweden should be the best country to operate in. Mr President, I would like to Improved tonnage taxation is an example of how the conditions for Swedish jobs are improved, in this example by improving the conditions for Swedish shipping. The same logic applies in all sectors. If tax conditions are good through tax rules that encourage investment, tax rules that are easy to understand and tax levels that are competitive, the conditions for more jobs to emerge will also be improved. And more jobs give more tax revenue. It is tax revenue that can be used to improve care, care for the elderly and the police, just to mention a few things. We Christian Democrats, of course, support all our reservations, but in order to save time at voting time, I only call for reservation 5.
i-b6128c74c324252a-482	Mr President, I would like to In the debate on this report, I only intend to deal with one specific issue, namely liberal feminist economic policy – partly because I am passionate about gender issues in all their forms, partly because we talk far too little about savings and partly because women's opportunities to build their savings capital are too few. I noted earlier during the debate that both Mr David and Mr Hagman were concerned about saving issues. But they forgot the women. That's why I thought I'd take the opportunity to highlight the women's perspective. When it comes to saving and saving opportunities for women, I would like to say that the buffers that are being built up and that are called in the women's mouth – forgive me, Mr President, for using an inappropriate expression – fuck-off capital is important both for women's economic independence and for creating the conditions for building a future that also means security. This is very important. We Liberals encourage more Swedes to save and build their own buffer capital, because we know that the path to freedom and security goes through their own money. I will admit that I would have expected much more of the red-green government, which has been in power since 2014. It began its reigning years by calling itself a feminist government running a feminist policy. However, the concrete proposals to strengthen women's economic freedom have been few. That is why we Liberals have launched a motion to quickly investigate and change the regulatory framework for investment savings accounts, ISK, for new issues and make it more profitable for more people to start saving. Far too many people in Sweden, especially women, have too small economic margins and lack the security of bank savings. Rather, the tax system has encouraged indebtedness over savings. The norm has been wasting and not saving. Of course, consumption is important. One should not have to rule out the other. We will have to consume to get the economic wheels back on track once we get past the pandemic. But it is also important to create the second coin on the issue of savings. Therefore, we want to make it possible to save up to SEK 100 000 without having to pay tax on the return. In fact, this proposal would give women the opportunity to seriously build up these protection buffers, which is very difficult for many people to achieve today. It is no secret that women have both lower wages and lower wage developments than men. This persecutes many women during a full career. Women work more part-time than men. Women take the greatest responsibility for unpaid work at home, with responsibility for both children and home. Women take out the majority of parental insurance and are much more wobbly than men during their first years of life when they attend preschool. This helps to ensure that women not only receive lower pensions but also have worse – and very poor – conditions during their working lives. This is happening in one of the world's most equal and well-developed countries. I have to say that this is an understatement of the policy that has been pursued in the field of gender equality so far. Furthermore, if we begin to scratch the surface a little and compare the situations of native and foreign-born women with each other, an even darker picture emerges, as there are also crucial gaps between women in terms of wage income and unemployment. Mr President, I would like to I'm in different groups on social forums where girls and women give each other different tips on savings and on stocks and funds to invest in. I admit that every time I enter these forums I become very positive. I get a positive rush all over my body, because it gives me hope for another future, where women and, above all, young girls can advance their positions in terms of power over their own economy. Awareness among young girls about the importance of own savings increases. That knowledge and that glow will spread to more and not be extinguished by us politicians. More people are beginning to understand that an economic buffer is both an insurance against the unforeseen and the ticket to, for example, the housing market. Mr President, I would like to It was the alliance government that introduced the investment savings account in 2008. It has become a very attractive form of savings. Both use and taxation are easy to understand, not least when it is time to declare each year. But this form of savings has not been directly cared for by this government. On the contrary, during the last parliamentary term, the Left Party was allowed to dictate government policy. As a result, the tax on the investment savings account was also increased. This, of course, disappointed many small savers because they had actually started saving thanks to this particular form of savings. Not least for all savers who had long-term savings was ISK very good. But during this term of office, it is the Liberals who have dictated the conditions of government policy. That is the price that the Social Democrats have paid to sit another four years in government power. Through budgetary cooperation, we have put an end to further tax increases for this form of savings. In addition to enabling more people to start saving without having to pay taxes on the first $100,000 that they manage to get together, it is also important to take the warning signals that have come from banks seriously; they warn that ISK is disadvantaged when, for example, companies are being under-introduced and they are not able to sign up. This, of course, threatens the democratisation of savings that has been the legislator's original intention of the reform. A solution to the problem urgently needs to be explored, as the current situation creates inequalities between different forms of savings. In addition to the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats as I understand it in the debate, a quick investigation should be possible for more parties to support us in order to bring about a change in the regulatory framework for ISK. Madam President, I would like Yesterday we were able to read a report on gender equality presented by the Christian Democrats. There were a number of proposals with measures to strengthen gender equality. But I did not see any concrete proposals to strengthen women's economy. It is clear that young girls should be able to feel safe when they move in the public room with, among other things, a pepper spray in their purse. When I was 19 years old and worked on weekends and nights in Stockholm subways I also had a little spray in my bag to feel safe when I went home from work after a late night at work. But it is not the pepper spray that will create financial security for girls and women. That is one of the basic conditions, precisely access to economic freedom. It paves the way for women never to feel dependent on either society or their partner. That is why it is now high time that in the debate on gender equality we began to highlight economic issues linked to the vulnerable situation of women. It is through their own wallet and their own buffer that they can have in the bank that they can also create the optimal freedom in one of the world's most equal countries. Madam President, I would like With this, I support Liberals' reservation number 6.
i-b6128c74c324252a-498	Madam President, I would like There's been a lot of talk about ISK here. Although I did not really intend to talk much about it, I would like to start by addressing that question. ISK is a good system if you want ordinary people to be able to save in shares more easily. It is indeed as it has been said here, that it is incredibly much simpler. You don't have to keep track of how much you buy the shares for and how much you do in profit when you sell them and so on. It is much easier to make a lot of transactions during the time you have the money in an ISK than if you were doing it the traditional way. This of course makes it easier for more people to access the stock market. You don't have to get into that much. But it is still extremely advantageous compared to owning shares in the usual way. It sounds like we have increased tax rates almost to the skies during the last parliamentary term. This term of office has been held back for the sake of ordinary people. What we are missing, and the Liberals in particular are missing just now, is the whole group of people who cannot afford any savings at all. What does it help them that we benefit people with a lot of money with lower tax rates on their share ownership? Not much. You can call it a gender equality issue if you absolutely want to. But it is certainly not a gender issue for the whole population. Moreover, those who cannot afford to save are often employed in the public sector – where we could use the money, instead of reducing taxes on equity ownership – to ensure that they get a little better wages. It's a gender equality reform I would support. We heard earlier here today the Moderates talking about a lot of different treasures that need to be lowered. They even claimed here in the pulpit that Sweden is the country in the world that has the highest tax burden. That is simply not true. There are many parties and members who need to update their knowledge of the situation in the world. Madam President, I would like We are debating today motions received during the general period of exercise. It is a broad patchwork of various proposals that address in one way or another all these taxes on companies, capital and real estate and various problems that individual Members or parties see in tax levels or tax systems. Often you hear when you are out discussing this form of taxes or taxes generally that the Swedish tax system is a Swiss cheese with a huge amount of exceptions and different special regulations for different things. That, of course, is true. We have made efforts to benefit different sectors. But we have also done a lot since the tax reform in the 90's to plug holes in the legislation where different players who want to pay a little less have come up with clever arrangements. This mission would be a lot easier if everyone were to stick to the intentions of the legislation. Then we could also have a much fairer tax system. There is therefore a need, Madam President, for a major tax reform aimed at greater fairness and wider tax bases. Today we have very different levels of taxation depending on whether you get your income from working or from owning a company and someone else's work. For example, that system works well for me who worked and received almost all my income during my lifetime paid as salary. It still applies to most of us here in society. It also works well for those who own shares and earn their money from capital and do not have to mix. However, there is a very large group in between that it works very badly for. This is the group that both works and owns its company. Then the so-called 3:12 rules come in. The idea of them, of course, is good. It is about distinguishing between the different income laws of the owner so that the income you have to work is taxed equally as for the employee in the same company who does the same job. The income you get for owning the company is taxed according to the rules of capital taxation as for everyone else. The reason why this is needed is that taxes are fundamentally unequal. It becomes a necessity when the tax rate on capital income has been reduced as has been done in succession since the tax reform. Most of the exercises that have been received are about further reducing capital taxation or giving tax relief to companies for various things. It can be about very good things, such as education or strengthening the Swedish business community. However, the majority are about more exemptions and more opportunities to reduce taxes for those who, in the broad sense, already have a very favourable situation today. Overall, this is not the way forward. We must create greater fairness, reduce the differences between taxation of labour and capital and broaden the tax base. Today it is more beneficial to manage money than to invest to produce goods and benefits for society. That is one of the reasons why we see a bank tax as a good way forward. It increases the contribution of the financial sector. We can thus shift the tax burden from labour to capital. We must continue on this path because the only option is to undermine the common. With the results of the last year's pandemic, increased tensions in the neighbourhood and all the shortcomings that we see in society, there is no room for manoeuvre. Society must be stronger, both in everyday life and in the face of the next crisis. We owe this to present and future generations. Madam President, I would like In recent times, previous bases for the conservative and neoliberal economic way of thinking, such as the IMF and the OECD, have recognised the importance of having an equal distribution to secure jobs and sustainable economies. For example, the recognition that an eternal reduction in corporate tax does not benefit the participating countries or the whole has finally caught up with large parts of the world. In both England and the United States, corporate taxes will increase in the next few years. In the EU, a floor is being discussed, and the pursuit of tax havens has surely not escaped anyone. Madam President, I would like This is where the Swedish debate is far behind. The bourgeoisie and the right are still driven by ideas that are abandoned by more and more because they do not work. More people need to be involved and contribute more fairly. Society must become more equal in order for us to stand together stronger. We have agreed in January on a major tax reform with the Liberals, the Green Party and the Center Party. Now you can think about how the Liberals will be able to deliver there given what has happened recently and how tough it has been to get started. It doesn't exactly feel like the Liberals have had any interest in this before either. However, no matter how this goes, we Social Democrats are determined that we must strengthen society in the future. This includes a major tax reform targeting greater equity, enhanced security and sustainable financing to enable society to deliver wherever it is needed – ranging from a secure pension and health insurance to a defence and infrastructure to be trusted. Madam President, I would like I call for all motions to be rejected and for the committee's proposals to be approved in the report.
i-b6128c74c324252a-519	Madam President, I would like Member Patrik Lundqvist really urged me to ask for a reply, because there were a lot of things like the Government of Ardalan ShekarabiS) at the same time. Let's take them in turn. We members from other parties were invited by Patrik Lundqvist to update us on the reality. I promise we'll do it every day. The Member talks about injustice in society and believes that the only way to solve social problems is to increase capital income taxation. However, the honourable Member does not mention in one word that Sweden is one of the countries with the world's highest marginal taxes on labour income. It hits ordinary people directly, as Patrik Lundqvist addressed in his speech. If we are really to overcome the inequalities that exist and ensure that people who work, not least low and middle wage earners, can get more money in their wallets, we must also look at the taxation of labour income. This is a reality that Patrik Lundqvist must also relate to. The honourable Member then goes on to talk about a new tax reform. Excuse me, but has the honourable Member missed that we have been in the worst crisis that Sweden and the world have experienced since the post-war period? Your Minister of Finance has had to spend all his time and resources on ensuring that there is a crisis package so that we can save companies from bankruptcy, Patrik Lundqvist.
i-b6128c74c324252a-524	Madam President, I would like No, of course I haven't missed that. That is also what I was trying to point out. The question is, how are we going to solve it now? The pandemic we have is one of the factors that means that we have not succeeded. But we also, as far as I am concerned, have a certain lack of interest from parts of the parties included in the agreement to implement something. Gulan talks about marginal taxes and at the same time about low- and middle-income earners. It is a fact that most low- and middle-income earners do not pay marginal tax. Margin tax hits those who have the highest income. In fact, the whole of my speech was to transfer government income from a majority where the base is low and medium income to property income and other income that people who are less well off do not have. My point was that the bourgeois right in Sweden is constantly talking about promoting low- and middle-income earners, but in fact, a majority of proposals are delivering that only lower taxes for those who have a lot of money. We need to do something about this. We must ensure that low- and middle-income earners retain more, and it must be compensated by taxes on those who have high incomes, especially from the financial sector and capital income.
i-b6128c74c324252a-527	Madam President, I would like I am well aware of the tax scale and that different levels of income pay different types of tax. We have jointly introduced a temporary job tax credit, and it is aimed above all at low and middle income earners. Is Patrik Lundqvist prepared to make sure that it is permanent? That's my first question. My second question is how Patrik Lundqvist views the specialist nurse, teacher or preschool teacher who actually comes across the limits of state income tax. Does Patrik Lundqvist think that the people who have this type of occupation – and it is women above all – are high-income people who are to be taxed as a penalty for Patrik Lundqvist and Social Democracy to correct injustices in society? Does Patrik Lundqvist mean that those who already pay far too much of their wages will have to pay even more? To conclude, Madam President, I must say that it is fascinating to cooperate with the Social Democrats, who themselves are involved in making various changes to create more incentives for people to keep more money in their wallets. The value tax is such a clear issue. Patrik Lundqvist now completely rejects the politics he himself pursues. But that is what it means to be in power for these four years. You have to pay a high price for the policies you do not believe in. I believe in my policy, and I am very grateful that it is precisely the Social Democracy that is now making the necessary changes that mean that we are both getting a liberalised labour market and creating the right conditions for people to work and knowing that they are allowed to keep a little more money in their wallets. I think that is the right priority policy.
i-b6128c74c324252a-532	Madam President, I would like Again, we hear proposals that are really only aimed at those who have the higher incomes and nothing to those who are low earners. The birth tax met people with very high incomes, such as us here. We got money back. Did we have to? No, I wouldn't say that. The money could have been used much better elsewhere. But I know, as we have just been told, that this is one of the prices that we had to pay to get through the formation of government that now exists. It cost a number of billions, and of course it hurts for me. That was one of the points when we debated this right after the formation of the government and a party colleague stood here and said: The best thing about this government reform was to see the Social Democrats press the yes button to abolish the military tax. I understand that the Liberals are now in the situation they are in. It entered into a government agreement with the motive to harm the Social Democrats and make it costly for us rather than with the motive to pursue its own policy. We have also heard the leader of the party talk about the fact that there are no liberal reforms. No profits have been made at all in the January agreement. This is what happens when you don't push any questions except those that are aimed at hitting others.
i-b6128c74c324252a-536	Madam President, I would like It has been a long day with interesting debates. It has been a while since we started this debate. Kjell Jansson from the Moderates then came in a little bit on forestry policy, and then I must be able to respond to it now at the end of this pass. Something was said in the sense that it is okay to protect nature as long as the landowner is in on it. If you pull this to a head, you can think: Then let's protect the Amazonas as long as those landowners are okay with it. Then let's protect the coral seas as long as those who fish there are okay with it. But we do have an environmental code in Sweden. It is not entirely voluntary to take into account our fellow species in Sweden. We also have the 16 environmental objectives that I keep going on about and that this congregation has supported. So no, it's not quite as simple as that this can be based entirely on volunteering. We also have biodiversity conventions that Sweden has endorsed. We have said that we have a responsibility for all the species within the borders of the nation. That is something to which we must relate, both politically and economically. Speaking of the forest, Helena Vilhelmsson mentioned forestry and what can be done with taxes to benefit those who take nature into account. There, the Forest investigation has come up with an interesting proposal to grant the compensation tax-free. I think we should take a closer look at this. I have also heard my colleagues Gulan Avci from the Liberals and Helena Vilhelmsson from the Center Party talk a lot about feminism and gender equality. I really appreciate that we get those perspectives. Then I would also like to mention this with diversity. When we talk about companies we look quite blindly at AB, limited companies, but there is a variety of different types of companies, not least the cooperative companies. They are co-workers-owned and economically democratic and can really support gender equality and contribute to a local economy. There is also much we can do on the basis of our roles, with taxes, so that we do not disadvantage or forget these forms of business. As mentioned in both this and previous debate, we also need to see how class divisions are increasing in Sweden. We need to link this to other work, not least environmental work. Above all, we need to act on the basis of this knowledge and insight. This brings us to capital taxation. We have heard here today that there is something that arouses a great deal of commitment. As I mentioned in previous debates – I am sure I will repeat myself – there is a built-in injustice, I mean, when you are heavily taxed by working but low by owning capital. Although it is uncomfortable by various ideological beliefs to address and take on this, it is our duty, for as long as we do not, no one in this House can claim to be surprised when class divisions increase. I am going to close this debate and I am already in the mood for the next debate. I shall conclude by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report.
i-b6128c74c324252a-545	Madam President, I would like It is a long day today with many debates. We shall now discuss VAT. It is a very effective tax, a consumption tax. It is surely the treasure that I, as a moderate, think has the highest legitimacy. Unlike taxes on work, where you are forced to pay up to 52 percent of your salary, you can actually partially choose whether to pay the VAT. When you go shopping in the store or buy a new car, you know that 25% of the value is VAT. We should also know – I have a background as an entrepreneur – that the companies administer VAT free of charge for the state. This was an issue that was raised for debate earlier, but I think the benefits are so great that they are considering. Madam President, I would like VAT, or even as it was previously called, was introduced in 1960 as a temporary sales tax of 4.2 per cent. Today, the general rate of VAT is 25%. On May 29, 1968, the Parliament decided to rename the tax from turn to VAT. VAT has been divided over the years. Since the last tax reform, which was very good, was produced by Kjell-Kjell-Olof Feldt and others, VAT rates have been divided and negotiated for various reasons. Very often there have been political initiatives from this House to exempt VAT. Political special interests have pushed forward. For example, food VAT was reduced by 13 percentage points in 1996 by the Swedish Government, Persson, to 12%. The aim was good, namely that families with children would be given cheaper food. It was not fundamentally wrong; the problem was that food prices did not fall at all as much but only by 2 – 3 percent. Then the profits have gone up with those who sell food and the like. I don't miss it, but that's not the reason. The Swedish National Audit Office has also criticised this quite strongly in a report that came last year. Another exception that is incomprehensible is adventure companies. For example, if you go up to Åre and want to go snowmobile or sloat after a snowmobile, it is 6% VAT. If it is sometime you should be able to afford to pay full VAT, it is well when you go up to the mountains on vacation, I think. It's also a choice you make. It is strange that such exceptions have been passed in this House. I think they're completely preposterous, in pure Swedish. There would be a need for a review of the entire VAT system – not least on the property side, where there is a very mischmasch with the VAT. Some are allowed to VAT, others are not. We as a political party were to rent a room here in Stockholm. We could not rent the premises; the property owner did not want to rent out because we were not liable for VAT. I think this should be taken into account. This shouldn't be so sensitive politically, I think. In fact, we should be able to agree on this. It's a request I have. In addition, the Riksdag should strive for uniform VAT. I'm not saying it has to be 25%. A uniform VAT rate may be 22%, as far as I know, but we should look at this thoroughly if we are now to develop a tax reform. With the sectors currently covered by VAT, a uniform VAT rate of 25% would provide the State with 66 billion in budget reinforcement. It would allow for other tax cuts that I have heard many want to retain, but I think it is healthier to levy taxes on consumption than on labour. There have been long-standing proposals to deal with this with rental VAT, but no one dares to take it on. I find that sad. Why this delay on the part of the government in tackling this, Madam President? Why the meekness of the government? There should be a clear majority in this House for that, I think. Is it because you are afraid of losing some voters here and there, or is it for tactical reasons? I can't find the answer. The government should make a proposal and negotiate with us the other parties to bring this forward with equivalent VAT, VAT on commercial properties and so on. It needs to be reviewed. Madam President, I would like I thought I'd stay there. I request approval of the Moderate reservation 1.
i-b6128c74c324252a-558	Madam President, I would like Sweden's VAT system is based on the alignment of legislation with the EU VAT Directive. This adjustment has led us to have the different levels of VAT rates currently in force. This became a reality after Sweden's accession to the European Union and tax reform in the 1990s. Since then, many minor, specific changes have been made, and the issue of a new tax reform has occasionally been raised in the debate. The longer the time passes and the more minor, specific changes made to a tax system, the closer the timing of a new review creeps. Madam President, I would like We can now see, for example, how certain parts of VAT legislation lead to practical problems. When companies to vaccinate people against Corona during the pandemic are to rent premises for their activities, input and outgoing VAT rates cannot be deducted from each other as renting is not subject to VAT. VAT problems therefore stand in the way of creating obstacles in the midst of the crisis and pandemic that we are going through. That is why we need to review VAT. There are also problems with the differences in the number of health workers hired and other proposals on the preferential taxation of health insurance. Health care was strained even before the pandemic, and tightening the already limited margin of resources through taxation would be both highly unfortunate and problematic. The healthcare VAT represents a significant increase in the activity of health care providers who employ certified health care professionals who are self-employed or consultants. In a situation where health care needs to increase capacity rapidly over a period of time, healthcare VAT is a serious obstacle. Let us remedy this! Madam President, I would like The state inquiry that reviews the health claim should not be completed until April next year. Given the high health debt, legislative changes need to be put in place more quickly. Sweden also applies reductions in VAT rates and full exemptions where VAT is entirely applied to goods and services. This means that the investor who wants to offset input and outgoing VAT against each other is not able to do so. This may lead to complications as exemptions from VAT may in some cases mean that there is no right of deduction for certain investments, so new activities may not emerge either. The result may be lower GDP growth than otherwise could have been the case, which ultimately leads to fewer jobs and probably also lower international competitiveness. However, we see that the issue is relatively complex and that there may still be areas in need of VAT reductions, but the scope of normal VAT may need to be evaluated. Madam President, I would like It has also been shown that a variation in VAT rates in some sectors contributes to various negative impacts. Among other things, problems arise in the tourism industry because of the need to keep track of many different VAT rates. On the one hand, it creates confusion and, on the other hand, increases the risk of tax errors. At the same time, it distorts competition in these sectors. The system of differentiated VAT rates entails certain problematic boundaries and definition issues which in some cases may be perceived as illogical or unfair. Should a guest harbour, for example, be classified as an industrial port or as a tourism industry? Should arranged downhill bike tours be subject to 6 percent VAT while guided urban bike tours are subject to 25 percent VAT? Should it be considered as passenger transport to ride a horse and a wagon on the market, which is therefore subject to VAT by 6%? Should pony riding in the same market be classified as an experience, which is taxed by 25 percent? We want fair taxation and harmonisation of VAT rates linked to the tourism and tourism industries. We would also like to see a study on the conditions for further harmonising VAT rates for different tourist attractions where equivalent activities are taxed more uniformly. Increased harmonisation of VAT in certain sectors could contribute to increasing socio-economic efficiency and growth. Madam President, I would like At the same time, there are certain specific sectors of society where VAT exemptions or reductions may nevertheless be relevant and justified. Although harmonisation at a normal VAT rate is deemed to be socio-economically effective in other areas, this is about areas where the tax is of some importance to consumers. Preferably in the field of culture there is today a cultural VAT, and it should continue to be kept at such a level that we can stimulate a high level of cultural participation in Sweden. From the cultural nationalist perspective of the Swedish democrats, we believe that culture is of great importance to society as a whole and that there is value in this. That value should be honoured by a lower VAT rate, for a combined, increased cultural participation. Madam President, I would like Another area to review is the VAT on dance band music. Anyone who visits an event where dance band music is played has to pay higher VAT on their entrance ticket than those who visit a concert, as dance bands are charged with 25% VAT while the concert has a 6 - percent VAT rate. The same low VAT rate applies to sporting events, where the VAT rate is 6%. I find this relationship both incomprehensible and unfair. For digital games in Sweden, VAT is set at 25 percent. However, some sellers try to classify games as books and thus circumvent the legislation in order to bring the VAT down to only 6%. It is unreasonable that music and movement should have a higher VAT rate than sports events and concerts. That is why there needs to be a level playing field in culture and sport. In order for VAT to be equivalent to other dance, sports and cultural experiences, we believe that the possibility of reducing dance tapes from 25 to 6 per cent should be investigated as soon as possible. At the same time, Sweden needs to review VAT legislation so that it improves the conditions for managing vaccination during the pandemic. We need to strengthen health care, make business conditions more efficient and ensure that culture is given a given and accessible place in society. In conclusion, we support all the reservations contained in the report, but for the benefit of time, I only ask for reservation number 1.
i-b6128c74c324252a-574	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are still in the Chamber this late hour! The income tax that we pay once a month is the tax that, I guess, gets the most space in the debate. VAT, for its part, is a tax that we pay almost every day when we shop, but it does not have much room in the public debate. However, VAT is not a tax on the margin. It accounts for a large part of government revenue. In 2020, it was estimated to bring in just over 450 billion to the state. That is one fifth of total tax revenue. Unlike income taxes and business taxes, VAT is a relatively easy-to-understand tax if you are a consumer. It is a mark on your product or service that is not dependent on your income but on the price of the commodity, and of course what it is. There is no progressivity, and the exceptions are relatively few. However, it is clear that the formal VAT system has fallen out of step with technological and economic development today, when daily purchases are in full use on mobile phones and computer screens. Increased use of technology and global services is driving the need to simplify for both consumers and traders. We need to join the digital society. Legislation and its application must be followed in reality. Unfortunately, in all the surveys, VAT is high on the list of companies when they rank administrative problems or burdens, not least because of the often incomprehensible differences in VAT rates that we have heard several speakers raise. We know that more jobs can be created if the daily lives of entrepreneurs are simplified. In the long run, it strengthens well-being. A great deal of simplification is possible in the field of VAT. The Alliance government's quarterly VAT reform instead of monthly accounting reduced the costs of companies by over SEK 300 million. For the Center Party, it is important to continue this simplification work. However, although the accounting of VAT became simpler under the alliance government, some old sins remain in the logic and comprehensibility of VAT rates for companies and non-profit associations in particular. It is difficult to understand why different levels are applied. The best example here is probably the old candy VAT on music and dance. It is difficult to see the logic of a 25 per cent tax on culture in the form of music and dance, while culture in the form of music alone is subject to significantly lower VAT. The VAT rate for music activities should reasonably be the same whether the audience or the audience dances to the music or not. It has been announced that the results of a study that was completed in June 2020, A new VAT law, will come. Let's see what's in it. We'll have to watch and push. Madam President, I would like While my view of the fact that from the individual's point of view VAT probably does not cause any major problems, it is different for companies and the non-profit sector. I intend to devote my final words to that. One area where the system contains both legislation and practice and where the consequences have had effects that no legislator could have had as an intention is the area of VAT-related activities in the area of real estate leasing. It started in 2015 when the Center Party pointed to the problems that arose when Friskis & Svetti's VAT report was rejected. There, practices changed, and the problems of sports associations, for example, took off. Due to the regulations, property owners may not be able to rent out to sports associations because they are exempt from VAT. VAT rules make sports associations in many places difficult, if not impossible, to rent sports premises from private property owners. Even before the Swedish Tax Agency's new position, it was difficult to find premises for the non-profit sector. This has an absurd consequence. For purely economic reasons, it may be easier for property owners to leave their premises empty than to rent out the premises for VAT-exempt activities. It is not just sporting activities that have been affected. Free schools, too, bear witness to similar problems. Madam President, I would like Under the current VAT framework, there is a risk that sports associations will either cease to be non-profit-making because it makes their activities more difficult, or will have to increase fees, if they are at all able to carry on their activities. The Center Party, of course, believes that society and the non-profit sector must be protected. When we see that problems in legislation are in danger of forcing the companyisation of non-profit associations, we must act. In reservation 7, we describe the problem, and I call for it to be approved.
i-b6128c74c324252a-585	Madam President, I would like In the previous debate, I pointed out that our tax systems must be business-friendly and that taxes and rules must be designed so that it is easy to run a business. The VAT system is known to be anything but simple. According to the Business Board, tax rules are the most common source of the regulatory burden that many entrepreneurs bear witness to, and most often it is VAT that causes problems. However, it is important to point out that complicated VAT rules do not only affect our businesses. To a large extent, they also affect the life of associations. Indirectly, end-consumers are also affected by problems in the VAT system. The various VAT rates 6, 12 and 25 % bring with them a wide range of bordering problems. A common example highlighted in the VAT debates, both today and before, is the different VAT rates on cultural events that depend on whether the audience sits down or stands up. If the audience sits down, the tax rate is 6%. If the audience dances more than quadruple the tax to 25 percent. You wonder what happens at a concert if someone or some chooses to dance spontaneously. The issue seems comical to outsiders, but for those affected this is tragic and unreasonable. Unfortunately, this is far from the only problem with the VAT law. A list of complicated VAT rules could probably be endless. The various tax rates, the numerous exemptions and exemptions from the exemptions are a constant source of headaches for many entrepreneurs and organisations. Madam President, I would like We are now discussing the last of five tax debates held here in Parliament yesterday and today. In many of these debates, I have highlighted tax rules or rates that need to be changed in order to improve the conditions for association life. Since association life is an inalienable part of our society, I will dwell on it even now. The VAT framework is in many parts ill adapted to the non-profit society. This complicates the daily lives of a large number of associations, but in some cases the activity risks being completely discontinued for reasons that can be attributed to the VAT acquis. One problem encountered by many associations is VAT on internal services within the association, so-called internal VAT. Today's legislation places a burden on local associations that are part of a larger whole with VAT when they use support that has been developed within and for their own organisation. These include, for example, services such as member administration, legal support or IT support developed by the national organisation in support of local associations. The services are provided only within the organisation itself and are tailored to the needs of the organisation. The aim is for those who are active in the organisation at the local level to be able to spend time and energy on the association's main purpose rather than on administration. On the contrary, however, because of state rules, it is quite the opposite when VAT is suddenly paid and administered. Madam President, I would like As I mentioned in my introduction, different VAT rates apply today depending on whether a concert audience stands up or sits down. Similar phenomena exist in more areas. The tourism industry is probably one of the sectors most affected by VAT rules that appear inconsistent. For example, guided tours have different VAT rates depending on where they are carried out and also depending on which vehicle is used. If you sleep in a boat in a guest harbour 25 percent VAT applies. If you spend the night at a campsite, 12 percent VAT applies. Anyone who reads through the various motions in the report will quickly find many more examples. Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats want a VAT review. The aim shall be to simplify and harmonise VAT. Simplicity for those involved, such as nonprofit associations, must be the guiding principle of that work. I request the approval of reservation 4.
i-b6128c74c324252a-594	Madam President, I would like Then we are on the last debate for ourselves today. It is about VAT and VAT. There are also different views and views on how to use and reform. In their speech, the Moderates said that the exceptions make it difficult and difficult and that a uniform VAT system might be better. It sounds attractive to be able to get a simple system and also SEK 66 billion into public finances. It could possibly co-finance a basic income. Maybe there we can find some kind of consensus. However, I do not think that is possible at the moment. Madam President, I would like Nevertheless, I see that VAT can be used to control behaviour and consumption. In my positions, in my commitment and in my political work, I always put the environment first because it is both an environmental crisis and a climate crisis. That is what governs and frames virtually all my positions. Had it not been for those factors, I might have landed in other positions and been able to think that it is a good principle that it is uniform and more. But now I think we should use all the instruments and all the political tools we have to steer away from what is worst for the environment and steer towards what is as good as possible for the environment. One proposal that the Green Party is pushing is to have full VAT on flights. Today, the VAT rate is only 6%. It is no secret that aviation accounts for much of our emissions. Nor is it a secret that we in the Green Party are fighting hard for a flight tax. The resistance is great, but another way is actually to increase the VAT on flights from the current 6%. It is also possible to reduce or remove VAT on things that exist on the second-hand market, such as VAT has already been paid on. Today, for example, clothing can be paid VAT on almost as many times as possible. In order to promote the second-hand market, various tools can be considered, including VAT rates. I have raised a motion that goes into a little bit on gender equality issues, which we are also many who are passionate about in this congregation. It's specifically about menace protection. Sweden actually stands out in a European perspective. Sweden and Denmark have among the highest VAT rates. In Scotland men's protection has been done for free. Canada, the United Kingdom and Ireland have no VAT, and France has reduced it to 6%. Measures have also been taken in India and the United States. This may seem a small detail, but we still live in an unequal society. And having a period is not a choice, it's biological. A woman of 40 years of age has spent an average of SEK 48,000 on men's protection. The question is why we should have one of Europe's highest VAT rates on men's protection, which women cannot opt out of. I see these tools, and I think we should use them to correct both environmental and gender issues. I would rather use VAT and adjust the VAT rates available. I would therefore like to thank you for today's debates. I shall conclude by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved.
i-b6128c74c324252a-605	Madam President, I would like It sounds to everyone who speaks here that VAT is something we would have relatively easy to agree on. Most people here have spoken more or less warm for uniform VAT and the simplicity it would entail. Personally, I, too, would prefer us to have a simple system in which there were no border problems that we have heard about here. That would be good for a lot of people. However, that is not the problem. The problem then comes when trying to create a budget in balance for the Swedish state. It is incredibly easy to talk about reducing taxes and creating solutions that go out over the state economy. But very few people are interested in talking about how to compensate for it, either by reducing public commitments or by increasing other sources of revenue. That is why I think it may not be as easy as it might seem when listening to this debate. We all understand the need for a major tax reform that takes a holistic approach to public revenue and ensures that we can address the problems that exist here. If you do so with the introduction of solving the governance of different sectors of the economy in other ways, you will probably be able to include the previous speaker – although the VAT as an instrument sounded interesting to her. Madam President, I call for all motions to be rejected and for the committee's proposals to be approved.
i-b6128c74c324252a-609	Madam President, I would like It was an interesting speech that Patrik Lundqvist gave us in this Chamber. The introduction of uniform VAT does not, I believe, have to lead to a reduction in tax revenues. It would certainly be possible to carry out a neutralised reform but to make VAT taxation much simpler and more understandable for individuals and businesses, fairer and more socially feasible. I would like to hear whether Patrik Lundqvist and his party, which are actually a government party, might consider looking at the issue of implementing a reform of uniform VAT. And if he is prepared to do so, can he also consider maintaining a reduced rate of VAT on cultural values? I would also like to take this opportunity to support the SD's second reservation in the report.
i-b6128c74c324252a-612	Madam President, I would like I have to agree with those who have spoken here before and said that it could actually also mean increased revenue for the state. I am not placing any restrictions on how this could be implemented. But I am convinced that we cannot confine ourselves solely to reforming VAT. I think we also need to look at the rest of the tax system at the same time. This is such a large part of the public's overall revenue system that I think one needs to take a holistic approach to it all. I am also not going to say 'bu' or 'ba' in terms of exactly what departures to start with or not in such a review. I am thinking, as the Minister for Finance has done in the past, of keeping all the doors open until we sit at the negotiating table and have work in progress where we actually seem to be able to get to the goal of tax reform.
i-b6128c74c324252a-614	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. It is good that there is openness on the part of the government to look also at VAT and perhaps work towards more uniform VAT legislation. At least you don't close the door, you keep it open, as I understand it. It is positive in that case. You may not have to make it so complicated and make a total change in the tax area to look at the VAT area, I think, but okay. Another issue that I think it is important to raise here and now, in the midst of a burning pandemic, is the review of the healthcare VAT. Why must its implementation be delayed until next year? Then the pandemic will hopefully be out of action, but you never know what will happen. The virus can mutate, and we can get more waves of the Corona epidemic that can continue to put the care on edge, so to speak. We need to focus on health care reception but also on health care staff. They're pulling a very big load. This work could be carried out more quickly than is happening. Why not?
i-b6128c74c324252a-616	Madam President, I would like That is of course an interesting question, but I am not the man to answer it. I don't sit around doing the priorities for what it needs to work with and when. On the other hand, I can try to achieve a high level of skill, namely that we actually have a pandemic now that is postponing a great deal of work that would be good to do. We are constantly working on pairing various problems and looking at support schemes, amending budgets and such things. I would guess that is why this particular issue also has to be pushed a little forward. Unfortunately, state resources are not infinite, though.
i-b6128c74c324252a-618	Madam President, I would like Yesterday I spoke in this House about the problems in Swedish schools and about the 600 school classes that leave comprehensive school every year without eligibility for upper secondary school. I also talked about that more than one in four students in grade 6 had not passed any or any subjects at the last grade. This is a appalling development that must be broken. All children should pass school and reach their full potential. Everything stands and falls with a committed and capable principal. In Sweden we have 3,900 principals in comprehensive school and 1,200 in upper secondary school. Unfortunately, the Swedish National Agency for Education's review shows that only 40 per cent of those who were principals in the academic year 2014/ 15 remain at the same school after three years. After five years, only 20 percent of those who were Vice-Chancellors 2014/ 15 remain at the same school. Of all those who have quit, 57 percent have even left the profession and school world. We Moderates are convinced that school leadership is incredibly important. So we wrote a separate motion about principals and school management. We should talk much more about our principals, the vice-chancellor training, the need for competence development and the vice-chancellor's working situation. It is devastating that only one fifth of the principals are left at the same school after five years. We need to strengthen our principals and give them the mandate to lead and lead properly. When the international survey Timss, which actually measures the knowledge of mathematics and science among students in the OECD, was presented last autumn, there were also sections on school management in each country. There are both interesting and worrying data about school management in Sweden compared to other countries. The proportion of principals with what Timss calls the highest level of education is lower in Sweden than the average in the OECD and the EU. In grade 4, for example, four out of ten students in Sweden have a vice-chancellor with the education that Timss ranks as the highest. The cut in the OECD is six out of ten students. In Finland, where the whole committee was watching schools, 98 per cent of children in grade 4 meet a principal with the highest education. If you then go to grade 8 the numbers are about the same in Sweden: Four out of ten students meet a Vice-Chancellor with the highest education. The cut in the OECD and the EU is higher for the higher grade; there, 65% of students have a headmaster with the highest education. In Finnish schools, 99 per cent of students in grade 8 have a vice-chancellor with the highest education, compared with four out of ten students in Sweden. Perhaps, Madam President, the tasks of Timss should cause all parties to want to discuss the value of our principals, the headmaster's training, the skills needs and the work situation. If we are to achieve a better school, where all children can reach their highest potential and leave school with full grades, the principal is one of the most important keys. Madam President, I would like I commend the Moderates' reservation number 6.
i-b6128c74c324252a-625	Madam President, I would like Allow me first of all to endorse reservation 23. Of course, in a report entitled ‘Teachers and students', it is absolutely impossible at least not to touch on the situation that has existed in school for more than a year. The Corona epidemic has had major consequences for both teachers and students. For older students, teaching has been redirected to digital environments. It is a transformation that is not just new to many. It has also made completely different demands on study discipline and adaptability compared to regular teaching. Many have succeeded in this but far from all. We Swedish democrats regret that there has not always been any proper rigour in the decisions taken in relation to the educational situation on the part of the government and the authorities. At the same time, however, we are pleased that teachers have succeeded in maintaining a high quality of teaching. That all schools are good and given the best conditions for learning and knowledge is A and O for a small country with high demands on welfare and economic growth. Having said that, it would have been possible to imagine that Swedish school policy would be something quite extraordinary and that the school results would be clearly above expectations. As we all know, this is not the case. Decennials of Social Democratic school politics have turned the school that was once both well-functioning and of a high international class into something completely different. I believe, for example, that, in the near future, every debate will somehow get into the issue of security and study. Despite this, the government seems completely incapable of bringing about changes that make students feel safe in their school and that enable them to conduct studies in the classroom in peace and quiet. A number of years ago, the Swedish School Inspectorate conducted a study on how studies could best be achieved. These were quite clear results. In schools where there were clear rules and where these rules were fully maintained, there were good studies. Basically, this is a responsibility that rests on the headmaster. Strong and clear leadership means a good study environment. The study also showed that it is not the composition of the student group that is crucial, but above all how the teaching is conducted and the extent to which pupils receive additional support or additional challenges. In short: Boring and one way of teaching do not stimulate interest. And it leads to a mess. It was also stressed that it is important for teachers to be consistent with maintaining the rules of law at school. At the same time, we know from other studies that the teachers are calling for clearer directives on what they can and cannot do to maintain order. A typical example is the question of whether you can lift a student out of the classroom. In such cases, who has the supervisory responsibility? This has caused major problems, and such problems should not exist. Here the wording of the school law must be much sharper and support the teachers' authority in the classroom. The Swedish Democrats believe that students who pose threats to other students or who disrupt order should be able to be taken out of the classroom and placed in special emergency classes. Access to trained teachers is also an important prerequisite for learning. Sweden has a great need in the coming years. It is needed – we have heard this many times – about 45 000 teachers by 2033. It's a mastodon mission to do this. Daily we can read in the media that many teachers in the schools are unauthorized. Sometimes the reasons can be economic. Sometimes it can be pure comfort that governs this. None of this is of course good. At the same time, however, the debate must be nuanced. It is good that Sweden has a stated ambition to increase the proportion of qualified teachers and that those who are hired as teachers should primarily be qualified. We're not going to give up on that. But we also know that it is difficult in many parts of the country to recruit qualified teachers. These may be smaller municipalities or sparsely populated municipalities, where an inflexible approach would have enormous consequences for children's school. It can also be about suitability. In an interview in the school world magazine a month ago, some principals say that it is sometimes the suitability that determines the choice between a qualified and an unauthorized candidate. Of course, teachers' training must assume their responsibilities here. They need to be sharpened. It is not acceptable to graduate teachers who are then deemed unfit as teachers. There are many unauthorized teachers who have the formal subject knowledge – we forget that many times – but who lack the pedagogical part. The Swedish Democrats think it would be good if there were more opportunities for unauthorized teachers to supplement their education with an educational education in a shorter time. We also welcome the fact that this can be done during employment. Instead of criticising unauthorized teachers, we should do everything we can to get them qualified. It is necessary if we are to manage to vacate 45 000 new teachers in just over a decade. Some time ago there were alarming reports about Swedish pupils' teaching material. In the absence of official statistics, teachers have examined how teaching materials look in school. As many as 86 percent of the surveyed teachers feel that they cannot buy the teaching materials they need. The purchase of teaching materials varies from – hear and behold – 0 to more than SEK 1,500 per student and academic year. The cut is SEK 600, but more than one school in five buys in for about SEK 400 per student and academic year. It's not much of a book. According to the study, there is a structural inequality in the supply of teaching materials. Students in disadvantaged families have less access to teaching material. For those who do not have books available at home, the problems are getting bigger. These are serious signals. We Swedish democrats think it would be better to deal with this than to discuss system issues and other things. These are things that affect students very much and that characterize their ability to absorb knowledge. Madam President, I would like Few questions, I would say, involve students as much as school food. That's how it's been all these years. I think we all have memories of school food – good or bad. Either you love it or you don't. Sweden is one of three countries in the world that offers free school food for everyone – it is a set table. In addition, there are several individual options. It is extremely expensive for the municipalities, because the municipalities get no extra money for all the personalised e-food that is served. The more special dishes, the less money there is for other food. We find that untenable. It is important for children to be fed at school, but it is not good for this to break the budget. We therefore call for national guidelines on the daily service of a meat dish, a vegetarian dish and a special diet only for those who need it for medical reasons and who can prove it with a medical certificate. The food should be nutritious. It must be of good quality. It should be tasty, and it should be well prepared. All food must be produced as far as possible. All meat should be produced in accordance with Swedish animal legislation, and all food should be served according to the plate model. We do not believe that special food should be offered for religious or cultural reasons. There is the vegetarian alternative available. Having said that, Madam President, we Swedish democrats assume that the debate on school policy is now starting to focus on issues that are important for students and teachers and nothing else.
i-b6128c74c324252a-643	Madam President, I would like I rarely get the chance to talk school politics. So this week when I was writing a speech, I had a feeling. Then the draft was about 28 pages, but I will really try to control myself and keep time. I would like to begin by calling for approval of the Center Party's reservation number 16 in the report. Talking about the school is first and foremost talking about what today's debate is really about, namely the students, teachers, principals and staff in student health. These are the people who create the school. We as politicians can at best create the conditions, but it is these people who are creating the changes in classrooms in everyday life. It is obvious that Swedish school has some problems. Changes have taken place over time, and more changes have to be made. Today, far too many children leave school without the conditions necessary to create their own picture of their future. We have to stop that. Then came a pandemic that has created new problems that must be addressed very quickly so that we do not reinforce the challenges that already exist. Madam President, I would like We live in a country with great opportunities. In spite of this, Sweden is one of the richest and most equal countries in the world. At the same time, Sweden faces major challenges and has long been characterised by a serious social split, a split that risks being further deepened in the wake of the pandemic. Where in Sweden you are born, where you come and where you grow up, live and root affects people's economic conditions and life chances. We know that. Some places, both urban and rural, fall behind while others become attractive and exciting. Basically, all adults must have the opportunity to work and support and every child the chance of a good schooling. The fact that the labour market and the field of education fulfil so much in the January agreement that has framed the parliamentary work of the parliamentary term is therefore no coincidence. Building an economy of opportunity that promotes the individual's freedom and breaks the split between people and places, is in addition to the climate struggle, the great and crucial project that Sweden is facing now. I therefore want to focus on the exclusion areas that we are not able to get on the journey today – not because teachers, school leaders and students do not do big works everywhere in Sweden or do not need better conditions everywhere in Sweden, but because it is in these areas that the problems are greatest. Breaking negative spirals and turning exclusion areas requires collaborative efforts that make the area safe and attractive. Policy must be consistent over time and be tough on both current crime and gang crime, but first and foremost against the social driving forces behind crime so that it is eradicated from scratch. For this there is no place as crucial as the school. Schools and children's social situation are often not strong enough to give a realistic, meritocratic dream for each child that hard work in school, with dedicated and knowledgeable teachers, can lift individuals to a good future. It is therefore absolutely crucial that vulnerable schools can be turned into light points for the area that makes families want to stay. Schools that fail, therefore, need not only to be given strengthened resources; if necessary, they need to be quickly taken over by another management or principal. Every month and semester as a young person loses the course to be able to read, write and count and to get good jobs in a modern economy is extremely expensive for society. The Center Party has therefore pushed for more career positions in exclusion areas so that the most experienced teachers will be present at the schools where the needs are greatest. By investing in higher wages, the state can help us get more first teachers in our exclusion areas. But, of course, we need to do more. Schools in and close to exclusion areas have had very different developments. Some, thanks to a powerful management, have defied difficult social conditions for the students and achieved excellent results. On the contrary, many more schools have had very poor results, teachers with low experience and problems with order that have further impaired the prospects for the residents. Time is running out, and one last area I would like to mention is the Swedish language. We need to strengthen the education of newly arrived children through more intensive and systematic language training. The language introduction programme will be aimed at the students who have recently arrived in Sweden. In parallel with participation in the language introduction programme, pupils must be channelled into the regular activities. New arrivals should be able to continue to be able to study nuclear material in their native language in order to ensure that they do not fall behind in terms of knowledge. National tests in other languages should also be investigated. In order to strengthen the language development of children, an investigation should be carried out into the introduction of language fritis in areas with a high proportion of children born abroad or children born abroad. To reverse exclusion areas, you have to start by turning vulnerable schools and turning them into lighting points for the area. This is how we create better integration and confidence in the future. The school is and will continue to be the engine of long-term integration.
i-b6128c74c324252a-659	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for approval of the Left Party's reservation 19. There is a great lack of teachers and educators in Swedish preschool, school and recreation centres. The lack of qualified staff makes it possible, in practice, to work for several years at the same school or preschool as an unauthorised person. The Left Party is convinced that those who choose to continue working as a teacher for several years also have the capacity to take a teacher's degree. The same applies to educators in preschools and recreation centres. Today, however, there is a lack of sufficient incentives for many principals to support their substitutes and unauthorised personnel to read their qualifications. It can also be noted that many independent schools have fewer qualified teachers, since it is cheaper to have unauthorized teachers. In this way, profit-making groups can expand their profit margins. The Left Party wants to facilitate the supply of personnel in the various shortages of welfare, such as teachers and preschool teachers, by introducing the so-called Dala model nationally. The model means a new form of education where students get employment with salary while studying. The Left Party wants to make greater demands on the principals to enable further training and further training of unauthorised preschool and school staff. The situation with regard to the provision of staff is also worrying in leisure homes. The activities of leisure homes must be of high educational quality, and for the Left Party it is self-evident that the proportion of staff with a degree in leisure education and a degree in leisure teachers needs to increase. Those who are already employed at leisure homes but lack relevant education, such as a higher education degree, should of course be a target group to target specific efforts through further training and validation.
i-b6128c74c324252a-666	But, Madam President, if we are to solve the problem of staff shortages, we must also tackle the system failures. We need to get to grips with and abolish marketing school. We must abolish segregation of school elections. We must abolish financing models that lead to the inequality that is growing in Swedish schools. We need to give more power to the staff and profession of the school, and we need to review the last teacher reform that the majority of parliamentary parties unfortunately introduced. Madam President, I would like The Left Party's ideals of democracy are based on enlightened citizens of society. This requires both a coherent education system and a high level of knowledge among the entire population. We want to create an equal and cohesive school. Preschool and school should lay the foundations for a life of opportunity, not help to strengthen and expand the class society. In a democratic school, all students are met with positive expectations, not least because there is strong evidence that this is how the best learning takes place. In a democratic school they also work on the premise that it is the quality of school and teaching that determines how the students are doing and actively strive to counteract the differences in conditions that accompany the students' background. This means that the school needs to be much better at offering pupils special support measures. Madam President, I would like It is when society is faced with crises that school becomes particularly important. We have witnessed this not least in the last year. For many children, school is the only safe place in everyday life. For the Left Party, the school has always been the band that holds society together. This is why we have long demanded a more cohesive school where children from different backgrounds meet. During the spring we have seen teachers and students struggling to make the school work despite the ongoing pandemic. In school canteens all staff have had to pull out to make the serving work. Teachers and preschool teachers have spent breaks washing and disinfecting door handles, benches and tables. For the Left Party, the experience of the Coronandem is that our work for more money for welfare is more important than ever. The school is one of the most important elements for the functioning of society as a whole. Madam President, I would like The right to education for the undocumented is another subject raised by the Left Party in today's report, and I wanted to finish my speech on this subject. In July 2013, a law change was introduced that gives undocumented children the right to attend school. This means that all undocumented children between the ages of 6 and 18 are legally entitled to schooling, but they are not subject to compulsory schooling. A person who is undocumented and enters upper secondary school before he or she is 18 years of age has the right to complete his or her education even after he or she has turned 18. A paperless child also has the right to adapted education in special education and school shooting in the same way as all other children. It is difficult to know how many undocumented children use their right to attend school, but when Stockholm Stadsmission made a round call to 51 municipalities in Sweden, it was shown that half of the municipalities reported that they have, or have had, undocumented pupils in at least primary school. The same study also showed that there are major shortcomings in how municipalities have prepared themselves to ensure the right of undocumented children to schooling and that schooling should be as safe as possible. These shortcomings include the right to individual assessment of educational needs and student support for undocumented children. Paperless children do not always get their school grades. Education, Madam President, is a key element in the long-term efforts to overcome the poverty and vulnerability of undocumented children. It is therefore important to ensure that the 2013 amendment will have the desired effect. The Left Party believes that the reform now needs to be evaluated in order to ensure the right of all children to education. The government will evaluate, we believe, the extent to which the 2013 reform has ensured that the right to education is safeguarded, and the government will come back with proposals on how to strengthen undocumented children's right to education. Madam President, I would like As I said, the 2013 Act grants undocumented children the right to attend school, but it does not include participation in preschool activities. In the preparatory work for the amendment of the law, proposals were made to give all children the right to pre-school education on the basis of the argument that pre-school children are at risk of becoming even more isolated due to a greater dependence on parents to move outside the home. This saw an increased risk that young children living as undocumented children would be made more invisible if they were not given the opportunity to attend preschool. Despite this, undocumented children were not given the legal right to attend preschool. This is something the Left Party is turning against. We simply believe that there is a need for an evaluation of the issue of introducing a right for undocumented children to attend preschool.
i-b6128c74c324252a-678	Madam President, I would like I thank Daniel Riazat for his contributions to the debate. I didn't really intend to ask for a reply to Daniel Riazats's speech, but I still reacted to his choice of words to describe how Swedish school is and the challenges that we can agree on in some respects. We have the example of marketing school. I would like to remind Daniel Riazat that barely 80 000 out of 442 256 employees in Swedish schools work for independent principals. One in four schools has independent principals, and 95 percent of them have one or two units. This is significantly higher teacher density in independent activities. More children with foreign background go into independent activities, and the satisfaction among both students and parents is significantly higher among independent principals. I wonder why Daniel Riazat gives this reality description of school activities.
i-CA1rYUGeTeAAYhthLbHfXb	Madam President, I would like Welcome, Alireza, to the Education Committee's debates! I don't know how to answer the question without sounding unpleasant. Despite all the facts that Alireza presented here, which he thinks are facts, so much is not right. This interpellation should be made by the Center Party to all the researchers who have reached all the conclusions that I presented in my speech, to the teachers' unions who agree with the exact conclusions that I preferred in the speaker's chair, or to those who produce the Pisa surveys, to the OECD and to all other bodies that have found that Swedish schools are becoming more unequal. It's because the system is built on a market thinking and we separate students. The decades that the experiment in Swedish school has been allowed to continue have led to greater segregation, to worse conditions for the staff and to children with different backgrounds no longer meeting. I mean not only national or ethnic backgrounds, but also class affiliations. When Alireza Akhondi talks about more students with foreign background in schools, it doesn't say much about the situation we face. There the students also have different class backgrounds. Finally, I must also respond to what was presented as facts about the staff of free schools. The Left Party has many members who work in free schools. It is not those we are opposed to; it is the system, the logic of the market, which has also deteriorated for the municipal school. That is what we are opposed to.
i-b6128c74c324252a-686	Madam President, I would like I thank Daniel Riazats for his reply, although I understood that the answer given by the honourable Member was incomprehensible on several levels. I would like to remind Daniel Riazat of the reality of the past. Many parents moved to a better school for their children. Today it is possible for children in socio-economically vulnerable areas to choose their own school. These facts, which I have presented, are not what I have invented, but statistics that are available in public databases. I recommend Daniel Riazat to look at the satisfaction of students, parents and staff. You can't get away from it. We have problems with the equivalence of Swedish schools. But they are not due to the parameters highlighted by Daniel Riazat. The school money system needs to be reviewed. However, the shortcomings are to some extent due to the fact that the municipalities do not adequately count school money. I say that as former head of administration in municipal operations. There are also problems regarding transparency and how to choose a school. There are some who already put their children in line at BB to selected schools. But this is not addressed with the policy of the Left Party. The rhetoric of Daniel Riazat is directly counterproductive.
i-b6128c74c324252a-691	Madam President, I would like If I had belonged to a party that ran errands for the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise and Free Schools, I would probably have said exactly the same things as Alireza Akhondi just said from the pulpit. The statistics are rather amusing, because the Center Party has voted against us even having public statistics on schools. Last November, when I made a proposal in the Education Committee, the Center Party was one of the parties – together with the rest of the bourgeois parties and the far right party – who voted down that we should have public statistics. The statistics referred to by Alireza Akhondi come from the National Association of Free Schools, which in turn is a lobby organisation that highlights different kinds of figures that will in some way resist the research and all the evidence that is now available about how failed the market experiment has been for Swedish schools. Madam President, I would like This debate very well clarifies the difference between right and left when it comes to school. Alireza Akhondi said that earlier, when we had a different school system, you couldn't get your kids to a better school if you didn't move. This is the basic difference between our views. I want all the schools in our country to be good. You should not have to travel 50 minutes or an hour to get to a so-called good school, but we should have an equal school and a cohesive school system, where it is not the parents' wallet that determines what education you get. It is this that results from the fact that we have segregated school elections, an unfair financing model and a market logic that prevails in school.
i-b6128c74c324252a-694	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of the Christian Democrats' reservation 13. A good principal, with a clear school leadership that permeates the entire school, and really good teachers are the most important success factors for a school. The Christian Democrats therefore have several proposals to ensure that we have skilled principals and teachers with the best conditions to convey the knowledge needed for our students to take power over their lives and shape their future. For example, the Vice-Chancellor's programme should be opened to those who want to become Vice-Chancellors and not only exist for them are already appointed Vice-Chancellors – a bit like it works in Finland. All principals should also be offered regular training and guidance to develop their school leadership. Madam President, I would like In yesterday's debate, I explained that the Christian Democrats want to see a more knowledge-based school, with more teaching time and early knowledge checks, so that support efforts can be put in place early. But everything starts, of course, with really good teachers who, thanks to their subject knowledge, inspire students to know, lead the class forward and keep order in the classroom. We need to increase the qualification requirements for teacher training and also need continued investment in career services such as first teachers and lecturers, in order to enable more career paths and a raise for the country's teachers. Career services are needed not least in our areas of exclusion. But there is also a need for further training for all teachers. Teachers must continuously benefit from research and development. For example, we would like to see more training in leadership and conflict management, both within teacher training and as further training in municipalities. Madam President, I would like It is also true that the best teachers choose to stay in the profession. To deal once and for all with the problems of order and the mess in school is an important thing to improve teachers' working environment, but teachers also need to focus more on teaching. It is about reviewing documentation requirements and clearing tasks, which is possible with more adults in school. One way to relieve the burden is to have special mentors, so that the teachers can focus on the teaching itself, but you can also, for example, take advantage of a voluntaryly committed class grandfather. One thing is certain, and that is that more time for teacher-led education is the best way to improve school outcomes. Madam President, I would like Too many students are unfortunately left behind in Sweden of the Social Democrats. The students do not always come to their own, and the mess and harassment cause many children to feel bad or to fall behind in school. Worst case scenario, they even stop coming. School absence is a huge problem. The purpose of the school should be for each individual student to acquire as much knowledge and education as possible in order to develop as a person and realize their potential. This requires that we better adapt the school's teaching to the circumstances and needs of the individual students. The inclusion spirit that means that all students should preferably be taught in the same way in the same class has gone too far and causes many individual students to get hurt. Instead, we now need to invest in more special teachers and special educators. We also need to give our school leaders greater freedom to expand and design specific teaching groups. The government must also act immediately to improve the conditions for operating resource schools in Sweden. Students with the greatest support needs must also receive the support they need. Madam President, I would like Of course, how the students feel also affects the way they go in school. We would therefore need a student health guarantee that means that each student can get in touch with the student health care every day. Accessibility also needs to be improved in our health centres and in child and youth psychiatry. The Christian Democrats therefore want to give the regions the overall responsibility for medical and psychosocial pupil health, while at the same time school nurses, school doctors, curators and school psychologists should remain in school activities. This would create better conditions for early detection of both those who are ill and students with neuropsychiatric disabilities. Until responsibility is transferred, all school leaders should, of course, have cooperation agreements with the regions to ensure that pupils do not fall between the chairs. All children need to be offered routine conversations with the school curator. Strengthening student health is crucial if we are to succeed in creating a school where no one is held back and no one is left behind.
i-b6128c74c324252a-706	Madam President, I would like In this report, the Liberals have highlighted calls for a number of changes. This applies not least to our priority issue of maintaining and strengthening the study of the classroom and the competences of the teachers. We have now worked towards the government for several years to change the school law and increase and clarify the teachers' powers to intervene against messy students. We know that one in four teachers has been subjected to threats or violence. We know that six out of ten teachers refrain from intervening against messy students. It is due to unclear powers but also for fear of being registered with the Children's and Student's Representative and the State's school inspection. We also need to reinforce the disciplinary toolbox. If you threaten or violate other students, or for that matter the staff of the school, you as a student should be able to be more easily shut down or relocated to another school unit. I hope that the proposals that have now been finalised will be delivered to the Swedish Parliament, on which I hope we will be able to take a decision shortly, Madam President. In particular, I would like to highlight our proposals on resource schools and special teaching groups, which we have re-educated in several areas both in party and committee movements and which are dealt with in the report. That is why, Madam President, I would particularly like to follow up and call for our reservation 9 on specific teaching groups and resource schools. Liberals have received a demand that we have worked for for many years. We have criticised the so-called inclusion idea for decades. I remember when I was a councillor ten years ago. It was an extremely sensitive and tense debate in which we had completely different ideological approaches. The problem today is perhaps not so much ideology but economy. We see today that we have thousands of home sitters. We have thousands of students knocked out of the regular school, regardless of the principal. We have a problem that we don't know what the presence looks like. That is why it was a good thing that, just before Christmas, the Education Committee made a declaration to the government to produce a national absence statistics to better follow up the general presence and absence but in particular to try to identify pupils with long-term absences from school. This applies to those students with problematic long-term absences, in the debate called home sitters. Many of those students have different types of disabilities. They have not received the right and early support in the classroom, which has led to exclusion and exclusion from their schooling. We would like to emphasise the demands that we have also received in the investigation that was just presented to the government to write in the school law that there may be resource schools and may be run municipal resource schools. That change will soon have to come into place. In that part, I'm not worried. I'm more concerned about the part with special teaching group. We will continue to actively fight to make it easier for all students with special needs to have a place in a special teaching group. Several organisations have expressed their views on this matter to the government and have recognised that there are currently opportunities. But they also say that the application, how it works in reality, differs. That's correct. The assessments of which pupils receive the support, what is considered as special support and whether to get a place in the special teaching group differ dramatically between different municipalities and between different principals in Sweden. This is not an equivalent assessment and not a level playing field. The investigator also says that in that part there is no need for legislative changes because the regulatory framework is already in place. Liberals do not share that conclusion and analysis. Therefore, our message to the government and to those who work on this product before it comes to Parliament is that it must mean that it will be easier down at the classroom level for these students who would need a place in a special teaching group. Madam President, I would like Instead, we see savings, cuts in resources, shortcomings in the adapted support and shortcomings in the specific support. We see that not only the formal requirements of the School Act but also the requirements today are too high before a student with special needs can be considered for a place in a special teaching group. As a special educator, the school authority must also have expressed it earlier in the Education Committee, talking more about placement than inclusion in Swedish school. It pains a school politician to hear it about what was actually meant to be a student in an ordinary class. But it requires the right support, the right skills and the right presence of people who know these students and the disability. Then it can work for some students. But for other students, it doesn't. Therefore, we need both support in the regular class and support in the special teaching group. Those with long-term and extra-extensive support needs can be enrolled in resource schools. I am very pleased that the Liberals are working in parallel on different fronts to ensure that all students have a real chance to complete their education in the future.
i-b6128c74c324252a-721	Madam President, I would like I'll start by quoting an old headmaster colleague to me. He sometimes said, "We have loving school legislation." He was, of course, referring to the provision that each student should have the support, guidance and stimulus that she needs to achieve as far as possible according to his conditions and the objectives of the education. It is a provision that has both collective motivation, that is, it is good for society as a whole that each member has the opportunity to develop as far as possible, and individual motivations, that is, that each individual should feel the joy of growth and the satisfaction of making progress and overcoming difficulties. On the whole, it is a good prerequisite for a school system that should be good both for society and for each individual. What is needed if it is to be realized? Today, we are debating a couple of hundred proposals from general exercise time that are about making changes that affect teachers and students. Teachers and students are also the name of the report. The Vice-Chancellor, in consultation with teachers, pupil health and guardians, already has far-reaching powers to take the necessary support measures to ensure that the training is as good as possible for every child. If special teaching groups, adapted study sessions, individual teaching or other adaptations or resources are needed, they can be deployed within the framework of the already existing loving legislation. Madam President, I would like In the Swedish school, no one should be left behind and no one should be held back. Therefore, the government and the cooperation parties are working with several proposals to provide better opportunities for individual adaptation so that the school better provides the guidance and stimulation needed for a student to reach as far as possible. This means both that we work with permanent top-level education in high school and the opportunity for students to move faster. But it also means that we are working on proposals to further strengthen pupil health, both through clearer regulation of the mission and an acceptable minimum level. This means that we are working on proposals to get better rules on resource schools in place, that we have proposals in place to strengthen the special school and that we are working on analyses of how problematic school absences and individual additional costs look to make the school better meet the needs of individuals. We are working on a national plan for security and study. We have received suggestions on how the registration procedure to the Swedish School Inspectorate can be changed in order to be more effective. We already have in place state grants for strengthening staffing in student health, guarantee of early support interventions in primary school and new rules for teaching in preparation class, new rules for following and taking action related to student absence, extended hourly education in sports and health and collection for daily movement. These are some examples of important reforms to complement already loving school legislation. Madam President, I would like However, I note my committee colleagues' over-reliance on exclusive solutions. Sorting students based on diagnosis or support needs is a tool that I think should be used with caution. Every student should have the support to which she is entitled, but I am not as convinced as many other representatives in this House that everything will work out if only the school gets the opportunity to sort students into different trade unions and arrange training in some ways for certain children. It is not so many decades ago that we – due to research results – left the remains of the system with different types of help classes and began to use a conceptual apparatus that means that students are considered to be in need of support We've gone from student care to student health. Of course, the profession should have a mandate to use the loving school legislation for the benefit of each student, i.e. have a mandate to take the measures that they deem necessary to adapt the education in the best way to the needs of the student. But the order where we sorted students based on functioning and divided them into groups after that must not be idyllicized. The support for the students was, in this regard, not better in the past. Madam President, I would like In terms of teachers' working environment, wages and status, the current government has already taken several steps to increase the attractiveness of the teaching profession. During the last parliamentary term, we have invested heavily in continuing training for teachers, on teachers' salaries and on more staff in schools. We have reviewed teachers' administrative burden and invested in teachers' assistants and other staff at school. We have strengthened the management chain by regulating the school manager's role in the School Act and made preschool managers principals with the corresponding right to education. And we continue to work on the conditions and status of school professors together with our partner parties. We're gonna get a professional program in place. We have adjusted the content of teacher education and continue to invest in teachers' skills. But, Madam President, anyone who is serious about wanting to raise the status of the teaching profession cannot round the question of the mandate or the power of each teacher. The market system that the school has become has shifted power in the classroom from the teacher as a representative of the authority and the student who has been subjected to the exercise of authority to the student and her parents as customers and the teacher as suppliers. Education, however, is not a commodity like any other. At school, students should of course have both influence over and responsibility for their learning. But at school, the customer is not always right. Yet students and guardians who are dissatisfied have great opportunities to turn to the school world's complaints board, i.e. the School Inspectorate, which is also becoming more and more common as a means of power. Would it still not be enough to get the supplier to do as the customer asks, in the current system, there is always the possibility to change supplier, that is to take his school money with him and go to another school – at any time and at any frequency. This not only affects the system as demonstrated by yesterday's debate on overall school issues; it also affects the distribution of power and mandates in the classroom. It is worth remembering when we discuss the status of the teaching profession and important to think about for those who want to protect the current market system at school. With this in mind, I support the proposal of the Committee on Education and Training in its report UbU11 and reject all motions.
i-b6128c74c324252a-740	Madam President, I would like I had been crying for two hours in the spiral staircase of high school. Now I stood there, and in trembling hands I held my script. I had to choose the subject myself. But the social science teacher didn't give any more exemptions-- now the talk was due, and in the audience there were ten classmates. My stomach hurt. The minute before it was my turn, I thought: If I don't tell these ten classmates about the subject I have chosen – how women and girls who are victims of rape are to blame and shame – in a good way they may never hear this from anyone! They may never understand the problem. That was my first speech. The nervousness was released when I realized that my words had power and meaning – a greater meaning than people thought I had. If I had not given that speech there and there, I would not have been in this House today either. It is much thanks to my teacher of civic science in high school that I went from a shy student who cared more about what others thought about me than about what was important to change in society to a student and to a person who stands up to change the world. The issue that was important to me then is also important here today. And it is included in the report on teachers and students that we are debating today. My exercise on modernising sex and cohabitation education to focus on consent has become a reality. Today we can reject it on the grounds that the Swedish Government has now changed the curriculum so that what used to be sex and cohabitation now becomes sexuality, consent and relationships. All children should be taught that the shame of sexual abuse belongs with the perpetrator and that the responsibility to be sure that the person with whom they have sex voluntarily participates lies with everyone. It is a joint responsibility of all of us. This is part of a major change in society that began with the Act of Consent. The next step, Madam President, is to ensure that all teachers who are now going to teach on this subject receive this knowledge. We have made sure that this is now mandatory in teacher training. But what we who work with education policy are well aware of is that it takes a while before the school is full of teachers who are now starting teacher education. We must also ensure that all teachers who already work in school receive this updated knowledge. This is a point of reference in the report. Madam President, I would like The area of sexuality, consent and relationships is just one example of change in society. It is new knowledge that requires teachers and principals to update their knowledge. Is it not really a little strange that we still do not have a national system to offer competence development to all teachers and all principals? The fact is that the realization that there is currently no functioning competence development system for those who are supposed to convey knowledge based on current research is quite staggering. But it was actually one of the things that fell into a series of reforms that have been made over the years. Now we're about to fix it. We will introduce a professional programme for teachers and principals with opportunities for everyone to develop their skills continuously throughout their professional lives. It is very important for students when they meet their teachers to have access to the latest research-based knowledge, regardless of the subject. But it is also important when it comes to leadership in the classroom and not least with our educational leaders, Sweden's most important managers, the Vice-Chancellors. We are in the process of developing this professional programme together in the government and with the cooperation parties. This is one of several issues on which we in the Green Party have pushed and gone to elections because we want to ensure that we strengthen the attractiveness of the teaching profession and the Vice-Chancellor's profession. It is also a way of ensuring that the professions gain greater power and ownership over their own development and, by extension, over school. I think it's very important that we give teachers and principals power and show them trust, because they have the knowledge to design teaching in school in the way that is best for students based on available knowledge and research. Madam President, I would like There are many important things in today's report. I do not have time to go into all of them, but in conclusion I would like to say a few words on a very topical subject. Today, many parents and students have a lump in their stomachs with concerns that their so-called resource schools are threatened with closure. Resource schools are schools specialised in pupils with high individual needs for school support. These students have often been sitting at home for a long time or at least had a lot of problematic school absences and difficulties to keep up with the usual teaching. We can discuss for a long time the importance of designing teaching so that it suits all students in one classroom. There's a lot of wisdom in that. However, when we are in a situation where many students who have been at home have found their way back to school in this form of school, we politicians, both at national and municipal level, have to take responsibility for completing their schooling. They have found something that works, and the cost of a child failing to pass school is enormous for the whole of society. At the national level, we in the Environmental Party have ensured that the Swedish National Agency for Education has been given the task of reviewing the additional funding that is at the heart of the fact that the resource schools can carry out their specific teaching. It is a line, but more will have to be done. With those words, Madam President, I would like to support the committee's proposal in the Teacher and Students report.
