i-c1baa20e3ec9d429-4	Madam President, I would like Marléne Lund Kopparklint has asked me how I intend to work to ensure that there is not an excessive ban on the use of lead hail in hunting for the country's hunters, and whether I am taking any action at EU level to change the proposal and, if so, how. Sten Bergheden has asked me what I intend to do to minimise the impact of the decision in Europe on an extended ban on lead in wetlands. Alexandra Anstrell has asked whether I intend to act because the already adopted definition of wetland in Sweden remains valid after the decision in the EU. The ban on lead ammunition in wetland under the REACH Regulation has been decided and entered into force in January. The REACH Regulation aims to protect human health and the environment and to promote the internal market by ensuring that the same rules apply throughout the EU. The Regulation is directly applicable in the Member States. This means that neither I nor anyone else has the opportunity to act so that the ban does not go too far or to minimise the impact of the decision. Since the ban has already been decided, we cannot influence its design either. My predecessor, Minister for Climate and Environment Isabella Lövin, stood in this speaker's chair in December and presented the occasion on this matter. I will now repeat what she told us at the time. At a vote in the REACH Committee in September, a large majority of EU Member States voted in favour of a ban on lead ammunition in wetland. After the REACH Committee has voted on a proposal, the time has come for the European Commission to present the proposal to the European Parliament and the Council which, if they believe that the Commission has gone beyond its powers, may object to the decision. In line with the Swedish Parliament, a majority of the EU Board stated that Sweden would vote against the adoption of the ban in the Council, which also happened. However, in order for the Council to object to the ban, a qualified majority is required. Such a majority was not achieved. I would also like to repeat what Minister Lövin said about lead – it is not just any subject. It is one of the most dangerous substances known to mankind, both to human health and to the environment. Lead affects the nervous system and brain development and leads to lower intelligence and is particularly harmful to unborn children and during the first years of life. The effects already occur at extremely low doses, and any exposure, however small, is considered to lead to harmful effects. Only a very small proportion of fired lead hail hits the target. The rest of the hail spreads in the environment. Some 5 000 tonnes of lead hail are spread in EU wetlands every year, and this is estimated to lead to the death of approximately 1 million seabirds from lead poisoning. For a small bird, a single hail can be fatal. Even people who eat seabirds shot with lead hail may be exposed to lead. The EU ban on lead ammunition in wetlands is similar to the Swedish ban. The fact that the whole of Sweden would be classified as wetland under the ban is also not true. The EU ban uses the wetland efinition of the International Ramsar Convention, which is the only agreed uniform definition of wetland available. I would like to draw attention to the fact that Sweden is a party to the Convention and has therefore supported this definition. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency estimates that 20 per cent of Sweden's surface area could be defined as wetland according to Ramsar's definition. The ban voted for by the REACH Committee means that it is forbidden to carry lead ammunition while hunting in wetland. The reason for this regulation is that the ban would otherwise not be supervisory. The ban does not mean an end to hunting in wetland, but only that hunters have to switch to other ammunition. There are now fully operational alternatives to lead ammunition in the EU market. In the vast majority of cases, it will also be possible to use the same weapon. The ban on lead ammunition in wetland will not threaten the hunting, shooting or game conservation. It will be good for the environment and ultimately also for human health.
i-c1baa20e3ec9d429-14	Madam President, I would like This is an issue that I and the Member of Parliament, Sten Bergheden, have raised several times in debates. It is truly tragic that we should have to defend the country's sportsmen, hunters and collectors time and again. I do not understand that the government does not understand how important these people are to Sweden. They should be highlighted and honored for the important job they are doing instead of the government punishing them with one and the other that restricts their existence. One might ask whether the ambition is to disarm all of Sweden's law-abiding hunters and sportsmen in desperation because they have failed to fight the gang criminals. But it can't be that stupid. It must surely be understood, Madam President, that it is not these legal weapons that are in the hands of criminals, but that it is the smuggled-in weapons from the Balkans, for example. Madam President, I would like I am very concerned about matters already decided, but also about further regulatory plans that will limit hunting and sporting activities in Sweden. Let me start with a decision already taken on the EU's ban on wetland lead hail. I would also like to raise this issue with the birds. It is claimed that 5 000 tonnes of lead hail are spread in EU wetlands every year. This is estimated to cause 1 million seabirds to die of lead poisoning. It is well known, however, that lead poisoning can occur when, for example, ducks ingest lead hail along with the small gravel they eat in order to break down the food. That is precisely why 24 countries in the EU, including Sweden, have already implemented a ban on the use of lead hail in shallow wetlands. Since only a few countries do not have a ban on lead, the EU felt that lobbing on these countries was not enough to ensure that they imposed a ban. Instead, a regulation was voted through. The second option would have been more tasteful and more effective, and then we would have avoided upsetting the entire hunting and sportsmanship in this way and making them worried. Madam President, I would like The definition of wetland is extremely far-reaching and includes not only wetlands but almost everything that is, has been and can get wet. With this definition, the entire area of Sweden counts as wetland. There is no way to decide nationally what should be included, as it is incorrectly reported in the media. So that is not correct. It is the Ramsar definition that applies. For the purposes of this Regulation, "wetland" means marshes, peat bogs or water areas, whether natural or artificial, permanent or temporary, or consisting of water which is stationary or running, sweet, brackish or salt, including sea areas with a low water depth not exceeding six metres. Madam President, I would like Then we all understand how problematic this is going to be. This needs to be sorted out by the Minister. My question to the Government is therefore: How does he intend to sort this out? I believe that it is extremely important for hunting and sportsmen and women to get to grips with this issue and ensure that this does not happen. Then I would also like to go into this with hunters who carry shotgun cartridges within 100 metres of wetland being considered to have engaged in hunting over wetland. Here, Madam President, we come to something that for me is absolutely crazy. But I will have to come back to that in the next speech.
i-c1baa20e3ec9d429-21	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. The reason why we are once again standing here with questions to the Minister in an interpellation debate is that, both because of answers from the former Minister for the Environment and because of this answer, we are concerned about the Minister's and the Government's interpretation of these decisions in the EU and how it is intended to apply this in Sweden. That is what will happen to us. Sweden currently has tough requirements for the use of lead hail. Sweden's current rules are acceptable and work, and they do not make it difficult for the country's hunters and shooters unnecessarily. The EU's attempts to go further than this are ill-founded and not anchored in reality. The fact that the government representatives in the EU are trying to make environmental-populist decisions in the EU, with devastating consequences here in Sweden, is not impressive for hunters, shooters and wildlife conservation in Sweden. Sweden today has a ban on lead hail when hunting in wetlands or hunting over shallow parts of open water. The EU does not have the same tough rules as Sweden. The aim of the ban is to reduce the presence of lead in the environment, and this ban on lead hail – which has previously been carefully investigated, on a scientific basis – has been found to be justified in these particular wetlands. Madam President, I would like The Green Party often talks about lead that spreads in Europe, but here in Parliament today it might be better to focus on the problem in Sweden. If it really is a problem, then what do we do? What are reasonable measures? It is better for the EU countries that do not take care of this to tackle their problems than for Sweden, which is actually taking care of this, to suffer even more severe restrictions. The majority of the lead does not stay in nature either, but it comes with the animal that is shot or still on the shooting range or in the shooting embankment. The government has what I understand until 2022 to present which wetlands and areas we are to have a ban on lead in. But Sweden already has these areas marked, and the decisions already exist today. They're the ones that apply. Sweden can clearly point out here that we have solved the issue of lead in the country. We have a reasonable assessment of where we can use lead hail in Sweden. In addition, Sweden is a country that depends on our forests and their yields. Increasing the use of steel hail, which is an alternative, would mean both increasing the cost of ammunition and risk destroying the timber in our forests. Timber found with steel in the risk of being discarded, and for that reason many forest owners have banned those who hunt in their forests from using precisely steel hail. Madam President, I would like The lead in ammunition is metallic lead, while the lead that used to be in gasoline, among other things, is organic lead compounds. Organic lead, contained in gasoline, is far more dangerous than the metallic stable lead found in ammunition. That's why lead was removed from gasoline. Furthermore, we know that we have lots of buried telecommunications lines with precisely this type of lead around the country, but there are no plans to pick them up. On the other hand, the hunters are supposed to be hunted for this part. Madam President, I would like I would like answers from the Minister to a couple of questions. Does the Minister and the Government intend to go beyond what the EU requires in the decision? In other words, does the Minister intend to increase the number of wetland areas and the area where lead hail is prohibited?
i-c1baa20e3ec9d429-30	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister Bolund of the Green Party. In Sweden we have gone ahead. We already have clear and tough rules for the use of lead ammunition. However, the Commission opened the way for Member States to make national definitions of what is wetland. We in Sweden already have a definition, and keeping it would be very good. This would eliminate many problems and subsequent negative consequences. I believe that the Commission's proposal as it stands is not based on reality. This could have devastating consequences for Sweden's hunters and shooters – but also for others. There are others who also use lead ammunition, I think; for example, it is in the police's small arms. The aim of the ban is to reduce the presence of lead in the environment, but in Sweden we already have a good ban. It has been carefully investigated in the past, on a scientific basis. What I want and wish now is for Sweden to be clear and active on the issue of establishing our already adopted definition of wetland by our colleagues in the Commission. If this does not happen, it poses quite a threat to the hunting, shooting and Swedish wildlife conservation. As the European Commission has opened up to allow a Member State to impose a total ban on lead hail if its surface is at least 20% wetland, I asked Minister Bolund a question. Does the Minister intend to act in order to preserve the already adopted definition of wetland in Sweden, or does the Minister intend to push for a different definition for us in Sweden? Minister Bolund says that only a very small proportion of fired lead hail hits the target and that the rest of the hail spreads in the environment. He says that about 5 000 tonnes of lead hail is spread in EU wetlands every year. I would like an answer from Minister Bolund to the question of how it has been calculated that it is 5 000 tonnes of lead hail that is spread every year, because what I have come up with says the European Commission that it is 4 000 tonnes. However, whether it is 4 000 tonnes or 5 000 tonnes, I think that 24 Member States already have a ban. So do the EU and Minister Bolund mean that these 4 000 or 5 000 tonnes of lead are distributed in countries that do not have a ban? Madam President, I would like We all know that lead is dangerous. But how much lead do we actually get? For effects on IQ, Efsa has set a health-based reference value of 12 micrograms, which corresponds to a lead intake via food of 0.5 micrograms per kilogram bodyweight per day. Data has been produced – I think it was done in 2016 or 2017 – which showed an average blood lead level of 7.3 micrograms, which is well below the reference value. Of course, there may be a greater risk to a person who eats a lot of game. Wild can – I repeat – contain lead, but it also depends on how the meat is cut. It needs to be cut right. But I still eat home shot several times a week, and it has gone quite well. All over Sweden things are going pretty well – just like the honourable Member Sten Bergheden, things are going pretty well in Sweden. We moderates reject the application of collective punishment by all the Member States for failing to behave. We simply agree that lead should not be eaten. But does the Government consider that there is a difference between lead compounds and metallic lead? And does the Government believe that all lead ammunition should be banned?
i-c1baa20e3ec9d429-39	Madam President, I would like There were many questions in these speeches that I have already answered in my first speech. Members can go back to that and listen again if they did not understand or understand what I said, but I can of course again give clear answers to the questions. Sten Bergheden asks if we will go further. The answer to that question is no; we will not go any further. If Sten Bergheden had listened, he would also have understood that we cannot go any further, because this is a harmonised decision at European level. This applies equally to all Member States, and changes cannot be made at national level – either in Sweden or anywhere else. There are also questions that I have already answered about the extent of the geographical area. I presented the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's analysis of the Ramsar Convention. It follows Sweden since the early 2000s, I think it is, so it is under many governments that this definition has applied. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's assessment is that it applies to 20 per cent, i.e. one fifth, of Sweden's surface area, which is quite far from all the area. I hope that Members too will agree that there is a certain difference. There also seems to be a lot of misunderstanding here, for example that it would be a completely different definition of what is wetland that is now taking effect. It's not. It is not a change compared to the current ban, but it is the same areas that are covered by the ban. It is also very strange, I have to say, to hear that this would be about environmental populist decisions. After all, a significant majority of the EU Member States have voted in favour of this. If so, it is argued that a significant majority of EU governments are environmental populists. Members will be happy to clarify how they view this and which countries they refer to and would, in that case, be in that position. However, as I explained, Sweden voted against this ban because there was a majority in the EU Council to vote against it. However, a large number of other Member States voted in favour of it. The government's position was that we should have voted in favour. We see that lead is a very dangerous substance that has a major impact on the environment. As I said, 1 million seabirds are estimated to die of lead poisoning each year, and we also know that the population of seabirds is decreasing in many areas. It is also a health issue. I am a little concerned and I have to ask the question: do Members not think that lead is dangerous now? Sten Bergheden is having a rather confused discussion about the fact that there are different kinds of lead. But lead is an element, and according to the world's expertise, lead has a huge impact on health and the environment. Do Members here think they are better lead experts than the collective expertise? It is also important to point out that this type of regulation at EU level does not come to hux flux by coming up with an idea and then voting on it, but requires an enormous amount of scientific evidence to make such a decision. In order for decisions to be taken within REACH, the harmful effects on human health or the environment must be very well identified. It is also necessary to see whether the socio-economic consequences of a ban are acceptable and to analyse exposure. It must be demonstrated that there is an unacceptable risk at EU level in order to proceed with a decision. This is done, among other things, through a risk assessment. It shall also be demonstrated that the prohibition is socially justified and that alternative substances or methods are available on the market. This decision has gone through the whole of this long process, and I am concerned when Members of the Moderates consider themselves to have better information and better knowledge than the collective expertise in this area.
i-c1baa20e3ec9d429-49	Madam President, I would like I didn't thank the Minister for the answer before, so I guess I'll have to do it now. It is great that there will be no change, as Minister Bolund says, but I would still like to stay a little at this wetland hare. It is therefore sufficient that hunters carry shotgun cartridges within 100 metres of wetland to be considered as having engaged in hunting over wetland. Here, Madam President, we come to something that I find very remarkable. On the question of the presumption of innocence, the EU wants to introduce a reverse burden of proof for the holder of lead hail cartridges in wetlands, i.e. that it is considered guilty until it has proved otherwise. A hunter caught with a lead shot in his pocket would thus be found guilty until proven guilty, which is contrary to our basic legal principle of presumption of innocence. Nor will there be any exceptions for the sportsman. A sportsman with lead hail could be convicted of hunting crimes, even though a person with shotguns on a goal-shooting license is not allowed to hunt with this weapon. It's a crime that could probably mean that the shooter loses his gun licenses. This hunter is therefore to be judged in advance because the EU has taken the right to depart from the important presumption of innocence, which is not only a fundamental principle of Swedish law but also one of the human rights of the UN, which the whole of the EU has committed itself to. Madam President, I would like How should this be handled by the government in the light of the basic rules in Sweden that one is innocent until proven guilty? I'm very worried right now. It has already gone through a decision in the European Union that I am convinced will have a radical impact on hunting and shooting in Sweden, and that is by no means all right. Now the Minister says that there will be no danger, but I would still like to believe that this can affect. This may affect that Sweden will not support the European Commission's plans for a total ban on lead in all ammunition, which is currently being prepared by ECHA. I hope that Minister Bolund understands the seriousness of this and is fighting it. Madam President, I would like As I understand it, the European Commission has opened up to allow a Member State to impose a total ban on lead hail, in terms of possession, use and trade, if it has at least 20% of the surface as wetland, on which the Member of Parliament, Alexandra Anstrell, was involved. This means that it is not 20 per cent of Sweden's surface area that should be wetland, as the Minister himself said in the answer, but a significantly lower figure. Madam President, I would like This is a question that Sweden itself has to decide. When Sweden itself can decide this, the matter should come to the attention of the Riksdag and be decided by it – not just by the Government and the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency. Madam President, I would like Can the Government promise us who are elected and representatives of all hunters, sportsmen and collectors that we will be included in this decision? I would like an answer to that. I think it is a bit of a pity that Minister Bolund is following everything his predecessor has said. I thought it was enough when Minister Lövin in the last debate we had about this went far beyond the limit and said that I thought it was grossly exaggerated to say that 5,000 tons of lead hail ends up in babies' mouths at the BB because they did not hit the target. In this connection, she also stressed that lead is extremely toxic at extremely low concentrations. I didn't understand that connection, so maybe we can sort it out.
i-c1baa20e3ec9d429-58	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for an attempt at a reply, although I think it became even more unclear in some parts! I do not understand why the Minister is constantly hiding behind the EU's figures on lead discharges and on the number of dead birds. Here in the Swedish Parliament it might be good if we were to discuss what emissions we should limit here in Sweden and what birds it is that die here in Sweden because of lead. It would be good if we were to discuss what we should do about this, rather than constantly hiding behind the EU's figures. We can influence those countries down there, but here we can influence Sweden. In fact, the emissions in Sweden are considerably smaller; there were earlier calculations of around 100 tonnes. Madam President, I would like It is remarkable that the Minister does not distinguish between different types of lead. It is, of course, about the availability of lead in this context. Not distinguishing between metallic lead and organic lead compounds is a little remarkable, and then the minister's and the government's work in hunting hunters and shooters actually falls. After all, we have an enormous number of telecommunications lines buried with lead in our soils, and if there is no difference between different types of lead, the Minister would immediately make sure to pick up the wires that lie there. We know where they are and can remove them immediately. It is clear that there is a difference between different types of lead, but you use the word lead to hunt Sweden's hunters and shooters instead of being honest and talking about what kind of lead is most dangerous and which kind is not. Madam President, I would like I would like the Minister's answer: what is the number of dead birds here in Sweden because of lead? And is this the case, as the Minister is trying to suggest, that there will be no extension of land that will be limited in the use of lead hail? The Minister is talking about 20%, but is 20% the figure that the Minister expects to put as wetland protection when it comes to not using lead hail? Is that 20% of the surface you've been planning to use? Madam President, I would like We're worried. This is because the Swedish Parliament has a clear majority of over 60% who have clearly said no to this government when it comes to pushing forward various forms of lead ban. Yet it is clearly heard here today that the government has a completely different view. There is great concern among us that they sit down in the EU and negotiate after their party book instead of negotiating after what the Swedish Parliament has actually decided on. That is why we constantly want answers from the Minister in order to be able to reconcile what is happening. At the same time, we know, Madam President, that there is now a debate on a general ban on lead down in Europe and that a decision is expected to come perhaps in 2023. Then I would like to send the Minister directly here today that the Swedish Parliament has said no to this. I assume that both officials, government and ministers down there are actively working to put an end to the proposal that is on the EU table with regard to a ban on lead in ammunition in general. Then I would like to come back to some of the questions I was going to ask the Minister. As the work moves on, Madam President, will hunting organisations and shooting organisations be invited to draft the proposal in Sweden before it comes up for decision? We know that this will be implemented before 2022. When does the Minister estimate that we have the proposal at Parliament's table?
i-c1baa20e3ec9d429-67	Madam President, I would like Hux flux can be decided in Sweden too, we have noticed. I'm a little worried. I am concerned because the European Commission has opened up to allow a Member State to impose a total ban on lead hail, both possession, use and trade, if it has at least 20% of the surface area as wetland. That is why I wonder and have now asked whether the Government intends to press ahead with the question of changing Sweden's definition, i.e. the definition that we already have. So, according to the Government, will it be a larger area covered by the ban than it is today? Minister Bolund talks about 20 percent of Sweden being wetland according to the Ramsar definition. The Commission has added 100 metres of buffer zone around wetland, something that we do not have in the Swedish definition. Then it should be a larger area. Then I wonder how big a surface it would be. Or can the Government now promise us here and everyone who listens – Sweden's hunters, sportsmen and everyone else who is interested in this issue – that it will not ask to apply that option and thus impose a total ban? A total ban would also affect more businesses. I know customs, police and military police have lead in the ammunition in their service weapons. So, what are we gonna do there? The Minister says there are good alternatives to ammunition. Then I wonder what alternative Minister Bolund thinks hunters, sportsmen, police, customs and others should make use of and not least our hunters who need to kill animals with immediate effect. What ammo are they using? What are we gonna do with all the ammunition we've already stored? Will there be any kind of compensation for it? I think that when hunting, it should be done without unnecessary suffering for the game. It's good hunting ethics. Then we need ammo that results in instant death. Even as a police officer, you need ammunition to deliver the desired results. In particular, it must not move on to third parties. According to the statistics, in 2020 there were 61 136 wildlife accidents in Sweden, of which 5,317 were here in Stockholm County. Many of the wildlife accidents mean that someone has had to go out, regardless of the time of day, to look for a damaged animal and have often had to kill a damaged animal. In addition to wildlife accidents, we have, for example, here in Stockholm protection hunters who need to take care of animals that have sometimes strayed into the streets and squares. Just outside, there may be a damaged animal, and someone has to take care of it. Then it is not so fun to shoot a damaged animal right here at the door, for example, with an ammunition that would not result in immediate death, an ammunition that would not guarantee that it does not move on to the third person. Game carers I've been in contact with say, "Let's cut it out." That would be too scary. No one would want to take on such a mission. I wonder again, Minister Bolund: What good options do you intend to take to the gamemen, to the police and to those who want to hunt without causing unnecessary suffering?
i-c1baa20e3ec9d429-75	Madam President, I would like Since there are a lot of claims that are not quite in line with reality, it is important to point out that this is not a ban on hunting in wetlands. There is no such proposal. It will be possible to continue hunting in wetlands but not with lead ammunition, and no other hunting in Sweden is affected by the ban at all. As far as the area covered is concerned, I have already answered the question, and I do not think it is justified to answer the question again. But we can well note that Sweden has been a member of the Ramsar Convention, which is the common definition. It applies not only to Sweden but to all countries that are members. We have been a member there for decades, and I have not heard that the Moderates have had views on that definition before. In that case, you would have had great opportunities to change it, but you have not. As far as the process is concerned, it seems that the token has not really fallen down. This decision has already been taken by the Commission. It is also the case that Sweden is a member of the European Union – I hope Members are aware of this – and have supported the REACH Regulation. In fact, it entered into force already in 2007, i.e. under a moderate government. When we supported the regulation, we also transferred the right to take decisions on this type of ban to the Commission. That is what was included in the REACH Regulation. As I said in my interpellation response, REACH is totally harmonizing, that is, directly applicable in all Member States. With all the questions now coming from Members, the question arises whether they have either not understood or do not want to understand what has been going on for a very long time in Sweden. Do Members want Sweden to leave the REACH Regulation? Is that the conclusion? Or is it the case that we are leaving Europe? Hopefully, we are all well aware that when majority decisions are taken in the EU, they apply to all Member States. In the vast majority of cases we think that they go Sweden's way and that we have common views, but it sometimes happens that Sweden ends up in a minority. It is a consequence of our being a member of the European Union. Are the Moderates not prepared to take that consistency, or how should I interpret this? In fact, it is very difficult to understand these objections to a decision that has already been taken, which is based on the agreements that Sweden has reached in the EU and which, among others, the Moderates have supported in the past. One might well think that the Moderates could have thought about it before Sweden joined the EU and if so, have raised this issue at that time. It is also very important to point out that this is a process that has taken a long time. It has been solid and has been implemented according to all the rules of art. In addition to being scientifically based, the proposal has been subject to public consultation, where everyone has had the opportunity to express their views and to raise concerns and criticisms. It has passed two scientific committees, both the Risk Assessment Committee and the Socio-economic Committee, to assess the impact. After these committees had delivered their opinions, the European Chemicals Agency presented a proposal to the Commission, which has then been submitted to the REACH Committee. The evidence was that the risk to seabirds was unacceptable – that was the conclusion – and that the ban was socio-economically justified. The question then is: what is the information that the moderate Members of Parliament have with which the EU's collective expertise, our scientific committees and the committee within the EU authority that should follow chemicals and make proposals do not have?
i-c1baa20e3ec9d429-84	Madam President, I would like Well, the token has fallen down, but it obviously has not done so at Minister Bolund. A decision has been taken, but we can still influence that Sweden does not support the European Commission's plans for a total ban on lead in all ammunition, which is currently being prepared by ECHA. I hope Minister Bolund understands the seriousness of this. Here the token needs to fall down for the minister. Madam President, I would like I also wonder whether Minister Bolund has read the definition of wetland contained in the regulation. It's not about hunters not being hunted, says the Minister, but it's going to be that way indirectly because they won't be able to use safe ammunition. Madam President, I would like The Government protects birds. I realise that I cannot propose a curfew for domestic cats just because calculations show that 13 million birds are taken by cats every year in Sweden. Among others, the Nature Conservation Association refers to these calculations. According to the journal Research & Progress's review in this area, cats annually eradicate 60 species of birds and other vertebrates in the world. If the Government really cares so much about birds, perhaps he should introduce a curfew for domestic cats instead of discussing lead hail bans. The millions of birds that die because of Sweden's 1.4 million domestic cats are 12 times more than the seabirds that die of lead poisoning in all wetlands in the EU. However, I buy the situation with the domestic cats. I like cats. But I wonder how the Government thinks about this. There are a lot of strange things that I think need to be sorted out, and there are many questions that the Minister has not answered that I would like answers to.
i-c1baa20e3ec9d429-91	Madam President, I would like It has become more and more obvious that the Minister does not want to answer our questions but wants to talk about other things. We still have no answer as to whether in practice there will be extended prohibition areas in Sweden. He hides behind 20%, but will we in practice have expanded areas with lead hail ban in Sweden after this? I asked a question about our own figures, which would have been relevant to discuss here in Parliament. How many birds die in Sweden because of lead hail? And how many tons of lead from hail are released in Sweden? It would have been nice if the Minister had been able to convey it, given that it is so alarming. But he is constantly hiding behind the EU's figures of 1 million birds and 5 000 tonnes in the EU. However, as my colleague Alexandra mentioned, it is 4 000 tonnes, which shows that the Minister may not be fully up to date. It is a little strange that we stand here chasing lead while there are 23 000 barrels of mercury in the Baltic – 8.7 tonnes. We have often talked to the Minister about this, but here the Minister and the Government are instead engaged in further investigation. There is poison directly on the seabed that can leak out at any time, but instead the minister and government are dedicated to continuing to hunt the country's hunters and shooters. At the moment, the EU is preparing a possible ban on lead in ammunition, to which Parliament has previously clearly rejected it. I assume the minister and the government will follow that.
i-c1baa20e3ec9d429-95	Madam President, I would like To stand in the speaker's chair and be rude as Minister Bolund just where, I think, is not appropriate. ECHA has been commissioned by the European Commission to produce a total ban on all lead in all ammo in all terrain. It would mean everything from shooting ranges to the middle of the forest and thus apply to both bullet and hail. Madam President, I would like In addition to hunters, sportsmen, customs and police, the ban would also apply to the Swedish Armed Forces because lead ammunition is used on their shooting ranges – even if you have dikes that encapsulate. However, the proposal that ECHA is working on would, as I said, mean a total ban. How are we going to get a robust total defense if we're not in a position to defend ourselves? How are we going to get a robust total defense if we don't have the opportunity to get wild meat, which is so organic and good? How are we going to get a robust total defense unless the police and customs can do their work properly? How are we going to get a robust total defense if we can't defend ourselves with the right ammo? Minister Bolund said that there are good alternatives to this ammunition, but I have not yet received an answer to which ammo of all those whom I have listed would result in immediate death and not move on to third persons. It's about being able to shoot a wounded animal outside without anyone else getting hurt. What ammo does Minister Bolund intend to develop?
i-c1baa20e3ec9d429-101	Madam President, I would like Let me emphasise once again that this is not a decision taken by the Swedish Government, but at European level, in accordance with the long-standing regulations which have also been endorsed by previous governments. Sweden is a member of the European Union, and that means that we sometimes get a majority against the Swedish line. The Swedish Government represented the line adopted by a majority of the EU Board. The government felt that Sweden could have supported this since there was a clear majority to ban lead ammunition in wetlands. It is also important to point out that the new ban applies to the same areas as the current ban. There's no change here. Lead is an extremely toxic substance, and it is toxic at extremely low concentrations. Contrary to what has been argued here in the debate, it has not been possible to find a minimum threshold for the effect, and therefore it is scientifically assumed that every molecule to which humans or animals are exposed will have harmful effects. Fosters and young children are particularly sensitive to exposure. One of the effects is negative impact on intelligence. Lead also has effects on the nervous system. For example, birds may be unable to find food or reproduce, and a hail is, as I said, fatal to a small bird. I am concerned that this is taken so little seriously by leading politicians in Sweden and that the major environmental and health risks of lead contamination are not taken as seriously as they deserve. In the end, this is the issue. Then to involve issues that have nothing to do with it, about defence skills and other things, is simply to try to mix the cards away. This is all about lead and hunting in wetlands.
i-c1baa20e3ec9d429-107	Madam President, I would like Thomas Morell has asked me what measures the government intends to take to build confidence in the country's motorists in the government's car policy and for car policy to lead to a real reduction in emissions so that we reach the climate targets set. Parliament's interim target for domestic transport means that CO2 emissions from domestic transport, excluding domestic flights, will be reduced by at least 70 per cent by 2030 compared to 2010. Since 2010, emissions have decreased by around 20 per cent. There is therefore still a great deal of work to be done, and the government has therefore taken and announced several decisions that can significantly reduce the climate impact of the transport sector. Today, passenger cars account for just over 60% of the transport sector's total CO2 emissions. Reducing the emissions of passenger cars has a major role to play in achieving the transport sector's milestones. Reducing the emissions of passenger cars and achieving the transport sector's milestones requires action in the three areas of energy efficient vehicles, renewable and fossil-free fuels and transport-efficient society. An important instrument for energy efficient vehicles is the EU's CO2 requirements for new vehicles. For 2021, the requirements for new passenger cars are 95 grams of CO2 per kilometre. By 2030, the requirements will be tightened by a further 37.5 percent. In addition, the European Commission has launched a review of the zero-emission requirements. That is something I welcome. The EU's CO2 requirements in Sweden are complemented by fuel taxes and bonuses – the Malus system. On 1 April 2021, new provisions will enter into force based on the Government's proposal to strengthen and simplify the bonus – the Malus system. The changes in climate bonuses increase incentives to choose zero and low emission vehicles, and the changes in malus make vehicles with higher emissions less attractive to the market. Following the introduction of the bonus – the Malus system, sales of low-emission vehicles have increased sharply in Sweden, and we are the EU country with the largest proportion of rechargeable vehicles in new car sales. In 2020 we saw a record reduction in average CO2 emissions per kilometre from new vehicles. I feel confident to note that the government's instruments have had a good effect in terms of reduced climate impact from new car sales. I will closely monitor developments and, if necessary, propose further amendments. The use of renewable fuels is mainly promoted by a reduction obligation requiring fuel suppliers to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from petrol and diesel each year through the incorporation of sustainable biofuels, as well as through tax exemptions for clean and highly mixed biofuels. The Government intends to decide on gradually increased levels of reduction obligation until 2030 when emissions will decrease by at least 28 per cent for petrol and 66 per cent for diesel. The announced strengthening of the reduction obligation by 2030 is expected to contribute to the achievement of the transport sector's intermediate targets. However, the effect of the reduction obligation on emissions is uncertain and is based on assumptions, including electrification, more energy efficient vehicles, the development of traffic work and the availability of renewable and fossil-free fuels. The government also invests in converting existing fleet of vehicles through conversion to renewable fuels. In addition, the Government is making major efforts to expand the charging infrastructure. In total, more than 35 0 00 new charging points have been supported since the climate category was started. And from the turn of the year there is a new green deduction for individuals who install a charging box at home. In order to achieve a comprehensive charging infrastructure, the Government has also initiated an effort to expand charging infrastructure even where it is not commercially viable. The government has also set up the Electrification Commission to speed up work on electrification of the transport sector, including passenger cars. At the same time, the forecasts point to continued large increases in car traffic. Breaking this trend requires action for a transport-efficient society. The development towards a more transport-efficient society means that emissions and other environmental impacts can be reduced without reducing accessibility. This is done through integrated transport and community planning, increased walking and cycling, transfer to public transport and coordinated transport.
i-WmWnZF9qzd3k7fT8b2TRSH	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister Per Bolund, for your answer! When I wrote the interpellation, I had just read a report that says that only 15% of the country's car owners have great or fairly high confidence in the government's car policy and that the rest – 85% – have little or very little confidence in the government's car policy. This group also includes those who do not have an opinion. If you're going to reach the climate targets, you have to have the people with you. If people around the country do not trust them in this way, it is extremely difficult to move forward. We can see that there is a twitch in the government's policy on emissions from passenger cars in particular. One moment it is this, the next it is so and the third moment it is higher taxes. That is how things are going, and this means that people do not have confidence in the policies of the government. One can almost liken the government's climate policy in terms of transport to an orienteer who is thrown out in the forest. He has a map in his fist but no compass. He doesn't know which way to go to reach the target. A little so you experience the government's climate policy when it comes to vehicle traffic. And it is always a Stockholm perspective. We can read in the Government's response about increased walking and cycling, transfer to public transport and coordinated transport. There's the focus, and that's great. You can ride a bicycle to work if you are reasonably close, but for the people who live one, two or three miles from work it is not a solution. And what if you live in a place where a bus is something you can possibly see if you go into the internet and Google what it looks like because there are no buses in the area where you live? You do not have to go to the interior of Norrland to experience this situation, but it is enough to stay in Skaraborg, where I live. In addition, a bus line has been closed because the road was so poorly maintained that the bus company Västtrafik did not feel able to drive on the road while maintaining safety. Then the bus line was laid down instead. It is also a consequence of government policy. Roads are not maintained in such a way that it is safe to travel, and the consequence is the closure of public transport. And to what do those who live along the route refer? Well, to the car, and then they are imposed on a proper treasure. Then the government points to the need to switch to alternative vehicles. But for the vast majority, this is impossible. We're talking about real family cars now and not about some little toy you can ride around with. It's half a million and up if you're going to buy a hybrid car, and if you're going to have a clean electric car, it's about 700,000 and up. What family with normal income can afford it? This is what results in people losing confidence in government policies on climate change targets. It's devastating. The government must steer this up and have a clear and clear line for which direction to go so that everyone is on the train. As it is now, 85% of the country's inhabitants do not have confidence, and that is ominous.
i-c1baa20e3ec9d429-125	Madam President, I would like Sweden is a small country far up in northern Europe. We live rather sparsely in relation to countries in southern Europe. It is clear that the Swedish people are dependent on cars. You can't get away from it. It is also the case that the car is a fantastic means of transport. No one who sees this debate ever needs to be ashamed of using a car, on the contrary. The car is often a good alternative. It may even be better, Madam President, to ride two people in a car than to ride two people in a bus. The occupancy rate of public transport is relatively low. What I would like to ask the Minister is the big news of Swedish Radio and Eko today, with the heading It is said that in 2020 exports of used electric cars increased by 18 per cent from the previous year to 1,800 cars and for charging hybrids the increase was 32 per cent, to 7,600. ..................................................... This means that Swedish taxpayers subsidise Norwegian car buyers. It is clear, Madam President, that such a policy may not surprise the Swedish people to lose confidence in the Green Party and the government. I would like to ask the Government: Is it reasonable for Swedish taxpayers to subsidise car buyers in Norway? That was one question. The second question concerns the Green Party's play on 17 March. The Robin in Today's industry is: Then it is said that the M iljö party wants us to save electricity by means of a "Robin Hood tax" – higher taxes on products that draw a lot of electricity. Madam President, I would like I find it hard to imagine a product that draws more electricity than a heavy truck or a passenger car. I understand it's not the subsidized electric bikes that are going to get this Robin Hood tax. But what about the confidence in the politics of the motorists who are now thinking about changing cars? Maybe they've read the play that says it's going to be a Robin Hood tax on electrical products. How expensive will the tax on the electric car be? Or can the Minister clearly promise and assure us here today that the Green Party has no plans whatsoever to raise the tax on electric cars in shock? However, it becomes quite illogical if you are to have a Robin Hood tax on other electrical products when one of the products that consumes the most electricity is the car. This is what makes government policy not stick together. There is no red or green thread in the policy being pursued. The minister is here celebrating bonus – malus. I would like to ask a third question about that. A family with children in Gävle who have two children who are in a wheelchair receives a new bonus – malus 40 000 SEK per year in penalty tax. Does that mean, Madam President, that no families with children with wheelchairs should be able to afford to buy a new car? They get 120 000 kroner in penalty tax.
i-c1baa20e3ec9d429-133	I would remind you that this is an interpellation debate, and it concerns the performance of the duties of the Government.
i-c1baa20e3ec9d429-134	Madam President, I would like First of all, I agree that transport policy and the instruments that have applied to various environmental cars, and also to environmental car definitions, have had a sharp impact. I find that unfortunate. It has not been because this government has changed the rules here and there, but because changing governments have changed the rules during the journey. I wish we could come to a situation where we can find a common way forward. Unfortunately, that has not been possible, and as we hear from the Swedish Democrats and the Moderates today, it is not likely that we can do it now either. We're obviously very far apart. I'm worried about this. We are in a development in Sweden where we are leading the development in the EU. We are the country with the largest share of electrified cars – electric cars and charging hybrids – of the cars sold. It's a fantastic development. As I said in my reply, this means that emissions from the new cars sold fall at a record rate. We're doing something big. We redesign Sweden's vehicle fleet so that it becomes part of sustainable development. This, of course, is only part of the overall policy that we are pursuing. We take environmental issues seriously and believe that we should achieve the goals that Parliament has set itself. This calls for offensive action and an active policy. This is also what the government is doing, while the Swedish Democrats and the Moderates are most concerned with snipers and only proposing deteriorations. They want to remove regulations and instruments that now actually lead to a fantastic development. Now that we have large sales of new electric cars and charging hybrids, it will lead – and has already led – to a rapid development in the secondary market, which means that even those who do not have the thickest wallet will have access to a much wider range of vehicles to choose from. We should remember that although the purchase cost of an electric car may be high, the operating costs of driving an electric car or charging hybrid, at least as long as it runs on electricity, are significantly lower than what they are to drive a petrol or diesel car. However, not all cars are more expensive than, for example, petrol and diesel cars. Here too, progress is taking place very quickly. New models are constantly coming onto the market. Sweden is a country where you often want to launch new models, because we are just a country where many people want to buy an electric car. Much depends on government policy. This means, however, that we now get electric car models where the total cost is the same as for a comparable conventional car, according to Bilsvar, which is a collaboration between the Swedish Consumer Agency, the Swedish Energy Agency and the Swedish Transport Administration. In addition, the purchase prices of electric cars continue to fall for each year. The technology will be developed and the range of different models will increase. We are in a positive development. We see declining emissions from new cars in Sweden, and I think we should all welcome this. Unfortunately, that is not what I hear from the fellow debaters. Lars Beckman had a somewhat confused question about steering towards less energy use of other products. It's based on a conscious or unconscious misunderstanding-- which of it I can't answer. For cars we already have a system that steers towards electrification. We have no reason to introduce a new system. The answer to the question is clear. I therefore hope that Lars Beckman will be able to put an end to this fight, because it is completely misdirected. The proposal in question has nothing to do with transport. We now have a system that very effectively steers towards increased electrification. Through the government's policy, we are now about to reduce emissions and thus achieve the climate targets that the Riksdag has endorsed.
i-c1baa20e3ec9d429-142	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister Per Bolund, for your answer. The prerequisite for achieving the goals is that you have the people with you. When the government has no more than 15% of the country's citizens with it in climate policy, it will be difficult to reach the targets. The Minister referred to the policy of the Swedish Democrats. We are actually ahead of the government and want to invest more in electrified roads and expand charging points. But we also want to see another solution, namely hydrogen. It can be an important player in the goal of reducing carbon dioxide emissions. This applies not least to the heavy side and rail transport. There are great opportunities. But this presupposes that there is stable electricity production, which does not exist. We've seen that this winter. Whether you choose rechargeable cars, hydrogen cars or anything else, there must be stable electricity generation so that you can supply the vehicles with the energy required. The best fuel is the one that's never burned up. I cannot understand why the government is punishing cars that do have internal combustion engines but can be driven on biofuels. They are efficient and have high efficiency. But these are taxed. We have a given amount of work to do in our transport system, whether we are talking about cars or trucks. Then it is important to do this work with as little energy as possible. That is why we should invest in the technology that carries forward. Every litre that we can avoid using leads to a positive development for the environment. But here you do exactly the opposite. I was called the other day by a furniture dealer who was going to replace an old car they have to deliver furniture. According to the new system, he would have to pay SEK 90 000 in tax over three years. What does he choose to do? He happily keeps the old one, because he can repair it for 90 000 and still get the money over. Here you have exactly the opposite effect. On the website Bilberget.se you can see that the optimal age of a car from a climate perspective is eleven years. But 44 percent of all cars in traffic in Sweden are older than eleven years. If we just moved cars by age and got rid of those who are over 11 years old, we would reduce CO2 emissions by 404,000 tonnes a year. That would be a dramatic reduction, and then we have really done nothing but rejuvenate the car park. If we can also increase the proportion of rechargeable cars or get hydrogen or something else, we would have a direct impact on environmental work. However, the government veers around with new taxes, and there are new changes from one week to the next. This puts an end to the whole development. Of course, the number of rechargeable cars has increased, but we have only 140 000 rechargeable cars out of 5 million in total. This is not good.
i-c1baa20e3ec9d429-151	Madam President, I would like The policy of the Green Party, which is not connected, means that Sweden's motorists do not have confidence in politics. I note that the Minister does not comment on the fact that exports of these electric cars to Norway are increasing, as the Minister points out in his reply. The minister himself calls bonus – malus a success. It is worrying that Swedish taxpayers will subsidise car exports to Norway. It doesn't make any sense. For example, I can take a family of children who are working hard and who live in Järvsö, Hälsingland. One adult person in the family works in Bollnäs, the other in Ljusdal. They go after the road that goes on the other side of Ljusnan and that is in terrible condition. It is clear that it is then provocative that the Government highlights, for example, bonuses – malus as a good measure when subsidising motorists in Norway. Small entrepreneurs who are now to replace their cars were mentioned earlier. I have a number of such examples from Gävle. You call and wonder: It can't be true that I'm going to pay $100,000 in three years! Just as was said in a previous post, you will then keep your old car. It does not create confidence in the government's car policy. There is now an amazing global development all over the world with enormous technological advances. Electric cars are produced at a furious rate, which is great. But then it is also required that there is electricity to charge the electric car with. That's why I asked about the penalty tax. If you are to have a penalty tax on electric whistles, it is reasonable to note that the biggest things that consume electricity are electric cars. But then we have a reply from the Minister.
i-c1baa20e3ec9d429-156	Madam President, I would like There is very strong support from the Swedish people for us to do what is necessary to reduce the risks for the future. We have a generation of children and young people growing up with great concern about the future they will inherit from us. We have a huge responsibility to listen to the demands of the Swedish people on us and their wishes. Not least, we have a huge responsibility to listen to our children, who say that it is now time for us to be adults and take adult responsibility for the future that our children will inherit. For those who follow climate and environmental policy and worry about our emissions, it is well known that there are a few sectors that have a huge impact on our future climate in Sweden. One of them is the industry. There the government has made a great deal of effort. Now we are also seeing how there is a wave of investment in green industry throughout the country, not least in sparse parts of our country. That is where we are solving the problems. Another sector is agriculture, where we also have quite large emissions. There too there is intensive work going on. But transport is also a major source of climate change in our country. The Swedish people expect us to come up with a solution to this. Then it is not good enough that, as the Swedish Democrats and the Moderates just ask themselves in the opposing camp, be against, question, criticize, stall and drag out on questions. It is necessary to actually have an active policy that leads to the achievement of the objectives, and that is precisely what the government is doing. As I explained, we have an active policy of reducing fossil fuels by using more renewable fuels. We have a policy of reducing the need for travel wherever possible and thus also enabling emissions to be reduced. We also have a very active policy of using electricity, which is a very good form of energy, to drive transport. One might think that it would be considered positive that Sweden does not follow the rest of the world and does about the same as everyone else but instead leads the development. When we are the country in the European Union that has the largest proportion of rechargeable electric cars of the cars sold, it should be considered that we are on to something and doing something good. But the Swedish Democrats and the Moderates obviously want to withdraw the very effective measures that lead to this change. It is not good enough to stand and pretend that you would have the same development if you removed the tools that led to it. There the Swedish Democrats are completely naked. There's nothing to come up with at all. You want to remove, but you don't want to add at all. Then, of course, we would have a decline and a hilly sale. The transformation of our transport systems would be much slower. That would be a huge concern, because then we would all be locked up in continued dependence on fossil fuels, no matter where we live, in the city or in the country. Sweden does not produce fossil fuels. Other countries do. We are 100% dependent on imports. When prices go up on the world market, they have an effect on our pumps. But we have electricity that we produce ourselves and that we should use to drive our transport. It is fairly normal environmental policy – part of the foundation of environmental policy in Sweden – that those who give rise to high emissions by buying high-emission cars have to pay for the climate impact they cause for all other people, while those who choose to buy low-emission cars receive a bonus. Thus, there is a redistribution from those who choose to buy cars that have great climate impact to those who choose to buy cars that have little climate impact. I am convinced that electrification has come to stay, and it will come to the whole country, both urban and rural. It will make it easier to live in rural areas in the future.
i-c1baa20e3ec9d429-164	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. Then I guess I'll have to give you a reading tip for the upcoming Easter weekend. Please read our exercise! Then the government may get some tips on how to move forward in the climate work. That's where we're way ahead of the Green Party. We see the possibility of doing several things on the journey towards the destination. We do not cling to one thought, but we have several thoughts in our heads at the same time. When it comes to electrification, you can read an article in which the Technical Director of the Swedish Power Network speaks. He says: There are links between us and the regional companies. We have something called rotating disconnection. This means that some geographical areas can be disconnected during shorter periods of time. He is asked: Are you saying that the light can simply go out in his own home? Yes, he answers. Why does he answer that? Well, just because we don't have the ability to deliver power around the country. And if I'm not out riding my bikes, I guess we brought in the coals from Poland during the winter. We don't produce it ourselves. As far as technological achievements are concerned, there is much we can do to achieve the objectives. But then you have to give a compass to that orienteer who runs around in the woods and doesn't know where he is. That's how it is with the government. You don't know what's going on. It does not understand what technical possibilities exist. Just as I went down to the Chamber today, there was a small newspaper in the mailbox. It is about hydrogen and how to power trains and trucks with that kind of energy. It's also a reading tip for Easter weekend, so maybe we can reach the climate targets.
i-c1baa20e3ec9d429-168	Madam President, I would like It was an interesting post at the end. So does Thomas Morell propose that the Swedish people drive around with hydrogen cars? They're in the million-dollar class or a long way over there. If it is the policy of the Swedish Democrats, I would be concerned as a car owner. This is a very positive development we are seeing. We want to continue along the path of the policy on which we are committed. The government is now implementing enhanced and more effective measures. On April 1st, just in a few days, we will give an increased bonus to those who choose to buy an electric car or a charging hybrid. This means that the cost is reduced for ordinary people who want to try to take environmental and climate responsibility and do what they can to reduce their emissions. In households, transport is a major source of emissions. The government's policy also means that the Swedish Transport Agency now estimates that the share of electric cars in new car sales will increase significantly in 2021. So we will not only be in the place where we are today – the leader in the EU – but sales will increase sharply this year. It should be positive news that we should stand here and be happy about instead of trying, as usual, to stop, change and stall from Sweden's democrats. During 2020 we saw a major change of trend. We saw a record reduction in average CO2 emissions per kilometre from new vehicles. For many years, Sweden has been at the top of the EU and has had vehicles that emit incredibly much more than in many other countries. Now take a record leap to reduce emissions. Again: again and again, we see examples of how the government's climate policy is now leading to a reduction in emissions. We have measures in place that allow us to achieve very high targets and ambitions to reduce emissions. It will also enable us to drive sustainably throughout the country in the future. Let us keep that line and not throw ourselves into the uncertain future of the Swedish democrats.
i-c1baa20e3ec9d429-174	Madam President, I would like Lars Beckman has asked me what measures I intend to take to ensure that an increased rate of action to replace poor individual sewers takes place cost-effectively and without significant costs for the individual. Lars Beckman refers to the Government's desire to increase the rate of action for environmental reasons and mentions that there are at least 180 000 individual sewers that do not meet the legal requirements for the protection of health and the environment that came back in 1969. It is true that efforts need to be increased, including in order to reduce eutrophication. The emissions of phosphorus from individual wastewaters are currently greater than those from municipal wastewater treatment plants, according to the latest estimates published by the Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management. It is therefore reasonable that individual sewers which do not have adequate treatment today and which contribute to eutrophication should be addressed. Individual sewers also need to be addressed for health reasons. The discharge of poorly treated waste water poses a risk of adverse effects on both drinking water and bathing water. The function of individual sewers ensuring adequate purification is the responsibility of each operator. The need for inadequate individual sewers to be addressed is made, in particular, through municipal supervision and review. This is shown in Chapter 2. Paragraph 3 of the Environmental Code states that everyone who carries out an activity must carry out the protective measures, comply with the restrictions and take the precautions necessary to prevent, prevent or prevent any damage or inconvenience to human health or the environment. The responsibility also includes keeping informed of the environmental impact of the operations and planning the operations to prevent such inconvenience. The supervisory authority shall, through information and similar activities, facilitate the fulfilment of its obligations by the individual e.g. It can make it easier for operators to find cost-effective solutions. The supervisory authority may decide on a case-by-case basis on the orders or prohibitions necessary for compliance with the environmental code. According to 2 Chapter. Paragraph 7 of the Environmental Code applies only to the extent that it cannot be considered unreasonable to comply with the protection measures. This means that the requirements set out in injunctions must be justified from an environmental or health point of view and that a reasonableness balance must also be made. More intervention than is necessary in the individual case may not be required. What this means in practice is determined on a case-by-case basis. The government does not intend to review the legislation in this regard. In 2017, the Government commissioned a special investigator to review the municipality's obligation to provide public services. The investigator would also propose cost-effective instruments to increase the rate of action for small sewers. The Government intends to present a proposal to the Riksdag during 2021. I do not want to precede the preparation of the proposals.
i-c1baa20e3ec9d429-179	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. We Moderates are big friends of clean water. A week ago, I and the Minister debated the situation of 23 000 poison barrels containing 10 tonnes of mercury. There are major environmental issues. I have awakened the interpellation because, of course, we must ensure that we get the sewers in order around Sweden. It's mostly the individuals we're talking about here. Just as important as getting things right is protecting the people affected by this. I'd say there's a va-rebellion going on around the country. It is a homeowner or summer cottage owner who feels strongly exposed to something that is almost similar to abuse. I spoke to an elderly family who had owned their summer house for a very long time. They considered that they had a well-functioning individual sewage plant. Yet, in their opinion, they would be forced to connect to a municipal network. Madam President, I would like We can't have that. In this area too, we must have a policy that is interrelated, that is consistent and that solves the problems that exist. The Association of Villa owners has made very exemplary concrete proposals on how to solve these issues. So far, I have not heard anyone say: we do not want clean water, and we are not going to clean what we let out. It's about how it's gonna do s. Today it can cost up to 200 000 SEK to fix a single drain. So we're not talking about little money. If it is also a phase in the interior of Hälsingland, the property may be worth 200 000 SEK. Not everyone lives in the inner city of Stockholm. The homeowners have put forward some concrete proposals. One is that the municipality should charge for what it actually costs to approve a treatment plant. Standard prices are being charged today. Buildings located more than 100 metres from a water source used for water supply and watercourses or seas shall be able to wait to fix a sewage system until other renovations are carried out, provided that the waste water does not pose a risk of environmental degradation. The house owners have also suggested that property-specific derogations should be possible if the amount of waste water is very small and if the population density is low. Imagine a house out in the woods somewhere. Where costs are unreasonable, exceptions may also be granted. It may be that the location of the property makes the measure very expensive or that the dwelling is older, long-term unemployed or seriously ill. This is a very important area. I believe that we from society and the parliament and local politicians must proceed very carefully so that we can bring everyone with us. We had another interpellation debate on motorism where it was raised. It is about the cost being set against the benefit. If you have a small cottage in a forest somewhere in Värmland, you can discuss the benefits of forcing that household or summer cottage a transformation from a separate drain to another solution, which may cost several hundred thousand crowns. I would like to know what the Government thinks about the Villa owners' proposals for solutions to the issue.
i-c1baa20e3ec9d429-194	Madam President, I would like This with individual sewers is a costly process. Of course we want clean water. The water we have is the water we should have in the future. It's nothing more of it. Of course we should take care of the water. When I became Chairman of the Municipal Executive Board in Stenungsund, it was precisely this question that involved me very much. I am prepared to say that there was an activism in the Environment and Health Department. They had probably influenced the previous politicians, who had written that it would be a zero emission for what was covered by the master plan. We humans do not have a zero emission whether we live in the countryside or in the city with municipal sewers. The sewers should work well whether they are private or municipal. We humans put a certain imprint, a certain mark, where we are. At times, hunting in the countryside with different slogans can feel like Sweden's politics do not want people to live in places other than urban areas. It is just as my colleague Beckman says: A summer house in Värmland that is not a year-round home needs a different drain than a year-round home for a household with five members. Perhaps the toilet in the small cottage in Värmland would not even have to have a drain. Then I think that there are toilets that have a different solution than the drain going out into a well that then comes a tanker and sucks out. There are other combustions. One thing that is much thought about is that we flush with drinking water in the toilets. There's an incredible amount of drinking water that we just flush through. You'd have to look at that and find out if we could have something else to flush away the poop with than drinking water of the highest quality. I may think that we need legal certainty when it comes to sewers. Our municipal citizens should not have to feel chased by the municipal environmental and health department, which may also recommend a special label on a sewage treatment plant. It may also be like in my case, where the department was totally opposed to minifiction on what I thought were inappropriate grounds. I would like to ask the Minister if he wants to work to ensure that we have national legislation that can feel legally secure so that activism in these departments can not thrive. We need to take care of all the sewers, including those in the countryside. Often the people living in the countryside are closer to nature and the environment, and they also want clean water.
i-c1baa20e3ec9d429-202	Madam President, I would like I hope that we can all agree that it is important that we do what needs to be done to protect human health. We will do what the Riksdag decided decades back, i.e. hand over a world to our children where we have solved the major environmental problems. That's what they call the generational goal. There we still have major problems with the marine and aquatic environment and the environment in lakes and streams. Not least, eutrophication is a major problem. Just a few days ago news came that the seabeds in the Baltic Sea that are oxygen-free, i.e. where eutrophication has basically killed all life, are larger than ever and growing. This is a problem that we must take seriously. But it is not just an environmental problem; it is ultimately also a health problem. We know that poorly functioning sewers are at risk to human health. This risks causing bacteria and other substances from our faeces and other substances that we flush down the drain to enter drinking water and can adversely affect our health. Here are the real wishes for good public health, for us to be able to live healthy, and for us to have a healthy environment hand in hand. This is, as I said in my introduction, legislation that has been in force since 1969. It may seem a little late to come now and say that the legislation should not be complied with. I assume that we agree that the law that Sweden has passed will in fact also be implemented. As Lars Beckman began by saying, it is extremely important that we do what is necessary to get a healthy environment, not least healthy and clean seas. I am proud that this government spends a great deal more resources on clean-up and marine environmental issues than any previous government has ever done. It may be worth noting, as Lars Beckman raises the question, that if the Moderates had been able to decide through their financial proposals, we would have had SEK 1 billion less for clean-up in the years that this government has been sitting. Of course, this would not have led to a better marine environment. I would like to point out what I said in my introductory statement: with regard to other consequences, for example, if there are totally unreasonable consequences for people, there are exceptions in the environmental code. The safeguard requirements apply only to the extent that it cannot be considered unreasonable to comply with them. In the end, it is the municipality that, through its supervision, has to make this balance. I assume that the municipalities are doing this as well. On issues of good proposals coming from different quarters, the government welcomes them, no matter who makes the proposals. It is also the foundation of how the government works. We send out suggestions that come from investigations on referrals and take in referrals from the Villa owners and many others. Of course we weigh in all the referral points that come in. On the other hand, we have work in progress to take the investigation forward to become a legislative proposal. I cannot anticipate this, but it is a work that is going on within the Government Office. However, I would like to emphasise that individual sewers have a major environmental impact. It is a common task for us in the Swedish Parliament to ensure that we not only set targets but also implement the measures necessary for us to meet the objectives. We know that individual sewers can have a very large environmental impact locally on the nearest watercourse or lake and thus contribute significantly to eutrophication. But we also know that at certain times of the year, individual sewers are the main source of eutrophication. For example, when vegetation captures nutrients from agriculture, individual sewers can be the main source of eutrophication. That is why we have a responsibility to do something about this environmental problem.
i-c1baa20e3ec9d429-212	Madam President, I would like When it comes to clean water and clean air, we are moderates almost fanatical in wanting it. That's where we're in complete agreement. What seems to us to differ from time to time is the order of priority, that is, if you have ten tonnes of mercury in the Baltic Sea, you will remedy the main problem first. What I was thinking about with regard to the va area is that, as has been said here in the debate, many people have individual sewers that feel very vulnerable. This sense of vulnerability is of course no less when you know that the maintenance debt in the municipal va-networks is approximately 800 billion. 800 billion is thus the maintenance debt that Sweden's municipalities have built up! One might wonder how it is possible that a maintenance debt can grow ten times greater than Sweden's defence budget. It is probably because we electors are such that we prioritise an ice rink, a football hall or something else that some municipal politician thinks is important instead of prioritising the va-net. We have seen reports of 15-30 percent of drinking water in municipal water networks leaking out. These are the consequences of the maintenance debt. It is clear that in that situation one can think about what is most important. Where should you put society's resources first? Perhaps those who go out and inspect the individual sewers should put all the time and effort into making the municipal va-networks work better. This is a ticking environmental bomb. We have urban areas where we have very many people who live on a small surface and where we have heavy leakages in the municipal va-nets. This makes me very worried. In addition, in my constituency in Gävleborg over the past few weeks, several articles have been read about differences in tariffs. A man in Ljusdal, for example, was horrified that he pays considerably more for his va than one does in the neighbouring municipality Hudiksvall. It is clear that both the Green Party and the Moderates are friends of municipal self-government. It is part of our democracy. Having said that, I believe that we must, from the national level, make even clearer demands on the municipalities. I myself participated in a seminar at the beginning of the year where they discussed just how we balance municipal self-government against social welfare and that they do not allow the maintenance debt of 800 billion to continue to grow even more. Just as the Government says, and as I have written in my interpellation, there are many individual drains that cause emissions. But when we do this, it must be done at such a pace that individual households do not get caught. The single elderly couple who have had a summer cottage all their life must not suffer so much from a requirement that they simply have to sell the summer house. A couple in their 80s have very difficult access to bank loans. Although they have the property as collateral, they do not have the ability to repay. Here, however, I would like to say to the government that given that the country's municipalities have built on themselves a huge maintenance debt in the va area – 800 billion – and that we have massive leakages in our cities, one must well weigh the benefits of where to put society's resources and address the biggest problems. I'd like to know how the government sees it.
i-c1baa20e3ec9d429-221	Madam President, I would like It is important that the individual feels that there is legal certainty and equivalence with the municipal system. Today, the individual can go on a fee of, let us say, 200 000 to fix a drain that some environmental officer has decided, even though we know that it is difficult to test a soil bed. It is difficult to determine the degree of purification of the outlet of a soil bed. We know that the maintenance debt on the municipal executives is 800 billion. If you have looked at how the pipes are cut off, you understand that it is very large amounts. Where the liquid is, there's the pipe. On top of that, there's nothing left. It's been gone a long time. I want to make a strong contribution: we cannot wage war against the countryside. We have to take care of every person. Sweden must be a country where you can live in the whole country. We need to stand up for the countryside in a more legal way.
i-c1baa20e3ec9d429-225	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by absolutely saying yes to the last question. Of course, we will take care of all our citizens, no matter where they live throughout our country. We will also take care of our common environment, which has also been supported by the Swedish Parliament. If we do not do that, we know that the costs will increase enormously for individual citizens around our country, and for that matter in the rest of our world. We already know that the cost of our environmental problems is enormous. In particular, eutrophication creates enormous costs and affects our environment and ecosystems, on which we depend, very heavily. There, I think what Lars Beckman says is right: we should deal with the biggest problems first. That is also exactly what we are doing when it comes to clean-up. Although Lars Beckman thinks that his small environmental problems that he has discovered are the most important of all, it is probably better that our authorities may decide which problem is greatest and make the efforts there, but that view obviously does not share Lars Beckman. When it comes to sewers, which we are discussing here today, our view is that this is how we should work here too. The individual sewers lead to a large environmental impact. It is estimated that 300 tonnes of phosphorus per year comes from individual sewers. For example, municipal wastewater treatment plants account for a smaller proportion, 270 tonnes, and industry 240 tonnes. In fact, next to agriculture, individual sewers are the main source of eutrophication and impact on our environment. In the international decisions that Sweden has supported, for example within the Baltic Sea cooperation Helcom, there is a distribution of how much each country should do to reduce its input of nitrogen and phosphorus. Sweden still has a long way to go for its part of the phosphorus supply. We will not be able to do what we have agreed, our part of the work, unless we also fix the individual drains. Lars Beckman tries to put various measures to reduce environmental problems against each other. The Government's ambition is that we should take all the measures and take all the steps necessary to reduce our environmental impact at a sufficient pace, so that we can actually, seriously, do what we have a duty to do: to hand over to our children and grandchildren a planet where we have solved the major environmental problems, where we have, for example, got seas and streams in balance, clean seas that we can enjoy both fishing and swimming in. This is a situation that we are far from having. There we have a responsibility to do more than is being done today. Unfortunately, we are also seeing developments in which existing sewers are ageing and in which drains that have previously been functional and have resulted in treatment at a sufficiently high rate are failing to function and no longer meet the requirements of the licensing legislation. It is estimated that the number of such sewers each year increases more than the number of facilities that the municipalities have time to impose requirements on or that the property owners arrange on their own initiative. This is not, therefore, a problem that is decreasing, but, on the contrary, is increasing at a pace. It is also something that I think we, as legislators and leading politicians, have a responsibility to take seriously. We need to find ways to do more. That is also what the government now has great ambitions to do. We have set up an investigation that has come up with proposals. We are now moving on to those proposals and will move on to legislation. We will return to Parliament with exactly what measures the Government intends to take.
i-c1baa20e3ec9d429-233	Madam President, I would like Why do I lift the maintenance debt of municipalities? Well, as VA-Facts writes in a column, almost all Swedes have heard of the parasite outbreaks that caused 47 000 people sick in Östersund and Skellefteå. At the same time, only one in ten are concerned that a parasite outbreak will affect their municipality. This is despite the fact that on average one municipality a week has such serious problems that residents are asked to boil their drinking water. ..................................................... That is the case, Madam President, as far as politics is concerned. You cannot do everything at once, even though you can of course have good ambitions. You always have to start with the most important question. There are probably many who have individual sewers that feel small chased by the authorities, even though the municipalities – society, we – have built up a maintenance debt of 800 billion that has made 47 000 people sick in Östersund and Skellefteå when those outbreaks occurred. That is why I warn that the maintenance debt that has been built up in the municipalities, in the public sector, can have extremely serious consequences, for example if there is such an outbreak here in Stockholm as it was in Skellefteå or Östersund. One might wonder how it is possible that it has become this way. Yes, we voters have when we choose an ability to vote for the politician who promises new ice rinks instead of promising new water pipes or va-nets. That's what you expect. It is so fundamental today that it is expected as a matter of course. I would like to thank the Minister for the debate. I hope that those who have seen it have heard that priority can be given to the EUR 800 billion maintenance debt that is structured and needs to be addressed.
i-c1baa20e3ec9d429-239	Madam President, I would like I can begin by saying that I share Lars Beckman's assessment that this is a major problem. It is a maintenance debt that has been built up for a long time, under both moderate-led and social-democratic-led governments. I hope that, as Lars Beckman is involved in the matter, we can take joint action to actually reduce that debt. At the same time, I would like to emphasise that our environmental and climate problems are also acute. We are in an environmental and climate crisis. Then, as politicians, you need to have the ability to prioritise measures to reduce that crisis as well. We should also be able to agree here that we can make a great deal more effort for our environment if we give priority to environmental issues and if we invest resources to improve the environment as well. We can see that the Moderates and the Green Party differ enormously there. The Moderates' economic policies cut every time there is a chance of environmental policies and measures – whether biodiversity, clean-up or climate investments. When we now say that we are protecting the marine environment, I think that we could follow it up on the moderate side by also investing resources, but we have not yet come that far. I welcome this debate. I think it is good that we raise the issue of how crucial it is for our environment to reduce phosphorus emissions. We can say that the individual drains are a major source of phosphorus and therefore also of eutrophication, algal blooms and destroyed environments that we no longer like to fish and swim in and enjoy as we have done before. I am convinced that the Swedish people expect us as politicians to accept our responsibility and do what is necessary to be able to hand over a planet and an environment once and for all to our children where we have solved the major environmental problems. That's the government's entry into these issues.
i-c1baa20e3ec9d429-244	Madam President, I would like Tobias Andersson has asked me why immigrants are over-represented among rapists and what measures the government intends to take to reduce the number of rapes. In addition, Tobias Andersson has asked if the government intends to take any measures to remedy deficiencies in the information base in order to create better conditions for mapping and crime prevention work. The important thing for me is to ensure that the crimes are combated and to have effective penalties against those who commit them. This applies regardless of whether the person was born in Sweden or in any other country. The government has therefore reformed sexual crime legislation, and Sweden now has the most stringent legislation we have ever had. The Crime Prevention Council, Brå, has carried out a follow-up which shows that this amendment has had an effect. The number of convictions increased by 75 per cent as early as the year after the legislative changes came into force compared with the previous year. However, further measures are needed to strengthen legislation on sex offences. The Government has therefore commissioned a special investigator to review, among other things, the scale of penalties for sexual offences and make proposals for any changes that may be needed to adequately reflect the seriousness of the crimes. When someone who is not a Swedish citizen is guilty of serious or repeated crime in Sweden, it must be possible to decide on expulsion. A special investigator has therefore been given the task of reviewing the rules on the expulsion of victims of crime. The investigator shall make proposals on how to achieve a more stringent regulation that provides for the possibility of expelling foreigners who commit crimes in more cases than at present and making the enforcement of such expulsion decisions more effective. The assignment shall be presented by 30 June 2021. Knowledge is important, and there is a great need for knowledge in the whole area of criminal policy. The Government has therefore allocated more than SEK 120 million over the next four years to a new national research programme on crime. Brå is responsible for official crime statistics and is also responsible for developing facts and disseminating knowledge about crime, law enforcement and crime prevention. T access to public statistics and the possibility for researchers to use the data on which the statistics are based is good in Sweden. Researchers have the opportunity to co-ordinate data from different systems and thus from different statistical authorities, as has been done in the current study. Through Brå's safety survey and in-depth studies on rape there is knowledge about who is victims of crime. We also know, from Mrs Brå's studies and from other studies, that people who are in socio-economic vulnerability are more at risk of committing crime and of being subjected to crime. Factors such as lack of labour market participation, lower income, lower school outcomes and precarious housing conditions can affect individuals' tendency to commit crime. These factors contribute to the overrepresentation of foreign-born persons in crime. This skewed distribution of crime is not something that the government ignores or tries to hide. On the contrary, the government has implemented and continues to implement a large number of measures both to reduce segregation and to combat crime. We shall continue to fight the crimes and their causes, and those who commit them shall be held accountable for their actions.
i-8ZtmrtU912LcUR1yALnTbj	Madam President, I would like Just over a month ago, a research article called Swedish rape officers – a latent class analysis was published in Forensic Sciences Research. The article is based on the work of four researchers at Lund University when they have studied all convictions regarding rape and attempted rape between 2000 and 2015 where the perpetrators were between 15 and 65 years of age. A total of over 3,000 judgments were studied. The aim of the study was to contribute to a better understanding of the background of rapists in order to hopefully facilitate the prevention of crime. One of the findings of the study was that 60 percent of those convicted were first or second generation immigrants. Please note, Madam President, that this clear over-representation was found without the data being corrected on the basis of the proportion of the population in the group concerned. It goes without saying that if the proportion of first and second generation immigrants in the Swedish population were also taken into account and the figures corrected accordingly, over-representation would rise and become even more tangible. Professor in charge of the study, Kristina Sundquist, described this to Samnytt as a secondary finding in the study. She put it this way: a migrant was only a variable, and it became a rather remarkable finding because there were many immigrants and foreign born in this group. ..................................................... This is perhaps no surprise to those of us who have dared to point out what social development actually looks like despite the fact that there have been politically correct ambitions to cover up and hide reality. For example, as you know, no relevant public studies have been carried out on the subject for a long time. The latest report from the Crime Prevention Council in this area came in 2005, but already then it was seen that the excess risk of foreign born to be suspected of rape was five times higher than for native Swedes. While further reports from Brå have shone with their absence, others have tried to contribute to the state of knowledge. In 2018, the Express published a review of all those convicted of having participated in group rapes in 2016 and 2017. Of the 43 men who had been convicted, only one was born in Sweden with both parents also born here. The other 42 were first or second generation immigrants. The commission review also carried out a survey of rape sentences in 2018, based on all the convictions in the last five years. This survey showed that 58 per cent of those convicted of rape and attempted rape were born abroad. When it came to assault rapes, the over-representation of foreigners increased, and then as much as 80 per cent were born in another country. Madam President, I would like There is no denying or demeaning this, and until now Morgan Johansson has failed to explain it. Why does Morgan Johansson believe that immigrants are heavily overrepresented among rapists?
i-c1baa20e3ec9d429-260	Madam President, I would like As for the fact that Tobias Andersson is trying to make it that this is something unknown, something that is not being researched and something that has not been cared for, I say the opposite. This is one of the most studied in criminology. There are plenty of evidence from all over the world, I would say, on issues such as ethnic background, immigration and crime. Yes, immigrants are over-represented in the statistics. The question to ask is what it says about immigrants as a group, that is, what conclusions to draw about the group as such. Can you draw conclusions about the entire immigrant group from the crime statistics, which Tobias Andersson follows? No, I'm telling you, you can't do that. You can understand this if you know how small the group that commits these crimes is. How many of the foreign-born men in Sweden are convicted of rape? In that particular study, it lands on a single per mille of the total group. It is unreasonable for the single per mil to represent the entire immigrant group. I'm sure most people will understand that if they think about it. But that is exactly what Tobias Andersson and other xenophobic politicians are after. That is exactly how he wants us to think; immigrants are criminals, and they are dangerous. We'd rather not let them in, and those who are here would rather be thrown out. It's not just about the men. The Swedish Democrats also want to throw out women and children. You have just launched your idea of mass deportation of people who may have been here for many years. You want to conclude, on the basis of the fact that it applies to a single per mille of foreign-born men, that the whole group of immigrants is criminal and dangerous. That is not the conclusion to be drawn. It doesn't make sense. You can also understand that if you take the step further. Let's see if Tobias Andersson can follow the line now. It is not the only statistics in which immigrants stand out. There are also other statistics where immigrants stand out. Immigrants are heavily over-represented in crime statistics, yes. However, they are also heavily overrepresented in the group of health professionals. For example, 34 per cent of all doctors are born in another country, 30 per cent of all nurses are born in another country and 39 per cent of all carers are born in another country. There is also a strong over-representation. This compares with the proportion of foreign born in general in Sweden, which is about 20 per cent. So it is about 34% of all doctors, 30% of all nurses and 39% of all carers. I would now like to try Tobias Andersson's argumentation. When it comes to drawing conclusions about immigrants, he is very quick to conclude, based on some per mil of the men, that they are particularly crime prone or particularly dangerous. But what conclusions does he draw from the fact that immigrants are also heavily overrepresented in, for example, health care? Are immigrants in general special care? Are they especially caring? Are they particularly empathetic? Does he draw those conclusions? It will be interesting to hear what he has to say. For my part, I'm not speculating either way. I'm in charge of law enforcement. My job is to ensure that the person who commits the crime is prosecuted for those crimes and that the person who is the victim of the crime is reproved. That is precisely why we have pushed forward these major criminal justice reforms. But it doesn't matter to me whether you're black or white. Justice shall apply to all.
i-c1baa20e3ec9d429-268	Madam President, I would like I have in no way claimed in my previous speech to blame the whole group of immigrants. I find it problematic that we often end up talking about immigrants as a large collective. I think Morgan Johansson is aware that the Swedish Democrats are behind a need-adjusted labour migration to Sweden. But it gets strange when Morgan Johansson in a debate concerning his issues chooses to move the discussion to the ethnicity of those who work in health care. That is not what we are here to discuss today. We are here to discuss how we can ensure better crime prevention when it comes to violent and sexual crimes. Madam President, I would like Morgan Johansson often falls back on the fact that what matters to him is not who commits the crimes. He also often accuses me and my fellow party members of just caring about crimes that immigrants commit. In addition to lowering the debate to the level of day-care, he is also detracting from the problem. I don't really care who commits crimes either. My whole entry into criminal policy is to stand on the side of the victims, stand up for them, punish the perpetrators and act to prevent crime from being committed in the future. However, in order to prevent crime from being committed in the future, we need to know who is committing crime today. That is why I am pleased with the research article from the researchers in Lund, which I touched on in my previous speech. Ardavan Khoshnood, associate professor in emergency care and the main author of the article, said in an interview with respectable Riks that the research group intends to continue with studies in the field. He believes that this report increases the knowledge about who the rapists are but that further studies are needed. Madam President, I would like We need to take the rape pandemic seriously. Today, Sweden is on site six in the World Population Review's data on countries with the most rapes. The only countries in which there are more rapes than in Sweden are, according to these statistics, developing countries which I can hardly pronounce the names of, like Swaziland, Lesotho and Botswana. It's not a nice company. That is why I am frustrated when Morgan Johansson belittles the basis that I have now presented and in which it is clear that first and second generation immigrants are heavily over-represented among rapists. Madam President, I would like Although it is clearly stated, Morgan Johansson refuses to say that immigration has been a cultural burden on Sweden. Instead, he provides explanations about immigrants' lack of labour market participation, lower income, poor grades and insecure housing conditions. Does Morgan Johansson seriously believe that an otherwise law-abiding individual with sound values choose to commit a rape because his salary is not satisfactory, because he has just been given notice or because he is dissatisfied with his tenancy? If that thesis were true, why are poor Swedish pensioners not over-represented among rapists? Why do more crowded Swedes not participate in the group rapes? Madam President, I would like I do not rule out the influence of socio-economic factors, but Morgan Johansson must come out of the sand, accept reality and realise that there is also a cultural explanation for parts of immigrants' over-representation in rape statistics.
i-c1baa20e3ec9d429-276	Madam President, I would like It can't be any clearer, can it? Tobias Andersson begins by saying that he does not want to blame the whole group. In the next breath, he says that immigrants are a cultural burden on Sweden. What is it if not to blame the whole group? That's exactly what he's doing. That is why he is conducting the debate in such a way. For my part, I am not going into that kind of speculation. I prefer to stick to what was really Martin Luther King's principle: People should be judged not by the colour of their skin but by the content of their character. Individuals should therefore not be assessed on the basis of their skin colour but on the basis of the character of each individual. Tobias Andersson is driving these speculations for a single reason; it is pointing out individual groups and inciting groups against each other. It's a classic Swedish democratic way of arguing. I have never seen any SD react particularly strongly to any crime committed by someone who is not an immigrant, but SD:are reacting to crimes that immigrants commit but trying to cover up crimes that Swedes commit. It's part of their rhetoric. My entry into this is as I said: If you commit a crime, you will be prosecuted for it. If you're exposed to crime, you'll get redress for it. That is why, as Minister of Justice, I have pushed forward reforms in this particular area, as I said, not least in the area of sex crime law, which is more radical than ever. Since 2018, we have a consent law in place. Since 2018, there have been negligence crimes in place. We've tightened the penalties for aggravated rape. We have better support for the victims. The police have 380 new investigators specifically targeted at crimes involving particularly vulnerable victims. These include men's violence against women. We will continue to prioritise men's violence against women and sexual crimes in the coming years. However, I will never allow these issues to become some sort of place of thumb for toxic xenophobia and incitement to immigrants. These are far too important questions for that. But Tobias Andersson has another entrance. He wants to use these statistics to try to access immigrants as a group. Statistics can be used in different ways. Yes, it is true that immigrants are over-represented in crime. It is also the Swedish Democrats, not least in this House. There is no parliamentary group that has so many condemned members as the Swedish Democrats. In 2018, Svenska Dagbladet reviewed all your candidates in local and regional elections. It turned out that 7% of all your candidates had been charged with crimes, which was sky high above all other parties. As well as the Swedish Democrats can point out immigrants as a particular criminal group, I can ask how it is that the political candidates of the Swedish Democrats are also over-represented in terms of crime. Then maybe it's not so funny anymore. It is perhaps a bit fun to use the statistics to incite immigrants when you are a Swedish Democrat, but when the statistics are used against you it may not be so fun anymore. I have no reason to speculate on either cause or effect. For me, the most important thing is to ensure that the judicial system continues to expand its access to those who commit the crimes, to strengthen the criminal law possibilities for this and to ensure that those who are to be prosecuted are also prosecuted.
i-c1baa20e3ec9d429-285	Madam President, I would like If it was the case that the most important thing for Morgan Johansson was to prosecute those who commit crimes and prevent more people from committing crimes in the future, we can conclude after Morgan Johansson's time at the ministerial post he holds that he has failed miserably. We see, as I have previously explained, that Sweden is on site six in the statistics among the countries with the highest number of rapes. It's a major failure. I fully understand that Morgan Johansson does not want to stand here in Parliament and take responsibility for his government and the previous government's lack of criminal policy and the disastrous effects it has had on Swedish society, not least for Swedish girls and women. If you have to take responsibility, if you look at that policy, it becomes quite clear that on all measurable parameters it has more or less gone in the wrong direction. When it comes to juvenile robbery, rape, gang crime, and so on, they have generally failed. Then I understand that Morgan Johansson wants to move the focus with the help of rhetorical questions to me. But we have gathered here to debate rape in Sweden and how we can take action to limit it. Morgan Johansson has so far continued to shine with his absence in the answers. It is obvious that immigration to Sweden, not all immigration, but parts of mass immigration to Sweden, has been a cultural burden. How else can we explain that 80% of rapes over five years have been carried out by people who were not born in our country? How else can it be observed that 42 out of 43 audited group rapists from 2016 and 2017 were first or second generation immigrants? It's a cultural burden. You dare admit it!
i-c1baa20e3ec9d429-288	Madam President, I would like Tobias Andersson digs for each post even further down in his rhetoric. How many of the foreign-born men have been convicted of these crimes? So we are talking about individual promilles. Based on this, Tobias Andersson stamps all immigrants as a cultural burden. That's totally unreasonable. It doesn't matter how long you're standing and swirling your head, but that's exactly what Tobias Andersson has said in the debate. He has labeled them as a cultural burden. Is it a cultural burden that 34% of all our doctors are born abroad, or that over 30% of our nurses and carers have foreign backgrounds? Are they also a cultural burden? That is an unreasonable way of conducting the discussion. Tobias Andersson returns to his home-made rape statistics where he compares different countries. These statistics have been reviewed in length and in contrast in many respects. It is then clear that these comparisons with different countries do not take account of their different legislations. There are a large number of countries where rape in marriage is not criminalised. We did so in Sweden in 1965. There are an even greater number of countries that do not have the legislation we now have in the form of consent law and negligence. Sweden thus has a much broader rape law than most countries have. This means that more documents will enter the statistics as rape. I think that is good because I am in favour of this kind of broad definition of these sexual abuse. I've been involved in pushing the law. Then Tobias Andersson claims that it has had no effect. However, since we received the consent legislation in place, the number of convictions in rape cases has increased by 75% and the number of prosecutions has increased by 80%. It's actually a result that even surpasses what I thought it would be.
i-c1baa20e3ec9d429-293	Madam President, I would like Adam Marttinen has asked me if I and the government are going to satisfy Parliament's will to revise the amount rebate in the event of multiple crime so that more crimes generate a greater mark-up in the penalty measure. The fight against crime is a long-term work that is a high priority of the government. A key issue for reducing crime and increasing security is improving the conditions for the police to carry out their mission. The expansion of the Police Authority is an important part of this. By the turn of the year, we were more than halfway towards the government's target of 10,000 more police workers, and nearly 3,000 police students are on their way out in the coming years. This is a gratifying development that will eventually make a big difference for a stronger society and a safer Sweden. Anyone who commits multiple crimes should receive a punishment proportionate to the seriousness of crime. The system of sanctions must be able to deal with cases of multiple crimes at the same time in a credible manner. The Swedish Parliament has announced to the government that it should propose amendments to criminal law in order to improve the measurement of penalties in the event of multiple crime. An effective way to reduce the risk of multiple crime is to intervene more quickly. The Government has decided on trial activities with a quick procedure in criminal proceedings. The trial activities have led to increased prosecution, shorter processing times and increased quality of investigations. The government has therefore decided that the experimental activities will continue until 2022 and that from 1 January this year it will be extended to parts of all police regions in the country. The Government has also commissioned a special investigator to investigate a permanent fast-track criminal procedure and other measures to speed up the prosecution of criminal offences. In addition, during the last parliamentary term, the Council has tightened the regulation on relapses in such a way that more acts will be dealt with as relapsing into crime. Rapid prosecution and more stringent recidivism are measures that together counteract and mark the rejection of repeated crime by society. The government has also reformed sexual crime legislation, and Sweden has now the most stringent legislation we have ever had. Among other things, the reform raised the minimum penalty for gross rape and rape of children from four years in prison to five years in prison. However, further measures are needed to strengthen legislation on sex offences. The Government has therefore decided that an investigation will review, among other things, the scale of penalties for sexual offences and make proposals for the changes that may be needed to adequately reflect the seriousness of the crimes. When penalties are tightened for individual crimes, it also means that the overall crime is punished more severely. The government is also working on the implementation of the 34-point programme, which is the largest package against gang crime ever in Sweden. The package includes a number of new tools for law enforcement authorities, tougher penalties, measures to break the culture of silence and better crime prevention. The message is crystal clear – crime should never pay off. It is important to combat both the crimes and their causes. The government is prepared to take further measures to reduce crime and increase people's security.
i-c1baa20e3ec9d429-301	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply, which can be summed up as an account of what the government has done rather than an answer to the question that actually emerged from my interpellation. The issue that I want the debate to revolve around is the quantity discount for multiple crime. The views of the Swedish democrats differ from those of the government, and we, together with other parties in the Committee on Justice, have addressed an announcement to the government to tighten up the view on multiple crime. The announcement means that there should be a significant tightening up by replacing today's form of quantity rebate by a new system in which the three most serious crimes are to be attributed the full penalty value before the so-called principle of asperation is applied. This is a position that we have been able to accept from the point of view that it looks like it is today. That would be a major advance for the punishment of those who commit a great many serious crimes. For the Swedish Democrats, the amount rebate could be abolished for virtually all crimes committed against other people. We believe that the punishment measure has a value from a victim's perspective. When you commit very many crimes, perhaps against several different people, who are under the same prosecution, you are basically only convicted of a crime against one person. This leaves the other victims and their abuse to their fate. Recently, a man was convicted of 49 rapes against children and 153 cases of aggravated sexual abuse. Because it was under the same indictment, the overall penalty, including all the discounts that still exist after six years with the Social Democratic government in power, was about four years in prison. The outcome of the respective crimes could be measured at one week's imprisonment per rape of children. It is something that the Swedish Democrats find very remarkable, that we still have legislation that does not take into account the total blameworthyness of the amount of crimes committed when punishment is to be imposed in court. If the Swedish Democrats had been left to decide, this person would probably never have come out of prison. We think that is a reasonable starting point for a person who is so obviously ill-adapted to society, so ruthless to other people and – excuse me for speaking plainly – so disturbed in the head that he can commit 49 rapes against children, of which the youngest child was down a year. It is astounding that we have a government which, after six years in power, finds it satisfying that we have it like this. The bulk of the penalty rebate in this particular case is the quantity rebate, in terms of the number of crimes committed. Now the whole Parliament – or not the whole Parliament but a majority in the Riksdag – has addressed an announcement to the government that something should be done about this. We think it's wrong to get such low penalties. Although you may have committed so many serious crimes that may have affected so many victims, penalties are not fully imposed for the crimes that have been committed. Does the government intend to obey the announcement addressed to it by the Riksdag to tighten the penalties for repeated crimes?
i-c1baa20e3ec9d429-311	Madam President, I would like First of all, I am not going to wipe out any criticism for not having tightened the penalties. It is precisely the opposite. I do not believe that there is a Minister of Justice – in history, almost – who has tightened penalties to the same extent as I have. We have tightened the penalties for almost all the serious violent crimes. We have tightened the penalties for the most serious drug offences. We've tightened the penalty for the serious gun crime. We've tightened the penalties for sexual crimes. The last thing we did was to tighten the penalties for, among other things, gross rape. We are also reviewing the penalty for sexual crimes now, not least the scale of penalties, in order to be able to make further penalties. This has also had an impact. In 2019, Swedish courts imposed a total of over 10,000 prison sentences. That is an increase of 30% in just two years. Thus, the number of prison years imposed has increased sharply during our period. This is because more perpetrators are being judged now than before and they are being sentenced to longer prison sentences. No, I am not going to wipe myself out for not raising the penalties, for we have done so – not least in this area. You can also see that in the correctional system. We have 1 000 more people in custody today than we had a few years ago. We have 100 per cent occupancy in institutions and 100 per cent occupancy in our detention centres, and the Correctional Service plans to expand with an additional approximately 3,400 places in ten years, an increase of 45 per cent. Yes, the penalties have been tightened in almost every area we're talking about here. Yes, it has had an impact in the courts. Yes, it has meant that more people who commit crimes are now under lock and key. Then Adam Marttinen asks what to do when it comes to quantity crimes, i.e. many crimes. Of course, you can always have that discussion. The starting point is to take account of all forms of crime. I think that is a reasonable starting point, because otherwise you have completely unreasonable effects. If we were to follow the line of the Swedish Democrats in full, it would mean that a number of minor crimes would suddenly bring much higher penalties than the penalty for a serious crime if you would just add everything up. The maximum sentence for theft is two years in prison. The maximum sentence for aggravated rape is ten years in prison. So five thefts would be enough to suddenly come up with the same maximum punishment as for a gross rape. I think most people think it's quite unreasonable. It's the same with burglary versus aggravated rape. The minimum sentence for breaking and entering is one year's imprisonment, and the minimum sentence for gross rape is five years' imprisonment. So would five burglaries be worth as much as a gross rape? I think that is quite unreasonable too. It will be the effect if you go along the line of the Swedish Democrats all the way out and just add to the penalties. That is why we must constantly take account of the overall level of crime and make an assessment on that basis. I note that we have received an announcement. Yes, we have. The problem with that announcement is there is no funding. The parties that have merged on the announcement have not sent money for it. You could agree to be in favour of the announcement, but you have not been able to agree on the financing of it. It goes again on point after point. The last time the party of Adam Marttinen had any influence on the order of decision in this House, when you pushed through a budget with the Moderates and Christian Democrats, you were underfunded the prison service by SEK 300 million. That's what you're doing now. You stand here talking about higher sentences, but when it really comes to it, you are not prepared to also give money to the penitentiary. You have no joint funding for the proposal that you have tabled.
i-c1baa20e3ec9d429-325	Madam President, I would like I assume that the Minister is literate and can read the draft budgets presented by each party for each year. In this respect, he notes that we Swedish democrats have had far higher ambitions than the government for each year for which we have submitted a budget in this House. Finally, in that part of the discussion, one can only conclude that it is the government's task to take care of the Ministry of Finance. Parliament can set out a direction, where announcements should be a starting point, for how the government will work on future legislative proposals. That's the order we have to have here, isn't it? It should not be the case that the Riksdag has the full responsibility for financing the state's finances.
i-c1baa20e3ec9d429-327	But to return to the specific issue: it concerns the amount rebate, and there we get a clear answer from the government that if you have committed a rape against children, it should be just as bad as if you have committed 49 rapes against children. So how many crimes you commit shouldn't play any part in the punishment. We have proposed to the opposition that the three most serious crimes be fully punishable before the so-called principle of asperation enters. I have no problem with the fact that this would result in some people going to prison longer than a person who has only committed crimes against one person. I have no problem with that principle, but that principle is a problem for the government. That is precisely the problem that has led to the case I read out here today, where a man is given four years' imprisonment for 49 cases of rape of children and 153 cases of gross sexual abuse. It leads to four years in prison, one week in prison per gross crime against children. I respect the fact that the government has such a principled position that it thinks this is reasonable. Obviously, the government thinks that this is reasonable because after six years of power, the courts leave to the fate of sentence such that a person can commit 49 cases of rape against children and spend four years in prison. Here lies the big difference, of course. In Ekot's documentary series Manipulatören, which is currently on Swedish Radio, we can hear about a person who was convicted of child rape in 2009. He has come out, and during his leave he has made contact with new children and committed new sexual abuse of children. For ten years he has returned to former victims and created new victims. In the last case, he has mapped over 3,000 girls after serving a sentence. This is the legislation that exists after six years with a social democratic government. It's like there's no accident at work. These are well-considered principles from a red-green government. This is what the government thinks is reasonable. Let me just say that there is an alternative in all these cases, which takes greater account of the victim's perspective. We are in favour of storage judgments, which exist in Norway, for example. Pedophiles with high relapse risk should not be released at all. If there is a high risk of relapse for people who are at risk of committing crimes against children, they should remain in prison; this is the opinion of the Swedish Democrats. The government's opinion can be found in the Ekot documentary series Manipulatören. It shows the result of a red-green government's values in relation to victims and criminals. For ten years, new abuse can be committed against new children because they feel that this is a fundamentally correct view. If a rape pedophile is to come out into society at all, chemical castration may be an option. This too has not been considered by the government. Again — dangerous people are released, and dangerous people are rewarded. The more crimes they commit, the lower the penalty for each individual crime. It is a principled position on the part of the government. I think it is good that we are having this debate, so that the difference between the government and the Swedish Democrats is clarified.
i-c1baa20e3ec9d429-336	Madam President, I would like First of all, it is quite wrong that Adam Marttinen claims that it does not matter how many crimes you commit. It's not like that. The more crimes you commit, the higher the penalty, of course. This is built into the current system. In this case, it wasn't four years in prison, was it? It was seven years and six months – just so that we are correct. The sentence was seven years and six months, nothing else. What we have done over these years is that, as I said, we have pushed forward the most stringent sex crime legislation ever. We have introduced consent laws and negligent crimes, and we have increased the minimum penalty for both gross rape and gross rape of children from four to five years in prison. If you commit several such crimes, it is added so that the penalty is increased in total – a large number of years can be added. That's how it works. I just point out that if, as the Swedish Democrats have said, we are going to add to each individual crime, we are at risk of having unreasonable effects. Five burglaries would suddenly bring a higher or as high punishment as a gross rape. It does not work well, I think; it is unreasonable. Adam Marttinen says that he does not take responsibility for any funding at all. He even stood here and said that the Riksdag does not have the full responsibility for financing public finances. Actually, that's what Parliament has. That is why you are deciding on budgets. It is the Riksdag that has full responsibility for the decisions that are taken, including in terms of funding. I note that behind the announcement there is no joint funding from the parties in question. The Swedish Democrats have put money into their budget, but there is no common funding for this announcement. When you follow how the Swedish Democrats have behaved both in the debates and in the decision, it turns out that your policy is not connected at all. During these six years you have had an opportunity to influence the budget. You did so in the autumn of 2018, just after the election, when we were a transitional government and could not make bets. Then you took the chance, along with the Moderates and Christian Democrats, and trumped through a budget here. What, then, were the large parts of it? There were 20 billion tax cuts. There were cuts in crime prevention. And so it was a sub-financing of the Prison Service with over SEK 300 million. The first thing I had to do when I returned as Minister of Justice again in January 2019 was to pour an additional half a billion into the Prison Service so that it could solve its task. It is not good enough, Madam President, to stand here and talk about the need to raise the penalties – especially if we were to take the step fully with your proposals as they stand now – and then, in the next breath, not to be prepared to allocate funds but, on the contrary, to under-finance the Prison Service. There are more examples of this. As I said, we are now expanding the Prison Service considerably: 3 400 places are in the plan for the next ten years. Then you have to be able to build prisons. We had advanced plans to build a new prison in Svedala, Skåne. What did the Swedish Democrats do then? Well, then they began to form opinion against the construction of this institution, and eventually they managed to get a no from the municipality. Maybe we lost two years of planning. Now we have to build the prison in Trelleborg instead. Again – it is not good enough to stand here and talk warmly for more and higher penalties if at the same time you are unable to finance the things you want to do and if you locally also counteract exactly the investments we have to make to manage it. As stated in 2019, Swedish courts sentenced over 10,000 years of imprisonment. That was an increase of 30% in just two years. This is an effect of the punitive measures we have taken, and we will continue to go that way.
i-c1baa20e3ec9d429-347	I would like to remind the Minister that we are speaking through the President and we are not using you or you.
i-c1baa20e3ec9d429-348	Madam President, I would like It is therefore a parliamentary majority that is responsible for the budget being processed through the Riksdag, not an individual opposition party. It is therefore strange that there is such a demand for the Swedish Democrats as an individual opposition party – that we should come up with full funding for an announcement in the Swedish Parliament. It is a new message from the government that every announcement must come with full funding in order to have to be taken into account by the government. I don't think that's how it's supposed to be. The Minister may well clarify whether this is a new approach in principle to government announcements on this point. Apart from this, there is a clear difference between the government and the Swedish Democrats, which I have made clear in my speeches this morning. We think that this is unreasonable and that it is perhaps a particular skill on the part of the government when it is said that so much has been done to achieve a tightening-up. Yet we have courts that are right to condemn seven and a half years of imprisonment, which in practice means four years in prison with a view to release after two thirds of the time. That's what I was referring to: four years in prison. This is the punishment for 49 rapes against children and 153 cases of gross sexual abuse. This is the result of all the government's efforts over six years. Of course, you can be proud of this. I don't mind the government being very proud of everything you've done. But I can also, for my part, be very unhappy that this is what the result looks like. It is no secret to the Minister of Justice that the Swedish Democrats have had higher ambitions for both funding and political image when it comes to punitive measures during the six years in which the government has been in power. This should be familiar to the Minister, one might think. It then comes to the conclusion that the policy of the Swedish Democrats had produced a different result. We had caged the pedophiles; the government lets them out.
i-c1baa20e3ec9d429-352	Madam President, I would like No, it's more the opposite. This government has tightened the penalties for the crimes of violence. This applies not only to sexual offences but also to serious violent crimes in general, to weapons offences, to serious drug offences and to a wide range of others. This means that the courts are now judging more, and those who are convicted are also longer. In addition, we have done another thing about what Adam Marttinen is talking about parole. As of 1 May, we will have a new rule in place, which says that if you misbehave in prison and do not participate in the treatment you have been prescribed, you risk running out of time. Then it may well be seven years and six months. This is another tightening up we have done. For we think it should pay to change your life, but it should also punish itself not to do so. We think that is a reasonable principle to adhere to. Then again to this with announcements and funding. The Parliament can make decisions on various wish lists of things you would like to do. I would just point out that this announcement represents quite a significant increase in costs, and the majority behind the announcement does not agree on how it should be financed. If you continue to work in this way on the part of the opposition, it will eventually be an unmanageable situation. This will undermine public finances in such a way that we will have very serious concerns. I think that the opposition should also think about what the funding is like before an announcement is made. Otherwise, we will end up in very difficult situations in the future. This brings us to exactly the difficulty that Adam Marttinen has had in this debate, namely that we stand and talk hotly about penalties and, at the same time, in reality, when we press the button and vote through things here, we are under-funded, for example, the Prison Service.
i-c1baa20e3ec9d429-356	Madam President, I would like Sofia Westergren has asked me if I am going to take any initiatives to exclude horse trading from the Consumer Sales Law so that all trade in horses is instead subject to the Sales Law. In recent years, work has been under way in the EU to modernise the rules in the field of consumer law. The work has resulted in two new EU directives. As Sofia Westergren knows, a study has submitted proposals for new consumer purchasing rules to implement the directives in Sweden. A well-functioning consumer market is important for everyone – for traders, consumers and society at large. This also applies to trade in live animals. Trade provides economic growth, contributes to employment and meets people's needs. A basic condition for this is that there is a good balance between buyers and sellers. The Consumer Sales Law applies to the purchase of live animals, and this has been the case for a long time. It is a matter of commercial activity, and the price tag on some animals is significant. Many buyers also find themselves at a disadvantage to the seller. The study has considered that there should continue to be basic consumer protection in the case of animal purchases. The study has made proposals that seek to address problems that have been highlighted while safeguarding the protection that individual animal purchasers are deemed to need. The investigation proposes a duty of inquiry for the consumer and the possibility of cancelling the so-called reversal of the burden of proof for the seller. The proposals have been discussed and are now being prepared in the Government Office. The goal is that a Council of Law referral can be decided later this spring.
i-c1baa20e3ec9d429-362	Madam President, I would like Animals need to be rescued from the Consumer Sales Law. I have debated the matter earlier with the Minister of Justice, then with the focus on the animals getting hurt because of the Consumer Sales Law. Madam President, I would like I think the Minister for Justice also agrees with this. That is why, with this debate, I would like to show that the Consumer Sales Law is destroying the situation for individuals as well. In my first speech, I give some background, and in my second speech I will explain why the Consumer Sales Law is not good for individuals who buy more expensive animals. I have spoken to several people with an international perspective before the debate to understand what has happened in Sweden and what it looks like in other countries. All these people agree that the Consumer Sales Law and sales to individuals in Sweden stand out in a negative way. The investigation, which is on the government table, is good and deals with what means that live animals should not be covered by the Consumer Sales Law. In the investigation, it says animals get hurt. Everything is clear, Madam President. It also says that what will now be done is a political position. The investigator makes a few notes about what can be done and clearly points out that it is the policy that determines. There are records of a compulsory survey for animals that cost one tenth of the basic amount. A tenth of the basic amount is barely SEK 5 000, Madam President. I want to inform the Minister of Justice that killing a horse costs $7,000. Then it says that animals should be sold in their existing condition. The Moderates want to save horses and all other living animals from the Consumer Sales Law. Only damages in Sweden can go on several hundred thousand, and that is not linked to the horse's value. Thus, legal proceedings can lead to the personal bankruptcy of a seller. The investigation notes that damages can be awarded a ceiling that will be the highest purchase price. Horse lawyer Malin Wikström, with ten years of experience in horse law, says that she is happy to refrain from all the processes that the Consumer Sales Law creates. If there's a problem with the horse, the Sales Law works. The Consumer Sales Law is not required. Malin also talks about sellers crying when they get their horse back after a legal process. It is a horse that is lean, introvert and a shadow of its former self. Maybe it can be saved, maybe it can't. Horses are expensive. I can give all the audience an insight into what the amount is. A normal horse costs between 75 000 and 150 000 SEK. It's a horse that performs in light classes. If you want more of your horse, that horse costs between 300,000 and 1 million. Horses you see on TV cost around and over $10 million. What we are going to bring with us in the debate is that individuals buy horses for big money, and here the Consumer Sales Law does not follow. I talked to Helena Torstensson, who works both at Paul Schockemöhle in Germany and in Flyinge in Sweden. In Germany, 1 500 foals are born and 600 horses are ridden annually. Helena reflects on the fact that there are more companies and professions abroad. Sweden unfortunately has an insurance tradition where horses are convicted and financial compensation is paid. Helena says the buyer needs to take more responsibility. She has seen that buyers who do not want to do the work with the horse would rather take the way out to put it down. It is sad and unacceptable. Madam President, I would like The Minister of Justice is welcome to develop what is meant by the status quo and to give a description of its impact.
i-c1baa20e3ec9d429-373	Madam President, I would like The horse industry in Sweden is very large. Not least Mrs. Speaker knows that the horse industry is very large in Gävleborg. There are up to 360 000 horses. The industry has a turnover of 31 billion, and it has created 17 000 jobs in Sweden. Anyone who wants to know more about the issue of the Consumer Sales Law and why it is unhappy can listen to the Horse Party podcast. Or you can laika the Horse Party on Facebook. What is this question about, Madam President? In 2017, the Committee on Civil Liberties made an announcement to the government, which the Parliament supported, that the Consumer Sales Law should take greater account of the purchase of live animals. When the announcement came, the LRF and the National Foundation of Horse Industry, HNS, stated that it was a welcome message. It was a welcome decision. On LRF's website, it was clearly stated: At present, the Consumer Sales Law allows a trader to risk buying to- bake the horse after a long time to significantly higher amounts than the purchase price. In addition, animal welfare risks suffering from long-term disputes between buyers and sellers. This is something that the LRF and the horse industry have been working on for many years. It has been noted that the legislation has not worked well enough. The Chairman of the LRF Häss commented on the decision by saying: It is incredibly pleasing and really a success for those of us who work for the conditions of the horse industry. It is excellent that we finally take this matter seriously and realise that we need to find a reasonable way to deal with consumer law based on the knowledge that live animals are live animals and no material goods. The lawyer of the LRF Consultant, who is an expert in horse-related consumer legislation, also looked very positively at the announcement: this gives room to create a change that provides a sought-after balance in the market and greater understanding as well as respect for this type of complex transaction. Live animals should not be treated as capital goods in the manner required by current legislation, as it is not compatible with the nature of the commodity and the particular complications of live animals. It is my view that the legislation hampers many actors from entering into contracts with consumers with the fear that the purchase will return while there are consumers who fail to assert their rights due to lack of evidence. So they looked forward to the change that was to take place. The Swedish Consumer Agency, on the other hand, does not want to make any changes to the law. They say this in their opinion on the proposal: The Swedish Consumer Agency has noted that there are difficulties in assessing the existence of errors and the time when errors have occurred in the marketing of live animals. However, the Swedish Consumer Agency believes that the trader has better opportunities than the consumer to make such assessments. Against this background, the Swedish Consumer Agency believes that the rules of the Consumer Sales Law, as in the past, should be fully applied to the purchase of live animals without thresholds, duty to investigate or other restrictions. We therefore have two opposing players. On the one hand, we have the Swedish Consumer Agency, which says that no changes are needed. On the other hand, we have the experts at the LRF and in the horse industry, who say that the legislation does not work. I would like to know: how will the Minister take the views of the LRF into account in the forthcoming legislative proposal?
i-c1baa20e3ec9d429-383	Madam President, I would like I'll pick up where Lars Beckman left off. Thus, in the middle between two, there is a living animal. According to the Consumer Sales Law, an error that appears within six months is assumed to have existed at the time of purchase. One problem with the application of the Consumer Sales Law to the purchase of horses, as well as other animals, is that the horse is by nature changing, just like other living animals. Things happen every day. It is also often said that it is quite common for a horse to get injuries during the first year with a new owner. It can be about riding in a different way, having other equipment, another base in the riding house or having other field mates to play with. There can be lots of things that affect, and a horse is still a horse. It's a living animal. When a buyer discovers a defect, he or she shall prove that it is such a defect that provides grounds for cancelling the purchase. It is then up to the seller to prove that the defect was not present at the time of delivery. In fact, this could be almost impossible. Full liability may be claimed by the seller even if the defect was not revealed by a veterinary inspection or even by an X-ray. In the case of transfers of second-hand goods, it is often stated that buyers can claim errors if the goods are in worse condition than the buyer could reasonably have assumed. It goes without saying that it can be impossible to prove when an error occurred. Damage can also occur in the case of good and responsible care, especially in the case of animals. It is a question of living animals that are being squeezed into legislation – legislation that we humans have decided on. Now this has been investigated, and the investigation is complete. But hear and be amazed: The basis on the government table says that the animals should remain in the Consumer Sales Law, this despite the fact that the investigation revealed deficiencies from an animal welfare perspective and that Sweden has also been driving the EU if the issue of living animals were to be excluded from the Consumer Sales Law. As I said, the law is intended solely to protect and strengthen the position of consumers vis-à-vis the trader. But there is no protection for the animal. The county administrative board's animal welfare is also not adapted to be able to enter such situations. Yesterday I visited a veterinarian, Madam President. We talked about a lot of things, of course, but we also got into the Consumer Sales Law. Veterinarians, lawyers and lawyers– all testify that more than half, perhaps even 70%, of all processes are actually about the buyer simply not being satisfied with his purchase. The horse may be ticking and climbing or perhaps not performing at all what you had in mind. Maybe it wasn't that pretty little pony you had in mind, but it was a live horse with its own temper. Then there are those who start to look wrong, and it's actually that if you go on and x-ray a horse you can find things that may not really show that there is something wrong. But it is there, and you can claim that this is what makes you want to return the horse. Since the Consumer Sales Law has become some form of extended withdrawal week for up to three years, it is assessed fairly legally insecure, and companies are now reluctant to sell horses to private individuals. What, then, would it be? As the Minister will understand, there are plenty of people who are involved in this matter and who are listening now and waiting for what it will be like. They are involved in various social media groups; Lars Beckman mentioned the Horse Party page on Facebook. All of these are now wondering if the Swedish Government is going to take any initiatives to exclude horse trading from the Consumer Sales Law, so that the trade goes through the Sales Law or perhaps even has its own legislation.
i-c1baa20e3ec9d429-393	Madam President, I would like We may have different entrances here, but not yet, because there is a compromise possibility in these different interests. First of all, it must be clear that there are different interests that stand against each other. I understand that the Moderates represent a unilateral interest in nutrition, in which you want to greatly weaken consumer protection. I don't stand for that. I believe that the consumer must also have strong protection in these industries. There must be a balance between seller and buyer. It is not only sellers who have rights but also buyers. You have the right to expect that the horse you buy is healthy and that it works as intended, such as riding animals. If it does not, it must be possible to get right afterwards. If you buy a horse and it turns out after two or three weeks that it is not healthy and you can't ride on it as the thought itself was, then suddenly you stand there with an expense that can be very large. In some cases it may be quite obvious that the error existed right from the start and that you have actually been deceived. Are you saying that the buyer should stand up to his throw, even though he or she has been tricked? Is the moderate position that the buyer's rights do not matter but that the seller, the trader, should have all rights? I don't think that's fair. I don't think that's good at all. You can't just put the buyer out of line. It is this balance between buyers and sellers that is the background to the reversal of the burden of proof in the first six months. That is, if during the first six months the horse turns out to have such health problems that, for example, it is not possible to ride on it, it is expected that it was an original fault, and then it is the seller who has to prove the opposite. This has been controversial for a long time, and that's why we set up this investigation. There was also an announcement at the bottom. As I said, the investigator proposes a compromise, i.e. a proposal that buyers should have a duty of investigation and also that the reverse burden of proof should be agreed off when buying more expensive animals, i.e. where the purchase is a little more than SEK 5 000, a tenth of the basic amount. Thus, when buying more expensive animals, the reverse burden of proof should be removed. I think that is a reasonable solution, but, as I said, we are still preparing the proposals. However, we are in the final stage of preparation, and as I write in the interpellation response, I expect that we can go to the Law Council this spring and have a proposal for the summer so that you can see what the proposal will look like. We will see how we end up in all the details, but there is no point seriously weakening the buyer's rights in the way that you seem to want. I believe that the buyer also has rights and not just the one who sells the horse.
i-c1baa20e3ec9d429-401	Madam President, I would like The Minister wants a high level of consumer protection, and so do the Moderates. The Consumer Sales Law is bad even for private individuals. The law excludes from horse shops. The law does not allow private individuals to get the help they need in horse shops from horse-savvy people who have individual companies or companies. The horse entrepreneur and race rider Erika Lickhammer van Helmond lives in Holland. She and her husband became entrepreneurs of the year. Erika is clear that she does not sell horses to private individuals in Sweden. The moods she hears about in Sweden do not occur in the Netherlands, perhaps because horse trading there mainly takes place between companies. I read from Erika's chronicle in the industry magazine Ridsport:中 Because of the law, more and more horse entrepreneurs choose not to sell to private individuals, which affects both the sellers... and the buyers who will no longer be able to buy horses in Sweden. Look at Sweden's breeding, it is extremely successful internationally... but one by one the breeders are also forced to quit because of the consequences of this controversial law. ..................................................... Lisen Bratt Fredricson has competed at the highest level all the way to the Olympics. Lisen is concerned that Swedish breeders do not use their full potential to breed horses, as they are limited by the Consumer Sales Law. Breeders say that they only sell foals to private individuals in order for the three-year period to pass before the horse performs the maximum. Lisen also tells us that she sees that many who buy horses need support. A dilemma arises here, because if Lisen gives that support, she can be held responsible according to the Consumer Sales Law. The law is like a magnet something that attaches as soon as an individual firm or company is located near the trade in horses. The Consumer Sales Law thus excludes the support that the former horse buyers need. A case that is going on right now can be an example of how bad things can go. A competition rider helps his neighbor and has a good network of contacts. At a competition in Europe, a horse is taken to the neighbor's daughter in the rider's truck. The rider doesn't take any compensation. He just wants to be fair. Today the rider is tuned in accordance with the Consumer Sales Law. It is not possible to cancel the Consumer Sales Law, so the law excludes private individuals from doing business. Madam President, I would like Paradoxically, Sweden has also become Europe's dumping country. There is therefore reason to review and strengthen the trade in horses by private individuals. Before, Italy was the country of these horses. Today, Sweden is the recipient of truck transport from the continent. But what is the point of having a law that excludes and makes it more difficult for consumers? Should politics protect individuals so mildly that they are excluded from buying horses? Is that what the government wants? I want to make it clear that a seller who acted against faith and honor should bear responsibility. The seller is also attached to the Sales Law. There is no other issue, Madam President.
i-c1baa20e3ec9d429-413	There is criticism that the Consumer Sales Law contributes to unfairly high damages. Listing in the investigation is available for a compensation ceiling linked to the purchase price. Does the Minister of Justice want to develop what is the goal and what can be achieved with this ceiling? We know that private individuals can buy a horse for SEK 1 million and that the damages will then be SEK 1 million more. It will be the same consequence, that a seller goes into personal bankruptcy.
i-c1baa20e3ec9d429-414	Madam President, I would like I don't know if the minister really meant what he said. But in my speech, Madam President, I outlined what the LRF, LRF Horses and the National Foundation of Horse Industry had said. This gives room to create a change that provides a sought-after balance in the market and greater understanding and respect for this type of complex transaction. Then the Minister stands here and says: The Moderates want to remove consumer protection! Is that the position you have?
i-130d2ebeb169f086-1	That's right. ) It's not like that. I think it is rude against the LRF, against the LRF Consultant and against the Horse Industry National Foundation to accuse serious organisations of wanting to remove consumer protection. After all, the whole debate is about improving consumer protection so that it really is effective. That's what I read out here. The Minister can of course go in and read for himself on the LRF page. The whole point is that today's consumer protection is not working. It is not for the benefit of the consumer because it simply does not lead to business, as I said in my first speech. This means that there is, in principle, no consumer protection. Relevant consumer protection must therefore be ensured. I would like the Minister to have a somewhat more humble attitude towards the LRF, the LRF Consultant and the horse industry. No one wants to worsen, but this whole interpellation debate is about improving the situation today.
i-c1baa20e3ec9d429-420	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. Of course there should be consumer protection. I've been cheated myself at horse purchases, so if anyone knows this is important. The minister was in on injuries that show up after two or three weeks. I may also think it is a reasonable time. But in Sweden, time is much longer today. Previously, there was legislation in Denmark that involved 28 days. It may seem a little more reasonable than having several months, precisely in view of what I said earlier about many injuries occurring at the beginning and perhaps even during the first year when you have bought a new horse. It is we people who can influence the legislation. In fact, it is we in here who have the opportunity to do so. The horses can have no influence on any legislation at all. It is we people who need to take responsibility for the animals we own. We have a far-reaching responsibility. This is about live animals. Complaints about a refrigerator are actually much easier. It just says where it says. In the event of a dispute, the refrigerator continues to stand where it says. But if you're going to advertise a horse, the horse lives on all the time. And if you as a seller want to check how the horse is doing, since you are responsible for it and may need to take it back, you may not visit it or take responsibility for the living animal. It is in this case that the horses can get caught. The minister was inside these two three weeks. Then the Minister must also see that there are obvious differences between refrigerators and horses. We need to take responsibility for this, so that it is easier for everyone but still a consumer protection when buying and selling live animals.
i-c1baa20e3ec9d429-424	Madam President, I would like First of all, I can see that the Sales Law and the Consumer Sales Law differ in that consumers have a stronger position in terms of trade within the framework of the Consumer Sales Law than within the scope of the Sales Law. In particular, the Swedish Purchasing Act regulates trade between traders and where they are at a more equal level in relation to each other. Because of this, a consumer purchasing law has been introduced to ensure that the weaker party in a relationship of this kind sometimes has a stronger position than under the Sales Law. This means that lifting these transactions entirely from the Consumer Sales Law weakens the consumer's position. It's just like that. Then you can have any tone of voice in the debate. But that's just the way it is. If this is removed from the Consumer Sales Law to the Sales Law, it weakens the interests of the consumer and the position of the consumer. Then in the Moderates you do not need to be ashamed because you stand for the nutritional interest here, because then you do. It is the horse merchant interest and the nutrition interest that you stand for – okay – and there are organisations that drive these issues. But what I am saying is that we cannot go so far as to completely weaken consumer protection in these transactions. Then there must be someone who actually balances this, and that is what I stand for. Anyone who is deceived in such a business must simply have an opportunity to get right in that situation. If you go all the way, as some apparently want to do, you weaken consumer interest very strongly. I don't want to go there. Then there is an investigation proposal which involves an investigation duty and an opportunity to agree on the reversal of the burden of proof which currently applies to the first six months. It is this proposal that we are working on. None of you have commented – we may hear it in the final post – what you think about this compromise in that case. But I think it's balanced. This means, among other things, that this controversial part of the reverse burden of proof can be agreed off or that a separate rule can be drawn up in an agreement between buyers and sellers for what will apply during, for example, the first time. There will be a different situation then, and then I think it will be easier to get along. It might solve some of these problems. So we are working on this bill, and the idea is that we should leave a legislative referral a little later this spring and then a bill for the summer. But what I have said here is that we are not going to go all the way and so severely weaken consumers' rights, which it seems that the Moderates are after.
i-c1baa20e3ec9d429-431	Madam President, I would like I'm a little desperate when I hear the Minister of Justice's answer. I'd like to give you a little summary. We know that horses get hurt because of the Consumer Sales Law. We know that private individuals are excluded from buying horses. The support to private individuals that they so badly need to be excluded because of the Consumer Sales Law. Horse business operators close down or limit their activities to those covered by the Sales Law only. Nor is it possible to avoid the Consumer Sales Law. If I buy a horse as a private person, I cannot be allowed to avoid the Consumer Sales Law. I hear horse entrepreneurs say that instead of selling to a private person, they would rather sell the horse for perhaps 200 000 more, with the rules of the Sales Law. We hear horse lawyer Malin Wikström say that she is happy to avoid any legal proceedings related to the Consumer Sales Law. Because it is not fair. The Consumer Sales Law was developed for dead things. When you buy a refrigerator from a large white goods chain, the Consumer Sales Law works excellently to strengthen the buyer's role, but those who are going to buy a horse for perhaps several hundred thousand and need support and help cannot get it. We heard Lisen Bratt Fredricson say that she can't help her neighbor buy a horse, because then she gets caught as an intermediary and gets the Consumer Sales Law smudged on her.
i-c1baa20e3ec9d429-436	Madam President, I would like I would like to say that consumers are even more at risk if we do what the Moderates want and completely undermine their rights. For that would mean that the one who is deceived at a purchase should stand his throw, as it were. You would have much less opportunity to get redress and get the deal to go back. Even if the horse was wrong from the beginning and the seller knew about it, the buyer will have to stand his throw, simply, without any opportunity at all to get redress. That's the problem here. Then I can only note that none of those who have debated this – including Sofia Westergren – have actually gone into the proposals contained in the investigation. Neither do the speakers give any indication as to whether they think the proposals are reasonable. I think that the proposals that exist to be able to agree on the reversal of the burden of proof and on the duty of investigation seem to me to be a reasonable balance. It seems to be a compromise that lies in between the different interests we have to deal with here. That's what we're working on. As I said, I do not want to go as far as the Moderates seem to want to do, i.e. completely undermine the rights of consumers – buyers – here. But we are working on this, and we will go to Parliament later this spring.
i-c1baa20e3ec9d429-439	Madam President, I would like Christina Höja Larsen has asked me whether I and the government are behind the EU's policy on opportunities for refugees to seek protection in the EU. She has also asked me what the Swedish Government intends to do to ensure that the human rights of asylum seekers are not violated at the EU border. Last September, the Commission presented a communication on a new Migration and Asylum Pact. The Pact aims to create a common framework covering all aspects of asylum and migration policy, both in the internal dimension and in relation to third countries. The government has welcomed the Commission's proposal and welcomes the fact that the Pact has a comprehensive approach that includes all aspects of migration, asylum, integration, border management, return, legal pathways and cooperation with third countries and stresses that the asylum system should be based on responsibility and solidarity between Member States. It is essential for a common system that all Member States contribute and that a Member State subject to high migratory pressure is supported. The asylum system must be effective, legally secure, sustainable, humane and allow high-quality decisions to safeguard the right to asylum. Furthermore, the Government considers that the EU needs to deepen cooperation with priority third countries and that it should be done through partnerships that are comprehensive, tailor-made and mutually beneficial. That is also what the Commission is proposing in the Migration and Asylum Pact. An important task is to strengthen the capacity of countries of origin and transit to deal with all aspects of migration. For example, we need to strengthen partner countries' asylum and migration systems through UNHCR and IOM. It also concerns support for reception, integration and a well-functioning return system between third countries. Another important area is efforts to strengthen borders and prevent trafficking in human beings. Under EU law, all Member States have an obligation to control their borders. Passages shall be carried out at border crossing points and Member States shall have border surveillance to prevent illegal crossing of the border. Illegal border crossing can be punished. In applying these rules, Member States shall act in full compliance with international law, with the EU Charter of Fundamental Rights and, in particular, with the principle of non-refoulement. Frontex shall also ensure that their efforts are fully compatible with international law. The Commission has a responsibility to ensure that our common law and international law are complied with. Sweden and the EU are constantly monitoring developments in the area of human rights worldwide, as well as in the countries with which the EU has specific cooperation. This is done, among other things, through international forums, such as the UN Human Rights Council and the Council of Europe.
i-c1baa20e3ec9d429-446	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. The EU's external border is also Sweden's external border, Madam President. Similarly, the EU's refugee policy is also Sweden's refugee policy. My interpellation with Minister Morgan Johansson is about how the Swedish Government views what is happening at the EU's external border. I describe in my interpellation a series of abuses and violations of the human rights of migrants that have been recognised at the EU's external border, in connection with it or in countries that cooperate with the EU. The book The Black Book of Pushbacks, which gathers 900 testimony on illegal and violent direct expulsions at the EU border, was published on the UN International Migrant Day on December 18. The book is funded by the left-wing group of the European Parliament, and left-wing MEPs Malin Björk and Miguel Urbán from Spanish Podemos handed the book over to Commissioner Ylva Johansson on the day it was published. I have two thick volumes with me today, which I am happy to hand over to Morgan Johansson after the debate so that he too can take note of the shaking description of what has met people on the run when they arrive at the EU's borders – in Italy, Hungary, the Balkans, Croatia, Greece and so on. Anna Roxvall and Johan Persson also describe the human consequences of the EU's migration policy at all costs. They describe the developments that the Left Party has long criticised, namely that countries along the African migration routes – Niger, Sudan, Egypt, Libya – should guard the border with Europe and take back citizens who have been denied asylum in exchange for aid and investment, all with the Turkey agreement as a model. They also describe how the EU operation Operation Sophia, which has monitored the waters off the Libyan coast, aims to avoid direct contact with migrants in distress – and thus the responsibility for saving lives. The authors also present evidence that EU air operations have resulted in refugees in forced labour and pure slavery. In autumn 2017, CNN revealed that slave trade was common in Libyan detention camps, and Roxvall and Persson note that what has changed since then is that slavery has been facilitated and expanded. Madam President, I would like All of this cannot be interpreted in any other way than that there is a clear ambition on the part of the European Union to shift responsibility for people on the run to countries outside the EU's borders and thus deny people their right to seek asylum. That is how the richest continent in the world acts at a time of nearly 80 million people fleeing the world over. The Minister of Migration and his Secretary of State often say that the Government believes that the EU's migration policy should safeguard the right to asylum and respect the principle of non-refoulement and human rights. These are important positions that I strongly support, but if they are to be anything but fine words on paper, they must be followed by action. The question for the day, Madam President, is therefore: what does the government do in concrete terms when they see human rights being repeatedly violated – in the Member States and by cooperation countries such as Turkey, Libya and Sudan, at the external border?
i-c1baa20e3ec9d429-454	Madam President, I would like The short answer to this question is that we raise it with the contacts we have, not least with the Council of Ministers of the European Union, but also in contact with the Commission. Our view is that pushbacks are unacceptable. The right of asylum gives all people the right to seek asylum when they come to the EU's external border, and there is no right to push them back. When this happens, we raise it and try to ensure that the European authorities act. Frontex has carried out a special investigation based on the information available that Frontex had been involved in this and has also created a special working group for this. Of course, we continue to monitor this work closely. This is what we are doing, and where it is important that Sweden continues to maintain that the right of asylum is inviolable and applies everywhere. If we are going to broaden the discussion a little, we can see that a great deal has happened over the last four or five years in terms of migration to the EU. The big change is that overall the number of asylum seekers to the EU has fallen sharply – by almost two thirds – in these years. This has also meant that the number of deaths in the Mediterranean has actually decreased by almost 80% since 2015– 2016. This is because crossings have been reduced. I think it is basically a good thing that this is the way it is. We also see that the distribution of asylum seekers has changed. Those who come to the EU now differ in relation to what it was like in 2015 – 2016. At the time, the war in Syria drove many Syrians to Europe, and here in Sweden they had almost 100 per cent of the granting rate. I believe that since 2011, when the war broke out in Syria, Sweden has protected 180 000 Syrians. As I said, the granting rate has been almost 100%, and that has been the case in most countries. That is no longer the case, however, but now other groups are coming to Europe. This means that the granting rate has fallen sharply – from an average of approximately 70% in the granting rate, it is about 30% in the granting rate. There are now fewer refugees, or people with protection needs, who come to the EU and more who have economic reasons for coming to the EU. This is just a fact. This means that we need to review how the system itself will work in the longer term. This is the background to some of the proposals presented by Ylva Johansson on a border procedure around the EU's external border, in which early on we can see who should be dealt with in a fast-track procedure – for manifestly unfounded asylum applications – and who should be included in the normal procedure. This would be done to be able to handle a different situation from what we had in 2015 – 2016. This is controversial; it is one of the issues on which there is a great deal of discussion, not least within the EU community. Different countries, especially the southern European countries, do not want it this way, because they think they should take care of more people. At the same time, that is the very point of this – if we are to have free movement within Schengen and be able to lift internal border controls between EU countries, we still need to have border management that works around the EU's external border. Border management must be based on the right of asylum. However, it must also work in such a way that secondary movements are reduced and that there is no free movement for those who are asylum seekers in the EU too, because then we will be in the same position as in 2015 again.
i-c1baa20e3ec9d429-462	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for further answers. We will now go into more detail on exactly what you have done in various areas. The Government said in its written reply that the Government wants the EU to deepen cooperation with priority third countries, through partnerships that are comprehensive, tailor-made and mutually beneficial. That sounds very nice. The question is how to create mutually beneficial partnerships with dictatorships and rogue militias. And what is the price we close our eyes to when an agreement is to be tailored to make, for example, Erdo中an a border guard or Libyan militia as a camp guard? Turkey and Libya are, of course, the two most important partners of the European Union; that is why there are no longer as many people coming to the European Union seeking asylum. We all see Turkey turning more and more quickly away from democracy and human rights. The country has never signed the later version of the Geneva Convention and thus does not provide genuine refugee status for persons in need of protection. The opposition is being imprisoned, parties banned, women's rights turned their backs, refugees trying to get out of Syria are being shot at and EU funds are being used to build fences. All of this is documented. How can the government believe that it is possible to create a mutually beneficial agreement on something as sensitive as the right to asylum with such a regime? And what has the government done specifically to ensure the right to protection in this case? The same can be said of Libya. The EU has a mutually beneficial agreement with the Libyan Coast Guard, which in practice consists of various militia groups and warlords, some of whom have UN sanctions directed against them as a result of human trafficking. The atrocities going on in Libyan detention camps are beyond words. Human rights organisations as well as CNN describe slave trade, diseases, malnutrition, violence and sexual abuse. The question again, Madam President, is how the government believes that a mutually beneficial agreement can be concluded with this type of Libyan militia, which has clearly shown that they do not respect human life or human rights in any way. How has the government acted to ensure that this agreement really follows the principles that the government considers important? The Government answered the question about Frontex. I think it is very good that this type of issue is being raised, but I wonder whether the government is prepared to pause Swedish participation in Frontex's activities until this is really investigated by independent investigators and not by Frontex itself. Finally, I wonder what the government has done – quite concretely – to answer when Italian colleagues admit that the Italian border police have brought asylum seekers out of the country and from the territory of the European Union. And how has it been answered that Greek coastguards have similarly brought people back to Turkey, as Hungary has done to Serbia? As the Government states, it is very good and important to follow the human rights situation in countries with which the EU cooperates around borders, but the question is what the government does when it sees human rights being violated and that it is rogue regimes that have this sensitive and difficult responsibility.
i-c1baa20e3ec9d429-471	Madam President, I would like When we get information about pushbacks or things that are not in accordance with international law, we bring it up in all the forums that we have at our disposal; it could be about UN fora, EU fora or the Council of Europe. I would say that we are acting more actively than the vast majority of countries are doing. If anyone acts for international law in these contexts, it is Sweden. We always point this out. When we hear about this, it must be investigated down to the bottom so that it cannot continue. If there is no reaction to this type of behaviour, these countries will continue to behave in this way, and as I said, we cannot accept that. Then we do not live in a world where all countries are democracies and respect human rights; on the contrary, we live in a world where many countries violate human rights and are undemocratic. Nevertheless, we sometimes need to cooperate with them; that is the concern. In a perfect world we hadn't had it this way, but that's the way the world is, after all. Let us take Turkey as an example. In Turkey there are about 4 million refugees from the wars in the Middle East. The solution cannot, of course, be that 4 million refugees should go to Greece and seek asylum in the EU; it will be a completely unreasonable situation and a difficult situation to cope with at all. This is what happened when we had the refugee crisis – people from there moved in very large groups towards Europe. We had the refugee crisis, but we also had a large number of deaths, especially among those who came from Africa. Thousands of people perished each year in the Mediterranean. Nevertheless, we must try to deal with this situation pragmatically, and that is the background to Turkey's agreement. The EU goes in and finances schools, health care and much more for the refugees who are staying in Turkey. That is where EU money should go and not elsewhere, not to Mr Erdo, but to the activities of the refugees who need it. What's the alternative? If we tear up Turkey's agreement and say in practice that now all these people will come to Greece, we will be in very difficult trouble. It's the same with Libya. We are well aware of the situation in Libya. That's why we work with UNHCR and IOM to make it easier for refugees on their way from Central Africa and north. But we are also discussing with those who are heading north, because it is not really a good idea to get stuck in these camps in Libya. It is absolutely inhumane conditions that are being put at risk there. It is clear that it can then be said that there is cooperation with Libyan coastguards and that Libya is a country that is difficult to cooperate with. On the other hand, it meant that only last year 11 260 migrants were rescued from the waves as a result, among other things, of the cooperation that we have along the coast of Libya. Had we not had it, the risk would have been much greater that human life would have actually been wasted. Responding very strongly to all kinds of pushbacks while cooperating with countries located in the neighbourhood of the EU is the pragmatic way to try to deal with the situation.
i-c1baa20e3ec9d429-479	Madam President, I would like The fact that people on the run are captured, shot at, sold as slaves, subjected to violent direct expulsions and thus denied the right to seek asylum is, of course, contrary to all international conventions, and we fully agree with that. It can never be justified. Then it does not matter whether it is the Member States themselves that do the job or whether you pay others to do it. That is precisely what matters with Libya and Turkey. Not so many come because they are trapped in terrible camps and because they are sold as slaves. Surely that cannot be a reasonable result. It seems to be argued that the agreements and policies underlying these abuses are necessary, because otherwise many people would seek protection in the EU. Other times it is that these dirty agreements are justified in stopping so-called economic migrants – as if the bullets from Turkish border guards know who has asylum reasons or not, as if the militia in Libya knows who is in need of protection and who is looking for another life and then just taking care of one group and, above all, as if that would make this negotiation acceptable. The truth is that as long as the Swedish Government does not break this kind of cooperation, this will continue, and then we will be complicit. If we accept that people are being treated in this way, not only human rights themselves are being eroded, but it also makes it possible to create the impression that these are not people like you and I, that they are not covered by human rights and that those who have come here can therefore be treated as not just human beings. We know, both the Government and I, that there are strong forces in Europe that have just that view. That is why we in the Left Party are calling for much clearer action on the part of the government against fortress Europe and its consequences.
i-c1baa20e3ec9d429-483	Madam President, I would like Both Christina Höj Larsen and I have been working on these questions for quite some time now. And we remember – at least I do – what it was like before the Turkey agreement. Then we had a situation where perhaps 20 000 people a week took the boats from Turkey over to Greece and got stuck there. Many of these people were then trapped in camps in Moria, Greece, for they did not make it. They thought they could get on to Germany, to Holland or to Sweden, but they got stuck there. That is the background to Turkey's agreement, which means that, as I said, the EU is going in with money for schools, health care and other support for the refugees in Turkey. If we had not had the agreement, the risk would have been that we would have had exactly the same situation again. It would have gone out on these migrants. As I said, the number of deaths in the Mediterranean has decreased by almost 80 percent since 2015 and 2016. It has decreased more than the number of asylum seekers to the EU overall. It's hard to see any other way to work with this right now anyway. Then there are other collaborations that we have not been into so much. But it is also a question of those who are refused their asylum application in the EU being able to return to their home countries again. I also think that this is quite important in order to be able to get things right in migration policy. In fact, it also reduces the number of people coming to the EU when you realise that if you do not have a need for protection and receive a refusal, you risk being sent back again. It is another part of Ylva Johansson's package that she works with. Together in the EU, we will work bilaterally with a number of countries so that they will begin to receive their own citizens again. Then Sweden will continue to be one of the countries that contributes most to international law but also in international forums to help refugees, which we now do in IOM, UNHCR and so on.
i-c1baa20e3ec9d429-487	Madam President, I would like Bengt Eliasson has asked me what measures I intend to take to ensure that families who have previously received support to care for a child with disabilities receive the compensation they are entitled to in accordance with the Government's objective. The aim of the reform has not been to tighten the requirements or to save money but instead to create simpler and clearer rules for the compensation of children and adults with disabilities. The reform was intended to increase transparency, predictability and uniformity in the decisions and to create better conditions for monitoring the individual's needs. Work on the reform was carried out in cooperation and close dialogue with the disability movement. There was broad political agreement on the need to reform and modernise the aid provided by disability benefit and care allowance. These benefits had been largely unreformed since the 70s and 80s. The proposals on the new benefits for nursing allowances and additional expenses were also voted through in the Riksdag by a large majority. The care allowance now provides the right and the opportunity for both parents to be granted compensation and to distribute it among themselves. Linked to the benefit is also a right to shorten normal working hours even after the child is 8 years of age. Each parent has the right to a 25% reduction in working hours, which makes it easier for parents who have children with disabilities to combine the care of the child with an employment. According to information provided, inter alia, within you, the parents of children with disabilities have received reduced or withdrawn benefits following the reform of the care allowance and disability benefit for the new nursing allowance and additional costs. Since it was not the intention that the compensation would be lower, either as a saving or more stringent requirement, the Government is keen to understand for what reasons the compensation levels are reduced. In November, the Government decided on a mission to the Social Security Inspection, ISF, to evaluate the reform. In order to be able to quickly get an initial picture of what may be underlying reasons for signals of reduced levels of transition to the nursing allowance, the Government asked ISF for an interim report, the interim report to which the interpeller refers in its questions. In its preliminary study, ISF examined 34 cases. The results are to be considered as indications for the further evaluation, which will be presented to the Government on 30 November this year. The ruling does not exclude taking action if it turns out that the intention of the law is not fulfilled and assumes that we have the support of the Riksdag if action is required. In order to reduce the risk that households will be left without a decision or payment due to long processing periods, the Government provided the Social Insurance Agency with the possibility, from 1 July 2020, to extend the health care allowance pending a decision on the nursing allowance. In order to strengthen the processing and shorten the processing times of the nursing allowance and the additional reimbursement, the Social Insurance Agency has also received additional funds in the budget proposal for 2021 for these benefits. I continue to monitor developments closely, as it is particularly important for the government to ensure that families with children with disabilities receive the benefit to which they are entitled.
i-c1baa20e3ec9d429-494	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. Most of the things we agree on, because it's a good history description the government gives. There is no doubt that there is a broad majority in this House for the changes and also for further work if necessary. This is an important issue which, unfortunately, has become a sequel. This is not the first time it has been debated in this House since the amendment came into force. It has become an obstacle course of difficulties for the families concerned. Quite frankly, the same obstacle course applies to all parts of functional law policy in different ways. Today, however, we are talking about additional costs and, above all, the care allowance. Madam President, I would like The fact that the administration of the Social Insurance Agency is not functioning is beyond reasonable doubt, at least as regards the handling of this contribution. But what is actually in the internal assignment of Försäkringskassan, and what is in the deficiencies in governance and management from the Ministry? Here, the pictures are a little unclear. It becomes clear to me that the Director-General of the Social Security Committee of the Swedish Social Insurance Agency states that the agency sees itself in need and has to withdraw its action plan until 2023 in order for everyone who is going to move from the old system to the new one to have a correct assessment. It is already quite a long time since the amendment came into force. In the meantime, as the Government described, the old system for catching up the families that end up in the middle is extended. On the same occasion, however, the same Director-General states that the extension does not work. It does not meet the people who need support. As I point out in my interpellation, there are major problems with processing times but also with differences in assessments and strange justifications. The agency also uses the so-called DFA chain, diagnosis, disability and activity limitation, also in its assessments for the nursing grant. That checklist is designed for health insurance and does not really work for anything else, neither nursing allowance nor other interventions. Madam President, I would like The fact that the authority uses the DFA chain means in practice that many people get rejected and withdrawn due to incorrect written medical certificates where some code has been missed, some doctor has not been clear enough and so on. I think the Government understands exactly what I mean. There is much in Försäkringskassan's service here that becomes a balling, and in between sits the individual. The references to parental responsibility are a very own example of this and are not in line with the assessments contained in the assistance, but at a completely different level. In dialogue with Försäkringskassan, they say that the judgments they have based their legal positions on parental responsibility cannot be used on the nursing allowance and the additional compensation. My question to the Government is therefore: Can he consider giving the Social Insurance Agency the task of reviewing what instruments and justifications you use for your decisions so that you use what is relevant for the nursing allowance? Both the Council of State and I are, of course, determined by a desire for the grant to be made right because it is necessary for these families.
i-c1baa20e3ec9d429-503	Madam President, I would like I thank Bengt Eliasson for an important interpellation that affects vulnerable groups in our society that are definitely in need of the systems that exist within the framework of Försäkringskassan's operations and that the decisions made are based on existing legislation. It is a matter of respect for the objectives set by the legislator, respect for the objectives underlying the House's position in the amendment of the law and respect for the citizens' right to good administration and speed of proceedings. In the light of the ongoing and ongoing debate on Försäkringskassan's operations and the need for clearer and more developed governance both by the Government and internally within Försäkringskassan, several processes are currently ongoing both in Försäkringskassan and in the government's governance of the agency that are of the greatest relevance. The Government is responsible to the Riksdag for the governance of the authorities governed by the Government, including Försäkringskassan. We take this responsibility very seriously. We cooperate with two cooperation parties on budgetary issues, which means that there is also cooperation between the government and the cooperation parties in matters where regulatory letters are handled. This means that both the government and the cooperation parties have a huge responsibility before the House to manage the governance of the Social Insurance Fund so that the needs of the insured and the good administration are put in focus and that the steering signals sent by the Government and the cooperation parties do not conflict with the intentions contained in the legislation decided by the House. Let me emphasise that it is a great responsibility of the government and the cooperation parties on these issues, and I assume that all parties take this responsibility very seriously, show respect for the Swedish administrative model and want to give our administrative authorities good conditions. On this issue, there is a suspicion that the Social Insurance Agency, in its application of the new legislation, is acting in a way that could mean that it becomes more restrictive than the previous legislation, and that is neither the government nor the parliament's intention. We take this very seriously. As soon as these tasks reached the government, we started a process. The Social Security Inspection now follows closely the application of the legislation by the Social Insurance Agency and reports to the Government how the legislator's intentions are being observed. I can assure Bengt Eliasson and the House that I am following this matter closely. We have enough challenges with regard to social security, and we do not need to develop in this area too, where the legislator's intention is not respected. As I mentioned, we have introduced a number of possibilities to apply the old legislation so that people do not get hurt. We will follow closely the Social Insurance Evaluation Inspection to see if further action is needed. If legislative changes are needed, we have announced that we are prepared to take action, and I assume that the House will then cooperate.
i-c1baa20e3ec9d429-513	Madam President, I would like I am extremely pleased that there are processes going on and that the steering and management functions are given proper attention in the Government Office and at the Ministry. I'm really happy about that. I am, of course, also pleased that the cooperation on regulatory letters that takes place within the framework of the January Agreement is highlighted by the Minister as important. I cannot answer for all parties, but the Liberals' intention is clear: it must be consistent, clear and supportive for each other. If we raise the issue of assistance and Försäkringskassan's handling of it, there is also a big difference between the text of the regulation letter and the function and supervision of Försäkringskassan, which you also need to look at. But it is a secondary issue and not the subject of today's debate. I would like to focus on some other elements of the Government's response. I think it is important for the House to discuss these important things – how authorities actually act out there in reality. They are the extended arm of politics. In its conclusion, the Government used a concept that I very often hear from the Government, and perhaps above all from the Minister's colleague Lena Hallengren, namely to ensure that, in this case, families and children with disabilities receive the benefits they are entitled to. You can sometimes turn it to those who are justified and so on. The question is, What does the word entitled really mean? With regard to the consequences of the rescheduling that took place, which we agree on, were good, as the media describe, which we hear from families and which we are debating politically: what conclusions does the Minister draw from all the indicators that come and show that it does not work in reality? The ISF mission is one such, of course, but it will not be presented until November. There is quite a lot of time in between that goes on and goes on and on. The Social Insurance Agency does not always work very well in its deliveries. It is, as we have said, not the first time an authority has problems delivering. We constantly come back to governance and management in this particular authority, which is both boring and a little dangerous for trust in the entire welfare system and also in the small but important parts of the benefits, such as the nursing allowance and the additional expenses. Where is the pain line, according to the Minister, for the families? Prolonged care grants are obviously not the answer to the problems and are not fully operational. We have tried to make adjustments and remarks, and the Social Security Committee is delaying and asking questions and so on. But somewhere, at least on the part of the government parties, we need to put our foot down and say that it is enough now and that something must now happen because there are a number of families that are left out.
i-c1baa20e3ec9d429-521	Madam President, I would like Thank you again, Bengt Eliasson, for these important remarks! We have the model of administration that we have in accordance with our constitution, which means that Parliament makes the laws. The authorities are independent in their application of the laws, and there is no possibility for the government or the Riksdag to regulate the application of the law in detail. The method we have with regard to the possibility of influencing the application of law is to amend the legislation. That is how our Constitution regulates relations between government, parliament and administrative authorities, where our administrative authorities have far-reaching autonomy in matters of legal application and handling of individual cases. This means that Parliament and the government have a very great responsibility to regulate the issues that need to be regulated in detail, if there is a risk that the application of law is contrary to the intentions of this House. I believe that we are dependent on the evaluation carried out by the Social Security Inspection at the moment. Then, of course, the Social Security Inspection needs to be given the opportunity to carry out an evaluation based on a number of cases where the application of law can be reviewed, which means that we can only get the evaluation in the autumn. We have now received indications in a first interim report that gives us a picture of how the review will be conducted in the coming months. What we can do, Madam President, pending any adjustments to the legislation, is to influence the transitional arrangements, as we have done, in order to allow the previous benefit to be extended, and to ensure that the Social Insurance Agency has a clear objective: that the length of proceedings should be reduced. This objective has been expressed, and the Swedish Social Insurance Agency has been given the resources to shorten processing times. I can assure the Riksdag that in my dialogues with Försäkringskassan, I have stressed the need to reduce processing times and that the resources allocated to the Försäkringskassan should be used to shorten processing times as efficiently as possible. This is a very serious situation. We know that the two benefits have been created because the groups that depend on the benefits are vulnerable and in need of financial compensation and compensation in order to deal with the situation in the family. That is why we must take the signals of a more restrictive application very seriously. I intend to continue the close dialogue with the Social Security Committee and Bengt Eliasson in this area and report in committee on the signals we receive in the dialogue with the authority and with the Social Security Inspection. Above all, we will closely monitor developments in the processing times at Försäkringskassan because the agency has been commissioned to work with the processing times and, of course, has also been allocated resources to be able to have the capacity to reduce processing times. I am convinced that this is an area in which we – the government and the other political parties – have a common interest in putting aside party political differences and cooperating, as we do, with the Social Security Committee. I appreciate the frequent dialogue, not least with Bengt Eliasson.
i-c1baa20e3ec9d429-528	Madam President, I would like Thank you again for your answer, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. I think there is, in fact, an almost total consensus in this House, but we need to debate and lift the application to the surface so that it does not drift away and disappear in the general debate. We still see that many receive reduced subsidies and non-reimbursement, and the justifications are sometimes very strange. Among other things, the commitment to the home and the child, as mentioned in the preparatory work, are not taken into account. You don't get a full nursing allowance unless you have a lot of care at night. It is not enough for parents to sleep with half an eye at night and go up and fix something needed or if the child goes up and finds something at night. The checkout does not really use the preparatory work as we would like. Ultimately, it is the Parliament's order that is not carried out. We fully agree on that. Finally, I would like to point out the reality and to quote what one of many people who has contacted me says: we cannot go away on short-term weekends because we must be able to pick up at short notice. The bonding means that one of us must be at home even when the trigger is in place because it is we who have to crisis-manage if there is trouble or something else. I thank the Government for its answers and reasoning. I also continue to monitor developments very closely, and I assume that it is really important for the government to ensure that families with children with disabilities receive the benefits and benefits they need to live a functioning parental life just like all other parents.
i-Jz1NkyE4kXUJ7RLf1uZcj9	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Bengt Eliasson, for the debate and the interpellation! I would really like to emphasise that the strength of a society should be valued on the basis of how society treats the most vulnerable. This is the starting point that we need to have in the debate on our social insurance policies, not least on the two benefits discussed in this debate. How do we treat the most vulnerable in our society? What determines whether our society is a decent society is the degree of solidarity with those people who, for various reasons, need the common support to deal with difficulties in life. Swedish society has had a very proud and fine tradition over the last hundred years when it comes to building social insurance and jointly funded insurance that aims to provide support to the people in need of it. But it is clear, Madam President, that some of our social insurance policies have been subject to deterioration and weakening in recent years. It is the responsibility of the government and parliament to restore the security of the people who depend on social insurance, restore the social contract and ensure that Swedish society puts the needs and security of the most vulnerable groups in focus.
i-c1baa20e3ec9d429-535	Madam President, I would like Ida Gabrielsson has asked me when I intend to present the proposals from the Investigation A safe health insurance with people at the centre that remains. General social security is a central part of the Swedish welfare model and has for a long time contributed to creating security and counteracting financial vulnerability. Weaknesses in the regulatory framework damage confidence in health insurance. The fact that there are shortcomings in health insurance regulations has been highlighted by the government. That's why the investigation was set up A safe health insurance with people at the centre. The investigation has, among other things, made proposals for a more flexible rehabilitation chain and how the Social Insurance Agency's examination of work capacity can be made more understandable. Based on the investigation's proposal, the government has made important changes to the health insurance regulations. The amendments aim to achieve a more flexible rehabilitation chain. This means that the assessment of the ability to work against normal work must be postponed after day 180 if the reason for the insured person to return to work at the employer by day 365 is considered. The person on sick leave is thus given better opportunities to undergo care, treatment and rehabilitation in order to be able to return to work. The provisions entered into force on 15 March 2021. In order to prevent people from losing their sickness benefit due to shortcomings in health insurance regulations pending the new rules, the government introduced a temporary suspension of assessments of normal work after day 180. The stop applied retroactively from 21 December 2020. As a result of the criticisms made by the investigation regarding the lack of investigations and decision-making documents, the Government has given an assignment to Försäkringskassan to improve the quality of the handling of sickness benefit matters. The assignment concerns cases where sickness benefit is denied because the individual is deemed to be able to work in a normal job. Refusal decisions must be understandable to the individual. This is crucial for the legitimacy of health insurance. The investigation has also made several other proposals, including when the assessment of normal work can be postponed after day 365 in the case of illness and proposals to replace the current concept of normal work. The government is actively working on the other proposals one. People affected by illness should be able to rely on health insurance and community support. The starting point is that health insurance should provide security for all those who have reduced working capacity due to illness.
i-c1baa20e3ec9d429-543	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Social Security, for your answer! It is now over a year ago that parts of the study on improving health insurance came up with proposals. The Minister for Social Security then and now said that these were important and necessary proposals if the insurance is to work. Despite this, the Left Party has previously but not least during the last year had to bax the government and the January parties in front of it. Among other things, the Left Party puts forward proposals that are fully investigated in the Government's own investigation. They're being voted down. But in some almost magical way the government returns and announces the proposals later. Madam President, I would like Let me be clear: I am not the one who is. It is good that the government is moving from words to deeds. After all, the Social Democrats and the Green Party are a government that has previously contributed to the major insurance policies. It is the Alliance's legislation, but as this week's mission review showed, the Social Democrats steered the Social Insurance Fund in this direction. Much needs to be done and it is fast if not more people are to have their lives and livelihood broken down. Madam President, I would like The Left Party really wants to go much further. We are of the simple opinion that if you are sick you are and if you can't work you can't. Rehabilitation, when possible, is a good thing and important thing, but for it to work, the rigid deadlines must be removed. Those who are permanently ill must be entitled to compensation. Harder than that, it's not really. Even a baby can understand that. But for Försäkringskassan and other parties in the Riksdag it seems impossible to understand this. I don't understand this. What is completely clear to me, however, is that today's assessments, signed by Försäkringskassan, are not made from real people. Reimbursement levels are like living on air, and reference is made to pure find-out jobs. The fact that people who have worked and worked their whole lives don't get what they're entitled to when they get sick is appalling. My own father has the cancer myeloma. He just had a stem cell transplant and is approaching day 365. He has now received an advance notice that he will be insured. He has worked since he was 15 years old at the laundry in Ockelbo and in the charken at Konsum and has since many years run his own shop. Today, he's a city councillor working at a home. There are thousands of examples of other people who have ended up in this situation. It is said that the compensation is a contribution, but nothing could be more wrong. It is my father and all the others who have worked and toiled and abandoned pay so that there will be security if necessary. But when it's needed, it doesn't exist. My questions to the Minister for Social Security are: How much longer are we going to have to wait? Can the Minister of Social Security guarantee that those who have stepped in and stood in the front line during the pandemic — nurses and nurses suffering from the suites of covid-19 — will not be secured when they reach the deadline of day 365? When will the government come forward with the proposal to improve health insurance for all, regardless of diagnosis?
i-c1baa20e3ec9d429-551	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Ida Gabrielsson, for this important interpellation! It is an issue that concerns one of the most central parts of the Swedish social model, which for many years has nevertheless provided a basis for community and solidarity between Swedish citizens. It is clear, Madam President, that we have serious shortcomings in the health insurance that is being discussed here. The reports that we receive about future insurance of people who, among other things, have been affected by long-term covid after they pass the assessment at day 365 is a sufficiently serious signal that I hope all the parties in Parliament will take on board. It is a major responsibility of all parliamentary parties and the government. We have a duty to ensure that our citizens receive the financial security they deserve in the event of illness. That is not the case today. The rules on the time limit for health insurance at day 365 are very restrictive. These rules, if they are not changed, will mean that in the coming weeks and months we will have mass insurance from people. This situation cannot be defended by anyone who sees it as his task to promote financial security in the event of illness for our citizens. The Government, in close cooperation with several parties in the Riksdag and not least the cooperation parties involved in the budget cooperation, has pushed through changes to the regulations for day 180. That's very good. We now have stronger protection for the sick at the trial day 180, which means that many will be able to retain their sickness benefit while waiting for them to be able to complete their rehabilitation. As long as you are ill and depend on the rehabilitation being completed, you must have financial security. It is a reasonable starting point in health insurance. But that security does not exist after day 365 for many. Experts, researchers and those who have followed the debate on health insurance and have followed the reviews of health insurance in recent years. It is on the Government's agenda to push through the regulatory changes proposed in the investigation concerned by this interpellation, including with regard to day 365. We are making the assessment that this is an urgent matter. There are ongoing talks between the government and its cooperation parties on this subject. I note that, so far, there have been no conditions for us to submit these proposals to Parliament within the framework of our cooperation. But I hope that all parties, regardless of their ideological starting point, see the serious situation before us, with the risk of mass insurance in the spring of, not least, long-term covid patients, putting aside ideological locks and working together to resolve this most urgent issue.
i-c1baa20e3ec9d429-557	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for Social Security for these words. Sickness insurance has long been out of order. The Coronapendemy has put this in lightning, but it has hit people for many years. Somewhere, politics has to take responsibility for that. People haven't gotten poor. They've been made poor. We can now put a stop to this happening in the future. Tax cuts of 30 billion are being implemented this year alone. Important revenues from employers' contributions are lost and run out of the systems. The Minister of Finance – the Minister of Social Security's colleague – says that neoliberalism is dead but continues to drive straight into the wall with the Center Party as a navigator. Looks like the liberals already dropped out. I think the Green Party's taken a break. Madam President, I would like For me, it is incomprehensible that the Social Democrats – if they want to see better health insurance – do not step in and show where the cabinet should stand. Being distrusted and denied is one of the worst things that can happen to a human being. That's what's happened to thousands of insured people. In addition to an economic disaster, you become distrustful. Madam President, I would like Whatever the government, the insurance policies have continued. Countless are the examples of people who have suffered greatly from this. Those who have already been secured and lost their SGI must be given some form of financial redress. There's a need for a crisis commission to review this. There must be an independent review of the Swedish Social Insurance Agency's governance and working methods, in which researchers and those affected themselves are heard. For me it is incomprehensible that the government did not set up such an audit, but lets the treasury investigate itself. Madam President, I would like The responsible minister, Ardalan Shekarabi, says repeatedly that he sees the problem, that the government has concrete pre-amendments on its table and that he hopes that all parties can drop the prestige and arrange for the legislative changes. There is a majority. Why isn't anything happening? Madam President, I would like There is no longer a competition about which party is the best at hunting the sick, on the contrary. The wind has now completely turned, and more people have realized that we need to redo and get a better health insurance. That's good. It is the result of many years of hard work in groups such as Solrosuppjulet and Försäkringskassan insurgency of those affected themselves. I quote: there is a proposal on the table of the government. I am prepared to introduce it whenever there is a majority for it. So said the Minister of Social Security himself about the proposal. There is a majority. The Left Party has gone ahead on Day 180. How long should we wait before the Social Democrats move from words to deeds? What's slowing it down? Is it the cooperation parties, or have the Social Democrats themselves not put this issue high enough?
i-c1baa20e3ec9d429-564	Madam President, I would like If this House is to make the necessary decisions to restore the security of disease, we need to stop blaming each other and end up stuck in ideological locks. It requires all forms of political prestige to be removed and the need for financial security for Swedish citizens to be put in focus. It requires us to succeed in seeing beyond the ideological frameworks and blind spots that limit us all in our ability to see the world and reality as it is. I hope, Madam President, that the insights that are emerging during the pandemic and the reports that are now coming about the risks that we see in terms of insurance will make us all realise the seriousness and need for joint action beyond party boundaries and ideological lock-ups. The Government intends to follow the rules of the game for budget cooperation. For the good of our country, this form of cooperation must, of course, be respected. But our ambition is to do what is necessary to improve health insurance. I am extremely proud that together we were able to solve the problems that existed at the trial day 180. This means that in this spring, during this year and in all the years ahead, there is greater financial security for those who have not had the chance to complete their care or rehabilitation. It is a very important step that has been taken, and it is gratifying that that decision has entered into force and is having an effect on our Swedish citizens today. Of course, similar steps are also needed for those who pass day 365 but have not had the opportunity to become healthy and have not had the opportunity to start or complete their rehabilitation or care. It is a very serious situation in health insurance, because we are in the midst of a pandemic which affects our citizens and which has high human costs. Now we need to do what is necessary to bring health insurance legislation into line with the needs that we have in today's reality – knowing where the shortcomings are. Madam President, I would like A society's strength should be measured by how it treats the most vulnerable. We live in one of the richest countries in the world, one of the world's most developed countries, one of the world's best organised countries, one of the countries with the highest degree of trust between citizens and public institutions and between citizens. It is a reasonable expectation that this society, with its economic strength and good administration, also has the capacity and ability to put aside ideological locks and solve the situation that Swedish citizens are currently going through in health insurance. I humbly call on all political parties to do what is necessary to ensure that we look beyond party boundaries and resolve the issue of the safety of Swedish citizens in the event of illness and disability.
i-c1baa20e3ec9d429-568	Madam President, I would like I fully agree with the fact that prestige must be put aside. The Left Party has its own proposal for a health insurance system. It goes much further than the proposal that the government has on the table. But we are prepared to let go in order to reach a compromise on a system that can at least capture the most urgent. We have presented this on several occasions but have not yet received a majority in favour of it. I understand the situation with cooperation parties, but to be honest, this issue must be raised in the government. Parties that are not close to the size of the Social Democrats and who are not in government cannot be allowed to decide and determine the future of the sick and what health insurance should look like. It could have been you. It's been me. Sickness can happen to all of us. Madam President, I would like People who are ill are today thrown out of insurance and are invited to seek support for their livelihoods. Others take their early retirement or spend vacation days, even though they have entered pandemic care. At best, people live on their relatives and at worst not at all. For some, suicide has been felt the only way out. How many more people will suffer because politicians can't let go of prestige and act? I note that in this debate the Minister for Social Security says many words of confirmation. But fine words are no longer needed. Action is also needed.
i-GXPAxepg8nN9TVZ9u9ABN8	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Ida Gabrielsson, for the interpellation! Finally, I would like to highlight all the things that have been done over the past year in the field of health insurance in order to address the challenges ahead for our citizens. The regulatory framework for day 180 has changed, which greatly increases the financial security of the sick during the examination of day 180 of health insurance. The government and the partner parties have introduced a carer's allowance, which means that people will receive compensation from the first day of illness and will have the opportunity to stay at home when they are ill. Even those who are economically vulnerable have the opportunity to stay at home when they are ill. We have adapted several regulations in health insurance to the urgent needs we have right now. Among other things, the requirement for a medical certificate has been postponed. We have ensured that those waiting for a cancelled operation will have the opportunity to keep their sickness benefit pending the cancellation of the operation due to the pandemic. We have made several other detailed adjustments to the regulatory framework. However, Madam President, we do not get away from the fact that what is highlighted in this interpellation, the regulation for day 365, is an urgent issue for very many Swedish citizens who are ill at the moment. We know that many of our citizens have experienced long-term symptoms following covid disease. We know that there are many other diseases where there are symptoms that mean that they do not regain their work capacity during the first year, but that further treatment and rehabilitation are required. Those very people depend on us politicians, independent of parties, working together and putting the interests of Swedish citizens first in our political action. I hope that we will soon be able to see that this is happening.
i-c1baa20e3ec9d429-578	Madam President, I would like Tobias Andersson has asked Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson if she agrees with the problem of the self-sufficiency of immigrants, mainly from Africa and the Middle East, whether she intends to take any steps to overcome this and whether the government intends to take any measures to supplement official employment statistics with statistics on self-sufficiency and, on this basis, to introduce a self-sufficiency target for economic policy. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. Let me start by clarifying that Tobias Andersson and I have different views on migration and asylum policy. The Government's objective is to ensure a long-term sustainable migration policy that safeguards the right of asylum and facilitates cross-border mobility, promotes needs-driven labour migration, exploits and takes into account the development effects of migration, and deepens European and international cooperation. It is important that we continue to work so that new arrivals can enter the labour market and society more quickly. People who start again in Sweden will have the best conditions possible to establish themselves and contribute to our common welfare. Both women and men must meet the same expectations and demands from society and be given the right conditions to support themselves and stand on their own feet through entry into the labour market. The work for integration and the establishment of newcomers in working and social life is a fundamental part of the government's goal of a society that holds together and provides equal opportunities for all. Lacking work that provides self-sufficiency limits an individual's ability to influence his or her life and make his or her own choices. This is important, not least from the perspective of gender equality. The way to self-sufficiency is through work, which is why the employment rate is a most relevant measure. We have seen in recent years that more new arrivals are coming to work faster, and that is a positive thing. Of the new arrivals received in 2014, 51 per cent were in employment in 2018, i.e. after four years. This compares with 29% after four years for those received in 2010. The establishment of new arrivals has thus improved considerably in recent years, while Sweden has received a large number of persons in need of protection fleeing war and persecution. Eurostat statistics show that the employment rate of foreign born in Sweden is about 2 percentage points higher than the EU average. For women born abroad, the employment rate is about 4 percentage points higher than in the EU, while it is marginally lower than the EU average for men born abroad. The highest employment rate among natives in Sweden in the EU contributes to a higher employment gap between native and foreign born in Sweden than in other EU countries, both for women and men. I am not satisfied with the difference in employment between domestic and foreign born. It needs to be faster for newcomers to enter the labour market. Although entry into the labour market is faster for newcomers today than a few years ago, more is needed, and we need to raise the level of ambition further. The Government has therefore taken a number of measures to improve the establishment of newcomers in working and social life, both during this and the previous term of office. We have also made several structurally important changes. Let me mention, for example, that we have introduced a training obligation for newcomers with a short educational background. F robbery and with 15 April 2021, newly arrived women and men will be given the opportunity to participate in a so-called intensive year. In order to specifically strengthen women's opportunities for work, efforts are underway to ensure that new arrivals continue to develop their knowledge of Swedish even during parental leave. Finally, on the issue of official labour market statistics. The Government decides on the subject and statistical areas for which official statistics should be available, as well as which authorities should be responsible for statistics. It is then the authorities themselves who are responsible for the method, quality and statistical measures to be used. I do not intend at present to promote changes in official statistics.
i-c1baa20e3ec9d429-587	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. In the past, the sick leaves justified their mass immigration policy by the fact that it was profitable or perhaps even directly necessary for the Swedish economy and welfare. The argument was largely based on anecdotal evidence. Those who opposed it often got absurd rhetorical questions such as who would drive taxis, care for our elderly or bake pizza if Sweden did not continue with mass immigration. Titt was also leaning firmly against the fact that there was indeed also evidence that immigration paid off. It was something that was exemplified by the Walloons that came to Sweden during the 1600s or the report that the municipality of Sandviken earned over half a billion on immigration. Now Sandviken has made a million-dollar loss. The thesis that today's immigration into Sweden, consisting of primarily low-skilled asylum immigration from countries with a very different culture, would be an economic asset has been abandoned by many. The argument for large immigration is now more based on claims that it is humane or that it would be impossible to reduce immigration more than the government says it has already done. This is, of course, completely wrong in substance for a number of reasons. Firstly, it cannot be considered humane to receive more than you can assimilate. In doing so, people are placed in lifelong exclusion marked by insecurity and generally poor living standards. Secondly, it cannot be considered humane to waste money on the integration into Sweden, as Sweden did during the asylum crisis, of the wealthy and strong who have managed to get here instead of those who remain in the immediate area. Thirdly, it cannot be considered humane to depart from Swedish asylum legislation to reward a group of young Afghan men without asylum reasons in front of those who actually need help. Fourthly, it cannot be considered humane to put the security, belongings and welfare of all Swedes at risk by pursuing a naïve mass immigration policy. Fifthly, Madam President, it is of course wrong that it would be difficult or impossible to further restrict migration to Sweden. On the contrary, it would be quite simple if we were to minimise the number of pull factors while pursuing an active return policy. Having said that, even if it were the case that Swedish migration policy was humane, which it is not, the economic problems remain in consequence. Sweden has a marked economic exclusion, and integration, including economic integration, of foreign-borns has been extremely inadequate. Märta Stenevi, however, tries to embellish the picture and talks repeatedly in her reply about the employment rate. Although Sweden has one of the biggest gaps between domestic and foreign born throughout the EU, this concept is nevertheless misleading. Does Märta Stenevi think that this is a reasonable measure for measuring the participation of immigrants in the labour market, and does she believe that economic integration has generally worked?
i-c1baa20e3ec9d429-600	Madam President, I would like I wanted to talk a little about what was at stake, namely the employment rate versus the self-sufficiency rate. The employment rate between domestic and foreign-born men in Sweden and Europe differs, and the honourable Member knows this very well, of course. This is mainly because Sweden has a very high employment rate compared to other European countries. But I am convinced that the Member of Parliament is very well aware of this. The argument about self-sufficiency is very much based on a report from the Entrepreneurship Forum. The authors of the report believe that employment statistics are an insufficient indicator of the economic activity of the labour force and do not provide a comprehensive picture of the proportion of the population that achieves sufficient income to be self-sufficient. Therefore, report authors use the dependency ratio as a complementary measure to describe the establishment of foreign born children in the labour market. In order to be considered self-sufficient according to the report's definition, a person must have an annual salary before tax equal to at least four base amounts. In 2019 it was equivalent to a gross annual salary of SEK 186,000 or approximately SEK 12 600 per month after tax. The ambition of report authors is perceived as producing a measure that not only shows whether you work or not, but also indirectly takes into account how much you work through the size of your income. This is relevant, and it adds a dimension to the analysis of the extent to which a person is established in the labour market. As a complement to the employment statistics, a measure of the extent of employment may be useful. A similar approach has also been used in other contexts. The problem arises when you also mix in the aspect of sufficient income and whether people can support themselves, because there the measure becomes very unclear. As a measure of the extent to which people have sufficient income to be self-sufficient, this has some shortcomings. The choice of the term self-sufficiency is misleading. Firstly, the income limit used is the same for all individuals. However, the need for income can be very different as the supply needs may differ. For example, the measure does not take into account that people do not always support themselves. Parents are dependent on their children, and married persons are dependent on each other, which means that they can be supported by or support their partners. Cohabiting also has an advantage of being able to share fixed expenditure, which means that they need less money to achieve the same economic standard as single people. Secondly, wage income alone is included in the calculation of self-sufficiency, which is not an obvious limitation. It may appear – at least in my opinion – to be unreasonable that the student of study funds should be regarded as lacking in viability. The same applies to those who are on parental leave from work. There are also people who are able to make a living solely on capital income but who cannot therefore be considered unable to support themselves. It would therefore be appropriate to include either more types of income or exclude persons whose livelihood comes from certain non-wage income in the calculation of a self-sufficiency measure. In addition to students and parents' leave from work, this may, for example, apply to pensioners or, for that matter, conscripts. I think we agree more than the honourable Member thinks on the issue of self-sufficiency. We both think that self-sufficiency is desirable, and there is nothing to prevent our authorities today from measuring self-sufficiency in different ways. On the other hand, the method to be used may be considered to be a matter for the authorities.
i-c1baa20e3ec9d429-609	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much for the answer from Märta Stenevi! Some of the problems in terms of method and so on that Märta Stenevi raises in her reply also concerns the authors of the article in the report. It is pointed out that, for example, income from capital could be reasonable to calculate but says that it would have made it more difficult to carry out the study. It also points out that it believes that, on the whole, it has overestimated rather than underestimated the degree of self-sufficiency, which goes in somewhat the opposite direction to the response that Märta Stenevi makes. Having said that, I take a positive view of whether, on the basis of the parameters raised by Märta Stenevi, further studies would be carried out in this area, but Märta Stenevi said no in her initial response to the interpellation. The government is detracting from the economic exclusion that many immigrants find themselves in when we talk repeatedly about employment as a yardstick for economic integration. In order to belong to the employed group, you only need to do any work at least one hour a week. In other words, it is sufficient to work one hour a week on some tax-subsidised find jobs to count as employed and thus contribute to raising the employment rate. It's hardly a fair measure. This is evident not least in the report which Märta Stenevi has touched on and which I now intend to touch on, by the name of When will externally born become self-sufficient? I have noted that the Minister has taken note of the report, but I would still like to give some of the summary, which I think is very important: a majority of foreign born of working age has not achieved self-sufficiency in the period 1990 to 2016. In 2016, just over 600,000 foreign-born persons of working age were not self-sufficient. Highly counted were 2 8 and 3 5 percent of individuals of origin in Africa and the Middle East respectively self-sufficient in 2016. The corresponding estimates for natives and individuals from our Nordic neighbours were 73 per cent. The self-sufficiency rate is significantly lower than the employment rate. This may not be surprising to those of us who have initially seen the problems of immigration policy and the lack of proper assimilation policy measures, but it may be an eye-opener to others. In the aftermath of the report, Johan Eklund, author of the report and professor at BTH and Jönköpings International Business School, has expressed the following: ..................................................... Madam President, I would like It is clear, from what I have now explained, that a majority of people born abroad of working age have not achieved self-sufficiency. It is also clear that self-sufficiency is the yardstick that is relevant for assessing the extent to which immigrants have actually become part of the labour market. Then we can have a discussion on the precise parameters to be included in the concept. However, in order to overcome the problem of the cost to the rest of society, we must recognise that the problem exists. I therefore wonder why Märta Stenevi does not want to actively pursue a self-sufficiency objective in economic policy.
i-c1baa20e3ec9d429-620	Madam President, I would like I would like to reiterate that the degree of self-sufficiency, as described by the honourable Member, is an unclear measuring instrument. The measure is used in very few studies. I have now devoted a great deal of space in my interventions to explaining the difficulties we see in measuring self-sufficiency. I have also explained what options there are to measure what the honourable Member is looking for. To this can be added that the honourable Member's party colleagues have at various times previously requested measuring instruments that can be compared internationally in order to better assess Sweden's integration capacity. Employment is measured according to ILO recommendations, International Labour Organization. The employment measure has a high international viability. Self-sufficiency, on the other hand, cannot be compared in the same way between countries. This does not mean, however, that the government is in any way against people coming here being able to support themselves, on the contrary. Our establishment efforts aim at more people being able to stand on their own feet. Employment is also the way to self-sufficiency. What the honourable Member refers to as finding jobs can, for example, be extra services that facilitate preschools or support municipal activities. I think it is a very reducing concept for something that is a very important task in our society, even if it is financed by us jointly. Employment is particularly important for the group of women born abroad. The employment gap between native and foreign-born women of 23% is far too great, and the consequences of it are devastating. Foreign born women are at risk of being locked up in the home with an increased risk of exposing others and being themselves subjected to honorary oppression. The government has a clear gender perspective in all start-up efforts and has a number of targeted measures aimed specifically at getting newly arrived women to work. In the midst of all the consensus so far in the debate on the importance of being able to support oneself, I still want to be clear about the differences between the government and the Swedish Democrats. It is no secret that the Swedish democrats want to close the borders or create pressure for return migration. It has become clear in a long series of debates that the Swedish Democrats are completely uninterested in the fact that new Swedes get good establishment and integration in Sweden. Nysvenska and Swedes with foreign background are reduced in the eyes of the Swedish Democrats instead to public financial plus- or minus sign. The question is which next group of Swedes will be exposed to the Swedish Democrats' are-you-profit-making-little-friend calculations. For me and for the government, self-sufficiency is instead about people fleeing here from war and persecution being able to live on the same terms as I do and as my daughters do. They should be able to stand on their own feet, have their freedom and self-sufficiency, live in financial security, live in freedom, avoid honorary oppression and avoid dependency on benefits. Then it is important that more people are self-sufficient, and the way to self-sufficiency is through employment.
i-Ky6Fo6qTEUugN3qe8owu4z	Madam President, I would like Thanks again for the answer from Märta Stenevi! It is undeniably the case that the Swedish Democrats are also working for a Sweden free from the oppression of honour. I can only regret that the oppression of honour has gained such a strong hand over parts of Swedish civil society during the time that Stefan Löfven has been Prime Minister in Sweden. Of course, I share the view that, in order to be self-sufficient, one must first get occupied. But then it is also important to separate these concepts and value them according to what they actually mean. Looking at the conclusions of the report, it can be seen that for half of all foreign born people it took an average of 4-5 years to achieve employment in the period 1990-2016. At the same time, it took on average 12 – 13 years for half of all foreign born to become self-sufficient. On the basis of these statistics, I think it is more relevant to use self-sufficiency as a yardstick for economic integration. Of course, the cost of immigration has continued to occur in Sweden, if not for direct reception, for the other costs that Swedes are required to finance through the tax bill, not infrequently against their will. The Entrepreneurship Forum's report pinpoints these hidden costs by stating that only 28 and 35 percent, respectively, of individuals of origin in Africa and the Middle East, were self-sufficient in 2016. This means, in practice, that we need to stand by the others' bill. Why does the government not want to make this visible in official statistics? We can get caught up in discussions on precise parameters of the concepts, but why have no initiatives been taken to actually evaluate this – even in the desired way of Märta Stenevis?
i-c1baa20e3ec9d429-630	Madam President, I would like I am extremely tired of the constant insinuations from the Swedish Democrats about cultural and economic burdens, about people as problems and about how closing the line for women and girls would mean that they were less exposed to honour pressure than if they were allowed to come here. These are fantasies. If the Swedish democrats lift their noses from their dogmas, they will see reality. The reality is that around Sweden Swedes with foreign background help our elderly in nursing homes, raise our children in preschools and care for our sick in hospitals. The reality is that Swedes with foreign backgrounds are the ones most affected by gang crime on the one hand and racism on the other. Although economic vulnerability has increased, despite the fact that market school and segregated housing market create social divides that pull Sweden apart, the overwhelming majority of immigrants and immigrants' children wake up every morning, go to work, go to school, pay taxes and are involved in building our Swedish society and the welfare that both Tobias Andersson and I are part of. I will never stop working to break segregation, or for that matter to crush racism. We can improve integration. We can lift both native and foreign born out of economic vulnerability, both immigrants and natives, both in rural and suburban areas – not either or both. I think that the Swedish Democrats should apologise to all those inmates whom, in debate after debate, they suspect not to contribute to Swedish welfare, while we all meet them in our everyday lives every day. They deserve better than to be portrayed as a burden in the Sweden Democrats' interpellation debates.
i-c1baa20e3ec9d429-634	Madam President, I would like Lars Beckman has asked me what measures the government intends to take that enable young people to move to a self-owned dwelling, which are the single most important measures that I see as urgent to take in the short term in 2021 in order for more people to move to a self-owned home and, given that the housing shortage for many young people who want to live in their own cities is acute, what measures I and the government intend to take in 2021 so that more young people can move away from home or to work in our big cities. I would like to start by saying that the issue of young people's entry into the housing market is a priority for the government, both in terms of the owned and leased stock. The Government sees a need for measures aimed at those who for the first time are going to buy a home to make it easier for them to enter the owned housing market. B The urban stock today consists largely of owned dwellings. At the same time, housing rice has increased faster than household income. The first-time buyers, who are often young people, often have relatively little equity and lower income than other household groups, which makes it difficult to enter the owned housing market. This is why the government has commissioned a special investigator to make proposals to facilitate first time buyers in the housing market. The investigator will, among other things, propose how a government start-up loan for first-time buyers should be designed. The investigator shall submit his proposals to the Government by 1 November. In this context, I would like to mention that the government has also implemented measures to facilitate the move of young adults who want to rent a home to their own home. Investment finance for rental housing and student housing is an important tool for creating the conditions for building rental housing throughout the country with relatively lower rents that more, including young adults, can demand. In accordance with the January agreement, the government has reformed investment aid. Every eighth apartment produced by means of investment aid must now be offered to the municipality where the housing is being built for me to young people under the age of 3 1 or to be used for social contracts.
i-c1baa20e3ec9d429-638	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. I would also like to wish the Minister good luck with his most important mission: to be Minister of Housing. There are very high expectations of this Minister of Housing in view of what has been done in the past, i.e. very little. Madam President, I would like In a youth barometer, Boinstitutet has asked 2,989 young people between the ages of 15 and 24 how they want to live. When asked how they want to live when they establish themselves in the labour market, most, 40%, say that they want to live in a villa. 31 percent want to live in a right-of-occupancy apartment. The right to rent comes in third place with 17 per cent. Almost no one wants to live in second place. Only 1% want to do that. And 1 percent say they want to share an apartment with a friend. Madam President, I would like That means seven out of ten want to own their home. Why would you want to do that? That was one of the questions in the same study. I'm happy to read the free answers. You want nice neighbors, you see it as a better investment and you want a garden. It means freedom and so on. That's exactly how it was when the '40s had their children. At that time, a fantastic number of small houses were built around Sweden. People with normal income could buy their first house. I grew up in Boden myself. My father worked in the military, and my mother worked in the hospital. They could, in their 25s, build houses in Boden. How many 25-year-olds can build houses today? There politics has failed. That's why I've put this interpellation to the minister. What will the government do to ensure that the grandchildren of the 40's, which it is basically about, are able to build houses? How to enable them to move to their own house, have their own garden, have a small vegetable garden and potato cultivation. How do you make it possible for them to go out on their terrace and put their toes on the lawn? That's what this interpellation is about. What we know is that the Minister refers to an investigation due on 1 November. But we also know that there is to be an amortisation requirement. One of the government's authorities announced the other day that it will be reinstated. This means that it will be increasingly difficult for young people to buy houses, because the calculations do not add up. We also know that youth unemployment is running out. In Gävle, my hometown, long-term unemployment among young people has increased by 35 per cent in one year. The first step in owning a dwelling is of course that you have a job. Otherwise you won't be able to buy a house. It is symptomatic that when I say that more young people want to own their homes and ask the Minister what the government has policy for that, we get a response: that there is an investigation going on. But at the end of his reply, the minister talks about rentals. So that's not what the interpellation is all about. What I have asked is how young people will be given the opportunity to own their housing and what the government's policy is for it. It would be good if the Minister were to be able to tell us clearly, apart from the investigation that is due to come up with his report on 1 November, what the government's policy is and what the Minister's ambitions are. Imagine getting Sweden's finest mission, to be the housing minister! Then you have to have something more in the drawer than an investigation to present its proposals on 1 November. I think that Sweden's young people are curious about what tools the Minister has in the drawer so that more young people can own their first house and have their own vegetable growing.
i-c1baa20e3ec9d429-647	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Member of Parliament, for this very interesting discussion! I agree with Lars Beckman in the tributes to the state-subsidised construction during the 50s, 60s and 70s and the state-subsidised loans that laid the foundations for 40s ownership of the housing market. If it was the right national policy, perhaps we can debate in another debate, I think. As far as the amortisation requirement is concerned, it is clear that we previously had a rather unique situation in Sweden. Amortisation-free loans spread a bit like wildfire over the Swedish credit market. We had an amortisation culture that was completely different from what it looked like in our surrounding world. It was also a risky development. Many assessors have pointed out that this led to risks for individual households but also for the economy as a whole. If you, like me, are old enough to remember previous housing crises, you know how it hits the finances of young families when debt is so high that they cannot cope with an increase in interest rates. By means of the measures taken by the government, together with the supervisory and expert authorities, we now have a healthier amortisation culture in place. I think we should be happy about that. It is easy to build up a high loan. I can be a little concerned about Lars Beckman's entry into the debate. It seems to me that the higher the loan we can get, the better. It also drives prices up and makes it even more difficult for those who do not have initial capital to enter the housing market. I will point to the ongoing investigation. It is central to the issue, precisely so that we can bridge the big step that it means today entering the owned housing market. But I would also like to point out that the housing market is dynamic. Its parts are connected. I am convinced that the honourable Member is well aware of this. Changes in one segment affect other segments of the housing market. They are not separate parts of the housing market. Nor are they non-communication vessels. When you affect one part of the housing market, the other is also affected. If more rental apartments become available through an active housing policy, it also affects the supply and price development of the owned stock. When Boverket makes surveys among municipalities about the housing shortage, it is above all the lack of rental apartments that you point to. There are also major problems in the rental market that need to be addressed. There is a proven shortage of rental apartments. The entire housing market is now affected when apartments are being built at a high rate that should have reasonable rents, by having investment aid. In order for more young people to own their housing, or for that matter more first-time buyers – there are many situations where you can be a first-time buyer, not only when you are young – we see a need for measures aimed at that group. Prices of dwellings have increased much faster than household income. Solving it only by increasing lending is not a sound economic development, and it would create great risks for individual households. We've set up an investigation. It will make its proposals for measures to facilitate first-time buyers in the housing market. Part of it could be a government start-up loan. Maybe it shouldn't be just like the loan Lars Beckman hails and that was there when our parents got houses. But we're gonna find a form for it. We'll see what the investigation brings back. There will be very concrete measures. But we're gonna wait for the investigation and see what's coming out of it.
i-c1baa20e3ec9d429-656	Madam President, I would like It will be interesting to see the results of the investigation. I asked what the Minister himself thinks, what his own ideas the Minister himself has. The Minister will have to come back with that in the next speech. I recognise the reasoning of Per Bolund. He reasoned in much the same way and praised the amortisation requirement that has allowed very few young people or those who do not own their home to establish themselves in the owned housing market. What are the consequences of this? In an article in Svenska Dagbladet titled It also prevents young people from even applying for courses or jobs. A resident economist at SBAB says in the article: How can we be so? ..................................................... 中 42 per cent have not applied for education because of the housing situation, 39 per cent have withdrawn from looking for a job elsewhere, and 37 per cent have turned down a place of education. This is the reality in Sweden. This was 2019, and unfortunately it has not improved today. When I looked at a survey that the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise and Industry had done for Stockholm, the companies flagged because they need labour, that there are young people who want the jobs, but the young cannot move here because there are no housing. This is a real, actually problem that a new Minister of Housing should, of course, devote all his waking time to. That's what's so good about interpellation debates. Now the Minister has the opportunity to look into the camera in the Swedish Parliament, directly to the young people of Sweden, and say that this list of ten points she has with her. This list led her to accept the assignment as Minister of Housing. The minister did not take the assignment to make it more difficult for young people to get a place to live, but she took the assignment to make it easier for young people to get a place to live. It would be interesting to see what the Council of State's ten-point list looks like, that is, exactly what this interpellation is about. What's the minister's briefcase? What does the government plan to do so that young people can own their home, whether it is a right-of-occupancy or a villa? The majority want a villa. It may even be that they want to live near the beach. I would like to know in concrete terms, and the young people of Sweden deserve an answer to the question, what made the Minister for Housing accept the assignment. What is it that the Minister takes with him with enthusiasm so that young people can get a place to live? What is being done so that not many people have to turn down jobs or studies and cannot move to the big cities because there are no homes? What ideas does the Minister have for more young people to own their home? We've already heard about the investigation, so the minister doesn't have to bring it up again. We want to hear something concrete.
i-c1baa20e3ec9d429-665	Madam President, I would like I thank the honourable Member, who would like to tell me what to say or not to answer. But instead, I'm going to answer the questions based on what my own opinion is, and if it's okay, I'm going to do that. I have accepted the mandate as Minister for Gender Equality and Housing not least because I see a great inequality in the housing market and a great inequality in who gets access to the housing market. When the Member of Parliament points to, for example, students who refuse to study because they do not find housing, I do not think the answer is primarily that they should get large loans. I think it is important that we continue to build housing with more reasonable rents as they can demand in the phase they are in life with studies and study funds. They can then later in life take the step into the housing market. In other situations, for example, when you work, there is every reason to want to buy your home. There we are examining what such a construction would look like to facilitate a purchase. What I am 100 per cent convinced, however, is that none of these groups are served by a continued rise in the price development of the housing market which makes it even more difficult for them to pay for their housing with the income they have paid for. Nor do I believe that they are in any way served by an amortisation culture or a borrowing culture that means that they are so heavily indebted that they are no longer able to meet a historically more normal interest rate level than what we are seeing today. I am convinced that Lars Beckman remembers the times when there were completely different interest rates, and historically it is not impossible for us to end up there again. Then the young people should also be able to pay for their accommodation and not have to leave it. We will continue to work to build more rental housing at reasonable rents, so that there will be more housing in the housing market and to create a better balance in the housing market with a more even price development and thus greater opportunities for young people to step into the property. In parallel with this, we continue to await the investigation, so that it will be well-prepared and constructed proposals that allow young people to get help into the housing market. This also applies to women who differ. A large proportion today, unlike their spouses, does not have the opportunity to take a step into the housing market. That is why I have gladly accepted the role of Minister for Gender Equality and Housing. Although the interpellation debate is largely about young people, there is a great inequality in the property, in who owns real estate, in who owns land, near the beach or not, in who has access to capital income. Of course, I am inspired by my entire mission; to make sure that there are more rental apartments for reasonable rents is part of the communicating vessels in the housing market, to find ways to make it easier for first-time buyers to enter the owned market is another part. I am sorry to disappoint the honourable Member, but I will not present a ten-point list today. In that case, he will have to write an interpellation about a ten-point list, and then he will see what his answer is. However, I look forward to getting the investigation back and then making good suggestions on how we help first-time buyers enter the housing market.
i-c1baa20e3ec9d429-673	Madam President, I would like As a member of the Swedish Parliament, I have the opportunity to call a minister here. I have the opportunity to ask the questions to which I want answers, and that is exactly what I have done. We note from the interpellation debate that the Minister came here with an empty bag, that is, we did not get an answer to the questions. What measures does the government intend to take to enable young people to move to a self-owned home? What are the single most important measures that the Government sees as keen to take in the short term in 2021 in order for more people to move to a self-owned dwelling? Given that the housing shortage for many young people who want to live in their own housing in big cities is acute, what measures do the Government intend to take during 2021 so that more young people can move away from home or to work in our big cities? Then the person who has seen the debate will have to draw their own conclusions about the Government – who had the answer in writing in advance, who has given a written answer – has answered the questions. Or it is so regrettable that the only answer to the question of what to do in the short term in 2021 was to await an investigation to be presented on 1 November. This means that in March, April, May, June, July, August, September and October, the Government intends to do nothing. The Government intends to wait for an investigation to be presented on 1 November. Dear young people who see this debate, now or afterwards; we cannot have it. We need a housing minister working around the clock to get you a place to live. We cannot have a minister sitting on his hands and a government that does not intend to do anything throughout 2021. I really hope that's not the answer. If the Government would like to answer one of my three questions, I would appreciate it.
i-c1baa20e3ec9d429-677	Madam President, I would like On the first question, my answer was that we have set up an investigation to look, for example, at a starting loan to make it easier to enter a self-owned dwelling. Investigations are good because they mean that we can get good and well-prepared legislation. On the second question, I can say that it is being built while we are standing here in an interpellation debate. This is, of course, extremely important, but at the same time a large number of homes are being built for reasonable rents using the investment aid introduced by the government. Then there was the third question about the housing shortage and those who want to live in their own home. In metropolitan regions, investment support is well used, which means that 21 000 homes have been added so far and 24 000 more homes are under construction. That's what's going on. The dwelling is a right. When housing policy becomes another victim of ideological trench wars, it is the young people who get caught up in it. It is not a question of either rents or flats, it is a matter of both. As Minister of Housing, I am in favour of highlighting good proposals, regardless of political affiliation, which promote lower thresholds for both rental and residential apartments. As it has emerged during the interpellation debate, the government is working on a number of tools for more young people to enter the housing market, more young people to have first-hand contracts at reasonable prices and more young people to have the opportunity to own their housing. I am deeply inspired by this in my mission as Minister for Gender Equality and Housing with responsibility for urban development and the work against segregation and discrimination.
i-c1baa20e3ec9d429-682	Madam President, I would like Lars Beckman has asked me what measures I intend to take to reduce in the short term the processing times of the state surveying authority and what measures are taken in our Nordic neighbouring countries that the government and I believe can be implemented in Sweden. As late as November 2020, Lars Beckman asked a similar question to the then responsible minister. The reply outlined the measures taken by the Government and Lantmäteriet to address the processing times and the effects of these measures. Processing times are developing positively in several categories of cases, more cases are closed than are received, the time from receipt to processing has been shortened and the number of older cases has decreased. Lantmäteriet's annual report for 2020 presents a continued good development of property formation activities. It is gratifying to see that the average processing time in five out of seven categories of cases within which the activities are monitored has continued to decrease in 2020, despite the ongoing coronapndemine. It is also gratifying that more cases are closed than are received and that the processing times are more predictable. Lantmäteriet has carried out extensive adaptations due to the pandemic to focus on handling elements that can be carried out remotely or without physical customer contact. This has led the business to continue delivering good results despite the ongoing pandemic, but at the same time it means that the average processing times will increase in the short term when regular operations resume. Lantmäteriet has extensive international work in its areas of activity and has both close and good contacts with its counterparts in our neighbouring countries. The main reason for the differences in price, time and process between countries is the historical and national background to the property systems in the different countries. The Swedish property development process includes elements that are not included in other countries' equivalents. Direct comparisons are therefore difficult to make, as the parliamentary investigation service is also careful to point out. At the same time, it is of course important that the agency in its contacts with its counterparts in the Nordic countries, as well as with other relevant actors, takes on board any lessons that can help improve Lantmäteriet's operations. I am keen that the positive development continues and will continue to monitor the development of the building formation business closely and take appropriate action where necessary.
i-c1baa20e3ec9d429-688	Madam President, I would like The state has a public contract when it has a monopoly business. When there is no other actor – when there is an authority, Lantmäteriet, which can be used as an actor – it is important that the state honours its public contract and delivers the necessary public services. Today, Lantmäteriet is a brake block for social development in Sweden. For example, we can look at my constituency, where a farmer will make a generational change on a farm in Storvik. It is a common generational shift, really nothing extraordinary, but Lantmäteriet needs two years to do a cut-off. There is another example in Ljusdal, where an entrepreneur will build small houses. We have previously had a debate here about how young people can buy small houses. Yes, first of all, the houses will of course be built. Is it reasonable that it takes years to cut up small house plots? No, the Moderates don't think so. We think the government should deliver. That is why I asked the Parliamentary Investigation Service to produce this report. I wanted to know what it looks like in Sweden, Finland, Norway and Denmark. If you want to do a simple summary, you can note that in Sweden it is the most expensive and takes the longest time. It would have been desirable for the responsible minister to have a somewhat more humble attitude when she comes to the Chamber and finds that the state does not deliver under the social contract. The state isn't the tick it has to be when we're going to build homes or do other things. The state is not the ticket for the generational shift for the children who will take over agriculture in Storvik. We now heard the Government commend the Lantmäteriet. I agree – there are an incredible number of talented employees at Lantmäteriet. They are in Gävle, as the Government knows, my constituency and my city. But what do they write in their annual accounts? It's kind of interesting reading. There, Lantmäteriet writes as follows: a review of the entire execution operations and all customer needs, we consider that the processing times are generally insufficient and need to be improved. This is what Lantmäteriet says about its own operations. Madam President, I would like I agree with Lantmäteriet. I agree with what is in their annual accounts. In 2016, the processing period was 30 weeks – not 30 days, not 30 hours, but 30 weeks – for private residential building. By 2020 it had increased to 34 weeks – on average. Of course, something is moving faster, and something is slowing down. This means that the state does not live up to its social contract. For public services, the processing time was 88 weeks in 2016. Today it is 122 weeks, according to Lantmäteriet's annual report. I understand that the Government is satisfied, unlike others, but I still have to ask if she sees any potential for improvement. Does the Government, for example, share the view of Lantmäteriet itself in its own annual report that it is inadequate and that improvements are needed?
i-c1baa20e3ec9d429-699	Madam President, I would like Being satisfied with a development is not the same as being satisfied with a snapshot. That is why I think this is an important debate to have. Effectiveness in administration is of the utmost importance. I will go into a little more detail on what measures Lantmäteriet has taken to achieve a more efficient use of its staff and its skills. I would like to stress that cases are now being distributed across the country to exploit the production capacity of various offices, which has resulted in an equalisation of processing times across the country. Experienced administrators have organised themselves in networks to make better use of their expertise in handling difficult cases and to support the activities in general and less experienced administrators in particular. Working methods have changed from a system where the surveyor himself has carried out the majority of all the work in one case to one where the surveyors' work is concentrated on elements that must be carried out by surveyors and other staff handling other tasks. Lantmäteriet continuously works with, among other things, targeted educational efforts to bring about a cultural change so that all cases should be actively driven towards closure and the handling should never stop. A major development work is also currently under way to develop a new administrative support, which will provide effective and modern support to the administrators and more information about the activities of the agency management. Thanks to skilled surveyors, administrators and officials around the country, things are now moving in the right direction. I'm very happy about that. In the seven categories of cases within which the activities are monitored, the processing times have been shortened to five. Cases are dealt with more quickly and, above all, more cases are being resolved now than are being dealt with. The government is in favour of this development. We see that we are dealing with cases that have had very long processing times, and we note that it is of the utmost importance that these developments are not only underway but are also being kept in, strengthened and accelerated.
i-c1baa20e3ec9d429-709	Madam President, I would like Headline in Gefle Dagblad: a record gain for Lantmäteriet – after fee increases. I understand that the Government does not read Gefle Dagblad, but you can read about it in the annual report: 136 million in profit for Lantmäteriet after a sharp increase in fees. What, then, has the taxpayer got for this massive increase in charges? Well, according to Lantmäteriet's annual report, they have had longer processing times. If we are to build more in Sweden, which we need to do if more people are to be able to live in a self-owned dwelling, the state must deliver on its public contract. There, however, the development has gone in the wrong direction. Today, 2020, we have 20 percent longer processing time for private residential building than we had in 2016. This is the reality, Madam President. Madam President, I would like I have met a number of entrepreneurs in Gävleborg who had planned to expand their business but who were prevented from doing so because the state does not deliver its core business in a monopoly situation. Then we, the Minister of Housing, must take each other by arm hook and try to find other solutions. Of course, it would be appropriate to carry out a broad, unconditional review of Lantmäteriet, which considers what they have done in our neighbouring countries, which has faster processing time at a lower cost. In this review, the state should take the role of ticking in social development rather than, as is currently the case, preventing and making generational shifts and preventing and making it more difficult for companies that want to expand and for those who develop housing because the state does not supply through Lantmäteriet. It is not reasonable to have a processing time of 122 weeks. In 2016, it was, as I said, 88 weeks for public service. You can either take the position that Lantmäteriet is doing everything they can – it is doing great and the development is moving in the right direction. Or you take the position that the state should be the ticket in the community contract and deliver in monopoly business, so that we can build more, better and faster around Sweden, because we have an acute housing shortage. I do not really know what position the Minister has taken and whether the Minister is satisfied and intends to take no action or whether the Minister intends to act, for example by setting up an unbiased, wide-ranging inquiry– we heard in another interpellation debate how important it is with investigations– that makes us actually come to grips with the problem. The only thing we can be sure of is that if we continue to do more of the same, we will get more of the same result. In a year's time, when we stand here again, it is not unthinkable that we have gone from 30 to 34 weeks, because we have had a pandemic now that has paralysed certain parts. It is clear from Lantmäteriet's annual report that they have had significantly fewer cases received due to the pandemic, which there is some logic in. But what happens when we get going again? What happens when the number of cases increases again, if there has been such an unfortunate development during a pandemic? The state has a responsibility to deliver, especially when it has a monopoly business. I can't choose any other supplier. I would like to know if the Minister sees the need for a broad review of Lantmäteriet, which means that we can actually be guarantors of social development in Sweden and the kit for community building?
i-c1baa20e3ec9d429-719	Madam President, I would like I hope that if we stand here in one year's time, the processing times for private land and real estate development will continue downwards. I hope that the processing times for commercial and public land and real estate development and agriculture and forestry, which the Member of Parliament also attended, will continue downwards. And I hope that private housing and community services will also have a positive trend based on what has been done. What has been done is that, in connection with the appointment of a new Director-General last term of office, joint sessions were held with the Director-General and the then political leadership, where the problems and conditions of the agency were examined and the expectations of the government were clarified – that is, what I perceive the honourable Member is asking for. A dimension that comes back to many of the problems described relates to the availability of trained surveyors. During the last term of office funds were also added to open a new surveyor's education at Uppsala University. But it takes some time to train new surveyors, as we know. The Government has given Lantmäteriet several assignments that are about improving the monitoring of operations and producing analyses of the performance of operations. Extensive work has been undertaken to digitise the entire civil engineering process, including the building of buildings. The work aims, among other things, at making better use of the opportunities of digitalisation within the process and at supporting and integrating with the rest of the building process, which will provide a more efficient whole and thus also shorter processing times. I would like to emphasise once again that it is not the same to be satisfied with a development and to be satisfied with a snapshot. However, I have good hopes that the positive developments we are seeing in terms of processing times will continue. It is important that this happens, and we will follow this and that developments are strengthened and speeded up, so that processing times are shorter and positive developments continue.
i-c1baa20e3ec9d429-724	Madam President, I would like I think it is important for the government to take this issue seriously. I think it would be important and proper for the government to say: we are not satisfied and we are not proud. We're supposed to be the tickle of social development and assume our responsibilities. What, then, could the government do? Yes, the first thing that could be done in the existing organisation is of course to make clear demands – not generally about shortening the processing times but very clear. When you steer with goal control in this way you say: Today it is 34 weeks; we expect it to be 25 or 20 or 18. It can be any number, but a clear government target is required, which means that it is possible to follow up. I think it would be very welcome and a clear signal to the authority that you are not satisfied if you said: We are doing an unbiased investigation. Let us learn from our neighbours! How come Sweden is the most expensive and has the longest processing times? It would be logical to be the most expensive if we had shorter processing times. But in this case it is exactly the opposite. I can assure the Minister that, whether we see each other once or twice a month, I will follow this issue with a rooster. The State has an unlimited responsibility to provide public service. In fact, it is the responsibility of the Minister and the Government to ensure that they are not a brake block for the development of society in Gävleborg and other counties. One should of course be an enabler, and then the state must deliver. Should I take the Minister's answer as saying that she does not want a broad, unconditional discussion about Lantmäteriet and the services provided in this monopoly business?
i-c1baa20e3ec9d429-729	Madam President, I would like I am, of course, following these developments very closely. As far as the comparison with our Nordic neighbours is concerned, it is not a direct comparison, which I think the honourable Member also knows because the RUT investigation is very clear on this. There are simply different tasks at the different authorities in the different countries, which makes it difficult to compare directly. This is also the reason why it is noted: However, the reported data should be compared with great caution because they are not always defined in the same way and because the detangling processes have large differences. We are well on the way to reducing processing times in the execution activities to reasonable levels, even if we are not there. The government and Lantmäteriet continue to work hard on this, as I believe has been shown. I am convinced that all hard-working surveyors, administrators and officials around the country will continue to strive for and be successful in reducing processing times.
i-c1baa20e3ec9d429-731	Madam President, I would like Ola Johansson has asked me if I agree with my predecessor that changed rules make it easier for municipalities that want to build in near traffic situations and what I would like to do to make better use of the possibilities to change premises into housing and to transform industrial land into land for housing in areas that are currently exposed to high noise benchmarks. Initially, I would like to emphasise the importance of good housing environments and that the reason we have noise regulations is that noise can have consequences for health. According to the Planning and Construction Act, residential buildings must also be located on land that is suitable for human health and for the prevention of noise pollution. I believe that the changes that have been made to the environmental noise regulations have increased the possibilities of condensing buildings in attractive, centrally located and public transport near, but at the same time more noisy locations, as well as the possibilities of building small apartments. It has also meant a clearer and more predictable application. Much of this is positive, and I do not see today the need to promote further changes in environmental noise regulations in the planning and construction of housing.
i-c1baa20e3ec9d429-734	Madam President, I would like One should not unnecessarily prolong the debate, and in view of that one might think that Märta Stenevis's answer is exemplary. But now the newly appointed Minister for Housing in the country stands before me and has the opportunity to lay out the text for me and others on how changes in noise guidelines and especially in the method of measuring noise could further densify and transform land for industry and activities into land for attractive housing. This may, for that matter, involve other possible regulatory simplifications in the residential area. Madam President, I would like The background is that 212 of the country's 290 municipalities state that there is a housing shortage, that the target is not yet achieved despite the fact that more is being built than before and that 462,000 households according to Boverket state that they are crowded. The Minister for Housing sees no reason to work for further changes in the regulations for environmental noise in the planning and construction of housing – as is clear from her reply. But she should know and say this about her own authority Boverket: The proposal for new regulations for protection against noise in buildings and changes in Boverket's building regulations because of these are being consulted. No revolutionary changes are proposed, except that general advice should be made into regulations and that there should be increased scope for minor deviations if there are special reasons and there is no other significant inconvenience with this. Madam President, I would like My experience from political work is that it is difficult to influence how rules are to be applied and that a political will to simplify often leads to exactly the opposite – more difficult to understand rules and greater obstacles than before. Although there are no plans to change the regulations in addition to the proposal submitted by Boverket, the Government should have an interest in constantly reviewing which additional rules can be simplified. When the guidelines were last changed, it actually happened against the will of the Green Party and the Social Democrats. But today Märta Stenevi says that she believes that the changes that have been made to the regulations for environmental noise have increased the possibilities of condensing the buildings in attractive, centrally located and public transport near but at the same time noisy locations, as well as the possibilities of building small apartments. It is good that you can change, as Peter Eriksson did in 2017. This has, of course, been done at the price of higher environmental noise around these homes. But what does it do when the apartments are sought after and eager to build and when you can keep the noise away by, for example, closing windows and doors when needed? Madam President, I would like However, there is a difference between noise and sound. There were probably many of us who took a sigh of relief when it was stated that the sounds of children's and young people's sports are not equivalent to the noise of industries. Had the decisions of the Environmental and Urban Planning Board in Nacka and the County Administrative Board and the judgment of the Land and Environment Court at the Nacka District Court become a precedent, it would have had repercussions not only for the association life and children who sports and play at Boovallen but also for most of the country's sports fields within or near settlements. Madam President, I would like I refer to this example because too rigid application of the Environmental Protection Agency's indicative value for industrial noise in the evenings and weekends, in this case 45 decibels, can have major consequences. Now the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has fortunately made it clear that guidelines for industrial noise should not be used, and Boverket has developed guidelines. The Land and Environment Court ruled that sports children at Boovallen were an inconvenience to the neighbours but that noise protection was not needed either there or in other places where there is sport with loud and happy children. Since the answer I received from Minister Märta Stenevi was brief, I now wish to hear the Government's thoughts about sound, noise, interference and health. And since my question is about newly added dwellings, not existing ones, I would like to hear what she thinks of my idea of starting, instead of measuring at façade, from the sound levels that occur indoors when the measured values are expected to exceed the guide values.
i-c1baa20e3ec9d429-743	Madam President, I would like During the years 2015 – 2017 several changes have been made to the noise regulations that apply to the planning and construction of housing. In summary, the aim of the amendments has been to facilitate the planning and construction of homes in noise-retardant environments. These provisions relate in particular to road traffic noise. According to Boverket, the changes mean, among other things, that traffic noise no longer constitutes an obstacle to housing construction – and I share that assessment. Reducing noise exposure during densification in cities is a particular challenge, with an increasing number of people gathering on limited areas and cooperating with various noisy activities. It is important that we both develop dense and vibrant cities and ensure a good sound environment. With well-thought-out plan and construction solutions and building design, it is possible to achieve a good sound environment even in areas exposed to noise. When it comes to the possibility of changing premises to housing, in a recent report Boverket has not pointed out that noise is a specific obstacle – here I have formulated myself very strangely. In terms of industrial noise, Boverket has in a report from 2017, among other things noted that the current application of noise regulations and Boverket's guidance work mainly well. During 2020, Boverket has developed general advice and updated guidance for outdoor environmental noise for industrial and other activities with a similar sound character as well as a report, as the Member of Parliament pointed out, with guidance on noise from sports grounds. This is intended to provide support for the planning and construction of housing in areas exposed to such noise. I do not see the need today to initiate any changes to the regulatory framework or the noise guide values in the light of this. However, I would like to emphasise that the balance between a good housing environment, a good urban environment and the possibility of building housing is one of the most important balances in terms of urban planning and the planning of good and living cities.
i-c1baa20e3ec9d429-749	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for the in-depth information about what is happening in, among other things, Boverket's area! Access to land determines whether it can be built. A further review of the noise target values, as I propose, for example, would probably mean that additional land could be made available for housing construction. It's good to have our eyes open. As Peter Eriksson says, this makes it easier for municipalities that want to build homes in traffic-intensive locations. During the week, we were given an account of the housing shortage in nine major cities through the Tenant Association. In addition to the hairy conclusions about the development of rentals in these locations, it is characteristic that the queues are long. With the exception of Malmö, waiting times are ten years or more. It has undesirable effects on the housing market, such as the black market and overcrowding, and a debate on the need to reform the rental market as a whole. Rule changes in all forms need to be considered. At the outset, the Minister of Housing had an unwillingness to publish the text. This was improved somewhat in the second post. However, the fact that she is not considering the possibility of measuring noise guidelines in ways other than what is being done today is ominous. I think you should keep your eyes open for this. I mentioned one example in my question: Frihamnen in Gothenburg. It is possible to build a new city centre in a port area, in a similar way as has been done on other parts of Norra Älvstranden in Gothenburg. When it is close to public transport, it brings noise precisely from traffic and related activities. At the beginning of the year we were told that it will be possible with 1,900 apartments, a new school, new preschools and two parks in a so-called mixed city in Högsbo industrial area, also in Gothenburg, because the smell of freshly baked bread from Pågen does not put obstacles in the way. In this case, it is the large bakery that feels threatened by the fact that residents will, among other things, interfere with noise from their respective activities in the area. This is about buns and freshly baked bread but is also another example of when interests collide. With more flexible and generous noise benchmarks, more housing can be made possible without sacrificing jobs and business interests having to give way. In the footsteps of the pandemic, we may see the pattern that fewer office workplaces are needed, as more people work at home. The transformation of old industrial areas in central locations is likely to continue, and there must be scope for drawing up plans in which interests such as these stand against each other. In any case, it is clear that the Government, with its initial short answer and its second intervention, does not intend to pursue any further reasoning on the levels of noise guidelines, the requirement of quietness and measurement methods. I would therefore like to come back to my question as to whether, on the basis of the possibilities available in modern homes, it would be better to close and lock doors, windows and the like to be measured in the place where the accommodation can possibly be disturbed by the noise, namely indoors and not by facades where noise guidelines are measured today.
i-c1baa20e3ec9d429-758	Madam President, I would like I note that I could make very long speeches on the subject of urban densification. I think it's an amazingly fun subject! I will start by saying that the housing shortage is a problem that we need to graze off for a long time to come. After all, we had a period when we built far too little, and although we are now building at a level with or just above population growth, we also have a task to catch up with the housing debt that we have built up. An effective way to build more homes is to seal up our cities and build public transport close to them. This is something that is extremely important. We should also remember that when we build housing we build not only for this year and for those who are looking for housing right now, but these are housing that we hope will last for maybe 70 - 100 years. This means that living environments also need to be health-friendly – environments where people want to live and feel good living. Noise is a major problem that causes major damage to human health and also major socio-economic costs each year. I am not convinced that apartments where you cannot open the windows to fresh air without being exposed to harmful noise are the way forward. What I am convinced, however, is that there are almost always solutions to be found when you interact between different actors around urban densification. As the Member of Parliament highlighted Pågen, I would just like to turn the perspective for a second. After all, we have another challenge when we build near sources of noise in a dense city, and that is that we also prevent the development of activities. If we build homes in noisy areas, there is also a risk that activities that then want to expand and develop cannot obtain environmental permits for these, because there are homes too close. Therefore, when we seal and build inside cities and close to noise sources, we also need to constantly balance the conditions for companies to expand and develop their operations, about people's need for good living environments and in connection with it also a high build-up rate. There are many dimensions that need to be taken into account in these issues. I think this is an extremely exciting and important debate. We are not quite finished here yet, but I would like to thank you very much for the interpellation and hope that we will have the opportunity to debate the issue very many times in the future.
i-c1baa20e3ec9d429-765	Madam President, I would like We will certainly do that, even in other matters. The very question raised by the Government regarding the possibilities for development of activities is also relevant when it comes to rural development. There, nearby agriculture can often have major problems when the city chooses to develop. The problem that I raised about the happy, playing children at Boovallen is also such an example. Neighbors can thus have views on activities that have been there at all times and that give rise to both the smells and sounds that they are supposed to make. Having said that, I would like to say that housing construction in both urban and rural areas is an extremely important issue. The key to achieving this is to get well-functioning housing markets where people can afford to live and where there is also an investment willingness of construction companies to build. We do not see this challenge first and foremost in the cities, but rather in the rural areas. However, in the case of cities, it is also important, as the Government states, that we have the opportunity to condensate and develop. Building public transport near and making more land available for this is the major challenge. Although it is of course good to be able to open the window from time to time, I think that few people live in modern homes who choose to sleep with open windows with the ventilations available. Nor do I think that the noise that would occur inside the apartment is disturbing, but in that case it would be possible to close the window. We can discuss this indefinitely. I am absolutely convinced that the issue of noise benchmarks will arise, if only in debates on motions from the general period of exercise, which I hope the Government will be happy to come and debate with us on occasion.
i-c1baa20e3ec9d429-770	Madam President, I would like I would like to conclude the debate by saying that I am absolutely convinced that we can find the right balance between noise and health in cities and, for that matter, also in rural areas. It is clear that sometimes it is a challenge to both create space for businesses and a vibrant cultural environment and ensure that people feel good in their housing. But when we do that and take that time and put the effort to really work through those plans, they also often get very good. The surface is limited. There's a lot of room. We do not want a city where we ban everything that sounds, but we do not want a city where people cannot sleep or get worse health due to noise. With well-thought-out plan and construction solutions and building design, it is possible to achieve a good sound environment even in noisy areas, both in apartments and outside. Densification and efficient use of space are positive, and I look forward to more debates on innovative ways of finding a balance in this.
i-c1baa20e3ec9d429-774	Madam President, I would like Lars Beckman has asked me whether I intend to give Boverket a mission to guide how wind power expansion can take place without any negative impact on noise, psychosocial living conditions or other factors that have a negative impact on local residents. Lars Beckman has also asked me if I believe that a mission is not required to guide the municipalities in how wind power expansion can take place without negative consequences for local residents and if I then intend to change more parts of Boverket's mission that have similar issues. Finally, he has asked me whether I and the government intend to take measures to improve local democracy, so that the influence and influence of municipalities on wind power expansion in Sweden will be strengthened. Initially, I would like to point out that I am aware that wind power expansion requires good planning in order to reduce the risk of inconvenience and to create good housing environments. The reason we have noise regulations is that noise can have consequences for health. I intend to continue to follow the issue of wind power closely. Lars Beckman asked my predecessor Per Bolund corresponding questions in January 2021. Lars Beckman was then also informed that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency published a guide on noise emissions from wind turbines in December 2020. In addition to a review of the general knowledge about noise from wind turbines and the current guidelines, this also provides guidance for measures aimed at reducing noise from wind turbines. At present, like my predecessor, I consider that further guidance is not required. As regards the question of whether I intend to change more parts of Boverket's assignment that have similar issues, Boverket is responsible according to its instructions for guiding municipalities and others in how noise and other health issues should be taken into account when planning for, and building, housing according to planning and construction legislation. Regarding what I intend to do to strengthen local democracy in terms of wind power expansion in Sweden, the government has set up an investigation into increased predictability in the environmental testing of wind power. The investigation concerns the municipal power of wind power according to the Environmental Code. Like my predecessor, I do not wish to breach the conclusions of the investigation.
i-c1baa20e3ec9d429-778	Madam President, I would like There is a substantial expansion of wind power in Sweden. There is a substantial expansion of wind power in Gävleborg. There is a large expansion of wind power along the coast of Gävleborg – offshore wind power – in the area where there is 10 tons of mercury at the bottom in 23 000 poison barrels. It can be one of Sweden's largest natural disasters if wind power is built there. There is a large expansion of wind power in Hälsingland inland. There are a lot of people who contact me and are upset and feel that their habitat is threatened. They have chosen to live near the forest, for example, to let their little children grow up there, to enjoy nature, see the trees moving, hear the wind roar in the trees and in the evening see the darkness over Hälsingland's fine forests. Instead, they get wind farms next to them. When they're out walking, they hear the sound of wind power. I am sure that the Government has taken note of the upset media elements that have been in the near future, for example how a man in Norrbotten who lived in silence has suddenly seen his entire habitat destroyed due to noise. But it is not just noise, Madam President, it is also light. We can imagine that the Government stands by the beach, looks out over the beautiful Baltic Sea where it is today a darkness and you can hear the waves beating and hearing the sound of the wind. Imagine what it's like in ten years, if the same environment is like Liseberg's amusement park. It's a completely different habitat, which affects a lot of people. It feels like there are a little changed roles right now, Madam President. It feels like the Green Party, as when it started protecting the little man, suddenly doesn't care about the little man anymore. I'm not against wind power. I'm not against wind power. If the municipality and local residents want wind power, build! We have such a discussion in Bollnäs, for example. But when the psychosocial environment is affected as dramatically as it does in a wind farm expansion, I mean that the person affected by it must have a great influence. If I choose to live in a big city with all that means, I have made a life choice. But if I choose to move out to silence, I have made another life choice. That is why I have asked: Does the Government intend to give Boverket a mission to guide how wind power expansion can take place without any negative impact on noise, psychosocial living conditions or other factors that have a negative impact on local residents? For me, it is very remarkable that there can be such a massive expansion of wind power without these considerations being taken into account. That is why I put that question to the Director-General of Boverket when he visited the Civil Committee, namely whether Boverket has such a mission. The answer was crystal clear: No, we have no such mission. Then we're back on the community contract. When one has one's habitat so heavily affected – many would say destroyed – is it not reasonable that someone should at least produce a guide to the municipalities? Okay, how do we plan? How are we supposed to think? Is this family going to see their children grow up in the green forest and hear the sound of the trees, or is the family going to hear the sound of a wind farm?
i-c1baa20e3ec9d429-786	Madam President, I would like To give an answer that the seriousness of the question deserves, we can take a step back and put the wind power expansion in a context. First of all, it can be noted that Sweden has now had an electricity surplus ten years in a row. Last year we net exported electricity every week, even in winter. The trend has continued this year as well. Electricity surpluses with very low greenhouse gas emissions are exported from Sweden and displace coal power in our neighbouring countries. Wind power is also today the cheapest electricity generation technology that can be built to the fullest extent necessary in order to be able to make a strong contribution in the short and medium term to the transition to a more renewable society both internationally and in Sweden. The fact that such a large part of electricity production already comes from hydro power also makes Sweden particularly suitable for large-scale wind power expansion, as hydropower complements wind power as a regulator. I believe that the honourable Member agrees with the great profits that exist for Sweden and for the climate, and therefore also for our children and grandchildren, with large-scale wind power expansion. However, like the honourable Member, I see very clearly that there are problems associated with this. I also see that the issue of wind power, like so many other political issues, is about a balance between different values. Then I would like to emphasise once again that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has developed a guide with general knowledge of noise from wind turbines and with a specific guide for measures aimed at reducing noise from wind turbines. This guidance has just been developed and it is too early to evaluate the impact of the guidance. It must be allowed to have an impact. I would also like to point out once again that, according to the Environmental Code, the municipal power of wind power is affected by an ongoing investigation which I will not anticipate today. It is my hope and firm belief that the conclusions of the investigation will lead to the strengthening of local democracy and the predictability of the process in terms of wind power expansion in Sweden. In conclusion, this is an issue that the government is monitoring. The balancing of the balance between the benefits and costs of wind power does the government, and we need to continue to monitor it. As Minister of Housing in a government that is inspired by solving the climate crisis, it is my intention to continue to follow the development of the wind power issue very closely.
i-c1baa20e3ec9d429-795	Madam President, I would like This interpellation is not about whether you are for or against wind power. We agree that all forces are needed. Or rather, we Moderates agree on that. The Green Party has a different approach to nuclear energy, for example. This interpellation is about how people are affected – how the little children can play in the garden without seeing the metal slab, as a mother called me and told me. In fact, I am surprised that the Green Party is not on the side of the children, given the way they are expressed in other contexts. It is therefore a question of the psychosocial environment, in which noise is a factor. There we have seen that the wind turbines have now broken the regulations. We have the man in Norrbotten who said: If I had known what I know today I would of course have struggled with my life so that this would not come, because I get to sleep with earmuffs. But it is a matter of exercising authority, and we must assume that it is taken care of. But it's about the psychosocial habitat. It's about standing there and either wanting the silence, seeing the darkness and hearing the buzz from the trees in Hälsingland forests, or wanting to see Liseberg's amusement park. If you wanted to see Liseberg's amusement park, you would probably have moved to Gothenburg and looked at Liseberg's blinking amusement park. It's about whether I live in Söderhamn archipelago and go down to the beach and see the sun go down, it gets dark and beautiful and I hear the swells, or if I'm going to see a flashing fireworks – as a runway at Arlanda. This is what it is about, i.e. the psychosocial habitat – the small person, the mother with her children who has chosen to live close to the forest and nature because you want to live there. The Minister for Housing sounds almost like a large-scale industrialist, which is a little different. How, then, could this be solved? One way for the government, if you take this issue seriously, is to give Boverket a mission. Give Boverket a mission to find out how this powerful wind power expansion affects urban transformation and the living environment of residents. It is about those who live in Norrbotten, Gävleborg, Jämtland and along the coast. Yes, it affects the whole of Sweden. But the only place where wind power is not being built is the Stockholm archipelago, which is a bit strange. This is where the electricity is needed. I asked Fortum's CEO why no wind power is being built in the Stockholm archipelago: Isn't short transmission capacities good? Yes, that would be fantastic, said the representative of the energy company. It's just that here in Stockholm you don't want wind power in the Stockholm archipelago. It is the people along the coast in Gävleborg who will be affected in order for us to send electricity elsewhere. That may be the case, but the least you can ask then is for the government and the Green Party to find out and guide the municipalities in what they should take into account so that the children may grow up in a rush of birches and not in a rush of wind power, with all that it means by constant noise – even if it is low-frequency noise. That's what this interpellation is about. I immediately took the Minister to the Chamber, because I thought: perhaps this Minister is on the side of the children! Perhaps this minister is on the side of the residents! But it doesn't seem that way. It seems this minister sounds like the former big industrialist. Have I understood correctly that the Minister does not want to give Boverket any commissions on psychosocial habitat?
i-c1baa20e3ec9d429-806	Madam President, I would like In December, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency produced guidelines of 40 decibels equivalent level. A review of the state of research on wind noise interference was carried out and finally landed in the fact that 40 decibels are a well-balanced benchmark. Clarifications have also just been made as to where the benchmark should be applied and under which operating conditions it should apply. This is located on the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's table. According to its instructions, Boverket is responsible for guiding municipalities and others in how noise and other health issues should be taken into account when planning and building housing according to the planning and construction legislation. It's on Boverket's table. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has its tasks, and Boverket has its tasks. Authorities can communicate with each other – and do so. Boverket takes part of the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's analyses. Just because Boverket is not given a specific mission to achieve a specific goal does not mean that no one else has received it. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has just developed a guide on noise emissions from wind turbines, and it would not be good for the possibility of satisfying any value to mix up what is on each authority's table. Everyone who lives in Sweden should have good habitats; we all agree on that. However, the approach that Lars Beckman is asking me would be an inefficient way of achieving this.
i-c1baa20e3ec9d429-810	Madam President, I would like It is not every day that I commend the Social Democrats, but since the President happens to be from my constituency, I will praise the Social Democrats in Bollnäs. The Social Democrats in Bollnäs listened to what those affected by the wind power expansion said, and it has recently been said blankly 'no' to it – this week, in fact. I do not know whether it is right or wrong, but it is used as an argument that those affected by this do not want wind power. So you say no. I do not know what my own party is saying yet, so it is possible that I will now praise the Social Democrats while the Moderates say yes. But then I'll have to live with it! I am a little surprised, Madam President. The Green Party usually has sweet rabbits and ice creams, and it is usually the children who are in the front room. On this issue, however, children are not to be put first. This question does not take the side of the family. In this question you do not ask yourself on the mother's side in the children's family who have chosen to move to the forests outside Bollnäs and who want to hear the buzz of the forest, not the buzz of wind power. I'm surprised. I am also surprised that we have a Minister for Housing who does not want to give a clear mandate from the government. It can only be interpreted in one way, namely that the Minister does not believe that the issue comes before the wind power expansion. That's the risk you take, and maybe that's why the Green Party doesn't want to give these missions. Maybe that's why the Green Party does not take the children's side in the children's family that has chosen to move to Söderhamn and wants to see the fantastic view of the sea, not the carnival from a wind farm. As I said, I have nothing against wind power. It can be expanded as much as possible, but it should be done with regard to the people who live nearby. It should be the view of every decent Member of Parliament, and the Minister, that we are on the side of the little man.
i-c1baa20e3ec9d429-815	Madam President, I would like I'll start by saying that the government has given this mission. However, the debate does not seem to be about either climate or wind power. It does not seem to be about habitats, psychosocial environments or housing, and it certainly does not seem to be about children – or rabbits and ice creams, for that matter. I'm not sure how they got into this. Even the human right to beautiful prospects does not seem to be the subject of this debate. Basically, this debate and Lars Beckman's question seem to be about the introduction of a new management model in which authorities will work double and parallel with the same assignments in two different works despite the fact that the assignment is already given. I think it sounds very inefficient, and the government will not proceed with giving any authority a mandate that has already been given to another authority. However, I note that there are many ways forward where wind power is expanded while people are given good habitats. I live near a wind farm. In Öresund there is a wind farm, which does not disturb. We can build offshore wind power that can be significantly expanded. We are working for this today, and then we are not talking about coastal and not in the archipelago but about real, offshore, large-scale wind power. We know that the technology development is making wind turbines more efficient all the time. This means that we will be able to expand capacity without having large steel forests of wind turbines. In this way, we can both build an energy supply that benefits our children's and grandchildren's future and secure their right to good living environments here and now. That mission has been given by the government – just not in the exact way Lars Beckman has asked for.
i-c1baa20e3ec9d429-820	Madam President, I would like David Josefsson has asked me how I intend to work to make it more profitable to convert premises into housing. The report from Boverket referred to by David Josefsson in his interpellation was submitted to the Government Office on 24 February. The report is the answer to a mission to identify obstacles to transforming premises into housing. The background is that the government wants a basis for the event that the pandemic leads to a more permanent reduction in local use in society. It may then be necessary to use premises for new purposes, including housing, to a greater extent than is already happening today. As shown in Boverket's report, there is already a relatively extensive renovation of residential buildings – more than 10 per cent of the residential units that have been built up over the last 20 years have just been rebuilt. The government currently has no intention of taking steps to speed up this development further. The economy – and therefore the need for business premises – is expected to grow again as the population is vaccinated and society can be re-opened. If it turns out that local use does not increase again, the government will consider what needs to be done.
i-c1baa20e3ec9d429-823	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister of Housing. I will admit, however, that made me a little surprised. Madam President, I would like to start by putting the question in context. In the last decade, or even the last few decades, we have seen a social development that has left a deep mark on our city centres. It is a social development that has been accentuated by the pandemic but not caused by it. Actually, it's about two parallel movements. On the one hand, it is about the development of trade towards increasingly e-commerce, resulting in the death of shops, and on the other hand it is about a new way of organising workplaces, which has led to more flexible and surface efficient offices. The consequences of the first movement are not very desirable. Our inner cities have experienced increasing retail deaths as e-commerce gains new ground. If we want vibrant city centres and sustainable cities, the policy must enable entrepreneurs, often less, who run stores to survive despite competition from global retail chains and e-commerce giants. In addition, in the wake of the pandemic, we need stronger measures from the government to save the restaurants that are being forced to take the fall to stop the spread of the disease, but that is a little different from what we are debating today, Madam President. The second part is a little easier to look forward to with confidence. Smarter architecture and flexible solutions have led to a reduced need in terms of the number of square metres of office per employee. In addition, the pandemic has accelerated progress towards more teleworking and homework. Madam President, I would like Government representatives in the post of Minister for Housing can hardly be accused of having overrun the Riksdag with proposals on how to reform the housing market, how to simplify building rules or how to eliminate the housing shortage. Perhaps the most prominent reform carried out so far during the current term of office is to alleviate building permit requirements for patios. It is a good proposal in principle, but as someone said, you cannot live on a terrace. However, before leaving his assignment, the former Minister of Housing gave Boverket the task in advance of reviewing how to facilitate the conversion of empty premises into housing. Better exploitation of the existing local stock is important for a number of reasons. Among other things, it is important from a sustainability perspective, as has been pointed out in the investigation mission that we are debating today. This could lead to the creation of new, centrally located housing, thereby also countering a trend in which urban centres are becoming more and more deserted. This, in turn, would create the conditions for remaining services and trade to remain and develop. Madam President, I would like Boverket presented its conclusions in February. Among other things, it was noted that both VAT rules and renting are major obstacles to conversion. Nevertheless, Minister of Housing Märta Stenevi now says that she does not intend to take any action on this issue. The answer both puzzles me and raises new questions in me. The investigation directive that the government wrote to Boverket states that it is important that the existing property portfolio is used in the best possible way and that the use for the same building can be flexible and enable reuse, not least from a sustainability perspective. Should I now interpret the Government's response as not sharing the assessment made by the Government in November that this is important?
i-c1baa20e3ec9d429-832	Madam President, I would like This is a very interesting issue on which the government is closely following developments. It remains to be seen – if the pandemic leads to a more permanent reduction in local use in society, it may certainly be necessary to use premises for new purposes, including housing, to a greater extent than is already happening today. On the VAT issue, rental of dwellings is always exempt from VAT, while VAT on local rents can be charged if the tenant carries out a VAT duty. For property owners, an opportunity arises to deduct input VAT when VAT is charged on the rent. The rules make it more difficult for a non-profit association to rent premises, for example, because it is less attractive as a tenant if you do not pay VAT or have to pay VAT yourself in the absence of revenue to deduct the VAT cost. I am referring to this because it is one of the problematics that has been highlighted in terms of transformation. If we go in a little closer and look at this problem we see that Boverket describes two different problems with this. One is that previously granted VAT deductions must be returned when the use of the building changes. This retroactivity extends back ten years, and it is therefore rarely necessary to repay deductions granted in connection with the building of the house. The second is that the actual VAT cost of the conversion will not be deductible, as it will be in the event of a renovation with continued use as a local. This is the same difference as the one facing a new building. If housing is built, VAT revenue will not be collected and therefore costs cannot be deducted. If the possibility of moving between different uses is to be at the heart of the issue, either a VAT obligation on rental housing or a ban on charging VAT on local rents must be introduced. What has been the subject of the debate in particular is VAT on housing rents, and since it is not desirable to increase rents by means of a political decision, these must be reduced at the same time as VAT is introduced. This is a major reform which, moreover, needs to be long-lasting. This requires careful preparation and cannot be treated separately from other tax issues. The government currently sees a number of other tools that are proven effective and that appear more effective in remedying the housing shortage than the politically and fiscally rather cumbersome approach that, for example, a change in these rules would entail.
i-c1baa20e3ec9d429-840	Madam President, I would like When you listen to the Minister for Housing, it almost sounds like the VAT rules are given by Gud. This is not the case; it is we in Parliament and the government who decide the rules. It was also this that I perceived as the purpose of this investigation – to identify obstacles and then consider whether something can be done about them. In fact, I thought that in this debate I would be given the opportunity to give credit to the government. This is, after all, one of the few initiatives that have been taken over the last year to investigate obstacles to the creation of new housing. I thought it was a forward-looking initiative that deserved to be raised. However, the Minister for Housing himself is now putting it down, which refers to the fact that VAT rules are too complicated. It should be said, Madam President, that the pandemic is not the reason why the need for office space is decreasing, but the pandemic has accentuated developments. Both media surveys among major employers in both Sweden and abroad and research show the same thing. Homework is thought to be at a significantly higher level after the pandemic than before, and the need for premises will look quite different in the future. Add to this an increased use of distance meeting services that are likely to reduce the need for both meeting rooms and, for example, hotel rooms for business travellers. Precisely what this development will look like is difficult to re-establish, but I think that we decision-makers should already consider how we can review and change the regulatory framework in order to allow for more flexible use. I would like to highlight this for two reasons, Madam President. One is about sustainability and the other is about urban development. These are two issues that I have previously understood to have been at the heart of the Green Party's view of housing policy. A more efficient use of office space is not more environmentally sustainable if the more efficient area can not be used for any other purpose at the same time. In addition, conversion is a low hanging fruit to be able to seal in our city centres and provide a greater basis for central trade and service to live on. During the second half of the 20th century, the philosophy of Swedish urban planning was to demolish or office buildings in central locations and build office complexes and shopping centres. At the same time, the homes were moved out to our outer areas. Documentary When Domus came to town by Anders Wahlgren from 2004 shows how previously living city centres around Sweden were wiped out to be replaced by the city-building ideal of the time. We now have a historic chance of re-housing our city centres, but this will require political action. The option is not the status quo. If we do nothing, we point instead to abandoned city centres with empty office premises and further shop death. This is a development that we are already seeing in North America. I would like to return to the Minister for Housing's inverse approach to removing obstacles to transforming empty premises into housing. The mission was sent in November and reported back in January. It was four months ago, and now the Minister for Housing says that there is no point in taking any action. I think I can hear that the problem is rather that the measures proposed were the wrong measures and that it is not appropriate with the government's political agenda to reform cumbersome VAT rules or reform rental regulation. Is that why you choose not to take this issue further?
i-c1baa20e3ec9d429-850	Madam President, I would like I should like to start where the honourable Member left off and emphasise that in my reply I was quite clear that we will be monitoring this issue. If we see an increasing need for transformation, we are prepared to look at what would be required for it. At the same time, I note that the proposals that are being made specifically with regard to VAT rules appear to be both politically and fiscally cumbersome and are not the direction that we currently see as being most forward-looking. On the other hand, the Boverket report also shows that there is already a relatively large-scale renovation of housing facilities. More than 10 per cent of the dwellings in multi-detached buildings that have been added over the last 20 years are located in rebuilt premises, which I have already mentioned. Investment aid available for rental dwellings and student housing may also be granted for renovations of premises that have not been residential in the last eight years. So there is also this possibility. I would like to take this opportunity to join in something that the Member of Parliament raised and which is not really covered by the question that was asked, but by the movement against the death of shops in central and urban areas. This is a very sad development that we have seen for a long time. However, it has been driven above all and for a long time by external trade and by the large car dependence that has been built into our cities when valuable space where we could have built homes, planted trees and parks and built playgrounds for our children has instead been devastated in favour of 80-100 meter wide entrances and thus also causes both climate adaptation problems and a higher climate load. It is interesting to follow the development of trade that takes place not least in North America, where the circle is beginning to close and e-commerce hits external trade hardest, which gives city commerce an opportunity to with the help of experiences, a developed urban planning and a more attractive city centre start to get back customers. We also see a development where companies, such as Ikea, go from large shopping centres outside the cities to using premises inside city centres to make use of the experience environment that exists there. This is a very positive development. As responsible for urban development issues, I find this very interesting to follow and very valuable. A development in which, for example, service provision in the cores of urban areas is strengthened and complemented by e-commerce at the expense of external trade would, in my view, provide the opportunity to create more places in the country where it is possible to live and live, not only in our cities but also in our smaller towns which could then have a much wider range of services. It would also provide the opportunity to allow our major cities to grow on land already in use. I look forward very much to having a discussion on how we can support such a development. But as I said in my interpellation response, I do not currently see any need to speed up the conversion of premises into housing further at this stage. We believe and hope that the economy will grow again. We do not yet know how it will have affected the office premises, but when we get out of this phase and know what the need for premises looks like then we are prepared to look further at this issue. In the meantime, I will be happy to debate densification and urban development with the Member of Parliament at any time.
i-c1baa20e3ec9d429-859	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister of Housing. I would also like to debate very much, but I would still prefer to see concrete measures taken by the government. I do not think I need to tell the Minister for Housing or anyone else who listens to this debate how serious the situation is in the Swedish housing market. The housing shortage, together with insecurity and segregation, is one of Sweden's most acute social problems. It is also one of the biggest failures of the government, Madam President. According to Boverket's housing market survey, nine out of ten Swedes live in a municipality with a housing shortage. The biggest problems are in the metropolitan regions. In my hometown of Gothenburg, the municipality estimates that 4 000 – 5 000 new homes are needed annually to overcome the housing shortage. The housing shortage is a fundamental political failure that affects many different groups in society. It affects young people who want to establish themselves on the housing market. It allows families with children to live cramped when they cannot afford to move to something larger. It locks older people in large villas, even though they really want to move to an apartment. There is no easy solution to these problems, Madam President, but it requires a series of measures and action to increase the functioning of the housing market. Turning empty premises into housing will not solve all the problems, quite the contrary. But it could be an effort in the right direction. To have a functioning housing market in Sweden requires a government that acts and runs a reform agenda – something that has not happened in recent years, Madam President. I think that these debates are very illustrative in this way, because the Minister for Housing's response here today also sums up the government's housing policy: the government is following developments but has no intention of taking any action at the moment.
i-c1baa20e3ec9d429-867	Madam President, I would like I think that the debate was very enlightening also for the moderate housing policy, given that the last two terms of office have increased housing construction dramatically, as of course the honourable Member is also well aware. We are currently building more than what is needed on the basis of population growth, but we still have a housing debt from previous mandates to build. It is interesting here to remind us of the napkin sketch, which ironed out investment aid aimed at building more housing for reasonable rents. It is something that we reintroduced and which now has the effect that we will soon have 5 000 new homes in place. It has also kept up the pace of the pandemic with the pressure that has been on the economy. It is very interesting that the Moderates' approach to this is that we should convert any leftover office space into housing. At the same time, it does not want the development of rental housing at reasonable rents to break the segregation and create opportunities for more people to enter the housing market, such as young people under the age of 31 or those who need a social contract, as investment support allows. This was very illustrated by the differences between moderate housing policy and the red-green government's housing policy, the difference between wanting to screw a little in the existing and wanting to add a large number of new homes to the Swedish housing market.
i-c1baa20e3ec9d429-872	Madam President, I would like Mr Bohlin has asked me how I intend to increase housing construction. It is a very important question that is being asked, and I am pleased with the opportunity to answer it. I would like to make it clear at the outset that Boverket does not set targets for housing construction, but they look at population development forecasts and calculate how many homes need to be built to meet it. The latest estimate shows that 41 000 – 43 000 homes per year up to and including 2029 are needed to do this. All dwellings built in addition to that reduce the deficit that exists and that have grown under previous governments. Preliminary statistics from SCB and Boverket for 2020 show that both completed and started homes exceed the number that Boverket estimates are needed to meet population development. One reason why much is being built in Sweden is the state investment support that the Moderates and Christian Democrats, supported by the Swedish Democrats, tried to dismantle. Until the end of February this year, aid has been granted for the organisation of 45 000 new dwellings, of which 21 000 are already in place. These are dwellings with lower rents than other newly produced rental dwellings and with conditions that allow more households to demand them. Investment aid has been and is an important tool for maintaining a high rate of construction, especially in a recession, and I intend to continue to use it to increase housing construction. The government is working on several fronts to create better conditions for housing construction. As late as 23 March this year, the Council submitted a private right of initiative to Parliament aimed at enabling faster detailed planning processes. The Government has also commissioned several authorities to review their claims in areas of national interest aimed at a substantial reduction in both the number of claims and their overall distribution. Finally, I would also like to mention the Swedish negotiation, which was set up by a bourgeois government, and the agreements made by municipalities, regions and other actors on measures to increase housing construction, among other things. More than 190 000 new homes were negotiated during the Swedish negotiations. But when the government called for a broad political discussion on the funding of the state parts of Sweden's negotiations, the Moderates and Christian Democrats declined to participate – this despite a broad commitment from municipalities, regions and a large part of the business community.
i-c1baa20e3ec9d429-877	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Housing, for your answer. For those who only own one hammer, all problems look like a nail, and for those who only think that contributions solve the problems, the answer to a question will always be a new contribution. And that is exactly the answer I am getting from the Minister for Housing today. I asked a broad question to give the opportunity for a broad answer. However, as in previous debates here today, the Minister of Housing lands in that the answer to the question is that we only need the subsidies for housing construction a little more. The fact is, Madam President, that the huge support that the government has launched for housing construction, SEK 11 billion, has mainly gone to homes that had been built anyway. And it has often gone to people who have a higher income than the average in the area. If you are going to, so to speak, benchmark the support against where the shortage is considered to be at its greatest, it is strange that Stockholm, where probably everyone agrees that the housing shortage is greatest, only ends up in 14th place among the cities that have been granted support in Sweden. What is so sad, Madam President, is that we always get into a discussion about new and more subsidies when it is proven that it does not solve the problem in the Swedish housing market. If price regulation and subsidies had been the solution to a housing market problem, Sweden would have had the most well-functioning housing market in the world. But we all know that is not the case. No, Sweden is almost unique in that we have something called housing queue. Most other countries do not know what a housing queue is. Let me repeat my question: What does the Minister of Housing really want to do to make it easier and cheaper to build in Sweden? I am not talking cheaper to build with taxpayers' money, because this money obviously has an alternative use. They could have stayed in people's pockets. They could have gone to maintain some other central welfare areas. Instead, the government chooses to spend 11 billion dollars on buildings that had yet to be built. Let me be a little more specific in my questions in order to try to lead the Minister for Housing correctly in this discussion. Are you prepared to review the too complicated detailed plan requirement? Are you prepared to introduce more transparent construction plans instead? Are you prepared to carry out a general revision of the rules with the aim of reviewing the more than 3 000 regulations that today make up Boverket's building rules and which, in 20 years, have made it almost half a million SEK more expensive to build an ordinary villa in Sweden? Thus, new administrative requirements alone have created this cost. Could it be interesting to limit the circle of property owners so that we do not have a system that today, in which things are appealed in absurdity by people and parties who are fundamentally not even concerned by the construction project in question and which makes it often take ten years from the idea until a building is there? Madam President, I would like This creates costs and makes it harder to build in Sweden. Does the Minister of Housing share this picture?
i-c1baa20e3ec9d429-887	Let me remind the honourable Member that we are speaking through the President and are not using you or you.
i-c1baa20e3ec9d429-888	Madam President, I would like I begin at the end that it is extremely interesting at one point to debate with moderates who are concerned about the issue of democracy in the detailed planning process in order to debate the next with moderates who think that we should loosen the democratic dimension in the planning process. The fact that we have the opportunity to think about what is being built in our municipalities and residential areas is an important part of the democratic process when planning our common cities and towns. I would also like to remind the honourable Member of the difference between the City of Stockholm and the Stockholm region. Much of the investment aid has been directed towards the Stockholm region, and a great many homes have been built with the help of investment support in the Stockholm region. The Stockholm region is a functional labour market, and it is therefore very relevant to look at the entire labour market and not just at one of the 27 participating municipalities. Investment aid has gone to this region, and many new homes have been built. When you ask municipalities and regions what is missing in the housing market, it is not evenly distributed across all types of housing. What is lacking is to a large extent rental rights for reasonable rents. At the same time, new production is more expensive than existing stocks. That will always be the case, and it is quite natural. Loans are paid off and expenses are written off. It has a lower cost for a house that has been built earlier than for a newly built house. What we have done with investment support and the changes that have been made means that one eighth of the apartments that are being built go to either young people or people who are far from the housing market through social contracts. In other words, it opens up to those who cannot ask for housing themselves today. Madam President, I would like However, the aim of the investment aid has never been to create social housing projects. It is not the government's policy to build especially for poor people. We build housing in accordance with the general housing policy that can be demanded by everyone, and then we support individuals. Right now we have a historically high level of construction in Sweden, not least as a result of the state investment aid. Of course, you might think that is unnecessary, but if we compare with the terms of office back then it was built incredibly little it is now being built very much more. I'm very proud of it, and we'll hold on to that. The next step will be to look at the socially sustainable housing supply and see how more people may ask for a home on their own merits. We will also look at how more first-time buyers can step into the owned portfolio through government start-up loans, if the investigation comes to that, or other possible ways forward at that end of the housing market. The housing market is coherent. What you do at one end affects the other end. This is an important issue, and I welcome the debate itself, but would like to point out that we are building more housing in Sweden today than we have done for a very long time, not least as a result of the investment aid so spat on by the honourable Member.
i-c1baa20e3ec9d429-897	Madam President, I would like I think that the Government should be too good to withdraw the concept of democracy in this context when what I said was that we want a less detailed detailed plan requirement. What it has to do with any concept of democracy is a mystery to me. But it is a little symptomatic for the time we live in that when you have run out of arguments you are happy to draw the biggest sledgehammer and start talking about that democracy is endangered and in danger. Madam President, I would like What I said was that we need more general construction plans so that you do not, like so many times in today's Sweden, when you want to build something that only slightly deviates from the existing zoning plan, end up in a situation where the municipality has to develop a new zoning plan, and so it takes ten years without anything happening. Nothing is built, everything is delayed and the national economy is damaged. That's my point. In addition, I noted that we might need a regime in which we restrict the concept of substance to those who are actually concerned. This may, of course, vary depending on the issue. Of course, more people are affected by a wind power establishment than by an application for a building permit for a single-plan villa. However, I assume that the Minister for Housing is also aware of this. Madam President, I would like I did not receive an answer to my question about a general revision of the rules. Is there anything the Green Party and the Minister for Housing are interested in? Is it reasonable that an ordinary one-plan villa has become almost half a million dollars more expensive just because of design requirements? Is it reasonable for us to continue in this direction? Is a house built 20 years ago so bad that it has been necessary to impose all these new design requirements? Or could it be appropriate to take a step back and ask ourselves whether we might have too many rules that complicate and exorbitantly overwhelm the final bill on the individual? It is perhaps at that end you should start rooting to find the answers to why so few small houses are built in Sweden. Madam President, I would like As I said at the outset, it is clear that the vast majority of the multi-family housing built with investment support had been built anyway. The only effect of this is that the developer has been able to get a slightly better deal, and it is strange from a party that in many other contexts expresses itself critically to the concept of profit in welfare. But when it comes to the construction sector, it's all of a sudden okay to spend 11 billion tax dollars on various developers scattered across the country. Many of them are certainly very happy, but we should remember that most of these houses had been built anyway. The question then arises: Would there not have been better use in or outside the treasury of this money?
i-c1baa20e3ec9d429-905	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by explaining what I mean by the democratic aspect of this. This is not least about the appeals. When you want to reduce the number of parties in, for example, a municipality's planning, this means a restriction on the democratic process in the municipality. When you want to make exceptions to the detailed plans that are laid down, it also means a change in the democratic process. We have an overview plan – a regional planning – that aims to take a greater grip on housing planning in a region, not least to point out where you see that public transport will be built and where you will be able to find public transport near locations. The interpellation was based on how we will build more housing. If we want to build more homes, public transport, not least fixed public transport in the form of rail, is extremely central to getting more housing. I really want to pay tribute to the alliance government that was set up in 2010–2014 – this was the initiative that was taken to Sweden's negotiations. When the red-green government then took this further, it created planning for a large amount of housing. Nearly 200,000 homes were shaken in the process. After this, the Moderates and Christian Democrats have backed up the project, but we intend to move forward. It's been an important part. The reason for this is that we have enlarged labour market regions and the opportunity to live and work in more places in one region. This creates demand for housing, and it creates housing construction. The housing built with the investment aid could not have been built with such rents without this aid. The housing that has been provided would not have gone to the same extent to social contracts or to young people if we had not had investment support. Such handshake and agreements make a difference in the housing market. We have carried out major regulatory reviews, and we have made major simplifications throughout the last parliamentary term and also later, in order to simplify construction. What is needed now is investment from society in strong public transport, in larger labour market regions and in better opportunities for work commuting. I had hoped that the Moderates would endorse such an initiative and investment in our common labour market and development, rather than backing back and reducing the democratic transparency of planning processes and wanting to reduce the possibility of influence for residents in a municipality in terms of common spaces, and that they would raise their eyes a little and look at where we want to be in the future in the planning of our regions, cities and homes.
i-c1baa20e3ec9d429-912	Madam President, I would like The Minister for Housing is welcome to explain what the simplification of the rules that took place during the previous term of office has resulted in. I don't think there are so many of us who have noticed any of it. What I just told you is what the situation is today. If you are satisfied that Boverket has 3 000 building regulations that have made it half a million SEK more expensive to build an ordinary villa in Sweden, you have not set the bar very high in your ambition level, I can think. To answer the housing minister's question: The reason we do not think that Sweden's outcome is working is that we have received a presumptive bill for building high-speed railways. All the assessments claim that it is socially unprofitable. Then, as a politician, you have to ask yourself whether, as a stubborn – I do not know what – you want to run on the same track without being able to re-evaluate that position. Of course, the answer must be no. If you are told that each invested crown in such a project gives 40 cents back in socio-economic profits, you are stubborn, not to say naive, if you want to go ahead with it. That's where we are now. There is an alternative cost to make this bet. Of course, the 300 billion or perhaps 700 billion that it costs to build high-speed rail can be used to renovate the existing infrastructure network, thus enabling many more homes in a wide range of additional locations than the new main roads could entail. That, of course, is what we see and propose.
i-c1baa20e3ec9d429-915	Madam President, I would like With regard to what the rules are today and what the effects have been, I suggest that the Member of Parliament read the statistics on housing construction a little more carefully and see how many more homes have been built in the last two terms of office. As far as high-speed roads are concerned, I would like to point out that there was once a picture of the Moderates being a business-friendly and market-liberal party. Today, all I see is conservatism. We know that the chambers of commerce are calling for new main roads, we know that new main roads can mean the enlargement of our labour market regions and we know that we can have a better labour market for more people, where more people can get to work and where more companies can find the right skills if they have more efficient communications between their companies and employees' homes, and when we know that regional benefits come out of this, even if they are not included in the end-point traffic calculations, and when we see the 200,000 homes on which they have shaken hand because there are new main roads, it is a little sad to hear that the Moderates are no longer interested in investing in our society 100 – 150 years ahead, as with our former main roads. It's full on our main tracks. It's totally squeaky-full. It does not help to patch and fix at all, but we need to get new capacities and new main routes into the system. When we do this, we can build for rapid speeds so that we have larger labour market regions and more in work. This is a way of increasing housing construction with which I and the government intend to go forward, along with investment support and better rules for first-time buyers. I can only hope that the Moderates will once again support the development and future confidence of Swedish housing and labour market policies.
i-c1baa20e3ec9d429-919	Madam President, I would like Ida Drougge has asked me whether I intend to work towards phasing out investment aid and when it can happen. I would like to start by saying that there is no point in phasing out investment aid for rental housing and student housing. Ida Drougge considers the aid to be costly and inefficient. I do not share that view. We need to build more rental apartments in Sweden, and then this support is important. It is needed to create more rental apartments with reasonable rents, especially in those regions where it is most needed. The aid was introduced at the end of 2016 and has been formally available for four years. In practice, however, it has been somewhat more difficult than that since the Riksdag decided in December 2018 on a budget for the state that meant that the grant had to be terminated abruptly. It was not possible to grant aid for applications that had already been received, despite the fact that many companies have spent a lot of time and money to project suitable projects relying on the State to manage its support, including possible decommissioning, while respecting the resources it has spent. However, the aid could be restarted under the January Agreement, but it has taken time to get all the pieces of the puzzle in place. Nevertheless, there are clear indications that the aid has been successful. Until 28 February this year, investment aid has been granted for the organisation of 45 000 new dwellings, of which 21 000 are already in place. These dwellings also have lower rents than other newly produced rental dwellings and conditions that allow more households to demand them. Investment support has been and is an important tool for maintaining a high build-up rate, which is particularly important if we enter a recession.
i-c1baa20e3ec9d429-925	Madam President, I would like The government has spent 11 billion on investment support for rental apartments. It is said that it does so to mitigate the consequences of market failures. Instead, expensive patches are put on a market failure, a system failure, rather than trying to solve the causes of the system failure. The consequence is that the investment aid is as inefficient as it is. During the afternoon, in several previous interpellation debates, we have heard the Minister for Housing refer to the support as a reason why much is being built and that the construction has increased, especially for young and older people. However, the aid has been evaluated several times. Among other things, the Swedish National Audit Office has looked at it. Recently, a new study from Evidens, commissioned by Real Estate Owners and Construction Industries, came. It shows once again how inefficient investment aid is. One might wonder how many evaluations of investment support are required for the Minister for Housing and the Government to take on board the criticism. It is clear, among other things, that Stockholm, which is very often described as the municipality with the largest housing shortage in the country, is on site 14 in terms of the number of aid granted. What Sweden's municipalities and regions usually call smaller cities receives more support granted. If you look at the number of homes that it has led to, you can see no correlation between the support and the building of more dwellings. Without it, it goes to a large extent to housing that would otherwise still have been built. Another thing that emerges from the many evaluations is that the result, i.e. housing for young and older people, is about 10%, if you look at Märta Stenevi's figures, Madam President. That's about 2,500 homes. In particular, this should be taken into account by saying that it should go to the target group young and older people. Of the 21 000 built, the others have not gone to this target group. On the contrary, it can be seen that the queues for the dwellings receiving investment aid are longer than for other apartments. Those living in them generally have a higher income than other people living in the area.
i-c1baa20e3ec9d429-932	Madam President, I would like In this there are many questions, and I can imagine about whom the Member of Parliament was looking for. First of all, I would like to say that the aid in its current form has only been evaluated in an ordered report by Mrs Evidens. The support has been redesigned to give it just a higher level of accuracy. I am sure the honourable Member is aware of this, so I do not need to dwell on it. With regard to the effectiveness of the support and the achievement of the objectives, I would like to point out, with all due respect to Mrs Evidens, who has produced the report and to its clients, that they are evaluating against objectives that have not existed. It has never been a stated goal that the city of Stockholm should have more housing. What we want is more housing in a functional region. On the other hand, investment aid has been granted. When the Member of Parliament points to smaller cities, among them are the municipalities of the City of Stockholm. When you look at the functional labour market region, I assume that the Moderates are also convinced that there will be housing in, investment support goes where it is intended. What investment support was never meant to be was a social housing project. These are newly produced homes. I am convinced, Madam President, that the Member of Parliament is 100% aware that new production is more expensive than existing stocks. Comparing queue times in a newly produced property with queue times in the entire existing stock will not be comparing apples and apples, but comparing apples and pears. On the other hand, we see that we have created the possibility of folding one eighth of the homes in each project to either young people or to people who are far from the housing market, for example through social contracts. Since we can make such deals, this brings a very valuable addition of housing. However, this is still about new housing. New housing, on the other hand, relieves the pressure of the existing stock, i.e. if many new homes can be added, cheaper housing will also be released in the existing stock. This is a fundamental mechanism in the housing market, and I think the honourable Member is also well aware of this, so I will not lecture on it. I think we agree on this. As mentioned above, the investment aid was introduced at the end of 2016. It's changed since then. We do not have the same impression that it is ineffective. On the contrary, all the signals we are receiving now show that it provides new housing. Above all, it provides a type of housing that more people can demand than in normal new production. Before we had investment support in place, we saw how new production did add new housing, not least through the Swedish negotiations that we have talked about before, but they were extremely expensive. Investment support creates a new type of housing into new production that has more reasonable rents. They're not as cheap as they are in the existing stock-- they'll never be-- but they're adding a new type of housing, and that's a very important addition. In addition, it holds up at a time when we have an enormous need not to lose momentum in housing. I would say that investment aid has been very effective and I do not intend to dismantle it.
i-c1baa20e3ec9d429-942	Madam President, I would like Investment aid and markets that are regulated almost absurdly easily become very complex, and this has consequences in many more stages than just directly. Comparing the statistics, it can be seen that one consequence of investment support is that fewer young people live in newly produced rental apartments that have received the support than in newly produced rental apartments that have not received the support. I use the concept of young people because I understand from the Minister for Housing that they are one of the groups that they want to promote with the support. There are therefore fewer young people living in rental apartments with support than young people living in new rental apartments without support. This is because there is a queue system also for the rental apartments that have received support. The Queue System, which is not a major problem in many other countries, creates extra pressure on the housing that receives support because the rent is lower. There's more people lining up there. It goes without saying that a young person in his 19s is less likely to have built up a long queue time than an older person has. Again, the aid does not have the effect for young people, for example, that they are looking for. It is also a little naive to ignore the other problems that remain in the rental market. This system is also hiding something. The Minister for Housing is right that a lot of housing is being built now. We also have very low interest rates now, so it is currently very beneficial to build housing. As the economic cycle goes down, the more serious consequences of the non-functioning rental market that we have will be seen even more clearly than they are now. We know this. That's how it's been before, so it's not really news. As long as you don't get to grips with this and try to put plasters on the wounds with the help of expensive investment aid, the basic problem will not be solved. I therefore wonder how the Minister for Housing sees fewer young people living in newly produced rental apartments that have received this support than in other newly produced rental apartments.
i-c1baa20e3ec9d429-947	Madam President, I would like I don't see a big problem with that. Investment support is still not intended to build special housing for special groups, but we have a general housing policy in Sweden. The investment support provides housing and enables the property owners to allocate one eighth of the apartments. This is particularly important for social contracts for those who do not enter the housing market at all. But if these homes reach another group, so that they free up cheaper housing in the existing stock, I do not really see the problem with that. Well, that's good, then. It is positive that we are getting new housing into the housing market. Those with high incomes can demand these homes, and then those younger with lower incomes can increasingly demand the apartments that exist in the existing stock. This is why we're chasing after the building act. We want a high rate of construction because, during the terms of office before the last two, far too little was built for a long time. We have a mortgage. We need more housing, and we need to catch up in order to get a better functioning housing market, both in the rented and in the owned. It is true that interest rates are very low. This has also meant that house prices have been very high in recent years. This represents a huge threshold for young people – and for that matter for first-time buyers who are not young – to enter the property. That is why the government is now trying to find ways to overcome this, but also the reason why the amortisation requirements are important, something that I debated with the honourable Member earlier today. We may find ourselves in a situation where interest rates are rising, something that the honourable Member obviously also sees as a risk. If they go up to 2%, we have a doubling of interest costs, and then there will be families whose economy is broken if they do not have sufficient margins. Therefore, the housing provided with investment support and with lower rents are important for the housing market, because the housing market is linked. We're not going to build houses and say that only a certain group can live there. The housing market is a communication vessel. When we supply homes with reasonable rentals at one end, opportunities are also released at the other end. We will be able to help first-time buyers to enter the owned housing market without going into debt so high that they risk having their future economy broken down by an interest rate increase, which I am old enough to remember the effects of the 1990s. We must take the opportunity to get people to be able to demand property without those consequences. We must enable young people to enter the housing market and have a place to live. They should be able to accept a study place or accept a job without going into debt. Instead, it should be available cheaper and easier accommodation to get. If it is then a dwelling in the existing stock or a dwelling built with investment support is not central. The central point is that there is enough new housing in the housing market to provide housing for all. Investment aid has contributed to this. It's made us keep this up. The investment aid has also added rental rights. In the years prior to the investment aid, much was built, but what was built was expensive residential apartments and expensive rental apartments. Now we get a better mix in new production and thus also better accessibility in the existing stock.
i-c1baa20e3ec9d429-955	Madam President, I would like I have to thank the Minister for Housing for bringing up something in this framework that I had not yet had time to go into and that I had actually forgotten a little in the name of honesty. At least it's an interesting observation that I think you should have with you. As the investment aid is designed, the type of rental apartment that receives this support is built in areas that already have a similar level of rent. So, Madam President, I do not see the mix that the Minister for Housing is looking for. It is not profitable and not possible for the producers of housing to build them in an area where the value of housing is significantly higher, because it is necessary to qualify for the lower rent level. You cannot get so much support per home that you can build the apartments in an area with very sought after locations, but you have to adapt to an area that is qualified for that level of rent. It is also one of the factors that means that the City of Stockholm, with higher housing prices and higher prices on land, ends up in place number 14. Having said that, I can see that this debate shows that the Moderates are clearly very far removed from the Green Party and the Government in their view of investment aid and whether it is an effective measure to bring about housing as needed.
i-c1baa20e3ec9d429-957	Madam President, I would like We have 290 municipalities in Sweden. If the City of Stockholm is in place 14 of those who have received investment aid, I think it still sounds quite reasonable. What we can be very sure of is that the level of investment aid, the requirements on rents and land prices together means that the homes will not be built at Hötorget, at Södermalm or at all in Stockholm's inner city. Land prices are too high. But Stockholm is a much larger labour market region than that. In contrast, municipalities belonging to the labour market region are being built. Nearly 90 per cent of the housing supported is located in those regions and municipalities where the greatest needs are. Investment aid has therefore met those regions. It has met the Stockholm region for those studying at Stockholm University, studying within the region or working within the region. The region is larger than just the City of Stockholm. This is important in times of crisis, as in a weak market rentals run the construction process. We can see that very clearly right now. The government is responsible for maintaining construction in bad times. Investment support has been and is an important tool for maintaining a high build-up rate, especially in times of recession. I intend to continue to use it for increased housing construction, because more rental rights are needed in Sweden. The support is needed to create more rental apartments with reasonable rents, especially in the regions where they are most needed. There has also been investment support. 90% of the housing supported is located in these regions and municipalities.
