i-42bb3d7ad2b31098-3	Mr President, I would like to The EU Board has a very important task in the Swedish Parliament. It is in the EU Board that the government is given a mandate for the view expressed by the government in EU negotiations, for example at the European Council. What has taken place in recent days, however, is as follows. A majority of the members of the EU Board ask Stefan Löfven at the European Council to argue that nuclear power should be classified as a sustainable investment. That is a very urgent position on the substance. However, this mandate is not being complied with. In the Prime Minister's report this week just a few days ago, he explicitly stated that at the European Council he chose not to raise the issue of nuclear energy as sustainable. The Prime Minister has justified his position on the grounds that the majority of the EU Board does not reflect the majority of the Riksdag. The actions of the Prime Minister are very remarkable. It is on the EU Board that the government has to anchor its EU policy. There is no subordination of the decision of the EU Board to Parliament's Chamber, where we are now. The government will try to obtain a majority for the line it wishes to pursue. If you do not succeed, you still have to comply with the decision of the EU Board. My question to Prime Minister Stefan Löfven is: What is the Prime Minister's constitutional view of the role of the EU Council in the Swedish Parliament?
i-42bb3d7ad2b31098-8	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to say that this is now a KU report. I think it's even Billström himself who filed a complaint. This, of course, means that we now have to wait for the KU to deal with this. However, there are rules that say that the government has to make the trial ultimately under parliamentary responsibility when it is to be represented in the European Council or in European contexts. During the meeting of the EU Board – I can still say this – the Chairman of the EU Board, and representatives of four parties representing a total of 175 MPs, showed that they did not have the same view as what was required, that nuclear power should be expressed as sustainable. In our view, this does not have the support of the House of Parliament, and hence it does. Then it may be tested in the KU like all other KU notifications.
i-42bb3d7ad2b31098-10	Mr President, I would like to Unfortunately, I did not get a clear answer from the Prime Minister. Should I understand that the Prime Minister believes that it is only necessary to follow the decisions of the EU Board when it suits him and the other government ministers? I would like to emphasise again that there is no subordination in the Swedish Parliament to the decision of the EU Board. Nevertheless, the Prime Minister believes here – and it was very clear from what he said – that he can speak on the European Council on the basis of an intended majority. It is a majority that we do not even know exists on the current issue. We here in Parliament tend to be rather critical of other countries when they ignore constitutional rules of the game. I think I can ask you a follow-up question. Does the Prime Minister think he has a mandate to guess what the Members of this House think?
i-42bb3d7ad2b31098-13	Mr President, I would like to No. I was here on a report earlier this week. That was my 66th report. Under all the others in the past, this issue has not been raised at all. 65 of the times it has not been discussed. In this case, it was an exception. I'm saying the KU will have to test the regulations. Based on the overall assessment of the Riksdag's will, the Government has to express itself and deal with it accordingly. We have 65 times been on the EU Board, obtained approval and pushed the issue that we agree to pursue. On this issue, we agree on the importance of nuclear power for the transition. It'll be there for a long time. Then, when it came to the letter mandate, we made a different assessment.
i-42bb3d7ad2b31098-16	Mr President, I would like to It's kind of nice that now it's starting to get back to normal – for most of us, at least. I've been traveling. I started in Örnsköldsvik and finished at home in fantastic Sölvesborg. I've met a lot of people and talked about what they see as the most important issues now. It is clear that when you are far out in the countryside there is a lot of fuel prices and so. But otherwise, safety is what stands out. It is the security of its various forms that the people living in our country today may see as the most pressing thing to deal with. I noted a few weeks ago that the Prime Minister was interviewed by Dagens Nyheter. He was then asked if it is something he regrets over the years as Prime Minister. Then Stefan Löfven replied as follows:"I have nothing exactly as I think that I would not have done that. ..................................................... Nevertheless, it is a rather cocky statement for a person who has been a prime minister for seven years, given what the country actually looks like and not least linked to insecurity. One should still give the Prime Minister that he then balances it and says that he still has to think about it. There may be something that he may have done wrong. It's been a week. The Prime Minister may have come up with something that he regrets during the seven years as Prime Minister. I have a few examples that I am struck by right away: We didn't see it coming. My Europe does not build walls. ..................................................... I mean that I will remember as one of the most problematic statements by Stefan Löfven in the years he has been Prime Minister. This confirms the irresponsible immigration policy which has since been very much the basis for the very insecurity that many people feel today. Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask Stefan Löfven: Has he found anything that he regrets?
i-42bb3d7ad2b31098-23	Mr President, I would like to Since Jimmie Åkesson has read the article with the interview, he saw that I said that I need time to land after I have finished my prime minister's assignment. I said that for seven years I find it hard to see that we have a situation where everything has gone just perfect and that nothing has been done that I would have wanted to do differently. But I think I'd like to reflect on it, because situations are very different. As far as the walls of Europe are concerned, that was precisely the intention. My Europe does not build walls. However, since Europe could not stand up for a policy of solidarity on migration and immigration in particular, this has been the case. We have taken responsibility, and I think Jimmie Åkesson should take note of that. It was the government that I led and led that made it possible to change migration legislation. It was created under another government. It is we who have changed it and made sure that we have a migration policy that balances standing up for the right of asylum on the one hand, because that is important. That right has been created for a reason, and we have a universal right to seek asylum if we need protection. On the other hand, it should be balanced against the Swedish people seeing that this works, that it bears, that we can integrate well enough. Now we see how integration works better and better. It is faster and faster for people who come to our country to actually enter the labour market. We have halved that time under the governments I have led. That is the case with the European walls. That is where we still have the work in Europe to bring about a common migration policy, because that is how we can deal with it. The asylum court must remain, but Jimmie Åkesson does not think so.
i-42bb3d7ad2b31098-29	Mr President, I would like to I expected about that answer, and it is true that changes have been made to migration legislation which has averted the most acute situation that we had a number of years ago. But the myth that Sweden is now at some kind of minimum level in an EU perspective is precisely a myth. That's not true. Last year 83 000 people immigrated to Sweden. There are very many people in a country with 10 1⁄2 million inhabitants. During Stefan Lövven's time as Sweden's Prime Minister, since 2014, our population has increased by 700 000 people in principle solely as a result of immigration. Now that we are going to sum up Stefan Löfven, I think it is important to point out that this is just a myth. You haven't tightened up. There is much more to be done about the totally irresponsible policy pursued by both Stefan Lövven's government and previous governments.
i-42bb3d7ad2b31098-31	Mr President, I would like to In 2015, 163 000 refugees arrived in Sweden – 163 000. Last year there were 10,000. If it isn't fewer, I think Åkesson will have to think about mathematics. I'm talking about the refugees. But if you don't want people to come here and work, then you should do as Åkesson and also refuse those who come here as experts or whatever you do. Now I note that Åkesson acknowledges that it was the government that I lead that made sure to change migration legislation so that we now have far fewer refugees. It's a receipt. In addition, we in Sweden will also need people who come here and work, not least where we ourselves have a shortage of labour. Then we need better order of labour migration so that we do not bring people here if we actually already have labour to do the job. But that's another thing.
i-42bb3d7ad2b31098-35	Mr President, I would like to When you talk to patients or to people who work in health care, you understand that the situation in Swedish health care is quite worrying. Even before the pandemic we had far too long queues in Sweden. A Swede had to wait considerably longer than you need in other countries to get an assessment from a specialist doctor or to get some form of treatment. Now that the pandemic is slowly dropping its grip, the situation has become much more serious. As a patient, having to wait week in and week out, month in and month in and maybe even years to get their treatment is totally unacceptable. This causes great suffering to the people affected, but not least it is signalled around the country that this poses serious medical risks. So we are in a situation where patients are injured or even at risk of dying because the queues are far too long. The responsibility for doing something about this lies on many levels: the care unit, the clinic, the hospital, the region. But we in Parliament and not least the government also have a great responsibility when it comes to simplifying rules so that it becomes easier to work with queues and above all ensure that there are resources for healthcare. We in the Center Party have put forward strong proposals to give patients throughout the country, for example, the opportunity to seek care wherever they want and not just for outpatient care as they do today. It is also a matter of ensuring that there is information about the length of queues in different hospitals. If we also shorten the time for the health guarantee so that it is enough to wait one month to be able to get help to search in another place with shorter queues, it could also drastically simplify the situation. My question to the Prime Minister is: is the government prepared to support these proposals, or what other proposals are now coming to ensure urgently that we can deal with this very worrying situation?
i-42bb3d7ad2b31098-41	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to say that Swedish health care is truly world-class. This has also been demonstrated during the pandemic. I think it is important that we report this too. That said, the lines are too long – yes. They were, too, but they had begun to shorten before the pandemic. Now they have increased again for natural reasons. There are some things for which we are directly responsible, and that is to ensure that there are more resources out there in the regions, because the regions are still in charge of the structure and structure of health care. We have given a lot of resources to the regions, but we are prepared to do more, because it will certainly be necessary. It is about the general resources, but it is also about the specific resources for ambulance care, cancer care, maternity care and so on. Similarly, training of personnel is an important government issue, and so we are strengthening resources there too so that we can train more and also make it easier, for example, to go from nurse to specialist nurse. Coordination of queues has also been up during the pandemic. How do we do this? Is it possible to work between the regions? The regions themselves said that they wanted to have the opportunity to do this, and we now have a contact between the regions to see if one region can relieve another in different ways, either by moving people who need care or by moving staff. That's what you have to do. I think that can be further developed, and that is why I am not prepared to say yes here and now to the exact proposal that Anders W Jonsson talks about. But I believe that there is much more to be done between the regions in order for them to be able to relieve each other. The regions themselves want to do so, and I believe that we should ensure that this is developed in dialogue with them. But above all, they must have the basic resources to manage it.
i-42bb3d7ad2b31098-47	Mr President, I would like to Sweden has world-class healthcare. It's perfectly clear. It is, however, a bad comfort for those who are to stand in line week in and week out, month out and month in and not get access to this world-class healthcare. Financial resources are, of course, important, as is increasing education. But that doesn't solve the situation right now. That is why we believe that we can look at our neighbouring country, Denmark, where the queues are much shorter than here. Patients are thus able to search around the country for a place where the quality is highest and gender is shortest. The responsibility and authority are given to the patient. This would be quite easy to introduce. We are in an emergency. Patients get hurt every day, and then there must be more answers from the government than they want to gradually increase education and financial resources. Structural changes are needed here.
i-42bb3d7ad2b31098-50	Mr President, I would like to As I said, this has already been going on during the pandemic, where the regions themselves coordinated to help each other: what are we doing and what are the systems supposed to look like? This has been demonstrated. Patients have not only been cared for in their own region but also in others. However, the difference between Denmark and Sweden is that in Denmark approximately half of the population is very close to Copenhagen, perhaps an hour or a few hours' journey. This is not the case in Sweden, so there is a difference. Having said that, more can be done in the coordination between the regions. I do not think that is best done by us deciding centrally how it will be, but I think it will be best if the regions are involved in what cooperation should look like.
i-42bb3d7ad2b31098-54	Mr President, I would like to Sweden is the country in the Nordic countries with the highest number and highest proportion of people with very low income from the pension. After all, we have a special pension system that no other country in the world has to hold back the development of pensions, which means that many other countries today have higher pensions than we have in Sweden. The Left Party made demands in this budgetary process to raise pensions, but the government did not meet the Left Party on this issue in the autumn. Instead, it chose to make changes, such as slipping out a large tax cut to middle wage earners. It gives 60 to 70 crowns to someone who earns about 30 000 crowns a month in Sweden. It has also chosen to provide a very inefficient subsidy to the hamburger industry, which today does not need subsidies but suffers from labour shortages. It's a completely wrong-thinking subsidy to a particular industry. These are reforms and changes that cost more than or about as much as doing what the Left Party demanded, namely raising the pension by SEK 1 000 a month for those with the lowest pensions. I know that the government has introduced an income pension supplement, which has given quite little money to most but nothing to those with the lowest pensions. I know that, for pensioners with high housing costs, there will be an addition to the budget. But why has the government chosen not to meet the Left Party when it comes to raising the pension by SEK 1 000 a month for those with the lowest pensions? It wouldn't have cost much. Many of the budget lines now presented cost more than this very simple reform, which had met the demands of Swedish pensioners today.
i-42bb3d7ad2b31098-59	Mr President, I would like to A single woman with a pension of SEK 12,000 a month, which is the average for female pensioners, and a relatively high rent, has received an increased income of SEK 2,000 a month during our government holdings. Since we took office, we have primarily reduced taxes, and we started with those with the lowest incomes. Then we have seen to it that taxes are reduced in order for pensioners to come to the same level as wage earners and not to pay higher taxes. We've raised the basic pension. We've raised the housing allowance twice. We have introduced a supplement for those who have worked for a full working life and yet have too low a pension because they have earned little, worked part-time or had a combination of part-time and low pay. We are introducing a security pension, which will enable those who are unable to work for an entire working life not to have to take their pension out too early and thus incur lower pensions. These are some of the things we've done. Some we have done together with the Left Party. Is that enough? No, that's not enough. We have to do more. There is one thing that is absolutely crucial. We Social Democrats and the government want you to receive a pension equivalent to 70% of your salary. That's a good goal. If this is to be achieved, we must increase the contributions to the pension system. I think it is important to have a pension system based on a broad agreement. The most important thing we can give pensioners is long-term sustainability and stability. We are pursuing this issue within the framework of the Pensions Group. Raise the payments! I think most people realize it's absolutely necessary. Increase contributions to the pension system so that everyone can receive the equivalent of 70% of their salary in retirement.
i-42bb3d7ad2b31098-65	Mr President, I would like to We share the view, and we believe that the payments should be increased more than the government proposes. The security pension is a requirement that came from the Left Party, and the government has met the demand, i.e. that one should be able to reduce working hours at a lower age than at the raised retirement age 67 – 68 years. The Prime Minister talks a lot about increases, but this involves an increase of SEK 10, SEK 14 or SEK 200 for the basic pension during the term of office. It's not enough money. Why has the government not only increased the more than SEK 1 000 proposed by the Left Party for those with the lowest pensions? It wouldn't have cost much. There are many who do not know that it would not have cost much. Many of the changes proposed by the government, which are fundamentally very ineffective, cost more than simply implementing this reform.
i-42bb3d7ad2b31098-70	Mr President, I would like to Nooshi Dadgostar still wants to listen. I said that a single female pensioner, who receives the average pension for women of SEK 12 000, has received SEK 2 000 more a month. It is not 10 crowns or 30 crowns. So that's 2,000 kroner a month. We have done so at the rate that we have ensured that those with the lowest pensions are strengthened by tax cuts and the increase in basic pensions, as well as the increase in the housing allowance. That's a lot more money. We need to move on with our pension system because it's not good enough yet. We must ensure a safer, safer and better pension. I am convinced that the best prerequisite for the pension to be safe and long-term is that the work takes place within the framework of the cooperation within the Pensions Group. That is where the long-term rules of the game should be developed. The other parties will see that contributions to the pension system need to be replenished. This makes it economically sustainable.
i-42bb3d7ad2b31098-74	Mr President, I would like to Today, policemen are increasingly being attacked when they are out doing their job. In the gangster culture that has spread out in some places in Sweden, it is almost seen as a competition to behave as disrespectfully as possible towards police officers. Police officers are expected to withstand almost anything that is not direct threats. Female cops are called whores. This is happening out and in. Other words of incoherence and gender are the everyday lives of the police officers who are set to guarantee our security. This is filmed and then used as a marketing of the gangs. The problem also exists in other places, such as at school, targeted at social services staff and other staff in authorities dealing with sensitive issues. Society has become rougher. That is why we Christian Democrats believe that the crime against civil servants should be reinstated. The person who commits a misappropriation should be able to be tried and, if necessary, temporarily disposed of if he does not leave the site. The police's working environment has probably never been worse than today. To be subjected to these abuse and abuse on a daily basis is physically and psychologically extremely difficult. This helps police officers to doubt whether it is worth continuing to do their job and that the image of the police profession that is insecure is strengthened. We believe that the reintroduction of the crime of malpractice against civil servants would be an important step towards ensuring that police officers have a safe working environment. Does the Prime Minister agree with this, or does he think that today's legislation is sufficient?
i-42bb3d7ad2b31098-79	Mr President, I would like to First of all, let me stress that I resent people who express themselves so against the police, attack the police verbally, attack and insult them. We have a fantastic police force in our country. Those who take that task on behalf of our democracy deserve appreciation and, of course, not that kind of attack. The legislation was removed many years ago, but employee protection and a safe working environment are obviously high on the agenda for the government and the relevant authorities as well as their employees' organisations. There are some important things to do, and work is in progress. Among other things, the police need to be more numerous. It is in itself a certainty to have several colleagues around you, and you get closer to the citizens. At the moment, we are well over half in order to reach the target of 10,000 more police workers, not just police officers. More police are being trained. The police themselves feel that it provides security. This alone is not enough in the case of verbal attacks. That is why there is ongoing work on the penalty for the crime of violence against the police and also on whether police officers can be granted an increased right to compensation for violations. That work is under way. The answer to Andreas Carlson's question is that I cannot say here and now that it will be exactly the legislation proposed by the Christian Democrats, but we are looking at the issue because the police should not have to face these situations but rather feel more secure in their work.
i-42bb3d7ad2b31098-83	Mr President, I would like to It is the Prime Minister's last Question Time, so I choose to interpret the answer very positively as not closing the door to this. I would also like to emphasise that I definitely share the disgust expressed by the Prime Minister with those who behave in this way. I agree that the police force is doing an amazing job and definitely deserves better. I hope that we can support the proposal to reintroduce the offence of malpractice against civil servants. As this is the last question time with the Prime Minister, Mr President, I would also like to take this opportunity to thank the Prime Minister. We have had some debates and Question Time. This is the last time the Prime Minister is here, Mr President, so I would like to thank and wish the Prime Minister all the best in the future. We share the sports interest, not least, and perhaps I will have the opportunity to invite the Prime Minister to a floorball game. It is actually Sweden's largest indoor sport. This I say not only because Mullsjö is now leading the series in the highest league. Thank you very much and welcome to floorball, Prime Minister!
i-42bb3d7ad2b31098-88	Mr President, I would like to As I said, we seem to agree on the direction. I'm not going to comment on the exact bill. But, of course, we must reduce these attacks, verbally and whatever they may be, against police officers. We should be able to find a solution to that. Thank you for Andreas Carlson's kind words. I'd love to go to a floorball game if it means that I don't have to play, but I can watch in peace and quiet. Then I'm willing to join. Otherwise, I feel that the risk of injury may be a little too high. I'd love to go and watch floorball; I do.
i-42bb3d7ad2b31098-91	Mr President, I would like to School's almost the answer to everything. That is, in fact, the answer to a great deal of what has been discussed so far in this House today. At least I see it as the answer to the question of people's freedom, the future of Sweden and a civilised society. After all, the school should not be responsible for all this, but there are other things that must also be delivered. But we know that if students graduate from high school, the risks of crime, abuse, anti-social behaviour, unemployment and the fact that you're talking and harassing the police are drastically affected. In addition, the school is the basis for our green innovations, Swedish entrepreneurship and our opportunity to do good in the world. I know that the Prime Minister, like myself, has had some of his absolutely best visits to his political role in schools. It is at the schools that you meet knowledge-thirsty students who sit and embrace the mysteries of mathematics or the great opportunities of the Swedish language. It is where you meet children and students of all ages in classrooms that hopefully fills with joy of knowledge. We have often debated in this House between the Liberals and the Social Democrats issues of grades and pedagogy and subject composition in different secondary schools. There we have sometimes felt differently, but we have often felt the same about the importance of order and a safe working environment. It is sad to see the report that the Teacher League has now released. It is about teachers' exposure to threats and violence in the school system. The title of the report is – excuse me, Mr President – It speaks for the content, as the report deals with many teachers encountering physical violence and recurrent verbal violence. My question to the Prime Minister, like this at the end of his prime minister's career, is what he thinks the government should take for measures to increase security and calm in the Swedish school.
i-42bb3d7ad2b31098-98	Mr President, I would like to Yes, the school is just as important as Johan Pehrson describes. And it is true that I have had some of my absolute best visits to school. It gives you an incredible amount of energy. The first is the general. We have now significantly increased the level of funding for the school. We have a little over 30,000 more employees in Swedish schools. It means a lot that we have more adults in school. Teachers should also be able to be relieved of tasks that they absolutely do not have to do. We also need equality at school. We now see that the results of knowledge are slowly but surely rising. It is not enough, but it is moving in the right direction, so we must continue this work. Equality is next. I believe that it goes hand in hand – a more equal school will also create better school results for the whole. We have a school too unequal. We have once had a school that was the best in the world in terms of knowledge and equality. We have to get back there. That is why we believe it is important to stop the payoffs at school and that we need to put the queue system in order, which simply does not work. In concrete terms of order and order, work is already under way. We are happy to think about more measures, such as what we have investigated and want to introduce: a mobile ban. You start at that end. It's not normal to have a phone with you. If you are to have it, you should have discussed it at school and found out that it is good, perhaps for some educational reason; what do I know? The second is that adults must be allowed to speak out properly in school without being accused and be afraid of being prosecuted themselves or whatever you can become. The adults, the teachers, must have and feel that they have the mandate of society in their backs to be able to act with firmness in the classroom so that those situations do not arise.
i-42bb3d7ad2b31098-104	Mr President, I would like to The Prime Minister sounds like the worst liberal here; I am delighted. You should hunt mobile phones and keep things in order, and – listen and behold – teachers should make sure that kids don't run around and play in the woodwork hall and fall into the lathe. That's great. But I think we also need to be careful to do more prevention. I share the Prime Minister's view that we must have a more equal school. Therefore, it is an incredibly pleasing example that the Liberals in Gothenburg have now managed to shut down one of the most peculiar schools. We have made sure that there was no money paid out and tried to withdraw the permit, and now we have finally got the right from the School Inspectorate. But we need to tighten this up. We Liberals stand up for free schools, but we cannot, of course, have completely insane free schools which, in practice, only deliver misery. Language is central. We want to see earlier and clearer language initiatives. The 14 billion in our budget option is for more people to pass school, because that is our future.
i-42bb3d7ad2b31098-107	Mr President, I would like to Yes, exactly, I have no different opinion – language is central, and that is why we may be providing resources to provide more opportunities to develop the language. I think this is part of the integration process as well. Much earlier language initiatives are now being introduced so that those who come to Sweden receive education in the Swedish language earlier. It's absolutely crucial. But it is also the case that schools must be given more equal opportunities. We have too many differences between schools. School in general is still good, but we have schools that have serious problems. That is why we are providing more resources to those schools that need more resources. That is also why, in future, we will have to get away from school money being paid equally when we know that municipal schools actually have a heavier mission than free schools do. In fact, municipal schools will also have to receive more funding than free schools.
i-42bb3d7ad2b31098-110	Mr President, I would like to I would also like to begin by thanking the Prime Minister for all the time he has spent on Question Time here and all the answers he has given to our questions. I would also like to thank the Prime Minister for the fine initiative with Malmö's international forum for the remembrance of the Holocaust and the fight against anti-Semitism, which was held earlier this autumn. It is an important signal to other states, to the survivors and, not least, to future generations. My question to the Prime Minister is whether any follow-up is planned at this conference. Will it be annual, or are other activities planned so that this does not become or be perceived as a one-time thing?
i-42bb3d7ad2b31098-113	Mr President, I would like to I am pleased with the question, because it is extremely important at this very time that we gather around the fight against anti-Semitism and the promotion of Jewish life in Sweden and throughout the world. It is now needed more than ever. There were 74 delegations in Malmö. They were countries, organisations and companies. They thus showed concrete commitments, because that was the point – not just come and say beautiful words, but tell us what to do together and share that responsibility! To name but a few examples, Google has spent EUR 5 million on anti-Semitism measures. The Netherlands committed itself to criminalising the denial of genocide, and Sweden undertook – among other things, I shall say – to develop a strategy to promote Jewish life in Sweden. Other actors also assume their responsibilities. We will follow up on this within the framework of the IHRA. There is the President of Sweden, so we have every opportunity to do this now.
i-42bb3d7ad2b31098-118	Mr President, I would like to The world is unfair. Although the quality of life has improved for many in all parts of the world, the reality for people is still brutally unfair. Global inequality is running out. Women's rights are being challenged. Anti-terrorist, right-wing, and racist forces take power in decision - making assemblies in the countries of the world. Although all the citizens of the world will be adversely affected by the now elusive climate crisis, we must understand that not everyone will be affected as much, as hard or as soon. During parts of the 20th century, Sweden has tried to take international solidarity leadership to counter the world's injustices. I would like to ask today how the Prime Minister plans to use his presence at the Glasgow climate summit to ensure a fair climate transition.
i-42bb3d7ad2b31098-121	Mr President, I would like to There are three things that I think are important in the message that I have with me. I will deliver it both in plenary and at bilateral meetings. The first is that we have to stand up for the 1.5-degree target. That is what we must defend and save. The second concerns the national commitments, i.e. the mechanism introduced in the Paris Agreement. There we shall ensure that we are constantly tightening up our commitments over time; we must all help to do that. We have much more to do there. The third is funding. There was the message from the Swedish side when we met in New York a few weeks ago that 20 billion dollars are missing to reach the promised 100 billion – that's an old promise. Now just do the math and make sure that we can say, most recently in Glasgow, but preferably before, that we have passed the 100 billion. Actually, it's not hard. This is so important to save our planet and keep us below 1.5 degrees.
i-42bb3d7ad2b31098-126	Mr President, I would like to Highly qualified labour migration is extremely important for Sweden. But is it reasonable that over 2,000 people come from across the globe to work here in cleaning, fast food restaurants and as newspaper carriers? Is it reasonable for people and taxpayers' money to be used for organised crime? I don't think so. We Moderates therefore propose that only those who earn at least 27 500 a month should be allowed to come here from third countries to work and that labour migration to personal assistance should be stopped completely. In interventions by social democrats on the country's debate pages, it usually sounds about the same – you also want to stop the cheating. But in a government position, the Green Party's liberalisations have been pursued. If the Social Democrats only pursue their own policies, then I believe that there are very good conditions for tightening up the regulatory framework. That is why, of course, I wonder: are the Social Democrats taking our extended hand? To conclude, Mr President, I too would like to thank the Prime Minister for his efforts and wish him a very warm success in the future!
i-42bb3d7ad2b31098-130	Mr President, I would like to We know that we will need people from other countries who come here and work in our labour market, because we have a lack of certain professions and competences. I think that is basically positive. But it is not positive when people do not trust that it is just professions and competences that we actually need. That is why, I mean, it is time to look at whether we have the right rules for labour immigration. Someone other than me might have to think about how it's going to happen. A foundation, however, is that we both accept people who need protection and need help from people from other countries themselves. But then the population should also feel that this works and is a system that adds something to the country.
i-42bb3d7ad2b31098-134	Mr President, I would like to As you know, the Prime Minister represents an S-led government, and the Social Democrats have promised, in countless election movements, increased pensions and various investments in pensioners. It is a whale freckle that after election day has been repackaged and tucked away until the next time it has been time for voice fishing. But enough about that. The pension group, which includes only six parties and not my own, has finally agreed at least on an increase in pensions. In fact, for many this was nothing more than a mere mockery — not even $20 extra for some. Taxpayers' money is handled as master tailors in the old folk tale dealing with the fabric, and ultimately the promised pension increase was almost nothing. I would therefore like to ask the Prime Minister: why does the government want to stick to the Pensions Group when it has not managed to perform better than this?
i-42bb3d7ad2b31098-137	Mr President, I would like to First, we'll have to correct the reality description a little bit. The tax has been reduced for pensioners. The unfairly higher tax that pensioners had to pay after the job tax deductions, which I believe several bourgeois parties still want more of, including the Swedish Democrats, we think is wrong. It is wrong for pensioners to pay higher taxes. We have raised the basic pension, and we have raised the housing allowance twice. We have introduced a supplementary pension, a security pension. We have made it less costly for pensioners to go to dental care. The same applies to outpatient care for those over 85. We will have to continue, but the pension system as such must be stable and long-term. That's not exactly where we know. From the Swedish Democrats it may sound positive one time, but it is difficult to really know where they stand. We need a long-term, stable pension system, and our call to the other parties in the Pensions Group is: Let's make sure to increase the contribution! That is where we take the decisive step.
i-42bb3d7ad2b31098-141	Mr President, the Prime Minister. I would like to highlight the forestry industry on the basis of the political debate being held and the proposals put forward in Brussels. I have noted that the Prime Minister has said that forestry policy should be a national matter. I think it is very positive and welcome that position. At the same time, Sweden does not support the actions of other forest countries, such as Germany and France, in Brussels. It is a question of protesting against what you think is wrong through letters and in other powerful ways. I would therefore like to ask the Prime Minister: why does the government not act more forcefully against all the EU proposals that come, which knock away jobs, rural areas, climate and self-determination in relation to Swedish forestry policy?
i-42bb3d7ad2b31098-144	Mr President, I would like to Yes, we do. We are very clear about the Commission, the European Council, the Council and everyone else on forestry policy. We have a wealth in our country, and our message to the other countries is that they should not use it as a carbon sink and an excuse to avoid doing what they need to do to bring down emissions. I believe that we have every opportunity, with the 3.5 billion cubic metres of forest in our wealth, to cope with what we are going to do both in the climate area and for the environment and biodiversity – to develop biofuels and what we need to do. That is exactly the message. I myself have been sitting with both the President of the European Council and the President of the Commission with this message. Don't go into too much detail on what we need to do! I think that we should have a common view of forests, climate and the environment. But do not go into detail and destroy our fine forestry – it has been and is the message to Europe.
i-42bb3d7ad2b31098-148	Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask the Prime Minister about Sweden's relationship with NATO. NATO's Secretary-General has just visited Sweden and has also attended a meeting here in Parliament. This is part of a wide range of meetings and exercises between Sweden and NATO countries and NATO as an organisation. We are on many staffs, and we are adapting our work to the NATO organisation. Of course, the Left Party thinks that this is very problematic, not to say very bad, because we claim that our military freedom of alliance has served us well, as well as our right and ability as a country to make our own independent decisions on defence and security policy. We also see that NATO has some internal problems, for example with Turkey as a Member State. I therefore wonder how the Prime Minister views our military alliance freedom in relation to our advances to NATO.
i-42bb3d7ad2b31098-151	Mr President, I would like to It remains, and I usually have to debate it with others here. There is a disappointment that it actually remains. But I think it's important. It is important that we increase our defence capabilities. We have done this since our government took office, and with what is now planned for 2025, the budget for defence increases by 85%. We're greatly enhancing our defense capabilities. We also have a strong bilateral agreement with Finland, the strongest so far, and it also shows to the outside world that we take responsibility for our neighbourhood. We have cooperation in Nordefco, a bilateral agreement with Germany and a bilateral agreement with the UK. We also have an agreement with NATO, a partnership with NATO, but it is precisely because we are not members. This respects NATO. We can be seen to be able to develop defence capabilities, and we can benefit from that. Swedish defence capabilities are strengthened by this, but at the same time we are still non-aligned and not members. NATO knows this, and the Secretary-General has confirmed this to me personally.
i-42bb3d7ad2b31098-155	Mr President, I would like to Electricity prices in Sweden are flashing, especially in southern Sweden, where prices set new gloomy records. Now we see reality, and one of the reasons is that Ringhals had to phase out two reactors prematurely. Now there is a lack of planned, stable and secure electricity. We Christian Democrats clearly warned against the consequences of the closure. However, the government claims that Sweden has no electricity shortage. Less than two weeks ago, Minister of Energy Anders Ygeman said that Sweden does not sweat as much as the rest of Europe. So far, it's only autumn. Forecasts point to a difficult winter for households and industry. Does the Prime Minister really mean that he does not regret anything during his years in power in view of today's electricity situation, which could actually have been avoided?
i-42bb3d7ad2b31098-159	Mr President, I would like to Just a few weeks before the huge price increase – we have a price rise, and that's a problem – we had negative electricity prices: we were paid. Nothing so dramatic can have happened in two weeks in Sweden's energy supply. In fact, we have a surplus equivalent to about 25 terawatt hours. Having said that, we must of course have enough electricity at any given time, but we have a surplus. Not many countries do. What has happened now is about the prices of natural gas. They are the ones who are pushing up electricity prices, and it is also hitting Sweden, especially the southern parts. That's because we're connected to the whole of Europe. This leads to the need to ensure that the entire European energy market works better. This was also my message when we met at the European Council. The whole of Europe needs to look at the fact that we have enough production and transmission and that we can store in such a way that we do not have the great ups and downs.
i-42bb3d7ad2b31098-162	Mr President, I would like to In April 2014, Stefan Löfven and I were at the Assyrian Association in Södertälje. There the then Prime Minister promised that if he came to power, he would certainly make sure that he acknowledged the Seyfo genocide. He came to power. I had many debates with Mrs Wallström, who was then Minister for Foreign Affairs. In spring 2015, she grabbed me at one of the doors of this House after a debate and said: Robert Hannah, we will confess. We're just gonna have a little investigation first that we're gonna set up. Then I promise you there'll be a confession. Six months later, the refugee crisis came, and there was silence. The Social Democrats began to remain silent on this issue. Suddenly, it was no longer an opportunity to acknowledge the genocide. It is quite clear to me, Mr President, that Prime Minister Stefan Löfven was involved in Turkey's affairs. Seven EU countries somehow recognise the Seyfo genocide. Stefan Löfven does much to remember anti-Semitism and the Holocaust. But this is something the Prime Minister should regret. Does the Prime Minister have the courage, as the last measure, to actually acknowledge seyfo in any way? Sweden could in any case send a representative to Yerevan every two years, as the Netherlands does.
i-42bb3d7ad2b31098-167	Mr President, I would like to I do not accept an accusation that I am doing Turkey's business. It is quite right that, when I was in opposition, I said that since Parliament had expressed that there should be recognition, I also thought that we should do so in a government position. However, the de facto investigation problematized quite a lot that a government would pronounce what is genocide or not. We are in complete agreement with the terrible thing that happened. It was about 1 million people who actually had to put their lives to death. We are expressing this, and we must continue to do so. We must also work towards the reconciliation that must take place here. You may not be able to heal the wounds, for they will never be able to heal, but you still need to get to a more normal state. However, to accuse me of going along with Turkey's affairs, I beg to differ. We stand up for what we believe in. We will continue to do so. We will continue to work on this issue. However, as far as the legal definition is concerned, we are not yet there.
i-42bb3d7ad2b31098-172	Mr President, I would like to I would also like to start by thanking Stefan Löfven for his great efforts for Sweden. But he's gonna make a new effort pretty soon. This week the UN climate summit, which is taking place in Glasgow, is starting. A sustainable, credible and long-term climate change transition is crucial. The green transition of industry is a crucial puzzle for achieving this. We must keep emissions down while creating new jobs that we can live off. There are many fine examples, not least in northern Sweden, where industry takes precedence and is at the forefront of the climate change transition. My question to the Prime Minister is: What does the Prime Minister think other countries can learn from Sweden's ongoing green industrial transition, and what questions and suggestions does the Prime Minister take with him to the Glasgow climate summit?
i-42bb3d7ad2b31098-176	Mr President, I would like to The most important thing at the climate summit is that we get a consensus on the need to stay below 1.5 degrees. I believe that we are in a paradigm shift, a positive one, in which we can show, not least in Isak From's home region – and also further up in the country and further down in the country – how new industrialisation is a part of the whole climate transition. Now we can gradually start to show that this is where the new jobs and future welfare are. The more such evidence we can present, the more people will be convinced that this is the way to do it. For a long time there has been a fear and a doubt about what climate change means. Fossil-free steel, battery factories and everything else that Sweden can now show up I think will certainly help more people to stand up and say: Now we actually need to speed up here and make sure to keep 1.5 degrees.
i-42bb3d7ad2b31098-181	Mr President, I would like to A new report from Save the Children reveals that relative child poverty in Sweden now stands at 20 per cent, compared with 13 per cent in 2013. The report shows that children with at least one parent born abroad have a significantly higher risk of growing up in socio-economic vulnerability compared to children with Swedish-born parents. The biggest gap in the EU is here in Sweden. Too high immigration, combined with failed integration, is now in danger of alienating an entire generation of children with all that it entails. Mr President, I would like to During the Prime Minister's time in power, child poverty has increased, and now every fifth child in Sweden lives in relative poverty. Views may be made on the relative measure of poverty, but the figures speak clearly: the Social Democrats have failed here too. My question is therefore: when we now take stock of the Government's Löfven, is the Prime Minister satisfied with the development that has taken place during his seven years in power?
i-42bb3d7ad2b31098-186	Mr President, I would like to It is important to use the words correctly and to choose the right word. Child poverty has not increased. What Viktor Wärnick is after is relative poverty. In Sweden, unlike many other countries, we have had a high rise in real wages, not least because we have many at work and because we have perhaps the best wage formation model in the world. Unfortunately, the gaps will increase. But that does not mean that more have actually become poorer. The statistics must be analysed much more carefully before such statements can be made. It's still a problem with gaps. But then, as the Moderates do, it is not possible to reduce educational opportunities. If people are to get to work, there must be more opportunities for education. It will not be possible to reduce unemployment and reduce the social security system. That is the worst way to go if you want to reduce child poverty.
i-42bb3d7ad2b31098-191	Mr President, I would like to Stefan Lövven's government donated SEK 150 billion to the EU debt fund. He intends to send EUR 52 billion in aid and EUR 48 billion in membership fees to the EU next year. Hundreds of billions of Swedish tax funds have been donated to international organisations and other states during his time in power, in many cases with unclear purposes or without measurable effect. Stefan Lövven's entire time in power has been characterized by a naive ambition to gain international recognition and be able to identify itself as a humanitarian power. Now that he is leaving the post of Prime Minister, he has made it clear that the next step in his career will be beyond the borders of the country, perhaps in one of the organisations he has given billions of Swedish tax revenue. To what extent does Stefan Löfven believe that his generosity with our taxes has crowned the manage for his future career?
i-42bb3d7ad2b31098-195	Mr President, I would like to That level of questions is just too miserable. What do you know about this at all? I can tell you, Tobias Andersson: I have no concrete plans on what to do. I'm gonna take my time. I indulge in such speculation. Actually, I'm not even going to answer the question. It's too low.
i-42bb3d7ad2b31098-197	Mr President, I would like to Public education is an important complement to the formal education system. It offers the opportunity for people to seek knowledge on their own terms, and it is low thresholds. For those who have not found their way into the ordinary school, those who have never attended Swedish school or those who want to study later in life, peoples' education offers new opportunities. Folk high schools help to strengthen and develop democracy. They strengthen people in influencing their lives. But in today's political environment there is an open opposition to much of the study associations' activities. The right-wing bloc in the Riksdag proposes substantial cuts to student associations and folk high schools, and when they gain power in the municipalities, there are often major cuts in peoples' education and free associations. My question to the Prime Minister is whether the government sees this threat and how it intends to act against it.
i-42bb3d7ad2b31098-200	Mr President, I would like to Peoples' education is, in fact, a defence of our democracy and the cohesion of society. And volunteers are a starting point. This is something that we should protect, and it is an approach to learning that I respect. It is a central part of our entire educational landscape. This government believes in this. That is why we are investing so much in more places for folk high schools, also in the run-up to 2022. We've been doing this all along. I won't say for sure how much we're up in, but it's a big increase in folk high school places. What the opposition is doing, as is said here, is huge cuts to the very formation of the people. It has dramatic consequences for those who benefit greatly from that learning and those places. That is why we are looking at it with great concern. We intend to continue to defend public education and folk high schools, for they have helped many people get right.
i-42bb3d7ad2b31098-204	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by thanking you, Prime Minister, for the way in which you have raised questions about honour repression and religious fundamentalism. We were some immigrant women who first raised the issue of moral police in our suburbs. We got a lot of criticism. That is why it was important that you then raised the issue in your government declarations and showed that it should be at the heart of the political debate. I also have great respect for how you have shown that a small country can lead the international work against anti-Semitism. I would like the government to take the same initiative at an international conference on the global fight against honour violence, child marriage, genital mutilation and virginity standards. I would therefore like to ask the Prime Minister: would not a promise of this be a good way of handing over the baton to your successor?
i-42bb3d7ad2b31098-206	Mr President, I would like to It's tempting, but I'm not going to go out there and make promises to those who come after me. But there is no doubt that this issue is extremely important. I have said several times that I find it difficult to take the word honour violence in my mouth over my head, because I find it so strange. I don't see anything honorable about it at all. But of course I understand the concept. That is why I have been working strategically on this since the last parliamentary term. It is part of the strategy against men's violence against women. That is also why we are now introducing a special crime title and have made it illegal to carry out, for example, children for forced marriage and genital mutilation. We need to get back to work. Let us come back to whether or not there is going to be an international conference, but the work against violence of honour must continue. The violence of honour does not belong in our country.
i-42bb3d7ad2b31098-210	Mr President, I would like to The Prime Minister showed last summer at the re-formation of the government that agriculture is not a high-ranking country for the government. Even if you gave the questions to another minister, who is now resigning, you must not show such an incredible disengagement in what is actually happening right now with Swedish agriculture. It is fuel prices that rush, plant nutrition prices that rush and plant protection products prices that rush. There are even evil tongues that say that we will not sow on all soils in Sweden during the spring that is coming. It is incredibly negative for food security and preparedness, but also for achieving the objectives of the food strategy. It looks incredibly dark when it comes to the Prime Minister being able to enjoy good Swedish food now after his deed. That is why I wonder: why does the government not show a greater commitment to the food production that is now entering a perhaps greater crisis than we saw at the time of the drought in 2018?
i-42bb3d7ad2b31098-213	Mr President, I would like to Fuel prices are not directly linked to how the Government Office is organised, but have other reasons. There's a rural minister in the government. It's been there all along, and it's supposed to be. The next Prime Minister will decide exactly how it will be organised, but this has nothing to do with fuel prices. There are other reasons behind this. The government I lead has ensured that this particular policy is strengthened by reviewing our entire food chain. How do we strengthen it? How are we going to get more production? We produce and export more now. I believe that we can do even more to ensure that other countries benefit from our culinary dishes and products. But it is a real strategy for the whole food chain. We must attack fuel prices as such – we must do that. But we have a strong strategy for food production in Sweden.
i-42bb3d7ad2b31098-217	Mr President, I would like to Malmö is a city that struggles and struggles. Blood, sweat and tears are nothing new to us. The clans have been here a long time, the gangs even longer. They used to kill with a knife. Now they do it with bombs and automatic weapons – an innocent here and there, children, mothers, pregnant. At the same time, we have unemployment that is eating up our common welfare. Thousands of children leave our schools without an honest chance. Every day for seven years, our reality has stared the Prime Minister in the eye, and the Prime Minister has never dared to stare back. Many now praise the efforts made by the Prime Minister, but the prize for Malmö residents has been high. I wonder now, Mr President, whether Stefan Löfven can claim to be a prime minister who resigns proudly but is not satisfied.
i-42bb3d7ad2b31098-220	Mr President, I would like to Yeah, I think it's pretty close. We are doing very well in our country, but of course we are not satisfied. We can't be. We have too much crime in our country. We have too much gang crime. It is a reality that has been built on for quite a few years. It's a fact. When some party leaders say – I even think that Manouchis own party leader has said it – that it will probably take 20 years to remedy this, I think it is a little too bad ambition. You have to be able to get there faster. But it says something about how long the development period is. We have seen a long time in Sweden with increased gaps and where alienation areas have grown up with too high unemployment. But we have also seen a school that has not been equal enough – it is partly driven by the market experiment introduced by the bourgeois government in 1991-1994. It also contributes. Let's see the big picture! We need to take gang crime seriously. We do, and we will continue to do so. I think that the Prime Minister would also like to say a few final words. ) Mr President, I would like to The last question has been answered, and so it is time for me to leave this speaker's seat for the last time. Let me say briefly that I have given great importance and importance to the visits to this House. Preparing for a Question Time or other appearances in this House has, I might say, taken a not insignificant part of the time. And so it should be, because this is the centre of democracy in our country, both for the debate, for the decisions and for democracy. Addressing the President and Members of Parliament, who are the main representatives of the people, is a solemn thing for me. I want Members to know about this. I've had to do it several times over these years. On 40 occasions I have stood in this House to submit reports after the European Council meetings. On 25 occasions I have participated in debates, usually with the other party leaders. Eight times I read the government statement. Today I conduct the 36th Question Time here in Parliament, and all 36 times I have done so with pleasure. We are now experiencing a period in Swedish democracy where parliamentary conditions are more unclear than in a long time, more than they were in the 80's, 90's and 00's. Government formation takes longer, and budget processes are more complicated and bumpier. The uncertainty that this brings may be challenging, but at the same time one advantage is that the principles and mechanisms of democracy are becoming extremely clear. It is in here, in the Chamber of Parliament, that the decisions that shape the future of our country are made, and then the commitment of Members is absolutely crucial for it to work. And it does. We should also remember – I want to say this: that it works here in Parliament is due to a fantastic professionalism that the employees of the Riksdag show. I would like to address everyone who works to enable Parliament's work. I am thinking of safety, the cleaning services, the rapporteurs in the committee, the staff of the Chambers and the Parliament's restaurant – you know them more than I do. There too, I would like to extend warm thanks. Now I am leaving this speaker's seat for the last time. Democracy continues with new debates, new speeches and new Question Time. I wish you all – the Presidium of Presidents, of course, Members of Parliament and all employees – all the best for the future. Thank you!
i-42bb3d7ad2b31098-229	I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Prime Minister for this and many other Question Time and debates and other attendance in Parliament. I also have some statistics that illustrate that it is not small: the Prime Minister had spoken in this House before this Question Time for 53 hours, 55 minutes and 4 seconds during a total of 2 118 interventions. It is an effort in the service of democracy that is worthy of respect. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank the Prime Minister for his good cooperation and wish you all the best in the future. Warm thanks also to the Prime Minister's Committee and its employees for their good cooperation!
