i-5208f3b077ad150e-9	Mr President, I would like to Extreme weather, droughts, fires, melting ice, floods and most recently a declining flow of golf – the effects of climate change are already here. But there are also cars on electricity, aviation on biofuels and industrial processes on hydrogen, as well as technology to capture and store carbon dioxide. Hybrid, LKAB and H2 Green Steel will produce fossil-free steel and iron, Northvolt will produce sustainable batteries and Volvo will only sell electric cars from 2030. Technological developments are moving faster than we may have ever dared to believe. The threat of climate change undoubtedly hangs over us, but we also have the solutions in mind. Environmental and climate policy is no longer about the objectives. All serious actors agree that climate change needs to be halted. The conflict is about which methods best contribute to the solution. The Institute of Economics and the Swedish National Audit Office condemn central parts of the government's policy as ineffective. The Moderates want a results-oriented and effective but also technology-optimistic and hopeful environmental and climate policy. Mr President, I would like to The pandemic has shown what a society in decline looks like. Few want the existence of the past year, with a weak economy and limited life, to be lasting. Estimates indicate that global CO2 emissions have decreased by 6-7 per cent in 2020. It is a reduction that is tangible but certainly not enough. Above all, it shows that this type of restriction is not the answer to one of the greatest questions of our time. On the contrary, it is through policies that combine economic growth, enabling environmental legislation and innovation that we have the best chance of reducing emissions and nurturing our nature. Pessimism and ineffective measures should not be allowed to govern politics. Prohibitions and regulations are needed, of course, but also trust in research and industry. Politics must inspire confidence by being effective, rational and long-term. The Moderates offer an alternative for people who want an ambitious and well-thought-out environmental and climate policy with answers to the major crucial issues facing Sweden. Firstly, we need pure Swedish electricity. In order to make the transition to 2045, we will need at least 60 percent more electricity and even more," says the experts, if we are to succeed in the major industrial transition in the north. Only LKAB's fossil-free iron sponge requires electricity equivalent to one third of today's Swedish energy use. The Moderates want a new energy policy target with a view to 100% fossil-free. We want to see much greater investment in research for all fossil-free electricity generation, from wind power to nuclear power. We want to enable new nuclear power in the form of smaller reactors, and we want the potential of hydrogen to be realised by means of a hydrogen strategy. Winter's power shortage and imports of fossil-produced electricity and the electricity crisis that caused industries to shut down production and led to us being advised not to vacuum showed something that most of us already knew: the government's energy policy is a failure. I know some parties don't like nuclear power. But if we are serious about the conversion, we will need water, wind and nuclear power. We cannot afford to shut down fossil-free energy production. Our electricity grids must also be expanded, but if we do not have the required production, the electricity grids will not be helped. Secondly, we need a green industry. The process of reassigning our industry needs to be intensified. There is a unique opportunity to contribute with green innovation. The Moderates are committed to a program to capture and store carbon dioxide, bio-CCS and CCS, and are happy to build on this government's climate initiative, Industrikliv, which has been an important measure to support the industry in the transition. Fossil-free Sweden's ability to keep the Swedish business community together will also be strengthened. Supporting industry in the transition is a must, as is investing in carbon storage as a complement to reducing emissions. We need to turn every stone around. Thirdly, we need clean transport. The road transport and vehicles of the future are electrified and clean. A major shift in technology is needed to achieve this. We have presented a wide electrification package for the whole country with public charging infrastructure for both light and heavy vehicles. We also want to introduce green fuel support for research and demo projects for sustainable biofuels. It is not good enough for us, as we do today, to import 85% of all our biofuels when we ourselves are sitting on huge resources in the form of Swedish forests. The reduction obligation requiring the incorporation of biofuels in our cars and the equivalent for aviation, which we hope will soon become a reality, is good, but that is not enough. We also need to develop domestic production of these fuels. Fourthly, we need active and sustainable forestry. Forests are an important part of Swedish business and contribute over 100 billion in export revenue each year. It is also crucial to climate change. Developments over the past years have resulted in an active forestry work that has improved biodiversity. This can be attributed to Sweden's over 300 000 individual forest owners, who manage their forests well. However, there are lots of successful forestry that want to reduce by, for example, doubling the area of protected forests, such as the Green Party, despite the fact that almost a third of Swedish forests are already excluded from use. Reducing forest production is incompatible with the transition to a fossil-free society. On the contrary, research from SLU shows that we need to increase growth and production in the forest in order to benefit more from the climate change. The Moderates want to take a holistic approach to forests to promote the transition to a fossil-free society and protect valuable nature. We strengthen the protection of areas with high natural values and allocate more funds than the government in the budget. But in addition, we must use our forest if we are to drive on biofuels, build wooden houses and make clothes out of wood fibre. Therefore, the total area of forest land excluded from farming should not increase. Otherwise we lose one of the most important legs of the conversion. Fifthly, Mr President, emissions know no limits. In order to cope with climate change, we need to have an offensive international agenda. Last year, China built a coal power plant this week. Sweden must push for a minimum price of carbon dioxide, both in the EU and globally. Some people want to describe it as impossible, but no one's even tried. It is time to raise this issue at forthcoming climate summits at the UN. The EU itself is in many ways the world's global climate. The emissions trading system once seemed as unrealistic as some say that a global price of emissions is today. Today, however, ETS is one of the most effective tools we have to reduce our emissions. V i believes, however, that the ETS needs to be tightened up in order to raise ambitions and meet the EU's strengthened climate targets. It is about including new sectors, such as shipping, but also about pressing prices for what it costs to release within the system. The Moderates also believe that the EU must use the power of its climate diplomacy and condition future trade agreements with countries living up to the Paris Agreement or price their emissions. Finally, Mr President, the government's climate policy does not meet the demand for a results-oriented policy that achieves rapid emission reductions. On average, emissions in Sweden have decreased by less than 1 per cent per year since 2014, according to the Climate Policy Council. According to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, emissions must be reduced by 5 – 8 percent per year if we are to reach our long-term climate target. A new climate policy is needed which reduces emissions in Sweden in a result-oriented and effective way and which also leads to global emission reductions. Climate change is a threat to our future. The earth is warming up, the ice is melting, and the extreme weather is increasing. It depends on man, and it must be solved by man. But it is possible to reverse the trend correctly. Development power and innovation together with a well-thought-out policy that responds to the major challenges facing Sweden can stop emissions. I'm behind all of the Moderate reservations, but for time winning, I only agree to reservation 1.
i-5208f3b077ad150e-33	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 13. We are debating climate policy today. Everyone understands that the challenges are wide-ranging. We have now gone through a year-long pandemic, which has caused extreme demand falls worldwide. This has resulted in many deaths as well as a direct consequence of the infection and for indirect reasons. Poverty in the world has increased. The worst affected are not us in the Western world, but it is the developing countries that have suffered the worst. We have also been able to see that emissions have been reduced. According to the latest statistics I read from the IEA, this is about 6%. At the same time, while the pandemic continues globally, it varies in size while some continents are less affected than others. It has then been seen that the price of oil is now back at the same levels as before the pandemic, and compared to December last year with December 2019 it can be seen that emissions instead increased by 2 percentage points. I would argue that one should not think that the pandemic will suddenly change the image of how dependent the world is on fossil energy and how emissions and economic growth are still correlated with each other. Mr President, I would like to We Swedish democrats are clear that we are behind the Paris Agreement and the ambition to push down emissions at a global level so that the temperature increase is at a manageable level. Policy must therefore be characterised by efficiency, and it must be combined with increased economic prosperity. Of course, the cure must not be worse than the disease. We should not go through demand cases like that during the pandemic to reduce emissions. For this to be possible, we have to settle some contradictions in climate policy, both in Sweden and globally. One such problem is the Swedish electricity supply. Today in Sweden we have a fully regulated electricity market characterised by a wide range of instruments and subsidies. A great deal of regulation is, of course, required. Electricity is not just any product. For our high-tech society to function, electricity must be available at all times, and the price must be at a relatively low level in order to maintain our competitiveness. To then have a policy target of 100% renewable and regulatory framework that significantly impairs the possibility of building new nuclear power is not reasonable. It is allowed to build nuclear power, it is said today, but it is only allowed for a few companies in a few places in Sweden. And only one type of reactor is allowed. Adding that one of the companies was forced to suspend the plans for new nuclear power in order for the MP to honour its electoral promises, one can say in practice that there is a political ban today, because the limits set by the policy are extensive. Mr President, I would like to Sweden currently has a state-owned energy company. It is reasonable for the state, through its ownership, to be able to look at both socio-economic benefits and climate policy in our region when considering investments. If you look at the company's own profitability in isolation, it can be much better with very varied prices and shortcomings in the system sometimes. But Sweden needs new nuclear power and political will to make this possible. It is about research, owner directives to Vattenfall and regulations for how to get approval to build new nuclear power. Mr President, I would like to The European Commission is currently developing the details of what taxonomics should look like. It is about greenlist and redlist different investments, which in turn will guide which investments will be profitable. As is often the case with EU regulations, there is a good idea. But in the eagerness to regulate in detail according to the principle one size fits all it becomes, as often, very wrong. The regulatory framework is too detailed and comprehensive and does not take into account the fact that an investment can be green in one country while in another country it is considered red. The Swedish Government has, without thinking about letting this go, which can have serious consequences for both Swedish competitiveness and the reduction of emissions in Sweden and in other countries. Now the Commission has been given a delegated act, which they more or less own. It is now of the utmost importance that Sweden, with the help of allies, does what it can to reduce the harmfulness of this proposal. Mr President, I would like to There is much talk about consumption-based emissions today. The environmental target committee will soon start work on these specific issues. The Swedish Democrats have long raised another perspective, namely the incredible climate benefit that Swedish companies are contributing today and what great potential there is to increase this in the future. This gets too little focus, perhaps because it is more difficult for politicians to bask in the glory of what companies do. Perhaps it is more populist to be the one who imposes new instruments and regulations on companies. Last week came a report, funded by the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise and Vinnova, which gives figures on what we Swedish democrats have long had in our climate policy movements. It is about the fact that the more goods and services produced here in Sweden, the more Sweden can contribute to reduced emissions in the world. The report is interesting – I think it is the first time that a serious approach has been taken to measure Swedish exports' climate benefits for the world. And the results are striking: The benefits of Swedish exports are greater than all our emissions from the transport sector, for example. Mr President, I would like to Sweden needs a new government. We need a government that, after many years of stagnation with low growth rates, can kick-start businesses. We need to produce more food in Sweden, and we need to produce more energy intensive products. In this way, we can contribute to the reduction of emissions globally, which would exceed all our contributions, while increasing our prosperity. We are convinced by the Swedish Democrats that a better business environment is the key to a successful climate policy. Therefore, it does not work that we have, for example, a government that allows applications for mining to lie and collect dust to such an extent that the companies instead invest in minerals in other countries, while we know that mineral extraction in Sweden is a gain for the climate. There is also too little talk of the extremely low growth rates that Sweden has today, which in the long term threatens both our prosperity and our ability to contribute to the reduction of emissions globally. In this context, the profiled reforms, such as climate car bonuses, solar PV subsidies and subsidies to regions and municipalities, represent extremely small contributions compared to what would be achieved with a thriving Swedish export industry. Only today can the contribution be estimated at a total of 26 million tonnes, which is the difference between the emissions that industry has today and what emissions would be if products were produced in other countries. This is largely due to our fossil-free electricity and our high technical expertise. If development is to continue, policies must provide opportunities such as access to cheap and clean energy, and we must have climate targets that take into account the positive contributions of our industry and our agriculture in a global perspective. By being offensive and investing in our exports rather than punishing, for example, individual citizens of our country who need to drive a car, we can make a real difference.
i-5208f3b077ad150e-48	Mr President, I would like to The main feature of the last year has been the devastating consequences of the pandemic. This is a global crisis of historical dimensions. But the pandemic has also shown that it is possible to mobilize and gather in the face of major threats. It is possible to change, think new and act. We have seen it at all levels of our society – local, regional, national and global. Everything has been done to fight an invisible enemy who has reaped millions of lives. The same determination that we are now facing the threat of a deadly pandemic needed to face the climate crisis. It is an invisible enemy who reaps human lives. Through international cooperation, clear objectives and strong measures, we will have a green transition. With a new President of the White House, hope for global climate change is once again forthcoming – the Paris Agreement is alive. Over the past year, we have also ensured that the EU's emissions reduction target for 2030 is strengthened. Efforts have been made at both national and local level to reduce climate impacts. At the local level, important steps are being taken, for example, in the work on Agenda 2030: Storuman has taken the initiative for carbon-efficient travel, and Värnamo has the world's first city bus network with only climate-smart vehicles. New targets and new legislation, together with billions of investments, have been important elements in starting to shift the economy towards sustainable travel and a sustainable society with green growth. At the same time, we see that this is not enough. Despite measures, emissions do not decrease at the rate needed to achieve the Paris Agreement's objective of a maximum of 1.5 degrees of warming, which in fact requires a halving of emissions between 2020 and 2030. The work therefore needs to be tightened up properly, on all fronts and at all levels at the same time, in order to combat global warming. At the same time, the world is facing a potentially prolonged economic crisis. Companies go bankrupt, and people lose their jobs. Without economic growth, our society is creaking. It creates divisions and divisions. The crisis of reduced consumption we are now seeing is precisely the kind of measures that the Left tends to advocate in order to reduce climate problems. We have seen the consequences of this, and we know that it is through growth and development that we can reverse this. As the world is now facing a re-launch of the economy, it will be done through a green transition, investing in green technologies and innovations, on sustainable businesses and on green jobs. We will overcome the situation we are now in and move on towards a better future. Climate-smart innovations that are also exported create reduced emissions around the world. This is how Sweden can take the lead, show the way and become a climate for others. The climate issue is so much bigger than just an environmental issue, especially here in Sweden. It is a matter of security policy, for example, because when the Swedish Jas plan is dependent on Russian oil, we have a problem. It goes without saying that we will have a better security policy with reduced Russian imports, and there will be less money going to Putin's army. The climate issue is also about industrial policy, because we are currently importing fossil fuels to a value of billions – money that could stay in Sweden, do good here and create Swedish jobs and Swedish companies when, for example, we drive biofuels in our vehicles. Similarly, that biofuel, or indeed electricity, that is to be produced in many parts of the country constitutes local politics in the true sense of the word. If you can get a slightly larger share of the value that is created locally, it is wise, but it is also good because biorefineries and other things are not created in the big cities. Instead, they are created in cities such as Mönsterås, Sundsvall, Ö-vik and Varberg, and the raw material comes from all over the country – where the value also increases, creating added value for many. Although the global average temperature increase may be limited to 1.5 degrees, or well below 2 degrees, climate change will have a major impact. Sweden's temperature is expected to rise more than the global average, leading to more frequent extreme weather such as heat waves and torrential rains, with increased risk of flooding, race, erosion and elevated sea levels. We must not turn a blind eye to this development. This requires that we equip our society. Climate adaptation measures must of course never compensate for a lack of ambition to reduce emissions, but it is important to adapt society to a changing climate. This is precisely what we are raising in our reservation n umme r 16, to which I propose approval. The Center Party takes responsibility for Sweden and the climate. Part of it is the January agreement and the climate action plan that we have negotiated within the agreement with the Liberals and the Government. There we have got through a variety of points. There will be more charging poles when the lighting network opens, and there will be more gas stations with biofuels when Swedish raw materials receive increased support. A green deduction for batteries, solar cells and charging poles was introduced at the turn of the year. We would like to see it expanded further, with such things as energy efficiency, where we see that we are not reaching the targets, smart-home solutions and more. We will work on a broad front, and we will not stop. Only a few weeks ago, the Center Party launched a whole bunch of new proposals in the energy and climate field that would make a clear difference. One example is a new national reduction target. We want a sharp target that ensures that we are truly net neutral in terms of climate gases in 2045. We need to work on it now, and that is why it must be possible to store carbon dioxide within Sweden's borders. The SGU must be given a mission here, and we must ensure that this is done safely and with a high level of protection for the environment. We also need a bonus system for negative emissions at EU level so that it is actually profitable to do so. We have an emissions trading system, but there is no way of getting a value in the reduction in emissions. Of course, it needs to be resolved. Furthermore, we want to broaden the industrial life with a hydrogen investment. We know that hydrogen and hydrogen technology have a key role to play in the future energy system. The hydrogen can be an energy carrier for storing and transporting energy, but it can also be an input for many industries. It is an important piece of the puzzle that obviously does not solve everything, but it can solve some. Mr President, I would like to It is with offensive efforts that we in the Center Party address the climate issue. It is with new technologies, wise lifestyle changes and smart policies that we solve the problems. That is the basis of the policy of the Center Party, and that is how we do it.
i-5208f3b077ad150e-65	Mr President, I would like to The report we are debating is called Climate Policy, but our overall climate policy is in many more reports than this. This also applies to our overall climate policy. I am therefore going to use this intervention to address the Nordic dimensions of climate policy found by the Left Party in this case. The Nordic countries face similar climate and environmental problems. The increasing temperature is particularly evident in the polar regions, and there are also many signs that animals and nature are already under great pressure. Researchers have warned that the average temperature in the Arctic increases about two to three times faster there than anywhere else, but new meteorological statistics show that it can be as much as up to five times as fast. In parts of the Nordic region, few areas of original nature remain. Our agriculture and forestry are therefore faced with the need to deal with increased droughts with the risk of crop failure as well as an increased number of forest fires. The reindeer industry is getting harder because of climate change. It is a matter of lack of grazing and ice does not lie down on the rivers, which prevents reindeer from taking their usual hiking paths. Floods and increased water levels in rivers and along the coast also lead to negative effects on the infrastructure as well as on buildings around the Nordic region. Food production affects the climate, but it is also affected by climate change. Increased self-sufficiency would make us better equipped for crises and extreme weather and reduce our dependence on imports. It would also mean strengthening the production and consumption of sustainable food, i.e. more plant-based, locally produced and organically. The degree of self-sufficiency of food products varies in the Nordic countries, not only because of geographical conditions. Sweden produces half of everything we eat, while the corresponding share for Finland is 80 per cent. The Left Party has therefore proposed that the Nordic Council should develop a sustainable Nordic food strategy so that we become more self-sufficient and less dependent on imports. Within the framework of the Nordic Council of Ministers, cooperation is being made, among other things, to stop the loss of biodiversity. It is positive that joint efforts are being made to find solutions to implement the Paris Agreement and other international agreements. The Nordic Council and the Baltic Assembly have also agreed on a document for cooperation in 2020 and 2021 on, among other things, security, climate, environment and a number of additional areas. That's good. However, effective work must extend over considerably longer periods. It is also important that such initiatives are put into practice and followed up. A warmer climate risks leading to more fires similar to those we saw in summer 2018. An increasing number of crises and accidents are at risk of overpowering local authorities and emergency services to deal with. The Left Party is therefore in favour of increased cooperation between the emergency services in the Nordic and Baltic countries. This may include fires and other natural disasters or mountain and sea rescue. Last summer, a new vision was developed for the Nordic Council of Ministers. It includes strengthening research and development that supports carbon neutrality and adaptation to climate change in the transport sector. Unfortunately, the objectives are not compatible with the policies pursued. Domestic transport, for example, accounts for one third of Sweden's total emissions. Road traffic, in turn, accounts for more than 90% of the transport sector's emissions. Sweden has interim targets to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from domestic transport, excluding aviation, by at least 70% compared to 2010. With current conditions and decisions, the transport sector will only reach mid-2020. To achieve this objective, comprehensive policy action is needed. In addition to increased use of electricity and renewable fuels, measures are needed for a more transport-efficient society. Government investment and instruments must aim to promote sustainable and more efficient transport of people and goods. In other words, transport policy must be developed within the framework of our climate objectives. At the Nordic level, this means above all that the railways need to be expanded to reduce air transport emissions. Cross-border train lines need to be developed together with night trains and well-functioning ticketing systems that are easy to use for travellers. From a Swedish perspective, it is mainly the sections Oslo– Stockholm, Oslo– Gothenburg and on to Copenhagen and Sundsvall– Östersund– Trondheim for passenger traffic, and for freight traffic the route between Luleå and Narvik and a new railway between Svappavaara and Kaunisvaara that is of interest. The climate crisis requires clear focus and objectives now. In order for us to be able to make a transition to fossil-free road transport, clear measures are needed in the near future. For example, a number of European countries are discussing and preparing a ban on new sales of petrol or diesel cars. This is something that the Left Party supports and that we want Sweden to operate within the Nordic cooperation as well. That is why I support the Left Party's Amendment No 4.
i-5208f3b077ad150e-78	Mr President, I would like to Changing our way of life to reduce emissions can have a major impact on the everyday lives of individuals and families. In the field of the environment and climate, active engagement is required of all of us. It is the policy's task to bring about solutions and functioning infrastructures, but ultimately the success is determined by technical conditions and by the fact that changes are rooted in people's willingness to change and their ability to change. That is why the decisions taken must be well-founded by research, lead to change and have a mandate for the people. A broad political consensus on the overall objectives that will last over time is essential in climate policy. Of course, the policy objectives and ambitions need to be sharpened as research progresses and societal challenges change. But sustainable environmental and climate policy requires a kind of fundamental long-term direction that is not in danger of changing dramatically in every parliamentary election. This is needed not least in order to secure investments that are conducive to climate-friendly development. Large and small companies must dare to make even expensive but long-term profitable investments in their own operations and for the environment necessary investments in their own operations. This may, for example, involve energy efficiency or other greening. For this to happen, there needs to be a large measure of predictability to build the calculations on. Environmental taxes and other rules should be designed in the most technologically neutral way possible as developments are constantly progressing. Today, it is difficult to predict which technologies or fuels are up to date in five or ten years' time. But above all this is a change that is ecologically, economically and socially sustainable. It will also serve as an example to bring the major emitters along the right path. As we have heard before, it is gratifying that the United States is now back in the Paris Agreement. Since the United States is one of the major emission nations, it is crucial and so much more important than any other domestic symbolism policy pursued in this area. Mr President, I would like to The climate challenge is primarily global, and in addition to responsible national emission reduction commitments, joint efforts are needed internationally. By showing that it is possible to combine low emissions with good economic development, Sweden can help to break the international myth of the opposite. Climate change requires regional, national and global solutions. Dependence on fossil fuels is a burden on the environment and also a safety policy risk. European dependence on Russian gas contributes to CO2 emissions and to instability. Several EU countries have not switched from coal dependence, while others have increased their dependence on fossil sources by shutting down nuclear power or investing too little in renewable power sources. We will continue to push for Europe to be a global example of climate and environmental policy. Sweden currently has very low CO2 emissions from energy consumption, i.e. the emissions that come from the use of electricity and heat in industry and households. This is because such a large part of the Swedish industry's electricity supply comes from nuclear power and hydropower. The EU's greenhouse gas emission reduction and energy efficiency targets play a central role in the fight against environmental degradation and climate change. The Christian Democrats have long been the driving force for developing emissions trading within the EU, the Emission Trading System, which is a cost-effective tool for achieving climate targets. We believe that the emissions trading system should be extended to the other transport sector as well as other sectors of society with large emissions that are not yet participating in the scheme. In the EU, the ETS currently covers around 45% of total greenhouse gas emissions. The Christian Democrats believe that all greenhouse gases should be covered by the EU emissions trading scheme. Mr President, I would like to Today, domestic transport accounts for about one third of total greenhouse gas emissions in Sweden. A cost-effective transformation and smart design of the infrastructure is required to reduce emissions from our modes of transport. It is important that emissions from domestic transport are reduced in a sustainable manner that is consistent with our socio-economic objectives and that new technologies that enable this can be promoted. Efforts are needed to research and develop fossil-free fuels and vehicle types such as electric cars and hybrids. Then we must not forget the fight for biofuels. The forest is our great competitive advantage in the transition. That is why the government must work towards the EU in order to provide opportunities for both support and tax relief. It is also about domestic legislation that needs to be improved and not least the view of forests as a kind of museum that, unfortunately, seems to be spreading both nationally and in the EU. In the transport sector, emissions from road traffic have fallen by 10 per cent since 1990. However, there remain challenges to significantly reduce emissions of carbon dioxide, particulate matter and other environmental pollutants. Policy initiatives are therefore needed to reduce emissions from traffic. In rural areas it is often difficult to get everyday life together without a car, but a majority of those living in the cities can reduce their drive relatively easily. Effective community planning is of course of great importance, such as smart public transport and incentives for more walking and cycling, but also the development of new technologies and broadband capacity that enable distance work to a greater extent. We have seen in these pandemic times how important it is. Cycling has great development potential with good environmental and climate effects as well as health effects. The cycle must be seen more clearly as its own mode of transport and given priority in urban planning and infrastructure investment. Mr President, I would like to The most effective way to reduce emissions from many passenger cars is to convert the engine so that it can run on E85 or pure biofuels. New production of cars is very resource-intensive and has a major environmental impact. The most environmentally friendly car is the one that is already made. In bonus terms today, converted vehicles are not treated according to their environmental characteristics after conversion, even if the conversion took place before the car was sold for the first time to a driver. The Christian Democrats suggest that if a newly produced vehicle is converted before being sold to a driver for the first time, the bonus – the malus system should be handled based on the environmental characteristics it has after the conversion. There is also a need to simplify type approval for conversions. With this in mind, Mr President, I am in favour of the Christian Democrats' reservation number 10. In Sweden, what we know today is no rock formations or ocean depths suitable for carbon dioxide storage. In the North Sea and in the Norwegian Sea, however, there are suitable areas. The identified 18 best suited storage sites for carbon dioxide in the Nordic region together have a theoretical storage capacity of more than 86 gigatons. At the current emission rate, this storage capacity corresponds to 564 years of annual CO2 emissions in the Nordic region. In addition to individual project support, there are currently few incentives to invest in carbon capture in Sweden. Research and development in such technologies is also sparse. Today, Swedish bio power plants emit about 30 megatons of CO2 annually. This represents a great potential for extracting carbon dioxide from the atmosphere. Growing trees and other crops bind carbon. When these are incinerated in bioelectric plants, CO2 is formed, which can be captured and stored. The net effect is to remove carbon dioxide from the atmosphere. The fact that Sweden has such a large share of energy from biofuels suggests that Sweden should prioritise CO2 capture and storage technologies. This enables us to use this renewable fuel and at the same time contribute to net removal from the atmosphere. Finally, Mr President, the Green Climate Fund was set up to help developing countries develop in a sustainable way, as a modern Marshall Plan. The Christian Democrats set aside more money for this in their budget than the government precisely because it is an example of a political instrument that makes a difference. On the climate issue, we have to make a difference, and we have to do it now.
i-5208f3b077ad150e-101	Mr President, I would like to For time to come, I am only in favour of Liberals' reservation number 15, but we Liberals are, of course, in favour of all our reservations. As previous speakers have mentioned, today we are dealing with elements of climate policy but not everything. I will discuss the direction of the European Union, the ECCS and some other issues raised in this report. As previous speakers have also mentioned, the pandemic affects us all and our behaviour. The thoughts go to all those who have been severely affected by the pandemic. But it also shows that we can change our behaviour and work in a different way, not least here in Parliament, and learn lessons from travel patterns, how we hold our meetings, etcetera that we may take with us into the future. Emissions do not stop at land borders, but neither do the solutions. That is why we need to find solutions together in the world and within the European Union. We think it is good that the United States has now changed its mind and is contributing to this important work. Knowledge and technology development contribute to climate-smart solutions that are spread worldwide. The market economy and free trade are driving development, and growth is important in this part. We note that the development of the electric car is changing the whole car industry. This is how we hope to be done in other sectors of society as well. The energy industry is changing, as investments in fossil energy do not pay off. More people on earth have access to climate-smart energy instead of health-dangerous open fire and fossil fuels. Climate investment needs to continue. These include charging poles, bicycle paths, rail and more research, so that climate-smart technology can reduce industrial emissions. During the pandemic, many have seen the benefits of walking and cycling. In this respect, efforts must continue in order for this behaviour to continue and expand. But climate investments should also be long-term and affect many, and tax money should always be used effectively. We have strong faith that people want to do their part. But it must be easy to do the right thing. It must be easy to shop climate smart, sort garbage and take the bike, bus or train. With regard to CCS, carbon capture and storage, which several have mentioned, I would like to refer to the budget proposal for 2021, and that is why we are only giving a specific opinion. The issue is very important for the Liberals, and the budget is investing in this area. We are closely monitoring developments in this area. There is an ongoing discussion and debate in society about whether CCS is an opportunity and a possibility for the future. We in the Liberals think that's the case. The initiative in the budget proposal for 2021 concerns negative emissions and is based on an agreement between the Liberals, the Center Party and the government parties. The budget proposal also proposes that the National Energy Agency should become the national centre for CCS. We think that is very good. Many sectors are affected by the issue of CCS. The capture and storage of biogenic carbon dioxide from the paper industry and district heating plants has great potential, including cement factories. Another measure is that refineries capture and permanently store the carbon dioxide generated in the process after all. As the use of petroleum decreases, measures are needed to reduce emissions. These measures must become part of their own work in industry. Mr President, I would like to Reporting on Sweden's climate emissions is also an important development area. Sweden's climate emissions represent a small part of total emissions, which in itself is irrelevant because it is by eliminating each individual source of emissions that we prevent climate change from having too great an impact. We need to deal with all emissions. The great potential of Swedish climate work is also in acting as a role model. We can show that it is possible to achieve strong economic development while reducing both climate impact and resource use. Sweden has been a model before. The most important example is our transition to fossil-free electricity production in the 1970s and 1980s, when we also broke the link between economic growth and increasing electricity use. We note that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency only reports data from 1990 in its statistics. The major Swedish emission reductions are thus not visible in the way we wish. That is why, in our view, we would welcome the fact that the Authority could present and demonstrate the strong reductions, which can also serve as a model for other countries. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency should therefore make available older statistics to show more clearly the major improvements Sweden has made historically. Mr President, I would like to EU cooperation is very important in this context, and we believe that Sweden should take the lead in the EU's reform work. Sweden will once again become a country at the heart of the EU that is pushing for efficient institutions and decision-making processes that are transparent. It is crucial that Sweden stands up for and prioritises work within the EU and with the green man. In order to achieve the objective of a climate-neutral EU, the Commission will review and, if necessary, revise all previous legislation and directives. The objective of the Green Paper is to transform the EU into a green, climate-neutral Union while continuing economic growth. Reducing emissions and maintaining economic growth need not be a contradiction. Between 1990 and 2018, the EU reduced its emissions by 23%, while the economy grew by 61%. The Greens will bring major changes for a wide range of sectors, both at EU and national level for Sweden, and the whole internal market will be directed towards green and sustainable growth. Liberals stress the need for a circular economy, the phasing-out of fossil fuels and a green change in industry, as well as forestry policy, which has also been touched on earlier in the debate. For the Liberals, this is about both production and environmental objectives – we have to manage to have a balance. The process of becoming a climate-neutral continent will affect almost all policy areas and sectors. It is important and welcome that the EU now has a common ambition to achieve net zero emissions by 2050. These objectives may need to be further strengthened in the future if we see that we will not achieve our ambitions. Mr President, I would like to For the Liberals, the climate issue is a high priority. Some of our proposals are also included in the budget proposal for 2021. Here we have also mentioned the other proposals we are working on. But it is about taking a holistic approach – to see the whole of society, within the EU and globally. We all need to contribute there.
i-5208f3b077ad150e-123	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating the report on climate policy. I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal for a decision to be approved. One of the biggest issues today is the climate threat. Ice melts, sea levels rise and deserts spread worldwide. Billions of people are at risk of water shortages and floods, and coral reefs are almost at risk of extinction. It is necessary to change our societies, and this is something for which we must take joint responsibility through international work. Those most affected by climate change today are the world's poor, and climate change is increasing poverty. This means that the climate issue is closely linked to justice issues. Rich countries have a great responsibility, through international negotiations, to provide financial support for the transition in developing countries. This requires international solidarity and cooperation. Mr President, I would like to At the moment, the design of the new EU climate law is under way. It will take European cooperation from what started as a coal and steel union to the world's first climate-neutral continent. The long-term objective of climate neutrality by 2050 should apply both to the EU as a whole and to each individual Member State at national level. EU Heads of Government have agreed on a strengthened 2030 target of at least 55% reduction. This is a sharp increase in ambition from the current 40% target, but we need to go further. The European Parliament has supported 60% reduction. Now that all the EU institutions have taken their positions, tough negotiations are waiting. Important steps in the EU's climate action will also be to tighten up the EU emissions trading rules and work on the green light, which is a strategy for a sustainable EU and which will mean more jobs, not fewer. To go first in the climate transition is therefore a great opportunity for Sweden and for Europe. Clearly, the world needs strong climate leadership from the EU. Mr President, I would like to The government takes the climate issue very seriously and aims to create the world's first fossil-free welfare country. A climate policy framework with a climate law, a climate policy council and perhaps the most ambitious climate goals in the world have been introduced. We will need a broad commitment and an anchoring of society as a whole if we are to succeed in achieving this goal. We need an inclusive climate policy that takes account of the different conditions, for example between cities and rural areas as well as in different income groups. Climate policy needs to be based on legitimacy, trust, fairness and acceptance. In order to succeed in transforming society as a whole and achieving net zero emissions, both economic instruments and investments that contribute to a change are needed. Climate change, which was introduced in 2015, complements the CO2 tax by supporting climate investments throughout the country, thus creating the conditions for climate-smart alternatives to be put in place. Climate change reduces emissions and contributes to jobs throughout the country. A fair transition is also about jobs and what happens when environmentally harmful activities are replaced with new fossil-free workplaces. This shift must be combined with the possibility of new jobs if the old job disappears, protection against loss of income and major investment in skills development. This requires progressive governments and union organization. Mr President, I would like to At the same time, an active climate policy is a policy for future jobs and entrepreneurship. There is no contradiction between an active industrial policy and a progressive climate policy – on the contrary. We are now seeing groundbreaking investments in battery production and fossil-free steel, for example, and it is the government's common policy that has laid the foundation for this happening right now in Sweden. Since 2018, Industrikliv has supported the development of solutions to reduce emissions in industry. Since before there is support for Hybrid, the investment in fossil-free steel. Now we are also investing in being able to support, for example, biofuels, plastic recycling refineries and hydrogen production. A transition to a circular economy is also essential if we are to succeed in saving the climate and reducing the over-exploitation of Earth's resources. The Government has decided on an action plan for the circular economy that contains more than one hundred measures in various areas. Through this, the government lays the foundations for a long-term and sustainable transformation of society. Mr President, I would like to One of the most important climate targets is to reduce emissions in the transport sector by 70% by 2030. The involvement of sustainable biofuels in petrol and diesel will significantly reduce the climate impact of transport. The government has submitted a proposal to tighten the reduction obligation, which, according to forecasts, will achieve or will be very close to reaching the sector target. Electrification also has an important role to play in reducing emissions from the transport sector and for Sweden to reach climate targets. Sweden is today the EU country that has the highest proportion of rechargeable cars in new car sales, and the government specifically supports the expansion of charging poles to connect the whole of Sweden. Mr President, I would like to The government's climate policy leads to jobs, growth and increased confidence in the future. We ensure that industry – Sweden's backbone – can take the lead globally and increase its competitiveness, so that while reducing emissions, we can strengthen our welfare. We in Sweden have historically managed to carry out major transformations of society without leaving people out of it. Let's do it again. Together we create the world's first fossil-free welfare country.
i-5208f3b077ad150e-140	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mrs Burwick, for your speech. I am a little curious about how Marlene Burwick and the Social Democrats view electrification in the light of the climate change that we all agree must happen. We are all met by different figures in the debate, but we can surely note that the Swedish Energy Agency, the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise and soon enough all the combined expertise agree that we need a great deal more electricity to cope with the transformation of both the transport sector and our industry. For example, the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise is talking about 60 percent more electricity. This has not even included LKAB's major investment in fossil-free iron fungus, which in itself represents one third of today's Swedish energy use. We see that other countries are jealous of Sweden because we have a fossil-free energy system up to 98 percent. That's amazing. Countries such as the United States, Finland, France and Estonia, where state Vattenfall participates, and also the United Kingdom are investing in a future with both renewables and nuclear power. But many people wonder what Sweden is doing when we have a 98% fossil-free energy system but have started with a dismantling of Swedish nuclear power. Wind power accounted for 17% last year and solar energy for 0.5%. I'd love to increase these shares. But my question to Marlene Burwick and the Social Democrats is: is it the government's view that it is realistic that this whole increase in energy needs should be covered by something that currently accounts for 17.5%? Is it realistic and desirable for the climate change to shut down all nuclear power to 2040, which is basically what today's energy policy objectives say?
i-5208f3b077ad150e-144	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Jessica Rosencrantz, for the issue that is increasingly predominant in the climate policy debate! Sweden currently uses about 150 terawatt hours of electricity, while exporting 25 terawatt hours of electricity. With this export, we are involved in pushing away much of the dirty electricity produced in the EU and thus contributing to a transformation in the EU. We also see that the wind power expansion is very strong. By 2030 we will have another 20 terawatt hours of wind power in the system. Our view is that it is important for the energy agreement to remain in place. We therefore regret the fact that parties have dropped out of it, because if there is to be a long-term attitude towards the business community, we need parties to stand up for the agreements we conclude. The reactors that have been shut down have been closed due to increased safety requirements, which require expensive investments. Jessica Rosencrantz' own party partner Mikael Odenberg, a former energy political spokesperson, says that what Jessica Rosencrantz says is populist. No normal man wants to build conventional nuclear power today," he says. Let me emphasise that these are the words of Mikael Odenberg and not mine. Nevertheless, this shows that there is something in the debate on nuclear power today that the Moderates fuel. What does Jessica Rosencrantz and the Moderates want to do to promote nuclear energy, as you mean? Do you want to subsidise expensive nuclear power today?
i-5208f3b077ad150e-149	Mr President, I would like to I thank Mrs Burwick for her reply. One can of course count in a little different ways, but let us note that this winter has been marked by a shortage of electricity in large parts of the country when electricity has been needed. It is great that we have a surplus at full-year level, but that electricity does not exist when it is needed is a shortage of electricity. That's a problem. The fact that we have had to import dirty electricity from other countries and start oil power plants is also a problem. I cannot quite understand the conclusion that it is important that the energy agreement is fixed. Large parts of it have not been involved in the development. The industry, as Marlene Burwick says, wants long-term conditions, says today that it wants a new energy policy target of 100 percent fossil-free, that is, what the Moderates are proposing. I'm not turning for a single force. I am anxious that we should face the enormous development we are facing, that we should be able to increase electrification and increase energy production. That is why my question remains: is it self-worth to shut down nuclear power? Or is there any part of the Social Democrats who can see that perhaps it does not make sense for the Green Party to govern this without industry and transport actually need more electricity? I have great respect for Mikael Odenberg, and I can agree with him in many ways. Building new, large reactors is not something the Moderates suggest. What we want to see is rather the modern technology where small, modular reactors are built – what, for example, Government Vattenfall is involved in funding in other countries, such as Estonia. My question remains. At least 60% more electricity is needed. Is it realistic that the 17.5% of wind and sun today should cover the increased energy demand and replace the 30% from nuclear energy?
i-5208f3b077ad150e-156	Mr President, I would like to Today, the price of newly produced nuclear power is very much higher than the price of newly produced renewable electricity. What Jessica Rosencrantz and the business community are asking for is competitive electricity so that our industry stands up, and today the price of renewables is competitively advantageous. My question to the Moderates remains. How will the Moderates solve this in the long term when you want to lock on to something that in new production is very much more expensive than the renewable, which now also comes on a broad front in the rest of the world? The Social Democrats want to protect the Energy Agreement. We also want a competitive and secure electricity supply, because it is crucial for industry and industry.
i-5208f3b077ad150e-160	Mr President, I would like to I thank Mrs Burwick for her speech, and I endorse many of what she said. That is not all, however, and that is probably why we are here. Something that Mrs Burwick did not mention in her speech, but at the turn of the line is our energy system. Today we have an almost 100% fossil-free energy system, which is one of our great competitive advantages. But that's what the government wants to dismantle. It was mentioned earlier that we listen to various sources. One source we usually listen to is the UN and the IPCC. That is why I ask Mrs Burwick: what is it that makes the government incapable of listening to the IPCC in particular, which is in favour of a massive expansion of nuclear power at global level in order to save the climate?
i-5208f3b077ad150e-163	Mr President, I would like to I thank Mrs Ottosson for a question that I remember from an earlier debate. The IPCC does not advocate nuclear power. The IPCC has created a variety of scenarios to calculate how to achieve the Paris Agreement objectives. It is correct that nuclear power is included in many of these scenarios, but at the same time it is up to individual countries to determine their energy production. The government, of course, does not advocate increased fossil production, but it is the renewable that needs to come in. There is no political decision to close nuclear power in Sweden, but we had an agreement that Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson's party chose to drop out. We fully agree that Sweden needs more electricity in the long term. What is cheapest to produce will win this race, and renewables cost less than new, expensive nuclear power. Today, only the Christian Democrats seem to consider it profitable to invest in nuclear energy. The industry does not seem to think so, and there is no one showing interest in investing in new nuclear power. Instead, the interest lies in investing in renewables, as that is what will be profitable in the future.
i-5208f3b077ad150e-168	Mr President, I would like to The economy is one thing, the climate is another. Government Vattenfall has developed life cycle analyses that show that wind power emits three times more carbon dioxide per terawatt hour produced than nuclear power and one and a half times more carbon dioxide per terawatt hour produced than hydropower. Wind power is good, but it has the disadvantage that it emits more carbon dioxide per terawatt hour produced than nuclear power. We must not stare blindly at the energy mix, because now we really have to say yes to everything to cope with the change. As Mrs Burwick said, we are very much in agreement that we have to cope with it and that electrification is then an important part of it. Then we must have electricity every day of the year every day. Over a year we have, but this winter we have had a lack of effect for some days. Mr President, I would like to It is as if we were to ignore ploughing snow in winter, because this year's average temperature is plus degrees. It'll be the same here. Just as we have to plow snow when the snow falls, we have to have energy when we have a shortage. What makes the government think this is a wise climate policy and acts to eliminate nuclear power from the Swedish energy mix?
i-5208f3b077ad150e-172	Mr President, I would like to Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson's line was so multifaceted, so I don't really know where to start. I got a little stuck in the snow. We have a common energy market, which means that we contribute a great deal to energy exports. I do not know whether the Christian Democrats are in any way opposed to the common energy market in which we are part. In that case, I have missed it, but perhaps it is something new on the part of the Christian Democrats. In any case, I am convinced that we will need more energy, and we are seeing an increase in the production of renewables, which comes with great power. We also see prices falling there, not only in Sweden but worldwide. The different governance instruments that have been introduced at different levels also mean that much of the old and fossils are disappearing from the market today and that the renewables come in. I am convinced of this. What remains on the question is what the Christian Democrats really want. Is it keeping old, end-of-life nuclear reactors that do not meet safety requirements or subsidising expensive, new nuclear power instead of ensuring that the new, cheaper and renewable comes in? It is really to back down and not to face the climate challenges that exist with wise solutions. It's really backing into the future.
i-5208f3b077ad150e-176	Mr President, I would like to I listened to Mrs Burwick's speech. There are many things you can agree with, and there are many nice words: Sweden should go first, the government takes the issues very seriously, they are ambitious goals and we will be good at batteries and other things. But if we're gonna be good at batteries, where's the mineral coming from? The Social Democrats have a history of being the party that was involved in industrialising our country, but what we are seeing today is deindustrialisation and mineral companies moving their investments to other countries. If we in Sweden are going to build up battery production, we have to rely on dirty metals from Africa that destroy the environment and are harmful to the climate. At the same time there are applications for new mines and collecting dust at the Government Office, as the Social Democrats do not dare to make decisions because they allow themselves to be cornered by the Green Party. The question is, how long is this going to last? When the government took office, Sweden was on the top ten list of the most attractive countries to invest in when it comes to minerals. When one gained confidence a second term Sweden was in place 21. Sweden is now in place 36. Where's it going to end? We have only got one mine in operation in Sweden in 20 years, despite enormous values here and despite the enormous potential for rural areas. It is about new jobs and huge tax revenues, and it is about reducing emissions globally. We know that mining in Sweden is probably the best mining in the world, for the environment as well as for the climate. My question is: When are the Social Democrats going to stop being pushed by the Green Party, and when are you going to realise that Swedish minerals are better than Africans?
i-5208f3b077ad150e-181	Mr President, I would like to I'm glad Martin Kinnunen asked you a question about batteries. When it comes to batteries and battery research, there was a lot where I started my education at Uppsala University. I think it's a very exciting area. But that was not the issue, it was about the minerals needed in the production of batteries. I see that there are two things that are very important. One is about requirements when purchasing minerals and finding systems so that we know where the mineral comes from. We will need minerals from different parts of the world. It is an important part to make such requirements and to have clarity and transparency in procurement. The second is mines in Sweden. I do not usually agree with the Swedish Democrats, but on this particular issue I do. I fully agree that with the legislation that we have, it is perfectly reasonable that we really have one of the best productions or urges that one can have in the world. We also have a large share of the critical minerals. This can be seen clearly in the EU's list of critical minerals, where Sweden is identified as one of the countries with large deposits. I think it is important, in the light of climate change and electrification, to review the mineral strategy we have and update it. We are also reviewing the environmental code – it is one of the investigations currently under way. My hope is that this will land in that we get to the point where we get an increased mining and more minerals produced in Sweden.
i-5208f3b077ad150e-185	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Marlene Burwick, for your answer! It doesn't sound like we're having very big conflicts here. Both our parties are in favour of Swedish mining and of taking advantage of the minerals that we have in the soil. The problem is that one of our parties is controlled by the Green Party on these issues, and thus the government cannot function. That is why we are falling to the bottom of the list of attractive countries to invest in in this area. That is regrettable. But on to another subject, because we are quite in agreement here, at least in substance. I listened to the shift in the line on nuclear power, renewables and so on. It is an issue that has been discussed for a long time, and I heard from Mr Burwick that it is about profitability, that nuclear power is not profitable, that companies want to invest in things that are profitable and that it should then be renewable. Then I wonder: if it is so very profitable to invest in renewable energy, why is the government about to put forward proposals to subsidise the expansion of offshore wind power? I have seen estimates that if you take all the applications that have been submitted and put them in the system, it could cost SEK 160 billion, which would then be transferred to us who pay the electricity grid bills. We pay through our electricity bills to transfer to the companies looking for profitable investments. Can we not be honest here and admit that it is impossible to talk about profitability when we have an over-regulated market where politicians decide what can be built, where nuclear power can be built, how it can be built and how much cheaper it should be to build renewables? It is the politicians and the government who decide this. Can we not just stop talking about profitability and talk about what direction we want to steer politics?
i-5208f3b077ad150e-189	Mr President, I would like to I would like to continue to talk about the last shift of the line and add an aspect that Martin Kinnunen did not get into. As I said, we fully agree that access to minerals is crucial and that we have a great opportunity to produce it in a good way. Then you need to see that mining is a complicated issue in that it affects a lot of people who live near a mine. There is a great need to work long-term and educationally with these issues and the democratic foundation. Martin Kinnunen makes this a much easier question than it actually is. It is clear that the government has a comprehensive policy on this issue, although Martin Kinnunen insinuated something else. As far as nuclear power and offshore wind are concerned, this is something that several countries are starting to look at. Denmark is far ahead, and Sweden is watching it. It's a great opportunity, because there's a lot of wind at sea. The production is therefore very large. Accession charges are very high today, and there is a difficulty in getting started with this type of production. It is clear that it is important to review the conditions for these projects to arrive. And, as I said, Sweden is watching it, and there are many other countries that are also. I think this is an important part of the future energy puzzle.
i-5208f3b077ad150e-194	Mr President, I would like to I thank Mrs Burwick for this. Unlike all the other speakers here, I was not going to talk about the excellence of nuclear power. For the rest, as an information, I can tell both Marlene Burwick and others that the proposal on offshore wind connection charges now before us is quite different from what has been discussed in the past. Of course, there is no talk of a few 160 billion. But that's not why I asked for a line. I am a little more curious about some of the points raised by Mrs Burwick in her speech. Among other things, there was talk about investments in charging poles, which we agree on. It was the Center Party that pushed through these proposals with this government. What is a little more worrying, where we basically agree, is about the export of environmental cars. We agree that we need to find a way to slow this down in different ways. The problem is that the government has not presented a sensible proposal on how to do this. That's where we split up. The Government's proposal was that anyone who first buys a car – the very first owner – should be responsible for five years regardless of who owns the car. This is a proposal which, of course, is completely wrong from the outset, because it is absolutely impossible to know what happens to a car for five years if you are not the owner of it yourself. Trying to sign agreements if it becomes legally hopeless and opens up to a lot of car goalkeepers and other things that we already have problems with. We also have problems with the fact that we have less support for those who actually drive the car in Sweden compared to other countries. My question is twofold. What measures are the government and the Social Democrats expected to do to make it more profitable to drive their electric car in Sweden, and how do you want to see a system to reduce electric car exports? The system proposed by the government has been severely criticised and, in fact, seems quite unreasonable.
i-5208f3b077ad150e-200	Mr President, I would like to I thank Rickard Nordin for the entry into force of connection charges for offshore wind power. This is an issue which is not in the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture. That's a question that Rickard Nordin is much more familiar with than I am. I would like to comment on what was said about charging points. It is great that the Center Party, and Rickard Nordin personally, have pushed a lot in this regard. But it is also the case that the climate life itself has led to 30 000 charging points around Sweden. It is a system that has been in place since 2015 and in width really ensures that we get charging points throughout Sweden. It is a system that the Center Party was also critical of in the past. But we have jointly developed this into something that I think we all appreciate and see the importance of. With regard to the export of environmental cars, Rickard Nordin is quite right that it is obviously deeply problematic that many of the new cars are exported. But this is a difficult issue. We must have an export, and that is not what we want to stop in any way. We need to find systems to ensure that the support we develop and provide to promote the sale of electric cars in Sweden also stays in Sweden. There was a proposal and, as I have said, it has been severely criticised by all the parties. These discussions are ongoing, and I have not yet heard what the Center Party is contributing to these discussions. I am therefore happy to listen to what Rickard Nordin says that we should do on this issue.
i-5208f3b077ad150e-203	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to say that the criticism of the Centre Party against Climate Change was about lack of reliability and measures with very diffuse possibilities, such as climate anxiety therapy. We have now made sure that the government has been forced to scrap. Then the system that is now in place is much better. I get a little curious when Marlene Burwick says that discussions are ongoing about reviewing how to reduce environmental car exports. These are discussions that I am usually involved in on behalf of the Center Party. As far as I know, I have not been contacted at all by the government. Obviously, there are no discussions with us. The Center Party has been extremely clear about what we think is the most reasonable solution. It is simply a question of the person who receives a bonus over time having to pay it back, with the responsibility of the person who owns the car. This bonus is included in the value of the car, all the way to the current owner. It is reasonable to have this limitation during the first five years. So the Center Party has been extremely clear. We were even when the government sent out this proposal for a referral. Nevertheless, it was chosen to send out this proposal, against better knowledge. But the Center Party is right. The referral bodies criticised exactly what we had already said to the government. I still wonder: when will the government come back with a proposal? This is something on which we also agree in the January agreement. However, the fact that some discussions are going on is simply not true. I'd be aware of that.
i-5208f3b077ad150e-207	Mr President, I would like to A large part of these issues can certainly be better resolved than in the speaker's seats here. I hope that the government will return with a proposal as soon as possible, obviously in dialogue with the Center Party and the Liberals. Clearly, it is extremely important that we find a system that actually closes these gaps, because we really need to ensure that we continue to promote the development of electric cars. Sweden now has the largest share of rechargeable cars in new cars sales in the EU. It's a position that it's important that we keep. It is a very important part for electrification of Sweden.
i-5208f3b077ad150e-209	Mr President, I would like to I shall begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved. It's fun to debate climate policy. Where to start? This area is so wide. But I'll start with the world needing climate leaders. It is in this light that I think you should see Sweden's role. I hear quite often from opponents – often moderates, Christian Democrats and Swedish Democrats – that little Sweden can make no difference. We have such incredibly small emissions if you take into account the world's emissions. In numerical and statistical terms, this is quite correct. It would have made no difference if Sweden zeroed its emissions and the rest of the world continued as before. But that is precisely why the only way for Sweden to influence is by being a global forerunner. What, then, is a global forerunner? I would say that the strategy is twofold. First of all, it is a question of global participation and diplomacy. There Sweden is already far ahead, among other things by being the country that – when the Green Party ended up in the government – increased climate aid so that it is by far the best in the world per capita. It is, moreover, something that led other countries to increase their climate finance, and that was one of the contributing reasons why the Paris Agreement came into being. It is about Sweden sending Isabella Lövin to Brussels to negotiate the EU's emissions trading system and push through what the environmental movement calls The Swedish Proposal and which has now led to emission reductions corresponding to 50 times Sweden's annual emissions and which lead to a decline in the use of coal now at a raging rate. It is also a question of cancelling allowances. Since we came to the government, we have cancelled 130 million units, which corresponds to a doubling of Sweden's annual emissions. In this way you can be just a global pusher, in commitment and in pushing for smart diplomacy, quite simply. However, that is not enough, because if other countries are to have confidence in us and listen to us, we also need to do the home job. Here too, Sweden is the forerunner, and we can get even better. I think today's DN symbolises what is happening in Sweden very well. They talk about the enormous and positive force for change that is currently in northern Sweden. It's about Northvolt's establishment of a battery factory. It is about Hybrid, i.e. LKAB's, SSAB's and Vattenfall's investments in steel without coal, and it is about the new H2 Green Steel, which is also at the global forefront. All of this is because we have skilled companies in Sweden, but it also depends on politics. Almost none of these initiatives would have come to light if it were not for the Industrial Group, an eco-partisan reform. Nor would it have come about if it were not for the huge expansion of renewable electricity production that the Green Party was pushing hard in the framework of the Energy Agreement. Explicitly, these companies express that it is precisely because of cheap, renewable electricity production that they want to invest in northern Sweden. This would not have happened without a climate policy framework with clear targets for 2030 and 2045. It might not have happened either without Fossil-free Sweden, the government's efforts to help coordinate the climate change of the business community. Without politics – no change. It's an interaction. It does not stop at industrial policy either. I could tell a lot of different measures that Sweden is now about to reach the climate targets, from the fuel change to phase out the fossil fuel to the bonus – malus that powerfully phases out the share of fossil cars and climate reductions for solar, charging and batteries. It is about the industrial life that leads to a teeming climate change change throughout our country. There are 30,000 charging points, which can be compared to 2,000 during the eight years of the Alliance. This leads to major changes in a lot of small projects around our country. Wetland re-watering is a fantastic climate measure that is effective and also contributes to biodiversity. Eco-labelling at the fuel pump, urban environment agreements for attractive public transport, walking and cycling – I could continue. On point after point, the government is introducing new measures to reduce emissions and to speed up the already existing ones. Mr President, I would like to It sounds like everything is peace and joy. It's not. Emissions are not falling at a sufficiently rapid rate. Of course we need to do more, and I would like to mention two areas in particular. One is consumption-based emissions. There has been no major debate on this for the reason that many parties have not quite dared to take up the issue. However, the Green Party has been clear from the outset: Sweden is not only responsible for the territorial emissions here in Sweden; we also have responsibility for the climate impact that Swedes contribute globally, and then consumption is crucial. Now, thanks to the Green Party, we are finally going to sit in the Environmental Targets Committee and start looking at this. The second is the transports. I have mentioned a number of measures that the government has already introduced, such as fuel replacement, bonuses– malus and so on. However, we have not made enough progress on the third leg, namely a low-cost or transport-efficient society. Here we need to be much better at working with walking, cycling and public transport in all kinds of different ways. Here we need to be better at facilitating the transfer from car and heavy goods vehicles to rail. That is the most energy efficient and smart thing for the climate. Consumption and transport are thus the major challenges ahead. This, of course, also includes industry, but there we have, above all, the EU ETS, which we regulate and want to strengthen further. So we are far from finished, but at least we are on the right track. That's the important thing right now. I'm proud, but I'm not happy!
i-Dgor4s9iQt9pkWJMDk6PhE	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mr Lorentz, for your speech. I've had a bit of fun watching the Green Party's own policy. On the Environmental Party's website, we can see in the housing policy programme from 2018 that we want to increase housing construction radically, about plus 20 per cent at the current rate. Now you are already a few years behind, so you need to expect something more. It also wants to see an increase in residential building in wood – about 50 percent up to the current rate or perhaps even something more. At the same time, we hear both in contributions to the debate and in other contexts that the Green Party wants to protect more forest from felling. If we are going to increase housing construction and also the proportion of wood construction while reducing fellings in the forest – how does it work out, Lorentz Tovatt?
i-Eg3V59azPLpjNmsb3X9mHb	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Rickard Nordin, for the question! It is quite correct that the Green Party wants to build more wood. It is perhaps the most climate-smart way to use biomaterials. Then you simply have a continued binding of the carbon throughout the time that the building stands. Building the forest rather than burning it is thus the most climate-smart method of using the forest. There is a calculation that goes together, and it is based on the fact that we streamline the existing use of biomaterials. It is, of course, about the large parts where we already have bioenergy. We have a heat sector that is very dependent on bioenergy. It has served Sweden well, because it has phased out fossil fuels, but now we are facing new technology opportunities. We are faced with the possibility of solar heat. We are faced with the possibility of extensive energy efficiency improvements. It is the same in industry: we therefore have a great dependence on bioenergy that has served us well, because it has phased out fossil fuels. Even there, however, we can make great technological leaps in the form of energy efficiency improvements, electrification and so on. So in our puzzle, bioenergy plays a crucial role. There I and Rickard Nordin agree, although I am not as eager to use it everywhere in all sectors at all costs. Instead, I am thinking that we should try to be as smart as possible in how we save our resources. In this way we also have the opportunity to use the forest to build houses.
i-5208f3b077ad150e-232	Mr President, I would like to I fully agree with Lorentz Tovatt that we should build more wood. But it requires more felling and that we use the forest we have. Lorentz Tovatt shows a total lack of understanding of Swedish forestry. The value is not in the residual products that we burn up in cogeneration plants or that we are going to make biofuels out of, although Lorentz Tovatt and I fully agree that we will increase that share from both Swedish raw materials and as input. These elements will increase rather than reduce the use of residues. Then perhaps we will use them in other sectors. It is not that you today saw down a tree and drive the plank into a combined heat and power plant. The value of the Swedish forest when we fell is in the timber, and you then use it. You can't make it more efficient by using solar heat instead of chips in heating. You need more wood to build more houses. It is simple logic and simple mathematics, and that is exactly how the Swedish forest industry works. How, Lorentz Tovatt, are we going to increase residential building by 20 to 25 per cent and the proportion of wood construction by more than 100 per cent, even though we are going to reduce forest felling? That math doesn't make sense. Nor can it be made more efficient, because it is not the wood that is currently fired up for cogeneration.
i-5208f3b077ad150e-236	Mr President, I would like to It'll be a little too easy when Rickard Nordin talks about this. It is quite correct that the timber is not injected into cogeneration, but it is not so that all the wood that we currently harvest ends up in wood construction. This was a bit of my overall point. When fellings are made, different residual streams, or different streams, of different types of products are produced, and today that wood is not used solely for building houses. It is used, for example, for paper, diapers and that type of product. We can also streamline and reduce this. We in the Green Party are completely open to economic instruments that mean that we have a less need for paper, for example. There is a technology pessimism here which means that we believe that we must use the forest everywhere because we cannot make improvements in other sectors. The very starting point of our policy is that we must first save or streamline. Then we can see where there are still needs, and then we have to cover those gaps. I am open to the fact that bioenergy and biomaterials are an absolutely central part of the Swedish climate transition in different sectors.
i-U58ZRaR6gm2RJUXVjzJ28R	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Lorentz Tovatt, for the post! I would like to start by saying that I agree with Lorentz Tovatt that Sweden should be a leading country that makes a real difference, both by reaching Sweden's own climate targets and by ensuring that the world succeeds in reducing overall emissions. Climate change is real. We see the effects here and now, and we have to act here and now. Nevertheless, the government in the area by area is doing too little to enable the transition that we need. The government wants fossil-free electricity but shuts down nuclear power. It wants electric cars, but it doesn't build out the charging infrastructure enough. It wants to electrify the industry but not shorten environmental permit processes. The government wants batteries, but it doesn't want to break minerals. In this area, we can see that these are very fine words, but that it is the government's policy that makes the transition difficult when it breaks down into practice. I am provoked when every climate statement that comes from the Green Party is basically a tribute to themselves. According to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, we need to reduce emissions by 5 – 8 percent per year, but during this government we have rather reduced emissions by less than 1 percent per year. Companies shout about electricity shortages, high electricity prices and state processes that are long and unpredictable. The industry in the north and companies in the south testify that everything is at stake if we do not get the electricity we need. Then I'll come back to the question. It was interesting that Lorentz Tovatt now talked about that we first need to streamline and then can look at the needs. This brings me to the issue of electricity. How much electricity does the Green Party think we need in the future to succeed in the transition? Do you agree with the Swedish Energy Agency and the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, which talk about perhaps 60 percent more electricity by 2045? And if you notice that renewables cannot meet, is the Green Party prepared to reconsider its view in order to succeed in climate change?
i-JBXgTXVcyiuMW9j8ffaB17	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Jessica Rosencrantz, for the questions! I have to say that I do not understand what Jessica Rosencrantz means. Does she think it is a bad thing that we have five times the electricity exports to Poland in the last ten years? Does Jessica Rosencrantz mean that it is bad that we have gone from net imports of 6 terawatt hours to net exports of 25 terawatt hours? That is the development we have seen. That we have had occasional hours when it has been cold and the price of electricity has gone up is nothing strange. This is always the case, in all countries, and it has always been the case in Sweden. It has become less so in Sweden since this government took office. I don't understand what the question means. All trends and trends show the exact opposite of what Jessica Rosencrantz wants to make it sound like. I want to say this first. What needs we see in the future is a relevant and interesting question. By 2030, we will build up the surplus and have more and more electricity and ever lower electricity prices. Then it will change. We will have a greater need. Several of the industrial plants that I talked about in my speech will start to get started near 2030, and then we will start to see an increased need again. My answer to that is, of course, twofold. One is efficiency efficiency, as I mentioned earlier. There we have huge potential; one could energy-efficientize the industry with 8 terawatt t hours per year. There is enormous potential for energy efficiency, and the Green Party wants a policy for it. The second is the sea wind. There's a huge potential. If you look at how the EU sketches this, you can see that their division is in principle that Sweden should be able to build up to 100 terawatt hours of offshore wind power production. There is great potential, and the need will be met.
i-uK1Pvvmn5tgiHiZGUvrZq	I would like to welcome the ministers. Questions are answered today by Minister Mikael Damberg, Minister of Justice and Migration Morgan Johansson, Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson and Minister Jennie Nilsson. An issue shall be of a horizontal and general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties. The Government Mikael Damberg answers both general policy questions and questions within its own area of responsibility.
i-5208f3b077ad150e-252	Madam President, I would like The most common country of origin for those who are currently applying for asylum in Sweden is Ukraine. These are people who, in principle, never have grounds for asylum. It has gone so far that there is a Ukrainian working property that arranges trips for people to apply for asylum here in Sweden. Once here, they live free of charge during the asylum period, and because of our rules on track change, they can then look for a job and stay as labour immigrants. This is the exploitation of our asylum system which is offensive and which takes resources from those who need them most. Only a few weeks ago, Minister of Migration Morgan Johansson said that this problem would be solved with the so-called safe countries list. It has now been presented, and only a few countries are involved – not Ukraine. Morgan Johansson estimated that one third of asylum applications would be covered. Now it's only a tenth. Why?
i-5208f3b077ad150e-256	Madam President, I would like First of all, I can see that the safe countries list will mean that those who come from countries that have very low levels of granting and which the Migration Agency considers safe countries will be able to turn around much faster than before. Instead of being here maybe three or four months, they'll be here maybe just three or four weeks. That is exactly what we wanted to achieve with the safe countries list. According to the proposal, which countries are then listed, it is the Finnish Immigration Service that decides. This is in practice the exercise of authority over individuals, which means that the government cannot go in and control the Migration Agency when it comes to which countries are to be set up. It must be up to the authority to do so. Of course, we continue to follow this issue closely. However, I can see that the safe countries list will mean that more cases can be dealt with much faster than could have been done in the past.
i-5208f3b077ad150e-259	Madam President, I would like So we have a Ukrainian working property that organises travel so that people can make use of our asylum system. I have proposed a solution to that, namely to stop the change of track. Morgan Johansson has said no to it and instead promised another solution, namely to put Ukraine on a list of safe countries. But now that the list has arrived, Ukraine is not included. I therefore wonder: did the Minister lie, or did he not know what his own proposal meant? I don't know which one would be worse.
i-5208f3b077ad150e-261	Madam President, I would like No, everyone who has followed this question knows that the proposal has been originally that it is the Migration Board that decides this. It is precisely to ensure that there is not too much policy in it. These must be objective criteria on which to base themselves, and then it is up to the authority to decide. If I were to interfere in this, I would probably be immediately notified to the Constitutional Committee, not least by Maria Stenergards's party. So I can't do that. I simply note that it is the Authority that decides this. Then there are other ways of getting to grips with the forms of criminal proceedings involved. Then it is a question of police action.
i-5208f3b077ad150e-264	Madam President, I would like The work against terrorism is always reminded. Although deeds in our recent times may or may not have a motive for terror, we all live with the fear that this can happen. We could read last week that a court in the UK refused an IS woman to return to Britain because she was considered a security threat when she wanted to appeal for her withdrawal of British citizenship. At the same time, we could read that the Chief Prosecutor at the National Security Division made the assessment that one might choose to come back to Sweden precisely because one can avoid serious penalties in Sweden. This is a picture that the Swedish Democrats have also assessed as valid. We have seen a red-green government that has been passive and has not come forward with the legislative proposals that we have been able to see in, for example, the United Kingdom. My question is why the Red-Green Government stands by its position that it should not be able to deprive people of citizenship and refuse IS-affiliate to come back to Sweden and pose a security threat on Swedish soil.
i-5208f3b077ad150e-267	Madam President, I would like The issue of citizenship is regulated by the Swedish Constitution. This means that citizenship cannot be withdrawn. That's just what it looks like. On the other hand, it is wrong to say that we have not taken action against terrorism. It's the other way around. I say that there is no government that has done more, either in terms of criminal law or in terms of increasing police efforts against terrorist offences, than we have done. Last term of office, we criminalized the terrorist voyages. We criminalised the involvement of terrorist organisations and the reception of terrorist training. We extended the crime financing of terrorism and also put much more resources into both the police and the Security Service. They also got better tools, secret data readings and other things that enable them to follow the terrorist groups in a different way than before. We will continue to do so. This is an extremely important and priority issue for the government in the future as well.
i-5208f3b077ad150e-270	Frau President! I am not talking about anything that the government has done; I am calling for things that the government has not done. There is a broad assessment among terrorist scientists and many others that the red-green government has been slow and has done too little. We have had the worst government in the terrorist work across Europe. Other countries may deprive them of the nationality of dual nationality and refuse them entry because they consider that they pose a security risk in their countries. In Sweden, people come back from Syria and Iraq because they have the right to do so because our government has not taken this kind of action. Why is it important for the government to keep their Swedish citizenship?
i-5208f3b077ad150e-272	Madam President, I would like Once again, citizenship is regulated by the Constitution. The government cannot violate the Constitution, and neither will we. On the other hand, we intend to continue to develop the opportunities we have to prosecute the individuals involved. The next stage is to criminalise participation in a terrorist organisation. There we look forward to an investigation proposal shortly so that we can take further steps with this. I am saying once again that no government in Sweden has done more to counter and prevent terrorism than this government has done.
i-5208f3b077ad150e-276	Madam President, I would like Society is increasingly digital, and this also means that society's preparedness is increasingly dependent on the functioning of digital services and solutions in society. At the same time, we see that attacks on digital solutions that keep hospitals, waterworks, energy supply etc. are actually increasing strongly, as is most recently on Gotland the other day. The regulation in the digital field, which these different authorities should live by, is also unclear. We have last seen this in Assignment review of the digital healthcare systems in Skåne. While threats to society's critical system are increasing, regulatory frameworks often contribute to more confusion than clarity, and we see that the government is on the sideline. Despite recurrent pressure, including from the Center Party, there are no clear recommendations from government on how to secure both citizens' privacy and society's preparedness in the digital field.
i-5208f3b077ad150e-280	Madam President, I would like It is true that Sweden is exposed to attacks linked to digital infrastructure. We see that it affects both public authorities, municipalities and private companies. That is why the government has taken a wide range of initiatives in this area to strengthen our preparedness and ability to deal with it. A number of authorities have now launched a cybersecurity centre where we coordinate the sharpest abilities in Sweden to prevent and resist this type of antagonistic attack. We have tightened up the legislation in several areas, not least the security legislation, and we will continue to tighten these requirements for authorities. It is also important that we get a reporting obligation that is extended so that all those who are exposed to this actually also report it, not least to the Police Authority that is expanding its ability to deal with these issues both at central level and regionally around Sweden. So there is an enormous amount of work in this area, and we will continue to ensure that it does so also in the framework of civil defence.
i-5208f3b077ad150e-284	Madam President, I would like I must thank the Government for its answer. We note that Sweden is in position number 42 on the National Cyber Security Index. We are far behind the best countries. We have no systematic work to secure society's digital security capabilities. 60 percent of Sweden's companies have been affected by ransomware. Hundreds of hospitals in Europe, the United States, etc., have been down because of similar attacks. A wide range of authorities, municipalities and regions are in breach of existing legislation on the privacy of citizens because the legislation is unclear. The government responds to, among other things, our initiative on minimum standards, clear recommendations and an IT accident commission with a shoulder twitch.
i-5208f3b077ad150e-287	Madam President, I would like One reason why Sweden is quite vulnerable to this type of attack is that we are very digital. We are one of the countries that has made the most progress in digitising society – something that this House tends to be careful to emphasise as it is a success both for our business community and for our authorities. But it also increases vulnerability, and that is why the government is moving forward in a wide range of areas to strengthen both the demands on operators and the protection in the form of police and a cybersecurity centre. We will continue to do more in this area.
i-5208f3b077ad150e-288	Madam President, I would like Some of Europe's last natural forests are located in Sweden. It is not a large proportion of the total forest area we are talking about, but it is about 10%. If we were to dispose of all our natural forests today, we would not even reach the lowest level that we have agreed to have. But that is not only the case, because our natural forests continue to be harvested even though the January agreement actually states that it is the government's clear ambition that protective forests should not be harvested. Despite the fact that many endangered species lack habitats, these forests continue to be harvested, even by Sveaskog, our state forest company, which through clear ownership directives could have a different focus. Now they too cannot take into account diversity, take social considerations, take into account reindeer grazing grounds, to name but a few things.
i-5208f3b077ad150e-291	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Elin Segerlind, for an important question! Forests are both important and prioritised for the government and its partners. That is why we have also initiated work to both develop the national forest programme and set up a forest review to develop protection mechanisms and strengthen ownership. That investigation was delivered to the government just before Christmas, at the end of November, and has just gone for a referral. It is important that this process is not preceded, but I note that the forest affects and involves many of us. That's what it does for it to deliver on a lot of values. It will deliver ecosystem services, climate benefits and climate transition, as well as jobs and growth. It is the role of politics to ensure that we take the holistic approach needed to ensure good development in this area.
i-5208f3b077ad150e-294	Madam President, I would like Sweden continues to replace natural forests with production forests and forest plantations, despite the Government's ambitions. Instead, we need to preserve these forests, because we know what monocultures are doing and what their effects are. They increase the risk of granbark drilling, forest fires, storm damage and all those things. We need to protect our natural forests, and I would therefore like to ask again: can the Minister guarantee that this will happen?
i-5208f3b077ad150e-296	Madam President, I would like We protect protected natural forests and will do so. But we should also have a policy that creates the conditions for long-term action by all actors active in this market. It is based on the fact that politics is able to take a holistic approach to these issues and balance the various interests and values that exist here, and there, of course, forest that is worthy of protection is one of them.
i-5208f3b077ad150e-297	Madam President, I would like We have long had a big problem with foreign theft leagues in Sweden. But when we from the Christian Democrats and the Moderates got our budget through here in the Riksdag in 2018, the government received an announcement to address this problem. The government has also promised to do so. Last February, Mikael Damberg promised that the Swedish Customs Administration would have new powers to prevent theft leagues from bringing goods from Sweden. Last autumn the Government's proposal was referred, but unfortunately it has been shown that the proposal is toothless. Several consultation bodies point to the fact that the legislation will not lead to any real change, as only the control of stolen goods and the retention of suspects in connection with the few border checks already carried out. The proposed changes in the powers of the Customs Agency will not prevent theft leagues from transferring goods from Sweden. I wonder if the government will work on the proposal so that the gangs of theft are prevented, as Mikael Damberg promised just over a year ago.
i-5208f3b077ad150e-300	Madam President, I would like It is somewhat unclear whether the question is addressed to the person responsible for the authority that hunts theft leagues, namely Mikael Damberg, or to the person responsible for the Customs Agency, whose main task is to stop the introduction of narcotics, weapons, explosives and other things that are not to enter the country but who also have the task of stopping certain irregular exports. I suppose the question is addressed to me because it seems that the Christian Democrats are very focused on customs performing tasks that are essentially police tasks. We have an authority to hunt theft leagues, and it's the police. That's why we're increasing our resources to the police so they can do it. The Finnish Customs should of course also be able to help. Therefore, we have introduced opportunities for the Swedish Customs Agency to cooperate with the police, but we also have a proposal that has been out for a referral that you should be able to do more if you find stolen goods in your regular work.
i-5208f3b077ad150e-302	Madam President, I would like The question was, of course, addressed to the minister responsible for Customs. The government has promised that the Customs Agency will be given powers that prevent theft leagues from taking stolen goods out of the country. The proposal made by the government in this area is toothless and will not have the effect that the government has promised. I wonder: why is it so difficult for the government to admit this? After all, just change the proposal to make it really good.
i-5208f3b077ad150e-305	Madam President, I would like I believe that Hampus Hagman has an overconfidence that it would solve problems of changing tasks between authorities. It's about chasing the theft gangs that operate in the country. The Government has given the Police Authority a special mandate to improve this work in collaboration with other authorities. It is clear that more needs to be done. Of course, we also need to strengthen the police and customs. But the solution cannot be to exchange tasks with each other. It is a sham solution that you can advocate when you are in opposition.
i-5208f3b077ad150e-307	Madam President, I would like I'll ask the question freely. The minister who feels urged will have to answer. According to the latest figures, last year customs helped detect 57 criminal smuggling networks. This is a substantial increase from the previous year. 13 of these networks were knocked out when their key people were put behind bars. That too was an increase. However, the challenges are very great, as Mr Hagman pointed out. It's about guns, drugs, cigarettes and booze. In the last year, the gangs have also earned heavy money from the coronapandemine, by importing substandard and banned protective equipment. Customs needs better tools to access the leagues. It is about more resources, which is a budget issue. But it is also a question of powers. I therefore wonder whether the government is prepared to carry out a broad legislative review to strengthen the Customs' powers to intervene against crimes and use coercive measures to stop smuggling.
i-5208f3b077ad150e-311	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question. At the Ministry of Finance, we are planning a major review of customs legislation. The Director General of Customs has pointed out the need for it. The government has been very active in this area to strengthen the possibilities for customs to carry out their important work in stopping entry and to prevent all forms of organised crime in cooperation with the police. They've been very successful. We have added many suggestions on top of each other. Therefore, the Swedish Customs has pointed to the need for a more comprehensive screening. We are currently preparing this at the Ministry of Finance.
i-5208f3b077ad150e-314	Madam President, I would like Yes, some have happened recently. That's good. Since 1 March, the Swedish Customs have the right to decide on a so-called postal block in the case of suspected arms smuggling, not only in the case of drug smuggling as it was before. I hope that we will very soon have legislation in place so that the Customs Agency can also intervene, for example, when stolen goods are about to be taken out of the country. There is also a need for a holistic approach. This may involve additional possibilities for the Swedish Customs to decide on a postal block in order to prevent the introduction of more categories. Is the government prepared to do this?
i-5208f3b077ad150e-317	Madam President, I would like As Gulan Avci points out, the government has been extremely active in this area. We have in a wide range of ways strengthened the legislation and increased the possibilities for the Customs to stop weapons, explosives and drugs from entering the country. But there is also closer cooperation with the police and other authorities to prevent the introduction of various forms of goods. You can also help when exiting. But hunting theft leagues is mainly the job of the police.
i-5208f3b077ad150e-320	Madam President, I would like The incident in Vetlanda affects us all. Of course, our thoughts are with the relatives and the victims. Right now, we know far too little about what happened. Both the incident itself and the police intervention will be evaluated and followed up in the future. But so far, everything indicates that the police have intervened quickly and well. My question to Minister Damberg is how the government ensures that the Police Authority has enough resources and abilities to intervene well and quickly on such occasions.
i-5208f3b077ad150e-323	Madam President, I would like We have had two cross-block agreements on terrorist issues in this House. One of the most important starting points has been to give the Security Service and the police better both powers and opportunities to act against ongoing deadly violence. The police have made considerable efforts on the material side and on the education side. I think this effort so far shows that the police were very quick to intervene. It took three minutes from being on site in Vetlanda until the perpetrator was arrested. You went in right away and acted. It will, of course, be evaluated. But it shows that the police's education and ambition in this area are producing results. We are stronger than before in dealing with terrorist threats to Sweden. Unfortunately, however, we cannot guarantee that acts of terrorism or violence will not happen in our country. But the police must have powers, training and resources to intervene adequately.
i-5208f3b077ad150e-326	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. This affects society as a whole. It definitely affects the entire municipality but also our entire country. Is it possible to say anything more about the support that a municipality can receive in a situation like this? That is something that will have to be dealt with for a long time to come.
i-5208f3b077ad150e-328	Madam President, I would like I've spoken to the councillor. They're in shock. But they are now doing a lot on their own with crisis management and providing support for people who are concerned and who may need someone to talk to. I also asked if the police have enough resources in place and if they feel safe about it. He said yes to that. I also checked with the police and the security services that they are now deploying the necessary investigative resources. Of course, long-term work is also needed to increase security throughout the country. There the expansion of the Police Authority, for example, continues.
i-5208f3b077ad150e-332	Madam President, I would like The Committee on Agriculture and the Environment has produced a report on the vulnerability of agriculture. It is clear that we need to work consistently and systematically to increase self-sufficiency and tackle climate change. An important question is how dependent Sweden is on imports for our food supply. We import fertilizers, fuel, feed, seeds, labor and more into agriculture. We also import quite a lot of food for dinner tables, including food that we could grow in Sweden. The report notes that in Finland 60 per cent of tomatoes consumed in Finland are grown, but the self-sufficiency of tomatoes in Sweden is 17 per cent. Overall, there is a big difference between Sweden and Finland in terms of vegetables.
i-6WaYdMbESLGX39aUXgKgvx	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Maria Gardfjell, for the question! Swedish food production is a priority. This House took the decision last parliamentary term on a food strategy. It was the first time that Sweden ever got one in place. I think it's extremely important. I also believe that it is important to work on a long-term, strategic and sustainable basis to ensure good conditions for developing the sector and to take measures to facilitate it here and now, for example through regulatory simplification and other things. There are three action plans in place. We're spending quite a lot of money today. But I think there are essentially four areas that need to be in focus. It is about skills supply, regulatory simplification, research and innovation, and exports. As we look at developments, we see little positive signs that it is actually turning around.
i-5208f3b077ad150e-340	Madam President, I would like The Minister for Rural Development recently received a petition from Swedish consumer and environmental organisations. They want to see initiatives to make vegomat from Swedish organic raw materials. It is paradoxical, in fact, that consumers who want to eat climate-smart go so far to imported products, where, for example, the use of pesticides is greater.
i-5208f3b077ad150e-342	Madam President, I would like I believe that one of the most powerful ways to change the development of what you produce and to create the conditions for both profitability and volume increases is that there are conscious consumers who demand premium products. Swedish consumers are very aware. You choose Swedish when you can make simple choices, for example with the help of the From Sweden label. We have seen an enormous development there, not least on the meat side. I think you can make more of it. The strategy also sets targets for ecological purposes, for example.
i-5208f3b077ad150e-345	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Jennie Nilsson on trawling in the Baltic Sea. This is troubling. The trawling process is so that they basically vacuum everything from the bottom up. The fish in the archipelago is decreasing very much. For example, herring has decreased by 75% over the last ten years. In addition, trolling fishing is taking place from bars that come out of Stockholm city centre and enter sheltered coves now in the spring when the fish play. What is the government's plan to restore the balance of fish stocks in the archipelago? I understand that the trawling in much is about EU quotas, but does the government intend to act to put an end to this? There will be no fish left for the next generation. We would like our grandchildren to fish too.
i-5208f3b077ad150e-347	Madam President, I would like I share Kjell Jansson's ambition that children and grandchildren should be able to have access to fish from our seas. It is one of the government's important starting points on these issues. It is also important that we base our fisheries policy on a scientific basis. We are pushing the issue hard towards the EU and all countries that the overall CFP should be based on it, and we have been quite successful. The specific issue raised in relation to the situation in the Baltic Sea has been taken very seriously by the government. We have given a number of assignments to SLU and HaV to look at causality. As the questioner says, this is something to be negotiated with the EU, and we also have agreements with other countries on common fishing grounds. If we are to address these issues, it is important that we have scientific evidence of causality.
i-5208f3b077ad150e-351	Madam President, I would like The Government has chosen to introduce and strengthen the bonus – the Malus system, which both the National Audit Office and the Institute of Economic Development have expressed criticism against. We Swedish democrats in this Parliament have also criticised it. In addition, the industry says that the reform is hitting hard on Swedish motorhome manufacturers and the camping sector. It is a small crisis for the industry with almost half a sale of new motorhomes. At the same time, we see that demand for second-hand motor homes has started to increase, as they are not hit by criminal taxation. Some dealers here see a business opportunity in importing foreign used motorhomes instead of selling new Swedish motorhomes. On top of that, the Institute of Economics reports that bonuses – malus was tested in 2008 in France. This led to public-financial losses and increased emissions. My question goes to the Minister for Finance. Does the government see any reason to change the bonus – the Malus system in at least this regard?
i-5208f3b077ad150e-355	Madam President, I would like It is interesting that the Swedish Democrat David Lång brings up the Institute for Economic Development when it comes to emissions. After all, the Institute for Economic Development advocates a substantial increase in CO2 tax and believes that this is the most effective way to reduce emissions. It will be interesting to see how the Swedish Democrats follow up their enthusiasm for the Konjunkturinstitutet's view on the issue. The government has developed bonuses – malus. We have both tightened the Malus part and reinforced the bonus part. We will continue this work. We too see the problem of motor homes, which are used in a different way from ordinary cars. That is why we have now made it much easier to set off the motorhome when you do not use them. If you use the motorhome during, for example, Kristus's heavenly holiday and midsummer weekend, you should not have to pay malus for the time when it is in the garage waiting for the next holiday.
i-5208f3b077ad150e-358	Madam President, I would like I address my question to Minister of Rural Affairs Jennie Nilsson. The food strategy has already been mentioned during today's Question Time. But another area that is linked to food issues relates to the cheating that is carried out in different ways. It is about smuggled meat that is wrongly labelled, stolen dietary preparations, old sweets that are labeled, oil that is dyed to resemble olive oil and so on. There have been projects in both the City of Malmö and the City of Stockholm where this has been pointed out. It can be seen that it is difficult to prosecute these frauds at local level. The Swedish Food Safety Agency has made a cautious calculation that shows that it can be up to SEK 10 billion per year. My question to the Minister is this: could one imagine, for example, a national control force at the Food and Agriculture Authority, which could deal with this so that fraud and fraud are prosecuted at national level?
i-5208f3b077ad150e-362	Madam President, I would like I easily share Ulrika Heie's outrage at the fact that these systems are being cheated. It's a big problem for me and you as consumers because we can't be sure we get what we buy. It is also a major problem for all serious players who want to operate in a market, manage themselves and deliver products for which they want to be able to get paid. So there are many dimensions here. However, the issue is complex because control is normally on the municipalities and sometimes also on the county boards. What we have done so far is that we have set up a function where you can sound the alarm so that there is a system for this. But I'm no stranger to looking further at how to find even better tools that work, because this is a real problem.
i-5208f3b077ad150e-365	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Mikael Damberg. On Monday it was the first Monday of a three-month period, i.e. the day when the outdoor warning system Important notice to the public is tested. At 15 o'clock the signal is heard from a variety of small typhoons, small funnels, as you can see up on the rooftops of some buildings. Social media are usually filled with the word, and everyone will tell you that they have heard the sound. But we are some people who do not hear Hesa Fredrik, as the signal is also called. If you look at a map of where the typhoons are in Sweden you can see that it is mostly in the cities. The system is important when warning of serious events. I therefore wonder how the Minister for the Interior views the fact that the outdoor warning system is not heard as well in rural areas and smaller towns.
i-5208f3b077ad150e-368	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Hanna Gunnarsson, for the question! This was also not very well heard in Malmö, as the button was not pressed, which was not good. There are therefore some improvements to be made in the cities as well. It is important to develop services such as these. The outdoor warning system is more efficient in cities, otherwise you would need speakers a little everywhere and in a lot of places around Sweden. However, we will look at how we can develop different warning systems and important communication to the public in other contexts. Mobile phones are becoming increasingly important. Perhaps it could be a means to be used in different contexts. The system must also work in the event of increased preparedness and war. We have development work to do, but I do not think it is realistic that we should set up speakers all over Sweden. Such a system is best suited to cities.
i-5208f3b077ad150e-371	Madam President, I would like I think my question has to go to Mikael Damberg. On Monday, there was a report on high-speed trains and their costs. Not everyone is following the issue on a daily basis, but this has gone from the original price tag of 140 billion to 230 billion in 2015. The government said 205 billion, and now the bid is 295 billion plus minus 50 billion. In a previous report, the Swedish Transport Administration said that this should be dealt with outside the budget. The Swedish National Audit Office has pointed to a restart, and that brings me to my question. Is the government prepared to restart the whole project? We need a working rail system for goods, passenger transport and labour market regions. It is quite clear that the costs are running out even before we have closed down a rail.
i-5208f3b077ad150e-374	Madam President, I would like We really need a take-over for the infrastructure in Sweden. We need more investment in this area, because we have a lot on the rails. We have a lack of capacity. We have too little of the goods that would have to roll on rails but that today are rolling on roads around Sweden. Sweden therefore needs more investment. It is agreed by the four parties behind the January Agreement. However, it must be cost-effective. That is why we are following up on this, putting out assignments and demanding that we have a really good basis for calculation so that investments can be made in a good way. I note that many parties in this House have changed their minds on these issues both one and two and three times. But we do not get around the question that we will have to invest more in infrastructure and not least in the rail network in order to build away the capacity shortages that exist, increase commuting capacity and ensure that more goods go by rail, so that we meet our climate targets.
i-5208f3b077ad150e-377	Madam President, I would like I have a question for the Minister for Rural Affairs. Fishing has been mentioned here before. Of course, very many people are concerned about the situation in the Baltic Sea. It is also about how to protect the stocks that exist. The maximum withdrawal needs to be weighed against a precautionary principle. It is also important to note that Baltic herring stocks are very much debated. Is it local stock or is it a general stock? There is uncertainty. We note in the Liberals that the Maritime and Water Authority has recently decided on a long-term package of measures to protect herring and herring in the Baltic Sea. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for Rural Development what measures she considers possible. For example, would it be possible to move the trawl line?
i-5208f3b077ad150e-380	Madam President, I would like I thank Nina Lundström for the question. When we discuss fishing, it is very important that we have a precautionary principle at the bottom to ensure that we have fishing left for future generations. Fishing in the Baltic Sea is particularly vulnerable. That all decisions taken in the area of quotas and other matters are based on scientific advice is very important. However, it also means that all the issues you are pushing must have the same approach. That is why we have taken a number of decisions. We have, for example, given a mandate to look at research and other things to clarify the causal link between what is happening, for example, with herring, to which I think reference is made here. One issue in the discussion is to move the trawl line, but to do so you need to agree with countries that have access to Swedish waters, and it is actually the EU that makes the decision. We need to have a scientifically-based basis for decision-making when we conduct that discussion.
i-5208f3b077ad150e-384	Madam President, I would like Every year, the police conduct security measurements. The trend in Malmö is that fewer people worry about being exposed to crime. The decrease is small when we compare with the previous year, but looking over time it is more tangible. In fact, the last three studies show that the proportion of Malmö residents exposed to violence, theft and vandalism is at the lowest levels since the measurements started. The shootings have been reduced, as have the blasts. For this development there are many reasons to be proud, but not satisfied. There are, of course, a number of reasons why the development in Malmö is moving in the right direction, such as the municipality's work through the Environmental Administration's Tryggare Malmö, the Politigheten's work through, for example, Operation Rimfrost, penalties such as the one for illegal possession of weapons and civil society's work in, for example, BID Sofielund. The most talked about work, however, is perhaps the project Stop shooting. My question after the evaluation has been completed is: How does Minister Johansson intend to work to ensure that this approach can be spread to the rest of the country?
i-5208f3b077ad150e-386	Madam President, I would like Stop shooting, or Group Violence Intervention, as it is called in the American bottle, was something that we brought here to Sweden after a study visit that I made in New York five years ago. It is based on the rather simple idea that you identify the most crime-active individuals, call them together and put them up to two options: Either you drop out of your gangs or we will hunt you with all the opportunities we have in society to make life quite difficult for you. This way of working is done very consistently in the United States. As I said, we took it and ran it in Malmö. The result is a sharp increase in the number of gang dropouts, a sharp increase in the number of gang dropouts and a decrease in shootings of nearly 70 per cent from 2017 to 2020. We'd love to see this spread. We will do what we can to spread it to other municipalities. We have a job in the Crime Prevention Council to ensure that more municipalities will be able to join this successful model.
i-5208f3b077ad150e-389	Madam President, I would like Last year the border was closed as the coronapine became a fact. 4 500 seasonal workers from Thailand, among others, were stopped from entering and thus from contributing through work in agriculture and forestry. This was a major setback for companies, but it also affected forest growth and food supply. Attempts were made to find domestic labour, but it did not go well. The government has decided to establish a 48-hour rule. There are demands for foreign citizens to have a negative corona test to present. We think this is good, but at the same time it makes it difficult for those who are very far away to come as seasonal workers. An exception has been made for this group in Finland. People are called necessary for security of supply. I think that's good. They have 72 hours. My question is: how can we save this year's growing season, and can we get 72 hours instead?
i-5208f3b077ad150e-391	Madam President, I would like Since I am responsible for border issues, I take the opportunity to respond. We have a pretty exceptional order right now during the pandemic. The Swedish Public Health Agency has submitted a request to the government where they want us to have a requirement for negative covidtest within 48 hours for everyone who comes to Sweden. This is not an order we see before us that should apply indefinitely. We are happy to see that we can have more open boundaries than we have at the moment. But it is quite important to understand that we are in an exceptional position where the mutated virus variants appear in a more aggressive way than the first variant of covid-19. That's why we want to have a good look at who enters Sweden. We will continue to follow up on this. We will also have a continued dialogue with the Public Health Agency on suitability. We have also had a discussion about which groups should have the right to enter Sweden. But 48 hours are still valid until something else is announced.
i-5208f3b077ad150e-395	Madam President, I would like Outside the metropolitan regions, the country store is often the hub of a village or a whole village. There are places where the bus stops and where you buy food, hand in the tip slip and collect mail packages and medications. The shop, which is often also a gas station, has a wide range of important functions. For this reason, there is also financial support for commercial services in rural areas, which is a good thing. We believe that the support is so important that it is now appropriate to have it evaluated whether it is still properly designed and at the right level and whether the money ends up where it is most useful. Such an evaluation should be completely uncontroversial. Nevertheless, the government and January parties voted against this during yesterday's vote. My question to Rural Minister Jennie Nilsson is therefore: why is the government opposed to the evaluation of support for commercial services in rural areas?
i-5208f3b077ad150e-397	Madam President, I would like I thank Alexander Christiansson for the question. Basically, we are in complete agreement; if we are to have a policy in Sweden that involves closing gaps between the city and the country and creating good conditions for development everywhere, we need a very broad palette of measures. The state needs to be present, the infrastructure needs to function and expand and commercial service is required. In this context, it is my absolute belief that the commercial support available for, for example, country merchants has played a very important role. It has halted the extremely negative development that we have seen for a long time, where farmers closed down. It is important not only because there should be a limit to how far you have to go to buy a litre of milk – the country retailers are also often representatives for other types of service. My assessment is that this is a support that works well. In some sense, when you present a new budget, you look at it every year. So far, we have continued to prioritise it.
i-5208f3b077ad150e-400	Madam President, I would like My question is addressed to Minister Damberg and concerns the presence of the police on social media. Surely none of us object to the presence on social media of both individual police officers and local police areas, telling and informing about their work. But I and many with me have probably even raised my eyebrows over what content is in the social media channels. Max Karlsson, in a very good review in my opinion, has highlighted examples where the police in social media publish pictures of suspects with a lack of identification and of crying children as well as offensive descriptions. It is purely distasteful and perhaps also illegal publications. In addition, there are also individual police officers who post pictures with tactical equipment and then advertise other pages selling that type of goods.
i-5208f3b077ad150e-404	Madam President, I would like The police authority is Sweden's largest authority with a lot of employees. It is an authority that has made major investments to update the digital infrastructure after having been lagging behind in digital development for many years. It has also tried to update its relationship with the citizens. Part of this is their work on social media. We should know that there is a great deal of interest from other European countries who follow how Swedish police work in social media to show openness about their work and be able to give tips and advice for the crime prevention work but also increase accessibility to the police. That is not to say that there is no abuse or failure. It's a question the police are working on. You have guidelines and rules. There is also a system where there is a higher standard for the requirements of those who have the police's official duties. I am absolutely sure that the Police Authority will be able to develop this. But basically, I take a positive view of their presence in social media.
i-5208f3b077ad150e-409	Madam President, I would like In today's Svenska Dagbladet we can read an article in which the Minister for Rural Development speaks and where the title is: Green new thinking will give jobs in rural areas. That sounds great for those living in the countryside. At the same time, in the last month, we have read in several of the major newspapers in Sweden about something that is directly counterproductive against this. The social democrats' couple horse in the government clearly states a goal that the amount of protected forest must be doubled. Furthermore, we can read about how the two spokespersons support the Forest Investigation's proposal to protect a 100 km long forest belt along the mountain chain, or to be more exactly 525,000 hectares of forest land owned by various private individuals. Does the Minister for Rural Development share the view of the mountain forest in general and the doubled proportion of protected forests in particular?
i-5208f3b077ad150e-412	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much for the question. Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson! First of all, I am pleased that we have noted the major investment that is now being made in research and innovation linked to the green industries. This applies both to forests and food, but also to rural development and the ability of rural areas to take advantage of innovations, new ideas and new jobs that can emerge from the sector that can deliver on climate, climate challenges and so on. The forest is of course very important. We've got work going on right now. An investigation has been delivered that takes a broad grasp. It is 1 300 pages and contains about 50 proposals. I note that various parties, and also Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottoson's party, are currently positioning themselves in their initial value. The point is that somewhere we need to take a holistic approach to this in order to create long-term conditions. This applies to all aspects of the development of the forest.
i-5208f3b077ad150e-416	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson. The government has invested large sums of money in financial support during the pandemic crisis, much more than during the financial crisis. It can be difficult to keep up with the many different supplementary budgets and the different forms of support. What communicative efforts are being made to ensure that individual entrepreneurs and businesses can quickly seek and receive the support they so desperately need?
i-5208f3b077ad150e-419	Madam President, I would like That is an important issue. The government has been extremely active in ensuring resources for healthcare and care, testing and vaccination, but also in saving Swedish jobs and Swedish companies. Short-term lay-offs have been used by over half a million Swedes and have prevented them from worrying about unemployment. In addition, we have the conversion aid, turnover aid, rental aid, deferred tax and more. There is a good website for the support aimed at companies, called aktivitet.se. There you can have a comprehensive overview of the support you can apply for based on the type of company you are in. In addition, information is available on the websites of the individual authorities. There I can tell you that we are currently paying large amounts both in tax deferrals and in the new conversion aid. It's to save Swedish jobs through this crisis.
i-5208f3b077ad150e-423	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Mikael Damberg. Vaccination in Sweden is far too slow. The regions have so far received only less than a third of the vaccine doses they were promised. Now the government must do everything it can to speed up vaccination and ultimately have access to an increased number of doses of vaccines. Therefore, we Moderates today in the Committee on Social Affairs have taken an initiative that Sweden should also look at the possibility of buying vaccines on its own outside EU procurement. Another issue that Sweden should highlight is the redistribution of vaccines within the EU. We see that several countries within the Union, including Germany and France, have used only a fraction of their available doses of Astra Zeneca's vaccine. My question to the Government is: will the government investigate all ways of speeding up vaccination of the Swedish population when it comes to buying vaccines on its own and highlighting the issue of redistribution within the Union?
i-5208f3b077ad150e-428	Madam President, I would like This is an issue that affects and engages the entire Swedish people. We wait for the vaccines, and they start pouring in. Only this week and the next week will the doses increase significantly, which is appreciated not least for the elderly. I hope my mom gets her first dose today, grab wood. This is an issue that engages. We have been very active both to sign very many agreements that Sweden has. We have several different vaccines. We haven't put all the eggs in the same basket. In addition, we have been the driving force for Europe to take a leading role. Otherwise, we wouldn't have any vaccines out there by now. The European Union has not only supported research but also the construction of production facilities that give us vaccines. On the other hand, I have a little question about the idea that we should be looking for vaccines that are not authorised in the European Union. Perhaps there are several Members here who want Russian vaccines that are not authorised or Chinese that are not authorised in Europe. In fact, there are no stocks to procure. It is a question of supporting the production that exists, and that is what the EU does best.
i-5208f3b077ad150e-433	Madam President, I would like I think I speak for all of us when I say that my thoughts are with all those who were cut down in Vetlanda yesterday. The motives for the seven assassination attempts are not yet clear. However, the media report that the suspect is a former convicted Afghan who should not have been here. I do not intend to precede the now initiated legal process, but can only hope that the guilty person will be severely punished. We know, however, that in the past there have been countless serious violent and sexual crimes by people who do not have to do in Sweden. These are crimes that could never have taken place if it had not been for the policies of this and previous governments.
i-5208f3b077ad150e-436	Madam President, I would like My entry into these questions is always that for me it doesn't matter if you're black or white. If you commit a crime, you'll be locked up. We will do so with the opportunities we have from the police, prosecutors, the Prison Service and everything else that we have in the judicial system. I keep asking myself questions about the attempts that the Swedish Democrats are constantly making to use these tragic, terrible events to play up conflicts and turn people against each other. It is particularly important to put Swedes against immigrants. That's not the way to go. At a time when we need more than ever to gather together and gather together against things that are about crime and things that break down our society is the divisive rhetoric that the Swedish democrats are engaged in not any help but rather the opposite. We will do everything we can to ensure that crime continues to be prosecuted and that we clear up the crimes committed. But do not use this to divide Sweden.
i-5208f3b077ad150e-440	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson. The Government and Parliament have decided on large financial packages, primarily to save lives and health, but also jobs and companies during the pandemic. At the same time, we are now seeing a slight increase in unemployment, and we see that many entrepreneurs are having a tough time. We also see many who are concerned about their future livelihoods. My question to the Minister for Finance is how she views the impact of the financial packages that we have decided on. Can you say anything about how many jobs these packages have saved anyway?
i-5208f3b077ad150e-443	Madam President, I would like We are still in the midst of the pandemic, so it is too early to comment on the final outcome of this. On the other hand, there are a number of positive signals that we can point to now. One clear signal is that, thanks to short-term leave, now used by 590 000 people, each of these individuals has now been able to be on short-term leave rather than having to worry about unemployment. Of course it means a lot to these individuals, but it also allows companies to start and get started quickly. We have seen this in industry, for example. In addition to the emergency packages, the government has also put in a comprehensive ordinary budget, and the assessment made by the Ministry of Finance officials is that thanks to this budget we will have 75 000 more people employed this year than if the government had not taken these measures.
i-5208f3b077ad150e-446	Madam President, I would like The ever-widening stocks of seals and cormorants are a major problem for many of our near-coastal professional fishing. My colleague Kjell Jansson raised another problem, namely bottom trawling. We have a variety of authorities that lay tripping threads for this so important profession. This applies to Blekinge, which I represent, both historically and in terms of tourism, but also culturally.
i-5208f3b077ad150e-449	There's not enough license hunting. Could the Minister of Agriculture envisage, as with other predatorial species, setting up management in the same way as for elk, for example?
i-5208f3b077ad150e-450	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Annicka Engblom, for the question! It is extremely important that we work with all the different tools available to deal with the situation of fishing, not least in the Baltic Sea. You need to look at both ensuring that you have sustainable fishing and other factors, such as the marine environment, where the government has made significant efforts last year and this year. This also applies to other pests. I can only say that a decision was taken on seal hunting, which took effect last year. This is the first time in a very long time that we have had such a system. It is part of ensuring that there is an orderly management of this species as well. My ambition is for us to have an orderly administration for all wildlife in Sweden, both predators and other wildlife.
i-5208f3b077ad150e-454	Madam President, I would like A few years ago, Prime Minister Stefan Löfven promised that asylum immigration would bring financial gain for Sweden a little later. I have tried to get an answer to this both in terms of the exact way in which we have calculated and in terms of what this, a little later on, means in practice. I have asked the Minister for Gender Equality, I have asked the former Minister for Gender Equality and I have asked the Prime Minister himself both in written questions and in this House. But all government representatives have so far refused to answer. It is almost the case that one starts to suspect that the Prime Minister is just dissipating things without thinking first. But the Minister of Finance is here, and she should have an eye on this. I would like Magdalena Andersson to tell the House: when will asylum immigration bring a social economic benefit? And how did you count?
i-5208f3b077ad150e-457	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by saying that the reason we have asylum immigration is not about economic calculations. It is about providing protection for people who are on the run and who would otherwise risk harassment, imprisonment, torture or even death in their home countries. With regard to the impact of asylum immigration, it is of course a question of the extent to which people are given the opportunity and opportunity to get to work. Of course, when people work and contribute taxes, society also receives tax revenue, in addition to people contributing to society with their work effort. So the answer to the question can only be given when we know how quickly people are getting to work. With regard to the speed with which newcomers enter the labour market, we see that this has improved significantly during this government's time. New arrivals are coming to work much faster today, and that is a good thing.
i-5208f3b077ad150e-460	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Minister of Rural Affairs Jennie Nilsson. On 1 November, a new law is proposed – a law transposing the EU Directive 2019/633 into Swedish law. If it enters into force, it will ban unfair trade practices in the purchase of agricultural and food products. In Sweden, the Directive has become known as the UTP. Depending on the interests we listen to, there are different perspectives on how the directive should be implemented. Some raise concerns about competitiveness, others call for stronger protection and some talk about the lack of so-called turnover steps. Who benefits from the new law, and what benefits does the government see when it is implemented?
i-5208f3b077ad150e-464	Madam President, I would like From my perspective, this is an important piece of legislation that we now have the opportunity to implement in Sweden. It is about levelling out the opportunities for competition between small and large and between buyers and sellers. We have adopted a food strategy in Sweden. This happened during the last parliamentary term. One of the main points of departure was the need to ensure an increase in the profitability of the food sector, not least for primary producers and small operators in the processing chain. This is a clear help in this work, given that there is a much more even power relationship between the players in the market. The bill has recently been sent to Parliament, and I look forward to the treatment that will take place here. I assume that all parties who have supported the food strategy will also support this proposal, which takes account of the views expressed in the consultation round, for example.
i-5208f3b077ad150e-468	Madam President, I would like My question goes to the Minister for Rural Affairs. It applies if horses and other animals need to be exempted from the Consumer Sales Law. In a previous debate, the Minister said that she is satisfied with the way animal welfare works and that it is the buyer who is responsible for the horse during the trial period. But horse-savvy people say that the reality is that horses get hurt during court proceedings. The law states that horses should be returned in substantially unchanged condition has no real meaning. Often the seller cries when the horse comes back in his care, and then it is too late to bring a claim against the buyer because the papers are then signed for settlement or other court order.
i-A7VhkDCBsXDcyCYGD5nrW2	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Sofia Westergren, for the question! Above all, as the Minister responsible for animal welfare, I do not want to see animals go bad at all. We shall have strong animal welfare legislation, and we shall have good tools to ensure that it is complied with. Then I am talking about the possibilities for effective control and also about sanctions. As far as sanctions are concerned, we have had an investigation which is currently under preparation. It comes to Parliament sometime during this year, just before or shortly after the summer. It's very important in this context. What I would like to emphasise and emphasise related to this issue is that the person responsible for an animal, that is, the keeper, is always responsible for the animal's well-being. There are no exceptions to this. There are no exceptions during ongoing legal proceedings or anything else. This is the law, and it will. Consumer law is another matter. According to the investigation's proposal, this should not be entirely excluded, but some adjustments are made. That question is now under preparation.
i-5208f3b077ad150e-476	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 15, which concerns the removal of the trawl line in the Baltic Sea. But I'll start at another end. The other day I read that there are now vegan fish to be served in a restaurant. Innovations soon know no boundaries, and it will be interesting to follow how the market receives this new one. But I also have the hope that the company behind the fish does not suffer all the red tape. Otherwise, that is the case for many entrepreneurs. At present, for example, we can see several offshore fish farms moving to Finland. This causes us to lose food production, jobs and tax revenue. From the same industry we also get examples of companies that are passed around between authorities when they apply for funds to start operations. Increased clarity about who is responsible for what is surely something that the government could easily arrange. But what about the entrepreneur? It didn't work at all. He ended up back on square 1, but with no support. Talk about bureaucratic wanderings. It is equally bad that the government has not yet managed to address the obstacles to aquaculture. This is particularly true of the long process of obtaining environmental permits. The years have passed but the obstacles persisted, one could say – despite the Riksdag's repeated attempts to urge the government. If the expression is allowed: S if the onion on the salmon, it has turned out that when the Swedish Board of Agriculture finally came up with its report on how to solve the problem was the bottom line that the authorities had not agreed, so the work needed a clearer assignment. This happens at the same time as there are entrepreneurs with current permits that expire next year. Of course they need to be told. The Moderates therefore feel that, while the authorities are discussing, the authorisations for aquaculture, at least those not burdened with any kind of remarks, should be extended by five years so that more entrepreneurs do not leave us. Let me turn to the traditional type of fishing, which is going through a lot now. These are fishing stops, the lost Baltic herring in the Stockholm archipelago, low profitability, a ban on trawls in marine protected areas and the excessive populations of seals and cormorants. Undeniably, it feels like the problems pile up on the horizon. We do not like that because it is handled jointly within the European Union, but at the same time we lack Moderates that the government does more to help the stocks that exist and the fishermen that exist. The aquatic environment is an important issue that we debated yesterday, but we also need fishermen. I was going to mention four things that the Moderates think the government should be able to act in now. As a top priority, the Moderates believe that the government should start negotiations as soon as possible to remove the trawl line. Last year, columns were written about the situation in the Stockholm archipelago. Only yesterday the issue came up on television, and small-scale fishermen estimated that their catches had fallen by 90% in ten years. At the same time, we see, and there is evidence of this, that large trawlers have moved ever closer to the coast to fish. And it's not just Swedish-flagged boats. The regrettable thing about this is that the government has taken a passive stance on this issue. Few statements have been made, and this has meant that free debaters have believed that this can be fixed on a coffee break with a pen line. But it is not that simple because there is an old agreement with Denmark and Finland that they have the right to fish there. Even if we had banned our trawlers, trawlers under the Danish and Finnish flags could still continue. But worse is that the government has not given out any concrete tasks on this issue. More activity is needed here. The fact is that even the January parties in the committee did not really agree on this. It was at first very late in the process that they decided to suggest something positive on the issue – and it amazes me. We must show that we are serious when we say that we are protecting small-scale fishing and a living archipelago. For example, the Moderates believe that the EU-decided by-catch quota of a fish species could be allocated to small-scale fishermen who fish where that species is well. Similarly, owners of individual waters shall be entitled to a by-catch quota. This is a decision that can be taken at national level. We should also support small-scale fishermen to provide their own restaurant or smokehouse with raw materials. Today they must first have a professional fishing licence, and it must also be renewed every two years. This also applies to those fishing on individual waters. The Maritime and Water Authority is extremely careful to issue licences, we have learned. Fish are sometimes even told that they are fishing too small to obtain this type of licence or that they are not engaged in any form of economic activity. But it's business they also conduct when they have archipelago restaurants or port smokeries. It will be like part 22, because many times the local fisheries consultant has supported the fishermen. This counteracts much-needed entrepreneurship and tightens the regulatory burden. A third proposal is to increase the displacement of chubby seals and grey seals, coves and cormorants. All belong to the faction of poachers who consume large quantities of fish. Mammals in question may also spread the parasite sealworm. The other year, we gathered a majority in Parliament to allow seal hunting. When we summarize the first year, we see that there were 1 000 individuals of grey seal that they managed to lay down. The Moderates believe that we need to increase the firing of seals and cormorants in the areas deemed relevant. We also want the government to push ahead within the EU to regain the right to sell seal products. This is also something that the Environmental Objectives Committee mentions in its investigation. As a fourth proposal, we believe that we should wait to introduce a general ban on bottom trawling in marine protected areas. The issue has become another source of concern for many fishermen, who often engage in small-scale and extremely sustainable fishing. This is something that several of us Members of Parliament have experienced on site, on board shrimp trawlers. We have been able to see how well the species sorting rists on the bottom trawls work and how gentle the structure itself is. You fish a few days a week not to destroy the environment or growth. So this one can hit a lot of people very hard. Shrimp fishing is exposed, but the County Administrative Board of Norrbotten also announces that a ban on bottom trawling in their marine reserves can hit hard against vendace fishing. We Moderates believe that it would be unfortunate if this fishery were to be put on the table through the proposed regulation. We think that we should wait. Finally, Madam President, we Moderates believe that Swedish fisheries cannot tolerate more adversity and political regulation at the moment. Instead, we want more to be done to strengthen and inoculate belief in the future in this industry.
i-5208f3b077ad150e-498	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by calling for the approval of reservation 11, Scientific evidence for sustainable fishing quotas. When one talks to the industry and fishermen, it is usually the seal and the cormorant that are mentioned as two of the main contributing causes of reduced and destroyed catches. Not getting to grips with this problem, but constantly duping with drops in the sea does not solve any problems. Researcher Sven-Gunnar Lunneryd has previously estimated that the annual growth of the different seal species in our waters is such that one needs to shoot 1 000 bays, 4 000 grey seals and 2 000 chubby seals, i.e. 7 000 seals, per year to keep the growth pole. The licence hunt that has now been introduced has led to the shooting of 1 602 seals. Then I'll count the protection hunt on chubby seals and coves. A total of 1 600 seals have been shot together with the licence hunt on grey seals, and according to research we need to shoot 7 000 seals to keep the growth pole. In order to reduce the seal strains, it is necessary that more seals are shot than it is born. As has been said, reducing our historically record-sized seal species requires that at least 7 000 individuals per year be shot. It is important that the newly introduced licence hunt really makes a difference if it is to make any sense at all. Mentioned scientists have also said that he is convinced that within a few years we will have gunfire money on seals. That sounds promising, because you need incentives to get out and mess with seal hunting. It must taste more than it costs for those who will. Otherwise it is difficult to get hunters out, because hunting seals is not easy. This is fully in line with our initiatives, in which we are calling for compensation for seal shooting. As far as the cormorants are concerned, we have reached a situation where there are increasing demands to move from conservation and protection to management and hunting. The cormorant's predation on fish, not least eel, is large. According to Sven-Gunnar-Gunnar Lunneryd, a researcher on the west coast, each shot is worth SEK 2,500. He refers to the cost of trying to keep the eels in our waters alive. Lunneryd also believes that another measure that has strengthened eel emigration is the small hunt on cormorants that the County Administrative Board Västra Götaland has allowed for many years. Despite its limitation of 2,000 individuals over three years, the hunt has saved the lives of many eels, estimated at least 30,000 eels a year, as the cormorants are happy to eat eel. It belongs to the favorite food, absolutely. Another researcher, Sture Hansson, says that today we can reduce the number of joints by 75 percent without risking the strains. A study and report from Stockholm University and the Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences, SLU, also testifies to how much eel the cormorants eat. It eats at least as much eel if man fishes. In the debate about the eel being endangered, fishing and hydroelectric plants are often painted as the only villains, but we have to assume that the cormorants eat very much eel. You shouldn't underestimate this. There is strong competition in the Baltic Sea for fish between humans, birds and seals. In some areas, as I said, there are far too many seals and cormorants. It is important to tackle the problems before they become insurmountable, as many fishermen think they are already today. In 2017, we were able to read in Östgöta-Correspondent that the County Administrative Board was reported to the police for environmental crimes and that the cormorant is destroying Lake Roxen in Östergötland. According to the report, lots of nitrogen and phosphorus come out, and it is like a ray of algae on the bottom of the islands of the lake. This is described as environmental crime in many other contexts. The number of joints will now be reduced in Roxen to save both the environment and the predatory fish in the lake. It should be done by hunting and by destroying eggs. The County Administrative Board of Östergötland has granted protection hunting of 1,000 cormorants. In addition, 3 500 eggs may be destroyed by oil rings and dots. It has been seen that the cormorants have been hard on the norsen or slom, as we say in Värmland – and that it in turn affected predatory fish such as pike and perch. The cormorants are killing the entire fishing in Roxen and along the coast and are seen as an environmental disaster by the population there. The County Administrative Board in Stockholm wants to halve the number of cormorants in the Stockholm archipelago. It is said that there is a major damage problem around the joints. This applies, in particular, to damage to professional fishing and fish stocks. According to the County Administrative Board's new management plan, the number of joint employees is to be halved from 6 000 to 3 000 by 2030, i.e. in nine years. It is estimated that there is room to reduce the current cormorant population of around 30,000 cormorants in the county without the cormorants ending to be viable. Madam President, I would like You hear that much greater action is needed against the cormorants than is being done in many places today. The question is why we should not be able to manage the cormorant stock better when we know that the cormorants do such damage to the environment, fish stocks and professional fishing. Scientists have made it clear that we can reduce the amount of cormorants by 75 percent without risking the strain that exists. There are, as I said, differences of opinion about bottom trawling, but many actors claim that bottom trawling harms marine ecosystems. It should therefore be better explored how bottom trawling in coastal areas can be reduced in favour of more selective fishing without affecting the industry; this is important. Moving the trawl line to 12 nautical miles is possible only if it is done in agreement with other countries, i.e. all fish with a level playing field. Otherwise, it would be extremely hard on Swedish professional fishing. It would be devastating for our fishing if we were only to move our trawl line and other countries were still allowed to fish in to four nautical miles. Many argue that emigration would make no difference because the quota would still be the same – that is quite right. In the Stockholm archipelago fishmeal rays are added, as coastal fishermen notice when their catches have fallen dramatically. We last saw it in SVT's regional news for Stockholm County yesterday; I sat myself and watched TV when they started. This is not about bottom trawling, it is about moving trawls for fishing for herring, or herring as it is called here in the Stockholm area. Stocks have fallen sharply over the past 40 to 50 years in the central Baltic Sea, as the fishing area is called here. Small spikes are said to have taken over outcrops due to the low Baltic herring bodies along the coast. Incisions, where herring remains on a larger scale, are said to be less numerous. Industrial trawlers have taken a large part of the fishing quota for herring and herring in a smaller area, which many coastal fishermen think is hard on small-scale fishing and the archipelago. Now the EU Fisheries Ministers are also reducing for the third consecutive year the quotas for herring in the central Baltic Sea, to which the Stockholm archipelago counts. The recommendations of ICES, the International Council for the Exploration of the Sea, have been taken into account. This is a decrease of 36% compared with the previous year. There is an intrinsic value in keeping small-scale fishing alive, as well as the ports and smokehouses it employs along the Swedish coast. It is therefore important that industrial trawlers and small-scale fishing can share the supply of fish in the same waters, in order to save both the industry of both parties and the Swedish coastal communities. For the Swedish Democrats, this is also an ideological issue. Natural resources shall be managed; they shall be used but not over-exploited. This applies to fishing to at least the same extent as it applies to our game trunks or forests. If we could move the trawl line of these larger vessels through negotiations, small-scale fishing would have a greater chance of surviving and developing, as is the ancient industry, whose professional knowledge has in many cases been passed on from one generation to another. Allowing the largest trawlers to catch all fish, as in the Baltic Sea, creates small economic values and very few jobs.
i-5208f3b077ad150e-523	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the European Parliament. I would also like to address those who listen or perhaps read this speech afterwards and say that you can read much more about the policy of the Center Party than I will tell you in eight minutes. We have a exercise that has number 2917 and is called sustainable green and blue industries. It is incredibly important that we put all the proposals that are in place into context. This is also true of my colleagues here: there is so much more than we hear and take part in the debate itself. It is about creating the conditions for blue industries to create opportunities for development and confidence in the future in different ways. At the same time, as politicians, we also have a responsibility to remove some of the obstacles on the way to getting there. Of course, we support all our proposals in the motion and also in this report. However, some of the proposals are simplified according to the Rules of Procedure that we have in committee, and I therefore request that only reservation number 2 be approved. Then I would also like to point out the wonderful report that we are debating today. I would like to extend my warm thanks to the committee which, on the basis of all the political proposals we have taken from the various parties, has put together the current situation in a very good way in a very well-written report. On the whole, there is a great deal of commitment to fisheries issues in committee. We are all committed, and on many issues there is a great deal of consensus. There is also a great deal of commitment to solving some of the obstacles to creating the conditions for a developing industry. With its large supply of water, its long coastline and its many lakes and streams, Sweden offers good opportunities to conduct fishing and sustainable aquaculture. This is an important part of our food supply but also important for jobs, local entrepreneurship and tourism, and for preserving both cultural historical values and the identity of our fishing communities, which are important to safeguard. With the right political and economic conditions, these industries can continue to grow strong in the future. It is important to find a balance for the development of both fisheries and fisheries. This is a great challenge in the times in which we now find ourselves, when we see how the fish in our seas and lakes are under enormous strain. Mr President, I would like to I mentioned that we are in favour of Amendment No 2, which deals with aquaculture. The development of sustainable aquaculture requires more than we can see today. Fish is a food that contains many nutrients that we humans need to feel good. When it is fished in the sea, nitrogen and phosphorus are extracted as desirable. However, strong and long-term measures are needed to ensure the competitiveness of Swedish food production. In order to do this and also increase aquaculture, the possibility of increasing investment support for land-based fish farms should be reviewed. Investment is needed and regulations are changed and the level of knowledge is raised in different ways. It is clear that we are extremely frustrated by long processing times and that there is no response. At the same time, it is important to see that a number of permits actually come into being. It opens possibilities and gives the go-ahead, so it wants us to see the whole picture. For me who come from Västra Götaland, investments in West Sweden are extremely important, not least in Sotenäs municipality. But also in Runar's home areas, in Säffle and so on, great important investments are made in aquaculture in the future. And it has great potential to grow. It is clear that we are becoming curious when we see the difference in the Nordic countries, as colleagues have previously pointed out, and that some investments end up in other countries, which could have given more fish but also more jobs in our own country. It is extremely important that this is given an opportunity to develop. There are a number of initiatives on the part of the government here, and we shall certainly highlight these. However, the committee has also developed committee initiatives on aquaculture in particular to speed up this. We need to raise the level of knowledge among administrators but also increase the opportunity to find new business models to develop these parts. Efforts have been made with regard to food production in the research proposal presented before Christmas. They are important additions, but they cannot be enough for everything we would like to see in order to raise the level of knowledge linked to research but also in the entire chain so that there will be increased entrepreneurship, increased profitability and increased competitiveness in Swedish aquaculture. Colleagues to me have already considered how extremely important it is to ensure that there is a reduced population of both seals and cormorants. I will not dwell on any long discussion of this, but I just want to agree with how incredibly important it is. There, efforts are being made by the government, but I would think that in the future we will have to make much stronger efforts to overcome this. Coronapa n demi, stop fishing – there is a lot that has affected not least coastal fishing. An important prerequisite for coastal fishing is the living coastal communities and cultural historical value. When entering a new period in the EU's fisheries policy, it is important that there are plenty of tools also in the Swedish toolbox to be able to make efforts over the next seven years in order to meet the needs of fishing for development. It is important to find ways forward, but it is not so easy. It is not easy for either politics or industry. It is not for nothing that it is extremely important that we make efforts to resolve this. I would like to comment on another issue which has been mentioned in the debate and which has been part of the January agreement. It is about bottom trawling in protected areas, and often only this is mentioned. But what is important to point out here is that it is also a question of being able to make exceptions in the management plan. Betty Malmberg from the Moderates highlighted our experience of being aboard a shrimp trawler. I imagine that was when we were in the Koster Sea and there were several in the committee. It is clear that shrimp trawling is an incredibly important nutrition. It is precisely the development of a viable, small-scale shrimp fishery in the Koster Sea that is one of the reasons why it is said that exceptions can be made. It is an example of what exceptions could be made for in the management plan, and there are further examples. Let me just conclude, Mr President, by saying that fishing is an important part of Swedish food production and that efforts need to be made in the future for both fisheries and fisheries. That is why further efforts will be required from us in committee in the future. We in the committee have taken note of many information from county boards, the Maritime and Water Authority and many actors who have really helped to increase our know-how in this area, and I would like to thank you in particular for that. Now there are really strong ambitions on the part of the committee to move forward on these important issues in the future.
i-5208f3b077ad150e-543	Mr President, I would like to The environmental problems in our seas are many and of different nature depending on where in Sweden they are. We are all well aware that there are many measures that we need to take. An important dimension of this, however it may be, is fishing and its impact as well as its possibilities. Last year the criticism of the major industrial trawls was raised. Criticism has consisted of several parts but is largely about an uneven distribution of the common resource. A report presented by the Sport Fishermen last June clearly showed the increase in catches of industrial fisheries in the 2000s. During 2018, 15 600 tonnes of Swedish vessels were landed, and 96 per cent of the landings accounted for five vessels in the Southern Bothnian Sea. At the same time, as many people have already said here, it is clear that local fishermen find it difficult to catch enough and that they often choose to lie in port because catches are not expected to be large enough. Sweden does not own the issue of fishing alone. Decisions on quotas, among other things, are taken in the EU. At the same time, it is essential that countries sharing seas take joint decisions that lead to more sustainable fisheries. Therefore, cooperation around the Baltic Sea, among other things, is crucial in order to achieve a long-term and sustainable balance. It is essential that the government does not regard EU cooperation as a pretext for not acting and being at the forefront of its own efforts, but for a stronger EU fisheries policy. Mr President, I would like to Less than a year ago, I put a committee initiative in committee. It was about several of the points raised in the report today. Among other things, I raised the issue of moving out the trawl line. Let us be honest that it was received a little half-heartedly. Those weren't big cheers, as far as I can remember. It is therefore particularly gratifying that the issue that has been going on for a long time now is moving. The Left Party proposal was then, as it is now, to move the trawl line to 12 nautical miles. Only a few weeks ago, HaV presented its action programme to increase the protection of herring in the Baltic Sea and the Bothnian Sea. It contained a series of measures, including a review of trawl limits and trawl fishing areas. Although the action programme refers to the Baltic Sea, I am starting from and hope that the information and what is found there can then be used and applied on the west coast, because these are measures that the Left Party welcomes. In its action programme, the Maritime and Water Authority also talks about a review of trawl areas linked to the government's mission to ban bottom trawling in marine protected areas. This is good, but more needs to be done to limit the harmful impact of bottom trawling on the oceans. All bottom trawling has an impact on the bottom of the sea. It is therefore not surprising that areas that are trawled often find it difficult to recover. What is less obvious is that even in areas that are rarely trawled, perhaps only at some point, the bottom communities are heavily affected, as recovery may take decades for seabeds to recover. The Left Party has for a long time pushed too generally greater restrictions on bottom trawling but did not get support for it. However, increasing regulation spatially and limiting bottom trawling should be something on which we could agree even more. Many who fish with bottom trawls do so on about the same distances each time. From time to time, you can put the trawl in another place to seek happiness. This means that even those bottoms that are only trawled occasionally are sometimes heavily affected, even though it does not make a major contribution to the catch, nor is it economic. The Left Party believes that given the impact of bottom trawling on the areas that are rarely trawled and also for the sea at large, it is time to review the possibility of creating trawl areas and dedicated stretches where trawling is permitted. It would also allow the recovery of seabeds in areas that are no longer trawled. This aspect of trawling, too, and not just the trawl line, is something that we hope the Maritime and Water Authority will take a closer look at. Mr President, I would like to The Environmental Objectives Committee's report contains a proposal on marine site protection. The proposal is that at least 30% of Sweden's territorial waters and economic zones should be protected through formal protection and other effective site-based measures by 2030. At least 10 % of the areas must be strictly protected and contribute to representative, ecologically coherent and functional networks. This is a proposal which we particularly welcome. Formal and long-term protection has historically been important in protecting endangered and rare species and natural environments. The cumulative effects we see in our seas today put habitats under great pressure. Therefore, long-term and formal protection of species and habitats is needed. We need more protected areas in order to have coherent networks. Today there are many areas where the load is low. We need an effort to protect coastal areas, and we need more areas with strict protection. Today, less than 1% of Sweden's sea surface is fishing-free areas, and yet Sweden is the country in Europe that has the largest share of fishing-free areas. It may say something about what needs to be done forward. Last time, I'm going to dwell on the resource allocation system and ITQ. The marine environment around Sweden and globally is not sustainable, and Swedish fishing is also facing major challenges. The problem of survival in fishing is particularly marked for those who fish near the coast, where there is a low supply of good stocks. We know that there are several reasons, but how we allocate resources between us is one of them. In today's fishing fleet, each boat has permission to fish one or more species. That is why we have boats that can only catch cod and others that can only catch herring. Particularly in the case of the Baltic Sea with its fragile and unstable ecosystem, it is easy to understand that it is not sustainable to fish only one species. More ecologically and socially sustainable it would be if each boat could get permission to vary their fishing according to the current situation. Among other things, it could have helped to remedy the situation created by the emergency closure of cod in 2019. In addition to providing opportunities to fish on different stocks, the government needs to have a long-term sustainable plan for how fishermen can be compensated in the event of rapid changes in quota allocation in order not to lose their skills or rejuvenation in the professional group. There needs to be confidence in the possibilities of fishing in the future, and that requires safe working conditions as well as security in knowing that national subsidies for stationary boats will actually be paid out when conditions change. The Left Party believes that the current ITQ system, the individual transferable quotas, is not sustainable in the long term. The system that distributes pelagic species, such as herring and mackerel, is based on individual quotas given to each boat. The quotas can then also be sold or exchanged between the boats. It is a system that brings together the quotas of a few. The purpose when it was introduced was precisely to limit the number of boats, and it was undeniably so. Large-scale fishing in certain areas and at certain times of the year can reduce the amount of herring that wanders into coastal areas. There is a risk that local spawning stocks will be eliminated. The impact can be both lower supply of fish for small-scale coastal fisheries and large-scale ecosystem changes. That is why we believe that this system needs to be revised with completely different objectives in focus. Mr President, I would like to Finally, if we want local and coastal fishing in Sweden that benefits small-scale operators and the countryside in which many of them appear, we need to make decisions that lead us there. Fishing is a common resource that does best when shared by many, is allowed to drive the sustainable development of our society and contribute to rural development and strengthened ecosystems. The possibility of fishing is not what it once was, and we as humans now have a historic responsibility to save the seas and their lives. Mr President, I would like to I demand approval of the Left Party's reservation, number 13.
i-5208f3b077ad150e-566	Mr President, I would like to I thank Elin Segerlind for his speech. We feel the same way, and we know that from before. We have pushed for the exodus of the trawl line and often talk about small-scale fishing. In his presentation, Elin mentions that it is important to restore confidence in fishing and that we must protect and save it, but I miss how. The allocation of fishing rights is one way. It has been done for ten years now and has had remarkable effects such as that individual boats can have a very high quota. But is this the only thing that can save small-scale fishing? I hope that Mr Elin listened a little to my speech on by-catch quotas, the demands of the Maritime and Water Authority for professional fishing licences and how you are constantly down and digging into the chances of survival of small-scale fishermen, which we are concerned about. If the government is asked, this is not our question, but the responsibility of the Maritime and Water Authority. But when we last asked the Maritime and Water Authority, they said: You may make proposals to amend the Fisheries Act. It's a little unclear who's a banner driver. But please respond to how we achieve the survival of small-scale fishing.
i-5208f3b077ad150e-573	Mr President, I would like to I thank Betty Malmberg for the question and the opportunity to talk more about it; it is always nice. On the issue of the banner driver, I hope that Betty Malmberg will save it for another speaker. Confidence in fisheries was the starting point of the issue and how we view it and how we can maintain it. Distributed fishing rights, which I talked about, are an opportunity, just as Betty Malmberg was concerned about. We believe it is important to tackle the structural problem. It is about more people getting access to the common resource. I also believe in the trawl line, like Betty Malmberg and I have talked about several times. It is also an important measure, because it is about enabling a healthy sea. A healthy sea with a strong and safe ecosystem is the basis for strong coastal fishing, because without fish in the sea, no fishermen. Our thoughts and suggestions on protected areas also stem from this. It is about a desire to restore the balance of the sea and to create the conditions for life in the sea, which creates sustainable fishing. We were together at the seminar on fishing in individual waters, and that is one aspect that we are absolutely willing to look at. This also applies to by-catch quotas, as Betty Malmberg talked about. I think we have a lot to work on.
i-5208f3b077ad150e-580	Mr President, I would like to We are absolutely in favour of pursuing the issues that can give us confidence in the industry and that we have a survival, both on the marine environment and on the social side. But it is also about economic conditions, and at the moment the industry is experiencing profitability problems. That's why we have to be in phase all the time so they can keep their boats. Where else are they gonna put them? It is not possible to create an idyll in the thought, it is hard facts and money that speak. It is important that we keep our feet on the ground and realise that it is about creating profitability and business chains that can help make a difference, because then the fishermen feel safe. One example of this is Koster, where the shrimp trawlers bottom roared shallow in the marine nature reserve without being down in the mud. On their own initiative, they fished three days a week because they saw that it worked then. There was also research that followed this work and their activities and saw that it worked well. I understood from Elin Segerlind that it is inclined to support the proposal for a total ban on bottom trawling in marine reserves. Is that so?
i-5208f3b077ad150e-585	Mr President, I would like to We support the spirit that I see in the Government's proposal – that there will be the possibility of exceptions, such as Mr Koster. I'm thinking we all want to keep that business. Then I would definitely like to see fishing-free areas, but then we will have to do it in a good way. It is always the case that we have a balance between environmental and industrial interests. I think it is necessary to understand and bear in mind that it is in the interest of the industry to protect environmental and ecological interests, because a sustainable sea provides a sustainable industry. One does not work without the other, so we must keep this with us. As far as coastal fishing is concerned, it is probably easy, as Betty says, to create an idyllic picture of what this should be – we see small-putting southwest uncles in front of us. But that may not be coastal fishing today, and that may not be what we want it to be. What we saw at Koster were functioning value chains. When they landed they had somewhere to make of their shrimp. There was an infrastructure for this that worked and which was very good. I think that these aspects too are something we need to look at more – how we can benefit the sale of Swedish fish once it comes up on land. That's the whole part, too. This is a big question, and we will come back to it.
i-5208f3b077ad150e-589	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating fisheries policy in this House. I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 6. Let me stress how important the blue industry is to our country. I would like to start by thanking all fishermen who fish so that we consumers can have food. They're doing a fantastic job around our country. It was good to start with that. Historically, Sweden's population has survived thanks to fishing, if, for example, there has been a year of misgrowth in the country. I have had the privilege to travel around to many fantastic coastal communities in Sweden. I've met people who work in fishing or who have fish factories. What many say, express and are concerned about is that the large Swedish fishing fleet that existed along the Swedish coasts no longer exists. In coastal municipality by coastal municipality, fishermen have quit. Coastal fishing is not at all what it once was. There are very few younger fishermen, and very few will take up when the present generation ends. This is very serious. Politically, it is important that we talk and act in favour of a healthier sea, but we also need to talk about how we make those who are fishermen not stop and how we make more people want to become fishermen in the future. It is important that we talk about confidence in the future for this industry. The coastal communities, which we like to visit in the summer, are often completely empty of people during autumn and winter, because then all summer guests have moved back to town. We politicians are happy to talk about a vibrant countryside and the archipelago, but what we say must also mean something. We Christian Democrats have a policy of restoring the viability of these societies, even when the holidays are over. Mr President, I would like to We see a great need for the hunting of seals to be expanded. The stock of grey seal is now up to about 50,000 animals, and the population grows by 5 to 7 percent annually. In total, there are over 110 000 seals along the Swedish coast. The large stock of seals threatens fishing, partly through competition for catches, and partly by increasing the spread of diseases to fish, including cod. It is therefore necessary to increase the hunting quota in order to reduce the population size. A very important part of the hunt is to take advantage of the fallen prey. Trade in seal products is not allowed today. Sweden should urgently seek derogations from this ban, not least from an ethical point of view. The government should also act to obtain permission to abolish the seal trade ban. Another major concern, which we have already talked about in this House today, is the cormorant. It eats huge amounts of fish, such as eel, which is a threatened fish at present. As an ostgöte I do not need to go far to see how the cormorant destroys along the east coast or for that matter in Lake Roxen at Linköping. The cormorants eat the fish and destroy important natural environments. The hunt and punctuation of eggs must be extended. Mr President, I would like to Since June 2017, Sweden has had a food strategy. We have discussed it many times in this House, most often in relation to agriculture. It is important to clarify the views of the Christian Democrats: the blue industry is an extremely important and important part of the food strategy and of the efforts to increase our country's food self-sufficiency. I am told by the fishing industry that there seems to be a lack of clarity about the objective and the link with the food strategy by the authorities. I would like the government to be clear about this and to put its foot down on this important issue. Mr President, I would like to In 2019, Sweden as its only country introduced a traceability system that not only means that we should know where and of which fishermen the fish sold has been caught, but also that we are committed to sharing the information in real time between all actors in the food chain and that the information should cover all fish sold in the country. Since 90 per cent of the fish sold in Sweden is imported, this creates completely unnecessary bureaucracy and requires extensive information collection from entrepreneurs. There are examples of Swedish food chains that have rejected the sale of Swedish caught fish in view of the problems that the system involves. The Swedish traceability system has thus become a major competitive disadvantage to the outside world. We Christian Democrats believe that traceability should be ensured in the way that is done in the other countries of Europe. In other words, no clumps from the Swedish authorities that make Swedish fisheries management more difficult and expensive.
i-5208f3b077ad150e-601	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the Liberals' Amendment No 14, which deals with scientific bases for sustainable fishing quotas. Of course, we support all our proposals in general. Previous speakers have noted that this report is part of what we see as a fisheries policy. Liberals' proposals also come back in other contexts. They concern, among other things, how to create the conditions for fishing and the living environment that exists. Mr President, I would like to When we in the Liberals began to problematize the issue of fish stocks, we initially thought that there was a rather cool interest in discussing the issue, that is, whether there are general Baltic herring stocks or whether there are even local Baltic herring stocks. We had noted that there were very many skilled fishermen who had pointed out that there was a likelihood that there could be several local stocks and not just one Baltic herring stock. We listened to this and noted that there were also comments on what could have an impact on these stocks, such as large-scale fishing. Today I can see that this particular debate has become very large among all those who are discussing fisheries policy, that is, the conditions for fishing, the size of the stocks and what we report as scientific evidence. We welcome this debate because we believe that it is the knowledge and ability to collect the facts that is the basis for the decisions we make politically, not least here in Parliament. Many of these fish stocks are threatened by unsustainable fishing. If the seas are to function as a significant renewable resource, we must have long-term, sustainable use and responsible management. Fishing must be kept within the limits of the stocks. It is a recurring problem that, as we see it, there is clearly a lack of sufficient data for these stocks and their status in the Baltic Sea. We believe it is very important for the scientific bodies to be given the conditions necessary for them to have the necessary data on these fish stocks. It is important that ICES, which makes scientific assessments that are the basis for sustainable fisheries, has access to all the materials that we can obtain. In particular, it is important that the Swedish institutions that provide the international bodies with evidence have a good chance of describing the different stocks. In assessing the long-term sustainable yield of fish, ecosystems and their function must also be safeguarded. The maximum withdrawal must also be balanced against a precautionary principle, not least if we are uncertain about the facts of developments. For example, it has not been clear whether the Baltic herring stock is a coherent stock or several local ones. It is important that we obtain more knowledge. We also believe that the relationship itself determines how fisheries management will be able to develop for long-term and sustainable fisheries. Mr President, I would like to We in the Liberals believe that the issue of the trawl line, which many have already touched on, is very important. It is also a very complicated issue. As we see it, the reason why the issue has been difficult to deal with is that it is so complex with relations also with other countries and different types of fishing fleets coming from different directions. However, the committee notes in the report that the Maritime and Water Authority has recently decided on a long-term package of measures to protect herring and herring in the Baltic Sea, including a review of trawl limits and trawl fishing areas. We in the Liberals welcome the fact that the committee is so positive to the work of the authorities in compiling knowledge and the ongoing work on investigating the conditions for adjusting the trawl line and trawl fishing areas. We warmly welcome this. Mr President, I would like to Sustainable fishing also requires measures to reduce bottom trawling in sensitive areas, as has been mentioned earlier in the debate. We must also note, as previous speakers have mentioned, that the management plan provides for derogations if necessary. We think that's important. We believe that Sweden should work to ensure that the EU restricts fishing practices that harm ecosystems as a matter of urgency. We have written a lot in our movements about what it can mean. These motions are dealt with in another report. If there is a ban on bottom trawling, we think it is urgent that it be complied with. We must have effective monitoring so that it really applies to everyone. The regulatory framework should, of course, apply to all actors. Mr President, I would like to For there to be fish, there must also be spawning areas for fish. It is something that also engages the Liberals. How can we help to arrange environments for fish to develop and grow? There is a need for environments for fish to play in and also environments that provide the fish's juvenile protection. There must be functioning fish breeding environments. And we note the exciting attempts going on not least on Gotland with how to possibly save cod. There are also other forms of action that we can take, for example, on the wetlands. One may not think that they can be a potential for being an incubator for fish. But the Liberals feel that they might be such an opportunity. But then we must also ensure that there are opportunities for the fish to walk to these wetlands and be able to get out of there. Re-establishing access to wetlands and establishing waterways would be a good thing for many fish species, not least because wetlands provide a more even supply of downstream water. In addition, wetlands also benefit other species, such as birds and amphibians. It's important in itself. Mr President, I would like to One thing that concerns us Liberals in this report is proposals to restrict recreational fishing. I note that there is a reservation from the Moderates which states that some kind of regulation of recreational fishing should be introduced and that the border between recreational and professional fishing should be investigated. There are 1.6 million individuals fishing once a year. It is a big part for many to take the throwing rod or the fishing rod and go to a beach or sit in an oak and feel the outdoor life and all that it means. It's not even necessary to always get fish. But it is part of the pleasure of our leisure time to be able to take this fishing rod and fishing. I therefore put the question to the Moderates: what does this proposal mean? Why should sport fishing and recreational fishing be restricted? Recreational fish contribute to an incredible number of efforts, as they protect fish stocks. They also often contribute to environmental measures, such as removing obstacles to migration or restoring the demersal fauna. The socio-economic impact is also significant. Fish landed through recreational fishing have a very high socio-economic value compared to fish landed in large-scale fisheries. In addition to the value of the fish, recreational fishing is an experience that many people value very much. That is why we in the Liberals want to continue to protect recreational fishing as well.
i-5208f3b077ad150e-623	Mr President, I would like to I thank Nina Lundström for the issue of recreational fishing. I do not remember exactly what is in the reservation, because I did not have the report before me. But what we're looking for is actually investigating where the line is. Nina Lundström is probably also aware that there are trolling boats today that can throw up perhaps 14 – 15 rods on the boat. And we hear from small-scale coastal fishermen that the fish are then sold at the port because there is no control. It makes it an unhealthy competition. I guess somewhere you have to look at if this is cool. It is also interesting, since Norway and Iceland, for example, have limited how much fish you can bring home. At the same time, they reward certain fishing camps that report to the authorities how much fish are actually caught at the camp. It can never be wrong to learn more about what the situation looks like, take the impression of other countries and have some control of how much of the total these 1.6 million Swedes who love their fishing represents. I thought I'd take the opportunity to ask Nina Lundström a question. It was interesting to hear that Nina Lundström also sees that it would be an advantage to be able to move out the trawl line. Does Nina Lundström think that the government has done enough? I asked the Maritime and Water Authority when they were visiting if it was on behalf of the government that they took these measures. They said no. They didn't get a mission from the government.
i-5208f3b077ad150e-628	Mr President, I would like to I note that, in that case, there is a lack of clarity in the Moderate reservation. I interpreted it as referring to an investigation to find a way of distinguishing professional and sport fishing and regulating sport and recreational fishing. Looking at the reservation that exists, I interpreted it as a restriction on recreational fishing. I note that, in the part mentioned in the report, environmental objectives are nevertheless very much in favour of the effects of recreational fishing because recreational fishing contributes both to environmental considerations and to an increased knowledge of how fishing is actually doing, as well as knowledge of the effects on the ecosystem. Many who engage in recreational fishing are warm environmental friends and feel a great responsibility. Measures are being taken to meandra streams and to remove obstacles to hiking. I think that the positive benefits of sport and recreational fishing are reflected in the absence of the Moderate reservation, which is why I find it interesting to hear from Betty Malmberg what is meant. For the Liberals, recreational fishing is incredibly important. It is part of outdoor life and part of leisure time for very many people living in aquatic environments. We see great value in it, and even in socio-economic terms it has good effects. As far as trawl limits are concerned, we believe that more should be done. I think we should all contribute more. That is why we also welcome the fact that the report has been so positive in reviewing the possibility of moving trawls.
i-5208f3b077ad150e-633	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Nina Lundström, for your answer. I must apologise if we are unclear in the wording of the reservation. We must take this into account so that we do not write so that it becomes as unclear next time. Of course, recreational fishing is extremely important and important. I hear that I have read the same compilation as Nina Lundström about the socio-economic value and how many people actually engage in this employment. At the same time, the conditions should be fair. If you drive around with trolling boats, lie down in coves and basically pull up rup and stubble as there is, something we heard about during Question Time, it is not nice to then go into a port and sell it. It knocks away the bones of the fishermen who are going to knuckle by obtaining licenses here and there. Somewhere there must be some clarity in how to deal with the issue. I also think it was interesting when Nina Lundström talked about how important it is with science and all this. It sounded a little bit like it was something very new that you can ask for more local data, but it is actually something that we have done for a long time. The fact that those reservations are not included here is due to the fact that it is in the simplified preparation. These are, of course, extremely important issues on which we need to be more effective. Do I have the right amount of space when I note that Nina Lundström thinks that the government is doing enough to arrange fisheries even in the area not regulated by the common fisheries policy with the European Union? Is that how I should interpret Nina Lundström and the Liberals?
i-5208f3b077ad150e-638	Mr President, I would like to My interpretation, however, is that the reservation breathes regulation and something that should be aimed at limiting recreational fishing, and the example that Betty Malmberg takes up breathes the same kind of direction. I think it is very important to focus instead on and upgrade recreational fishing, house-need fishing, which has such a great value for us as a society, for example, in terms of environmental measures and, as I said, also the conservation of fishing itself. It is clear that the people who fish also see the value of there being fish in the long term. In the example from Gotland, the anglers themselves are committed to trying to find methods to possibly save the cod by ensuring that the eggs actually survive. There is an enormous amount of effort being made by anglers and house-need fishermen to protect stocks, and that is what I thought I lacked in the reservation which breathes more regulation. You see problems with sport fishing and not the positive benefits. We in the Liberals want to do much more about this. In our exercise, we have described the benefits of interacting with and benefiting from both the organised and the individual anglers, because we know that so much effort is being made throughout the country's streams and rivers, and not least in the sea. You really do protect your surroundings. As far as the view on who can do more is concerned, I find it very funny that the committee is so involved in the issues. I can understand that there are tricks around the trawl borders, because there are also bilateral agreements. It is not just a question of restricting Swedish fishing; it is a matter of general measures. I welcome that, but I think we can all do even more.
i-5208f3b077ad150e-643	Mr President, I would like to Where are we gonna get our fish? Who and who will be allowed to fish? Why and how should fishing opportunities be allocated? Here and now in Parliament we are debating the Committee on Environment and Agriculture's report 2020 21:MJU8 on fisheries policy. Basically, this is about allocating our common resources. At the same time, unfortunately, it is a question of allocating a shrinking resource, because our fishing waters, fishes and seas are not doing well. The fishing industry is in a strained situation with reduced quotas, deterioration of the marine environment and now, due to the outbreak of the virus, even with rapid changes in demand for fish. We need to recall from time to time that fisheries policy is about jobs, food security and environmental policy. The issues often need to be seen in a wider context, and we need to work on a larger scale. Unfortunately, we have seen growing bottom death as a result of eutrophication. We have encountered environmental toxins that risk doing what we capture in the seas and waters unfit. We Social Democrats are working to achieve the objectives of the EU's common fisheries policy, where we shall have long-term sustainable fisheries based on sustainable stocks. Sustainability must be based on sound scientific evidence. We Social Democrats are in favour of strong measures against eutrophication. We work for efforts against overfishing and invest in more fish farming. We work with concrete efforts to remove environmental toxins, and we act to strengthen marine and aquatic environmental work. It is therefore a good thing that our Social Democratic-led government introduced this year increased the appropriations for measures for the marine and aquatic environment by SEK 105 million. This is also expected to increase by SEK 100 million for next year. If we eat fatty fish such as Baltic herring and wild caught salmon, we risk getting dangerous substances such as dioxins, mercury and PCBs. Unfortunately, up to the 1970s process water was released from the industry impurely. To date, therefore, many dangerous substances are still stored in these bottoms and water, and this is why efforts to clean up need to be stepped up. More contaminated areas and sediments will be cleaned and the most environmentally hazardous wrecks handled. It is therefore a good thing that our Social Democratic-led government launched this year an investment of SEK 350 million to increase the pace of work on the clean-up of the most polluted environmental debts on land, in the sea and in water. Upgrading our wastewater treatment plants so that they can take care of medicines and other non-degradable substances is good. The investment in advanced treatment will be strengthened by an additional SEK 75 million this year and next year. It is also good that the government in the research policy bill announced a mission to Formas to implement a ten-year national research programme on sea and water. Here, among other things, SEK 210 million will be invested in the next four years. It is essential and essential that accurate and reliable data and knowledge are available in order to be able to take relevant and effective action. It is therefore also good that SEK 30 million have been allocated to the marine and fisheries programme for the next seven years. Mr President, I would like to Wetland becomes ditch, and ditch becomes stream. Bäck becomes a river, the river becomes a river and the river flows into the Baltic Sea. It is therefore a good thing that the regeneration of wetlands continues. This contributes to many positive effects and to reduced eutrophication and balanced water flows. The fish will feel better. The government therefore increased the investment in measures for valuable nature and wetlands by SEK 350 million this year. This is expected to increase by SEK 325 million for next year and by SEK 100 million for 2023. Politics has an effect. Science has its given place, and our processes and organs can deliver. However, no systems are complete, and politics may take time. But in practice today, for example, there is a stop to fishing for eel and cod. We have, since quite recently, partially halted herring fishing and then last autumn clearly reduced herring fishing quotas. We can note that our authorities are also continuously working on long-term packages of measures to protect fish and fishing areas. It is good that we constantly work to compile knowledge and investigate the prerequisites. Our fishing opportunities are set by the EU on the basis of sustainable levels and are based on scientific advice from ICES, the International Council for the Exploration of the Sea, which consists of more than 4,000 researchers from more than 20 Member States. ICES then advises Swedish authorities and maritime and water authorities and also the European Commission. Fishing opportunities are then allocated in the autumn for the following year. Mr President, I would like to We must see fisheries policy in Sweden and in the EU as a whole. Environmental policy means both jobs and good food for our children and grandchildren.
i-5208f3b077ad150e-659	Mr President, I would like to For a while I was a little confused— was this the same speech I heard last night when we debated the aquatic environment? Much came again in the various speeches. You should reuse; recirculation is good! In order not to get caught up in the same debate that we had yesterday, I have again taken with me the paper I am now holding, because Markus Selin stated how much money is being invested and how much more the government is investing. If the SEK 105 million invested in the marine and aquatic environment, it is explicitly stated in the budget proposal that the purpose of the initiative is primarily to implement the new legislation to provide hydropower with modern environmental conditions and to work with invasive alien species. I don't know if Markus Selin himself had checked it out, but yesterday Markus Selin denied that this was what the money would be used for I don't know how many times. When we then compare budgets – as this is apparently Markus Selin's way of evaluating work – we see that the Moderates spend SEK 220 million more on the marine environment during this three-year period. Now to something constructive, because we're talking about fish! How do the Social Democrats want to increase fishing and strengthen confidence in fishing in Sweden? We have national opportunities to do things – to strengthen companies and remove the requirements that say it should be a professional fishing license in a double and triple sense. What do the Social Democrats want to do, Markus Selin?
i-5208f3b077ad150e-664	Mr President, I would like to The honourable Member, Betty Malmberg, thinks I am recovering a great deal. This may be because water and fish are connected like the hand and the glove. To start where we left off last night – it was time to say good night, Betty Malmberg – is the simple answer napkin sketch autumn 2018. It is difficult to come afterwards and find it difficult for fishermen and the fishing environment when a manslaughter battle against marine and environmental policy was handed out a few years earlier, with over 2 billion in resources that just disappeared. We Social Democrats set a goal, and we set funds. Mr President, I would like to Now it was the second time I heard Mrs Malmberg mention something about hydropower. I have the same document here – Category 20. I see that the word hydropower is mentioned four times. Once it is mentioned as a depiction of legislative changes in 2018, i.e. as a history description. Twice it is mentioned in the opposition's own texts and reservations. Only once is it mentioned in the bread text itself, in parallel with words about increasing the pace of work on marine and water-related environmental quality objectives and on invasive alien species in aquatic environments and selective fishing gear, which Betty Malmberg highlighted so nicely earlier in the case of shrimp fishing. Some order may be in the moderate house.
i-5208f3b077ad150e-669	Mr President, I would like to I don't know what to say. I recommend Markus Selin to look up page 102 and read the third and fourth lines. After all, we agree that these are issues that are dealt with above all at European level. It concerns the common fisheries policy and that it should be science-based. I am glad to hear that, and so far we agree. I did not get a direct answer as to how we could regain confidence in fisheries. How are they supposed to feel it's worth investing in a new boat? How do the fishermen in Simrishamn feel, who have just invested in boats and then suffered the manslaughter battle that the various closures still meant? Can Markus Selin try to understand the feeling they have? I talked to a guy who had invested in two new boats six months before the lockdown. It's a disaster! These are houses that stand in pledges and a life that is put out of control. The Social Democrats must also understand this. It is not only possible to yvas and talk about the dinner and the date, but here it is about hard facts for many individual entrepreneurs. I therefore repeat the question: is there anything in what I said in my speech about what we actually have the opportunity to influence that also Markus Selin and the Social Democrats can see a point in? Licensing requirements? The launch of seals and cormorants? Waiting to introduce additional regulations that will weigh on fishing? Is there anything, Markus Selin?
i-5208f3b077ad150e-674	Mr President, I would like to The short answer to Betty Malmberg is: Yes, of course! We must work on a broad front, as I highlighted in my speech. Fisheries policy is both environmental policy, food policy and jobs – of course. This is what I'm confident about as a social democrat. We want the whole country to live. It must be difficult to stand here as a moderate Member and highlight the move of trawl limits in your speech. If you go in and look at what the Moderates really mean, you see that they want to commission the Maritime and Water Authority to investigate the matter, just as it also got in the adjusted regulation letter in December. The Agency has twice, Mr President, been in the Committee on Environment and Agriculture, in January and February of this year, explaining what the situation is with the archipelago and the trawling limit. We received a very generous and full-bodied material from the Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management that dealt with herring and trawls, dated 7 February – well worth reading. It therefore sounds false when I stand here and in two minutes answer for the whole of the great environmental policy, which got a thorn with napkin sketches and the like. However, I should like to warn you of one thing: when you start to come up with these simple answers a little bit in the routine, we are moving away from an important principle that I thought we Social Democrats agreed with the Moderates. We know that if regulations and rules are to be changed with effect, there is a need for scientific evidence, for confidence in established processes and for consultation with other EU Member States. I think I've answered what I can for these two minutes.
i-5208f3b077ad150e-680	Mr President, I would like to We are debating fishing, and I would like to start by talking about the fish. We know that the cod stock has crashed in the Baltic Sea and that we have a cod fishing stop. Now the stock of herring is also on its way down. The situation of Baltic herring is serious in the Baltic Sea but also in the Bothnian Sea and the Gulf of Bothnia. The cause of the ecological imbalances is many, but if we look at the international perspective, we see that 80% of the world's fish stocks are overfished or maximum fished. That is a very serious problem. Fisheries policy is managed in the EU, Mr President, but there are opportunities for each country to act and put measures into its own waters. The responsible authority may also need to make use of these opportunities when the threats are as clear as they are now, for example against the Baltic fish species. The responsible authority may make use of Articles 20 and 8 of the Common Fisheries Policy. Moving the trawl line is one such measure, which has been discussed several times by us in the Committee on Environment and Agriculture. We recently had a visit by the Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management to the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture. The authority then reported on the task they had been given in the regulation letter to work towards a strengthened protection of the coastal herring stock, as it is called. They also presented their decisions on analyses and measures concerning increased protection of herring in the Baltic Sea. We also got a good description of the state of knowledge and a needs analysis of proposals for various measures that need to be taken. The Maritime and Water Authority says that Sweden as a Member State can change the trawl limits but that we also need to agree with other Member States so that it becomes an effective measure. I am really looking forward to the documentation that the Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management will provide thanks to the regulatory letter that the government has written. We cannot wait for herring to end up in the same situation as cod and crash. We must take action before then. There are more species of fish that we would need to have higher on the agenda in our work. One such fish is the eel. In the January agreement we have a point that we need to buy back eel fishing rights in Sweden in order to reduce fishing of the endangered eel. The eel is under immediate threat. Compared to 1950, only 1 – 5 per cent of the stock remains. The very complicated life cycle of eel and long journeys worldwide make it particularly vulnerable. Protection needs to be tightened up in Sweden and in the EU. There is still a lot of eel being fished in Sweden today. It is often said that it would be for cultural reasons that we should have this fishing. I therefore wonder why large quantities of eel are still being exported. It should be stopped. One species in our seas, Mr President, which is not a fish but a mammal is the porpoise, our little whale. The population of Swedish waters along the west coast is classified as vulnerable, and the population of the Baltic Sea as under immediate threat. It is very important now to develop rules on, for example, underwater noise and how the porpoise can be protected by setting warning signals on the yarns used. This is done but not enough at all. A holistic approach is needed to ensure life in the seas, healthy seas and marine resources – from land to sea. Ecosystems in the seas need to be preserved above all, but also restored. I talked to a fisherman in Arild the other day. We did not agree on everything, but we fully agreed that without fish in the sea there will be no fishermen either. That is why we have a common role for environmental policy and fisheries in ensuring living seas and good conditions for fish and other marine organisms. I also agreed with this small-scale fisherman that it makes a difference how fishing is conducted. It is not only about how much fish is taken up but also how. The large trawls and industrial fishing cause problems and are also very often highlighted in the debate. The large trawls that vacuum the seas and pick up fish that are ground into fishmeal do not benefit small coastal communities and do not bring the added value that small-scale fishing could bring. Mr President, I would like to For fishing to be sustainable in the long term, we need to think and act in new ways when it comes to the seas. We cannot allow ourselves to be everywhere and do everything everywhere. We must also allow certain areas to be protected from human influence. Coastal ecosystems and in particular coastal areas are the nursery of the seas. A stronger beach shelter is needed along Sweden's coasts. HaV presented a new report to the Committee on Environment and Agriculture showing that the docks and piers built on the coasts have already destroyed 60% of the spawning areas for fish along our coasts. It speaks clearly when it comes to the fact that we need to talk much more about fisheries, in combination with the need for stronger beach protection. Mr President, I would like to Internationally, we are working to meet the objectives of Agenda 2030. In Agenda 2030 there are many very good points about fisheries in particular: promoting sustainable fishing, preserving coastal and marine areas, eliminating subsidies that contribute to overfishing, increasing scientific knowledge, research and technology that contribute to healthier seas and supporting the small-scale fishing industry. I think it is time that we took a holistic approach and ensured the opportunities for small-scale non-industrial fishing to have better access to marine resources and markets. The allocation of marine resources must change. I support the proposal in the report.
i-UXZJfcFvFc5a3iUSJAxQ9r	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Maria Gardfjell, for a substantial speech. I was pleased that Maria Gardfjell mentioned that there are possibilities also nationally to make a difference. It's important that we think about it. I tried to pick it up in my speech: look at the possibilities where we can actually act! As Maria Gardfjell says, we cannot wait for the situation of herring, for example. It feels good and right to try to bring it up in this nuanced way. I was thinking about something about the porpoise. When I looked in the new red list for 2020, it surprised me positively that the porpoise is actually considered viable in the Western Sea. It is incredible what actual change can happen, and then also on species. The Baltic Sea population is nothing to overwhelm, but that something positive can actually happen, we also need to see – that the situation for the environment is changing and we have a biodiversity that can give us new opportunities. Maria Gardfjell also talks about taking a holistic approach, and I welcome that. I think that would be good. But when Elin Segerlind and I discussed it, it sounded a bit like we're going to spread this out to everyone – everyone is going to have to pull up some small perch – but that's not how it works, because this is also about companies that drive issues and who wholeheartedly go into this. What does Maria Gardfjell think about that?
i-5208f3b077ad150e-701	Mr President, I would like to Of course, entrepreneurship is important, and entrepreneurship is very different. Member Betty Malmberg and I were invited to a webinarium that Eldrimner arranged for their list of problems linked to fishing. It highlighted how entrepreneurship could benefit, for example, from the possibility of several small-scale fishermen working together and obtaining joint permits. They also wanted to be able to fish more fish species to sell to restaurants. Just one such thing: fishing is so industrialized that we completely forget that there are small-scale fishermen who could fish id or other so-called junk fish, get a profit from it and perhaps develop completely new gastronomic products and opportunities for local production. I think we need to see the entrepreneurs in this. Of course, we must also see the big industrial trawlers as the entrepreneurs they are. But I do not think it is reasonable to make it so simple as to think that the fewer large trawlers we have on the market, the easier it is for the authorities to control them. I have heard that argument many times and would rather hear that we are looking at how we can get a more multifaceted entrepreneurship in this area.
i-5208f3b077ad150e-704	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Maria Gardfjell! It is precisely this argumentation and precisely this attitude that we need so much more of. The exact examples that Maria draws from Eldrimner's list of problems were also those that I mentioned in my speech. We can actually make a difference there. The Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management said: If you think there is a wrong behaviour regarding how the applications for licences are handled, you can go in and request a change in the law in the fishing law. But then it becomes a strange spin and a moment 22 where the government says it is one and or the other and so. Who's holding the takstick? It's a bit there that I think it's unclear. I would like this to be clarified and, in this way, to have a better long-term perspective and a better harmony for these companies, which still have so many obstacles ahead of them. I said that there are dark clouds on the horizon, and it is really for these entrepreneurs who have invested large sums and suffered a stoppage and that there is no herring and therefore instead choose to let their boats lie ashore. I share the view expressed by Maria Gardfjell that we must be able to deal with this side by side – all kinds of companies. But it is clear that it stings in the soul when you hear that larger trawlers are vacuuming right next to the coastline, as close as they can to the playing herring. It's not funny to take part in.
i-5208f3b077ad150e-708	Mr President, I would like to I can only agree with Betty Malmberg that these are issues that we would have to work much wider on politically. We also need to look at the difficulties that exist when the seas are exhausted and we cannot allow fishing in certain areas because we actually need to protect spawning grounds and places that are protected for the sake of the environment, marine reserves and such things. Of course, there may be problems for individual fishermen. But then one must also have a good dialogue and an understanding of how to develop different activities in such cases. Mr President, I would like to One issue I may not have raised in my speech, but as Betty Malmberg touched on a great deal in her speech is the issue of fish farms. We need to have a much sharper discussion here about which feed is used in fish farms. If fish farming is to build entirely on fishmeal from the Baltic Sea, for example, from fish that are vacuumed up with the large industrial trawls, fish farms are not very good either. We therefore need a holistic approach in which we try to develop sustainable business based on the natural resources we have.
i-L4hJEtVJVzKpvjNCi8PknV	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Maria Gardfjell, for a very interesting speech. I was thinking about a few things that the honourable Member was thinking about, especially the eel. I heard something about eel fishing being stopped. I would like to hear whether the honourable Member can elaborate on what she means. I spoke to an eel fisherman last week. From what he told us, it is certainly not the way that they fish out of the eel found in the Blekinge archipelago. On the contrary, they are concerned that it will remain for the next generation. He talked about how difficult and tough it is and that they face a lot of trouble. If he is now told that the honourable Member says that it should be stopped completely, it would be tough. It's tough enough anyway. Betty was talking about dark clouds. For eel fishermen it is almost night black. Lynchade is the wrong word, but they often feel that they are being treated very badly. It would be interesting to hear what the Green Party and the honourable Member say about it.
i-5208f3b077ad150e-715	Mr President, I would like to The Green Party calls for the introduction of a voluntary programme for the buy-back of eel fishing rights. It might sound a little weak. But there are many of those who fish eel that are older and do not necessarily want to continue fishing eel. The eel is an endangered fish. Compared to 1950, only 1 – 5 per cent of the stock remains. If you still want to close down, it might be good to be able to get compensation. It would be good if we could cut back on eel fishing as much as possible with just voluntary methods. But I would really like to go further. When we have a fish as endangered as the eel, we in Sweden should be able to do what has been done in Estonia: ban eel fishing. But Estonians are a bit like the Swedes in Skåne when it comes to the eel being on the traditional Christmas table. The problem now is that Swedish eel fishermen export eel to Estonia. I think we would need a moratorium to stop having the eel on the Christmas table, perhaps for 10 to 20 years, and then resume the tradition when stocks have recovered. But more is needed than Swedish action. Action is also needed at European level.
i-T5vFQpeYNZwC7opJVdmo4w	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Maria Gardfjell, for your answer! I am thinking that my friend the fisherman will not be very happy when he hears the honourable Member paint this horror scenario. Today there is also no voluntary approach, as the honourable Member mentioned. You can't hand it over to the next generation. It's supposed to be over there. We think that is wrong. He told us that they have a minimum size of 70 centimeters to pick up an eel, for example. So it is not that they vacuum, but they have a measure. And reach the one who picks up an eel that's a few centimeters too short. They are very careful that it should be handled in a perfect way. Many still want an eel on the Christmas table. There are eels, and in the way we fish in Sweden it is sustainable. It is important to emphasise this. Another issue on which the honourable Member was concerned is the protection of the beach. It's exciting, too. The honourable Member said that the shoreguard really needs to be strengthened instead. If I remember correctly, the Strand Protection investigation suggested that certain parts of the beach protection should cease in whole or in part. It would therefore be interesting to hear what the honourable Member is thinking. On the contrary, does the Green Party want to strengthen beach protection? I know that many municipalities, including my municipality of Ödeshög, want simplicity and lighten the beach protection because it needs to be built. It would be interesting to hear the honourable Member speak a little about the protection of the beach too.
i-5208f3b077ad150e-725	Mr President, I would like to I would also not be happy if I were an eel fisherman and knew that there was 1% left of the eel and that it was severely endangered. The risk is that those who fish eel today will not be able to fish eel at all in just a few years' time if it is completely eradicated. We really need to act now to ensure that future fishermen are able to fish and eat eel. It might take 10, 20, 30 or 50 years. I don't know. But it is perhaps more important to think about the future than to think about just the next Christmas dinner. There is a need for stronger beach protection along the Swedish coasts. It also highlights the Environmental Objectives Committee in its investigation, which highlights HaV. The reason why there is a need for stronger beach protection along Sweden's coasts is, among other things, that we now know that fish's playgrounds are strongly threatened when docks, summer cottage areas and such things are built. It's not out of devilhood that you do it. But it destroys the eel meadows and other coastal environments that are found in the water and that very strongly affect the possibility for the fish to spawn. It's not just about the buildings, the docks and things like that. This also applies to activities such as boating, watercraft and all kinds of things. There is a need for a restriction in certain areas that are currently unbuilt and untouched.
