i-2d8432b40a2ad0df-11	Madam President, I would like Larry Söder has asked me whether I will ensure that Swedish producers of impregnated wood will be allowed to operate under the same conditions as producers in other EU countries. I reply in my capacity as new Minister for the Environment and Climate Action. The Government is working with several efforts to reduce climate impact, and increased wood construction contributes to several of the Government's climate targets to reduce emissions. Wood has properties that also provide good conditions for industrial building production, a high degree of prefabrication and serial production. Wood preservatives are biocidal products containing chemical substances that prevent the degradation of wood by rot fungi or wood-destroying insects. Many wood preservatives are toxic and can harm both human health and the environment. They may contain substances such as creosote, arsenic, chromium and copper. Wood preservatives must be approved by the Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate before they can be used for impregnation. Installations for wood protection impregnation constitute environmentally hazardous activities according to the Environmental Code. Depending on the size of the volumes handled by the business, authorisation is required or a notification is made to the municipality. The major activities are covered by the Industrial Emissions Directive 2010/75/ EU. The main objective of the Industrial Emissions Directive is to prevent and limit pollution from the EU's largest industrial installations. Sectoral implementing decisions, known as BAT conclusions, impose binding requirements on the use of BAT. Wood protection impregnation is covered by the BAT conclusions for surface treatment with organic solvents, including treatment of wood and wood products with chemicals, which will apply in 2024. Regulation at EU level ensures that all activities in the EU covered by the Industrial Emissions Directive meet a common minimum level of environmental protection and thus increases the conditions for competition on more equal terms. The directive is a minimum directive, which means that Member States may impose stricter requirements at national level. In view of the risk to human health and the environment posed by wood protection, it is important that even smaller activities are subject to clear requirements. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's regulations relate to protection measures and precautions during treatment by pressure or vacuum impregnation and treatment by dipping against mould and bladder infestations. The provisions apply both to the activities covered by the Industrial Emissions Directive and to the smaller activities which are notifiable in Sweden but which are not covered by the Directive. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency is now reviewing the regulations, which have become 20 years old. The Authority states that it will review whether the regulations need to be updated on the basis of developments in the industry and also take into account the applicable BAT conclusions. The Government's ambition is that Swedish companies should have good competitive conditions while production should be sustainable and a high level of environmental protection is ensured.
i-2d8432b40a2ad0df-20	Madam President, I would like Some figures to begin with: In 2019 the forest industry had an export value of SEK 150 billion. Investments were made in Sweden for SEK 13.4 billion, and 120 000 are employed in the forest industry in Sweden. Just remember that this is not a small nutrition in Sweden. This is an extensive sector we are talking about; I think the Minister is fully aware of this. I also know that the Minister is extremely concerned about the positive development of the wooden building in Sweden and internationally. We both know that in a conservative industry like construction, change is sometimes difficult. Nevertheless, we must note that progress has been quite rapid in this area. In fact, Sweden is already, I believe, a leader in this development in Europe. Of course, as a distinct forest country, we can also become a strong exporter in this area. I would like to inform the Minister that, together with your party colleague Emma Hult, I have initiated a council in Parliament with the aim of increasing construction with wood in the outdoor environment. Together, we have also highlighted in a debate article the possibilities of using impregnated wood in city centres around the country because the alternatives often have a significant negative impact on the environment. Steel, concrete and oil-based plastic products are often used, I mean, routinely or out of old habit. I believe that we should use the materials that have the best conditions in all aspects, i.e. in terms of both mission and environmental considerations. When building with wood outdoors or in vulnerable structures, the wood product used must often be protected from rot, as the Minister says in his reply. Then it is appropriate to use a wood preservative or make a chemical modification of the wood. Some other options that give the wood a long durability and durability are not really available. Constructions where wood preservatives are not used rot quickly, and the risk of a bridge being trampled through or a playground actually becoming a danger increases. The cost of conversion is therefore also an important aspect when considering the modification of the wood that needs to be made. I see a significant risk that if we do not look up, we in Sweden will turn our backs on an industry that has the opportunity to seriously increase construction with wood around the country's municipalities and city centres. There is also a risk that Sweden's competitive opportunities will be reduced if Sweden is to have different conditions and regulations than other countries in Europe. I am referring to the fact that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency is now working on the regulations for the management of wood preservatives. Instead, the natural thing would have been to wait for the regulation which will nevertheless be dealt with within the framework of the Industrial Emissions Regulation and the best available technology, which now includes the wood protection industry in Europe through the so-called BAT conclusions, as the Minister said. I would like to ask the Minister one more time: is it not appropriate that we have the same rules as in Europe and do not make Swedish industry subject to more regulation than the competitors in Europe do?
i-2d8432b40a2ad0df-27	Madam President, I would like I want to thank Larry Söder for an important interpellation. It is good that we share the ambition to increase wood construction in Sweden. The government also has high goals for us to build more wood. We see this as a very important part of our strategy to reduce the climate and environmental impact of construction. We know that the construction sector accounts for a fifth of all emissions in our country. It is of course extremely important that we find the best technology and materials to reduce climate impact. There, the government has also decided on climate declarations for buildings, which will make it clear which buildings and which materials have the least footprint. This means that we will steer in the direction of more wood construction in Sweden. Having said that, we will of course make efforts to make steel and concrete that we use in construction more sustainable. There we now have great opportunities with, for example, the Hybrid project and the recently launched H2 project, which is about producing steel with hydrogen instead of coal, which reduces the carbon footprint enormously. There is also a roadmap for the concrete industry to become part of a fossil-free zero-emission society in the future. Wood construction will play an important role and play an important role. I do not see the risk that Larry Söder is talking about, that we would knock away the bones of the concrete industry. We have had a national regulation for a long time, and the Swedish timber construction industry has been able to withstand the competition very well. Now there will be a European work which is also about having more common rules. It will not enter into force until 2024. So we're not there yet. While we share the ambition to provide good conditions for the Swedish wood construction industry and the Swedish impregnation industry, we must also focus on the fact that there are major environmental risks with the operations. We know that several different environmental problems can arise from impregnation. It is about emissions to soil and water, and also about how to handle spills of substances that can be very dangerous to the environment and how to handle excess residues. Many wood preservatives are toxic and can cause damage, not least to aquatic organisms. There we have a lot of work to do to create a good aquatic environment and living seas. In addition, many substances are persistent and remain in the environment for a long time. Unfortunately, we have a historical archive to go back to. We have a remediation grant for the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency for contaminated areas. We have so far contributed to the rehabilitation of 128 of the most polluted areas. The most awarded items are in the sawmill and wood protection industry. There are 37 different areas that have been cleaned up by public funds precisely because they have not been able to keep these substances away from the environment. We must not repeat past mistakes; we must ensure that this is done with the necessary safety and security for human health and the environment. I do not see the risk that Larry Söder sees that we will have double regulation. As I said in my reply, smaller activities fall outside the regulation that exists at European level. Should we not have criteria from the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, they would not be subject to any requirements at all. I think that would be stupid. We need to ensure that even small operators have reasonable demands and thus carry out their environmental work. For larger businesses, it is only in 2024 that the new EU rules will enter into force. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has also clearly stated that when you review the regulations, you will have a strong focus on the EU work that is already under way and ensure that there are not different regulations but rather that the work done at EU level is also taken forward in Swedish regulation.
i-2d8432b40a2ad0df-35	Madam President, I would like It is great that you have the opportunity to set higher environmental requirements on all types of materials used, whether it is wood, steel or concrete. What is my point in this is that if we have an industry, the forest industry, with a product that exists within Sweden's borders and is actually good for the environment – we all agree that it is good for the environment with a lot of forest – we have a product that we can use in Sweden and build city centres in a completely different way, which is environmentally very good. Then I think it would be completely wrong to impose higher demands on producers in Sweden than on producers in the EU. The environment is a global problem. Therefore, I do not understand why we should impose higher environmental requirements on producers in Sweden than, for example, on them in Germany. I mean it's supposed to be the same goal for everyone. If the EU has worked out goals, we should apply them in Sweden. Here it seems that you work twice on the same ball, and I don't think it seems very good. Many with me may have the old image of wood preservatives as very environmentally dangerous and that they are not good at all. Not everyone has noticed that there has been a recent development. I mean it should also be included here. The activities are therefore not as environmentally dangerous today, and, as the Minister says, there are regulations on this that might allow us to do without higher requirements in Sweden and only to comply with the rules that exist within the EU. You can always wish for things as a Member. I would like the Minister to make it clear that we will not impose higher demands on Swedish producers than the EU places on other producers. That is to say, we are not doing anything extra in Sweden, we are doing exactly as it is in the European Union. Then the EU is happy to raise the requirements, but then it should be common requirements that apply to all producers in the EU.
i-2d8432b40a2ad0df-39	Madam President, I would like I agree with many of the conclusions presented by Larry Söder in his speech. I think it is incredibly important that we now have regulations at European level. There, Sweden is also constantly pushing for us to have rules that protect the environment and that we should also have high ambitions when the regulations are implemented. There Sweden is always a stable voice. Unfortunately, there are also countries that are struggling in the other direction, so it is important that there are voices that stand up for the environment and for human health also at European level. It's true as Larry Söder says there's a lot going on in this business. It has been a technological development that we really welcome and can enjoy jointly. It is also something that affects the regulatory framework. As I said, the regulations we have today are 20 years old, and they are based on the techniques that existed at that time and which in many cases, I believe, were much more environmentally dangerous. There is no reason to assume that a review of the regulatory framework will only lead to tougher, more far-reaching requirements and tougher rules, but it can also be the case that, in view of the technological development that has been achieved, the regulatory framework can be reviewed in another direction. Technology development isn't over now either. It continues at a very high rate. New, exciting methods are now coming to create good wood protection that is also in line with the environmental objectives we have set. One example is to use new types of wood that are more resistant in themselves. There is also pressure impregnation with linseed oil, which is a natural product that does not have these negative consequences in the form of dangerous substances that are toxic to humans and aquatic organisms. There is now also technology with heat treatment of wood, which also provides much better conditions for wood to last over time. This development is going on all the time, and we are going to support it. We will ensure that our regulations also encourage the use of the best technology from an environmental point of view. I therefore think it is a good thing to keep the regulations that apply to Swedish industries under constant review. In this case, 20 years have passed, and a lot has happened during that time. Then there is also a need to modernise the regulatory framework linked to this. I also share Larry Söder's ambition that we should sync well with the work that is going on at European level. It is important that we do not create less competitive conditions for Swedish manufacturers than we do in other EU countries. If the effect is that we reduce the use of Swedish wood products and instead import them, we have won nothing. There is also a value in, for example, short transport distances and the use of local raw materials. I think it is a good thing that, through Sweden's work, among other things, we now have much stronger regulation at European level, which regulates all major producers of impregnated timber in the EU. It is also important that we have updated regulations governing the smaller activities not covered by the EU acquis. Whether you are large-scale or small-scale, you have a potential impact on your local environment. This is also a health and safety issue. We know that many of the substances that have been used, for example, are carcinogenic, and it is important that those who work in this industry also have a working environment that protects their health. This is a work that will now continue. The Environmental Protection Agency will also look closely at the work under way at EU level and adapt its proposals accordingly.
i-2d8432b40a2ad0df-48	Madam President, I would like A single regulated EU market is what is positive. The Minister and I both think so. I take the Minister's answer as saying that it is not an ambition to impose more charges on Swedish companies than European companies do. We'll try to have a common bar, you might say. If the bar is slightly higher or slightly lower, one can always discuss it, but I see it as a positive answer. However, I can still find it problematic when the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency doubles. The EU Directive or EU rules could be used and applied directly to the Swedish parts. When you talk to municipalities and other people, you realize quite early on that information about the development of the wood industry and the innovative part that exists does not reach out at all to municipalities or those who produce our outdoor environment or create our city centres. I would like the Minister to take that with him. Can you help to inform and see how you can innovatively work with wood in city centres and outdoor environments in a more positive way? There are quite a few examples in Sweden that show how it can be done in a good way. It is a material that we have in Sweden. It's a material that's good for the environment. I think it would be very good if you could remove the fear that exists. Then you can choose materials based on the conditions. You can of course choose other materials, but I think that this information and our inherited image of how it works creates problems for the wood industry. This could be much more used in many different ways.
i-2d8432b40a2ad0df-53	Madam President, I would like Thank you again, Larry Söder, for a good discussion! We have a common ambition to increase the use of wood in construction in Sweden. It's about both housing and real estate. But it is also a question of facilities. I agree that there is value if we can create a market for sustainable wood products. There I see that there is also a great role for the public sector in public procurement. It is a question of encouraging and demanding the use of the best possible materials and technology. We can also create a foundation for even better wood protection techniques in Sweden in the future and encourage the most sustainable solutions so that we can phase out a historical environmental debt that has existed – we must admit – around wood impregnation. There are many areas in Sweden that have been – and still are – quite severely contaminated by creosote, arsenic and other very toxic substances. It is good that technological development is progressing. It is a good thing that we have now invested a great deal of resources in cleaning up these areas. But it is also good if we can continue to encourage both the construction industry and those who develop wood products to use good materials from a climate perspective and to use the best technology to avoid other environmental problems and health problems. Here I think we have a great opportunity to inform and to ensure that we create a market. My ambition is that Sweden, with the great environmental commitment that we have and with the great know-how that exists, can actually be a forerunner and show to the rest of the world that wood is a fantastic building material and a material that we can use far more to build the sustainable society of the future.
i-2d8432b40a2ad0df-58	Madam President, I would like Johan Hultberg has asked me whether I share his view that long processing times delay and jeopardise investments and measures that deliver environmental benefits and why I and the government have not done more to remedy the problem. He has also asked me whether I am prepared to introduce time-limited cases for the handling of permits and to take further steps to reform permit processes so that the processing times for environmental permits are reduced. A rapid green transition requires modern and effective permit processes, and the government has a high priority. The government appointed an investigation last autumn to review the current environmental review system and propose measures to achieve a more modern and effective review. The aim is to facilitate environmental and climate-enhancing investments and to achieve faster and simpler trial processes while ensuring the maintenance of environmental protection. The study will present its report in December 2021. As part of the work to improve the effectiveness of the environmental assessment, the Government has commissioned the relevant authorities to produce a comprehensive set of statistics for the environmental assessment. The statistics will be available in April 2021 for 2020. The statistics are important for identifying appropriate efficiency measures. A month ago, the Government proposed changes to the legal framework for the composition of the Land and Environment Court in various cases and cases in a Council of Law referral. The aim is to enable a more flexible, efficient and efficient handling of cases and cases. The legislative amendments are proposed to enter into force on 1 July 2021. In October 2020, the Government referred deadlines and point of contact to promote renewable energy production. The memorandum proposes a new law and regulation laying down time limits for certain authorisation procedures for the production of renewable electricity and a point of contact for certain authorisation procedures for the production of renewable energy in order to simplify for operators and shorten processing times. Effective licensing processes also require review authorities to be in a position to carry out their tasks. In order to shorten the processing times and strengthen the work on environmental testing and inspections, the Government proposed in the budget proposal for 2021 that the administrative appropriations of the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and the County Administrative Boards should be added to additional funds. The government has also taken several sector-specific measures. A coordinator has been appointed by the Government to promote co-ordination in efforts of importance for major start-ups and company expansions in Norrbotten and Västerbotten. The coordinator shall, if requested by relevant stakeholders, facilitate consultations and assist with coordination linked to the different review and planning processes required for industrial conversion projects in the form of major business start-ups and expansions in the counties. In January 2021, the Government commissioned the Swedish Growth Agency, in consultation with the Swedish National Agriculture Agency, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and the County Administrative Boards, to develop concrete services to streamline and simplify the registration or application of permits for environmentally hazardous activities in accordance with the Environmental Code for companies and other operators in the food chain, thus providing the conditions for an efficient and rapid case management. The services developed shall, as far as possible and appropriate, be designed in such a way as to enable the services to be used also in the testing and notification of environmentally hazardous activities other than those in the food chain. In conclusion, the Government is working intensively to modernise and streamline the environmental assessment in order to promote environmentally and climate-appropriate investments.
i-2d8432b40a2ad0df-66	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister for the Environment, for a detailed answer to my interpellation. Good luck in your new role as Minister for the Environment! It is a new Minister for the Environment, but unfortunately it is much of the same environmental policy. We will continue to criticise it from the opposition, and we will work for it to be more result-oriented. Results are very much about creating the conditions for actors to deliver environmental benefits. Unfortunately, Madam President, we see today that the environmental test itself is an obstacle to the transformation of Sweden. It takes too long for companies that want to get started with environmentally sound production and that want to help create a more sustainable future. It can be about producing important minerals and materials for electric cars, about the transition in electrification of our society or about developing more sustainable food production. Parliament has repeatedly expressed the need for reform of the Swedish environmental testing system. It needs to go much faster. It is a problem from a growth perspective but also from an environmental perspective that the review systems are time-consuming and that it discourages investors from choosing Sweden. We in the Riksdag made an announcement in 2017 that further steps need to be taken. In the past, the Alliance government had made important reforms to the environmental testing system. For example, the environmental trials had been concentrated on five land and environmental courts, and the handling of B permits had gone from being handled on all 21 county boards to 12. These were important reforms, but it is obvious that more needs to be done, as the Riksdag demanded in 2017. We also repeated the announcements in 2018 and 2019, but far too little has happened. It was mentioned that an investigation was set up. It's a good thing, but now it's really time for action. Nevertheless, I am pleased to note that the Minister gave several examples of what I perceive as concrete action on this issue, which will hopefully lead to faster environmental assessments and a better investment climate in Sweden so that, by extension, we can also as a country speed up the transformation of our society and create better conditions for all these entrepreneurs who want to both do business and actually deliver environmental benefits. At home in my constituency there is such a company that wants to do business but also help to create a more sustainable future. It is the company Smögenlax, which has carried out research and development of aquaculture and fish farming in recirculating systems that go from conventional farming in open cages – as our western neighbour is doing – to growing salmon in closed systems in a much more environmentally sustainable way. You take care of nutrient residues, recirculate and control production. This is an example of a company that is stuck in an extremely time-consuming permit process, and if they do not get their environmental permit soon, the effort will not be made. Sotenäs municipality and Sweden will not get the important initiative. This is a concrete example of how important it is for us to move forward with faster permit processes. I would therefore like to ask the Minister how he sees the possibility of setting more clear deadlines in the system for the length of different permit processes.
i-2d8432b40a2ad0df-74	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Johan Hultberg, for an important question! It is gratifying to be able to prove the opposite of what Johan Hultberg says. We have an environmental and climate policy that is a world leader and where the results also speak clearly. Now we see how emissions in Sweden are decreasing at an enormous rate, much faster than has happened historically even before the pandemic hit Sweden. The measures taken by the government thus have an effect. There you would wish that the Moderates sometimes also stood on the yes side and not only pressed the no button in all the different environmental and climate proposals that are presented. We must continue to hope for such a development. We can also see results in other ways in Sweden. Sweden is clearly a country where people want to invest. Only in recent years have we seen how 100 billion have been invested in Swedish wind power, which also means that electricity generation from wind power is increasing at an enormous rate and only within a few years will be greater than the electricity we receive from nuclear power, for example. We have Hybrid that wants to invest in one of the first steel plants without coal power, we now have H2 Green Steel that says they want to build the second steel plant without coal in the world, which will also happen in Sweden, and we have one of Europe's largest battery plants outside Skellefteå. Biorefineries are now emerging around our country, and we have built 30 000 charging points for electric vehicles, just to name a few examples of investment that there are very many of. It is clear that Sweden is well on the way to becoming what the government has set itself as its goal, namely the world's first fossil-free welfare country. That is not to say that things cannot get better, and therefore the government also has an ambitious agenda to streamline and ensure that we can get environmental permits faster and more efficient. I mentioned a long list of measures that the government has already taken, and we will continue to take steps to reduce and streamline the procedures. However, it is important to point out that this must not be done at the expense of environmental efficiency. We will try in a way that ensures that we do not get new activities that lead to severe environmental degradation or endanger human health. We must have effective trials, but they must not be worse or more flawed. We now also have the opportunity to use new tools that have not been available before, such as digitalisation, which now allows for much faster handling of cases as data between, for example, review authorities and operators can be sent more quickly. There is still a potential to do even faster investigation and case management. When it comes to the question of time-limited cases, both the county administrative boards and the land and the environment courts have set cases for processing times. It also shows the effects of moving in the right direction. In 2018, 70 per cent of the cases were completed, and in 2019 it was 76 per cent. It is an increase, and it is a very clear majority of cases that are being dealt with within the time that has been set as an objective. This is a trend that we continue to encourage, and we want to ensure that we can continue along this path. Then, as I said, we have both worked with very specific, targeted efforts and with overall work. There we now also have a major environmental review study that will look at the review system as a whole and how the work can be made more efficient in various ways. It is a work that I look forward to taking part in during the year.
i-2d8432b40a2ad0df-83	Madam President, I would like It is a crucial issue that we have both fast, reliable and predictable permit processes. Unfortunately, the business community is sounding the alarm that we do not have this in full in Sweden. This is a serious obstacle to the development of business in Sweden, and companies are also reluctant to make environmental investments in existing plants as it often requires a completely new licensing process. There, I and the Moderates think that the government should look at perhaps opening up more possibilities for change so as to be able to have faster processes. It is necessary, as the Riksdag has made clear announcements about, some kind of green fast track. Companies that are going to make investments that everyone really welcomes and wants to see must be able to get a management that allows you to quickly put the shovel on the slopes or make that change in production and facilities that might allow you to produce more but with less resources and in a more sustainable and environmentally efficient way. The Minister mentioned an extremely exciting and important project in Sweden, namely the Hybrid project. One of the greatest risks of that project – not with the project itself but that it would fall – is precisely the long processing times. Involved parties are extremely concerned that it will take too long to obtain authorisation for the investments in power lines and the infrastructure needed to obtain all the energy needed for the steelworks. That energy today consists of coal but will hopefully in the future come in the form of clean electricity and be converted into hydrogen. This is a concrete example of why the issue is so important. If we are to be able to take this big step in the transformation of our base industry, this is a strategically important issue. But it is also, as I said, an extremely important issue for smaller companies. In my last post I highlighted Smögenlax. It is a company that we have all applauded from right to left. A representative of Minister Bolund, Karolina Skog, has visited them. They were invited by the government to the UN Marine Environment Conference in 2017, as they are an example of a company that, with new technology and entrepreneurship, delivers solutions to the challenges we have. Now, however, we are faced with the fact that the company has been involved in a permit process for almost five years. They started the process in 2016 with consultations with the County Administrative Board and with the public. They submitted applications for authorisation to the Land and Environment Court in 2017 and were rejected at first instance, quite a lot because of how the Water Framework Directive is applied and implemented in Sweden. This is also an example of the fact that we need not only rapid licensing processes; we also need sensible implementation of EU legislation. It is clear here that Sweden has an over-implementation, where the Water Framework Directive is an obstacle that we do not see at all in other countries. Here it is a company that wants to grow fish with a twentieth of the environmental burden found in conventional aquaculture in open cages, as in Norway. Yet they run the risk of being rejected on the basis of environmental legislation. That is absurd, Madam President. This is an example of a company that is hard hit. If the company does not get a yes from the Land and Environment Court, the important effort risks not being made. I strongly urge the Minister to move forward. I have a specific question: will there be a proposal for the report to be presented this year during the term of office?
i-2d8432b40a2ad0df-92	Madam President, I would like On the last question, I can answer that it goes without saying that we on the part of the Green Party and the Government are not putting forward proposals for investigations just because we think it is fun but because we want to take them all the way. There, of course, is the ambition that we should take it all from the results of the investigation to also implement concrete changes. I answer yes to that question. We also work intensively to do major investigations and to give targeted assignments to authorities to work on regulatory simplification. In this context, there is a function of being supportive, simplifying different processes and creating uniform and easy tools to use. Both the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and the county administrative boards have in recent years developed guidelines to facilitate the development of documentation for authorities and operators and to consult them in an efficient and smooth way. I mentioned digital services in my previous post. There, the Swedish Agency for Growth has developed digital services that support the establishment of smaller businesses, that is, precisely what Johan Hultberg wants in his post. Sometimes you hear comparisons about Sweden having longer processing times than other countries. There is our view that it is difficult to do that type of analysis precisely because there have been too little statistics, too little knowledge, about what the environmental test looks like in Sweden and how long different processes take. As I said in my opening speech, we will get statistics during the spring that will point to what the processing times look like in reality, so that we do not have to guess – which has been a lot of in Sweden. It is assumed that it is in a different way in Sweden than in other countries. This is a big step forward because it provides a better basis for us to move forward and see where there are opportunities to streamline operations. The authorities have an important role to play. I would like to take this opportunity to ask a question back to Johan Hultberg. We have seen that if the authorities do not have sufficient resources, it is difficult for them to carry out their mission. If they do not have sufficient staff, sufficient skills, there is a risk that trials will be delayed unnecessarily. At worst, cases are being piled up because there has been no time to deal with them. Here, the Environmental Party and the Red-Green Government have ensured that there are more resources for, for example, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and the County Administrative Boards. Precisely in order to enable more efficient licensing processes, we proposed in the budget proposal for this year that the administrative appropriations of the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and the county administrative boards should be added to additional funds. We see this as a starting point for the review authorities to have the conditions they need to carry out their tasks. Here we can look at how the Moderates have managed the financial resources for environmental work in Sweden. Every time the Moderates have had to put their fingers on a budget, it has meant cuts for authorities and for environmental work in a broad sense. The budget that went through the Riksdag at the beginning of this parliamentary term is an example of how the Moderates, together with the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats, pushed through an economy that greatly weakened Sweden's environmental work and made sure that the authorities were not in a good position to work with environmental assessments, for example. Can I get a promise from Johan Hultberg that those times are over, that there will not be any further such efforts on the part of the Moderates? We all hope that the Moderates do not get the chance to shape economic policy, but if so, can Johan Hultberg guarantee that it will not be the kind of cuts that make it more difficult for authorities to pass environmental tests in an effective spirit?
i-2d8432b40a2ad0df-100	Madam President, I would like It is good to talk about the environment and the economy in a comprehensive way. Basically, one must have the same starting point in environmental policy, fiscal policy and economic policy, i.e. managing resources. Resources are not endless, and you need to ensure that you get good currency for the investments you make. It is there that the Moderates and a wide range of independent reviewers have been extremely critical of the policy pursued by the current government – the Green Party. It is too much of an expensive symbolism policy that does not deliver sufficient results. Multi-billion-dollar investments are made without proper evidence if they deliver proper climate benefits. These have been the problems with the investment aid that the Green Party has been arguing for for many decades. It was the same problem with the old Klimp money, and we have seen similar problems with the existing support schemes. It is not possible to get clear answers to whether the investments, investments made by taxpayers lead to further emission reductions. The previous environmental budget of the Moderates was larger than that of the current government, so it is not a question of our unwillingness to invest in the environment. But we are extremely keen that it should be effective and powerful investments that deliver results. As far as the judiciary is concerned, we have invested additional resources for the whole chain so that effective environmental reviews and effective court proceedings can be carried out. Let me return to the main issue of the interpellation. I would just like to emphasise that this is an important environmental issue and a question of jobs and growth. Smögenlax and other companies want to contribute to Sweden's economy, to cleaner seas and to a better environment. The Minister must ensure that these conditions are put in place.
i-2d8432b40a2ad0df-104	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Johan Hultberg for a good discussion. I am pleased that the environmental policy that Sweden pursues, including how we do environmental assessments, is obviously incredibly attractive. It is not a coincidence that Sweden becomes top of the countries year after year when you review their environmental and climate policy. Sweden always comes out as the highest country, as long as it is a red-green government. We know there have been other things in the past. We also see clear examples of how the business community wants to invest in Sweden, precisely because we have a long-term focus and that we have the conditions to make major investments in sustainable technology. One example is the investment aid that Johan Hultberg mentions where the Moderates were first opponents and now have realised the value and stand behind them. It is an example of how the Green Party is pushing environmental policy forward in a way that allows even the Moderates to eventually adapt. And that is something that we welcome. We go in with resources to enable large investments, such as Hybrid, and this means that we can find the technical solutions to build the sustainable and fossil-free welfare country Sweden – the government's vision. Johan Hultberg pretends that he can create a tulipanaros, that he can get more environmental testing with less money. It is an illusion that Johan Hultberg and the Moderates need to let go. If, as Johan Hultberg has said many times, they want better processing processes in the authorities, they must have the resources they need to carry out the environmental tests. Otherwise, the risk is that the Moderates will do exactly what I warned about at the outset, namely that they will shorten the processing times by setting lower demands and lowering environmental ambitions. I hope we agree that this is not the way forward. We will have the world's most ambitious environmental and climate policy, but we will create it together with the business community and create good conditions for sustainable investment.
i-2d8432b40a2ad0df-109	Madam President, I would like Johan Hultberg has asked me what analysis I am making of how the system of environmental sanctions has worked when it comes to maintaining the sulphur regulation's provisions on the maximum sulphur content of ship fuels and whether I see any reason to change the system. Furthermore, Johan Hultberg wonders if I and the government are prepared to commission the Coast Guard to assist the Swedish Transport Agency in monitoring the compliance of shipping with the sulphur regulation. It is deeply worrying when the rules laid down to protect human health and the environment are not being complied with. The government is therefore actively working to improve compliance. Since there are economic incentives to breach the sulphur rules, a functioning system of sanctions is needed to ensure compliance with the rules. Therefore, on 3 September 2018, the Government introduced environmental sanctions fees for infringements of the sulphur regulation, where anyone who violates the regulations may be obliged to pay an environmental sanctions fee that can amount to a maximum of SEK 500 000. Environmental sanctions charges have had a restraining effect. The measurements carried out show a high level of compliance with the provisions of the sulphur regulation. Compliance has also been strengthened over time, which is confirmed by the measurements made by Chalmers University of Technology on behalf of the Transpor t Board. In the checks carried out by the Swedish Transport Agency in 2020, the Authority was not able to identify any breaches of the Regulation. Measurements from 2019 show that more than 95 percent of all ships followed the rules even then. In order to further strengthen the retention effect of environmental sanctions, changes to environmental sanctions are planned. The Ministry of the Environment has made a proposal for a referral that will tighten environmental sanctions charges, bearing in mind that, from the end of the year, there is a stricter limit value for the sulphur content of marine fuels. The period of referral expired on 11 January this year. As usual, the Ministry will analyse the comments received. The introduction of fines has sent a clear signal to shipping companies that the government is taking this issue very seriously, and I can see that compliance with the regulatory framework has improved significantly. The planned changes can also help to strengthen compliance even more. I therefore assume that the shipowners will continue to assume their responsibilities and follow the rules that apply in Swedish waters. Overall, there is therefore no need to change supervisory responsibilities.
i-2d8432b40a2ad0df-114	Madam President, I would like As I have said, we Moderates want a result-oriented environmental policy where the focus is on ensuring that we have good environmental legislation that is also complied with. Later in this House there will be a debate on several interpellations about the plastic bag tax and the proposal made by the government there by a workshop. It is an example of bad symbolism policy. I think it is this kind of issue that a government should focus on. How can we ensure that important environmental legislation is complied with and also push international for tougher demands on shipping and other industries that have a negative impact on the environment? As far as shipping and the waters surrounding us are concerned, Sweden has gone ahead. Already in 2015, the Baltic Sea, the North Sea, the English Channel and other areas were identified as so-called SCA areas, where extremely tough rules for low sulphur fuel were introduced – 0.1 % by weight compared to the previous global rules on 3.5 % by weight, a huge difference. When that system came into place, I, and not least Swedish shipping, called for an effective sanction system to be put in place, but it was still waiting. In an interpellation debate with me in 2017, former Minister for the Environment Karolina Skog announced that a sanction system with environmental sanctions would be introduced. I welcomed that, but the proposal made by the government was far too vague and toothless. There were low fees that would be in the system – I want to remember that it was a maximum of 200 000 SEK. As was well, the government listened to the critical views that not least Swedish shipping brought forward, and it became a more powerful system of fines of up to SEK 500 000. I also welcome the message given by the Minister here in today's debate that the government is looking at further tightening up that system. I think that's important and good. But, Madam President, it is also important that the system of sanctions goes hand in hand with effective control and monitoring. The Swedish Transport Agency has the supervisory responsibility today, and they are doing a good job. They do port controls, where they measure the fuel used by ships when the ship is in port. There is a certain control or actually statistical collection that Chalmers and other actors do with sniffers. You have measuring points at the Öresund Bridge and Älvsborg Bridge, I want to remember. But you don't really control at sea. My point with this interpellation and the proposal that I am making is that we have an authority, the Coast Guard, that is like shipping at sea. Let us use the state authority, which has ships and aircraft currently used for environmental monitoring. Why not give them the task of assisting, or share supervisory responsibility with the Swedish Transport Agency? The Swedish Transport Agency has no aircraft or ships, and I think it is unreasonable for them to acquire that capacity. It is also better from an economic perspective to use the resources of the Coast Guard. I must ask the Minister why the government does not want to seize this opportunity. Why not use the resources that an existing authority already has? It would cost very little to give the Coast Guard that opportunity – it would be enough with investments in measuring equipment and other things. Then we could also create a better environment and fairer competition in shipping.
i-2d8432b40a2ad0df-123	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Johan Hultberg, for an important question! Of course, it is incredibly gratifying that we have been able to note that sulphur emissions in the sensitive marine environment of the Baltic Sea, but also in the North Sea and the Channel, have been greatly reduced thanks to the measures taken. It also shows that these regulations actually have a concrete and clear effect in terms of reducing the environmental burden on marine systems. Of course, it also affects land. So this is an important environmental measure. Therefore, I am also very pleased that we have managed to establish rules that have greatly changed the business of shipping companies to the use of better fuels and that we have a supervisory system that has an effect, i.e. actually means that shipping companies reduce their emissions. There are several ways to measure the effect. One thing that Johan Hultberg mentioned is having sniffers that sense the emissions from the chimneys to measure whether the sulphur content is too high or not. However, it is also possible to evaluate the effects on the environment and to see that the sulphur load has actually been reduced. So there are several ways of verifying and ensuring that this regulation has the effect that we have wanted. If you look at the development of emissions, you can see that it is fantastic with a dramatic reduction in a substance that we have previously had huge environmental problems with. After all, we have the principle that we set up the regulations, and then it is the authorities who have a great responsibility to ensure that the regulations are also complied with and complied with. Here the authorities have looked at various options for carrying out the review. When the sulphur directive was implemented, there was talk about the possibility of using Coast Guard flights to monitor emissions of sulphur dioxide from ships by measuring the exhaust plume from the chimneys. At that time, the Authority considered that, in order to make accurate measurements in exhaust plumes, the aircraft would have to dip down so close to the ships that it would pose a safety risk. This is an assessment that I take seriously and respect. Since we now see that all the random checks carried out show that there is no breach of the rules, we do not see any need for increased monitoring today. However, should the control need to be extended and Coast Guards be judged to be the appropriate authority, this could be done, for example, by sniffing on Coast Guard vessels. However, these are proposals that we need to analyse further in order to see whether they are really fulfilling their role. We are not supposed to implement measures unless we are convinced that they are functional and lead to change. It is a bit difficult to understand, I think, what Johan Hultberg means by the fact that the samples taken in port do not show what the reality looks like but that you would have to take samples at sea. It is difficult to see a situation where you would have different fuels when you drive at sea and when you are in port and that you would have high sulphur fuel at sea but not in port. It is the same ship we are talking about, and it is clear that random checks are being carried out. No shipowner can be sure that there will not be a check at this particular time when the ship is going to port. This also means that shipowners take great responsibility and actually make sure that low sulphur fuel is used. It is important to emphasise that Sweden is not alone in working with this. Not only is Sweden carrying out such checks, but there is a joint effort within the EU. We also have common registers where information is collected. This means that when an authority sees something and wants to warn, it can move on to Swedish authorities, who can take the information further and verify that illegal fuel is not used.
i-2d8432b40a2ad0df-133	Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, in the last speech, the Minister for the Environment exposed his ignorance in this area. I can have some understanding of that – the Minister has only been Minister for the Environment for a couple of weeks. But ships usually have not only a fuel on board, but they have fuels of different quality because there are different requirements depending on what water they are in. Given that low sulphur fuels cost significantly more than lower quality fuels and higher sulphur content, there is a strong economic incentive to use lower quality fuels. Within SECA, the sulphur content may, as stated, be 0,1 % by weight. Globally it is 0.5 per cent since 1 January 2020; previously it was 3.5 per cent. It seems that a ship may be in port and have various fuels on board, and that is quite reasonable, as I said. Within the SECA, 0.1% applies; in the oceans, if I put it that way, 0.5% applies. Of course, ships should have different fuels on board. Port control works, but I think it should be supplemented and that it would be reasonable to look at the possibilities of maritime control. I was not aware of the practical problem mentioned by the Minister that there would be a security aspect preventing Coast Guards from using their aircraft for this. I hope that technological developments have progressed in this area. I also believe, as the Minister mentioned, that there is the possibility of using the ships and sniffing on board Coast Guard vessels or even equipping drones with sniffers controlled by Coast Guard vessels. I think you should look at this possibility. I certainly share the Minister's views. At an aggregate level we have seen very good effects. Environmental legislation is enforced by the vast majority. Swedish Maritime Transport is at the forefront of environmental work and has a lot of committed members who also do more than the law prescribes and requires. They want shipping to be a green industry that plays an important role in global value flows and the global economy, but that assumes its environmental responsibility and that helps us to meet the Paris climate goals. But there's one or two bad eggs... that's the way it is in all the industries. It is also a question of maintaining fair competition. The previous measurements and reports show that some shipping companies appear to be cheating, and there have been greater problems of non-compliance when ships are leaving control areas. Therefore, I think it would be important to supplement port-based control with sea-based control. It is very possible that further investigation is needed on these issues, but a first step would be for the Minister to express the interest and willingness to look further at these opportunities. As has been said, this issue is both about the environment, about maintaining healthy competition and about ensuring that companies that comply with the legislation and perhaps even do more than the law requires are not punished, but are encouraged and that there are incentives for them to continue to drive forward environmental work.
i-2d8432b40a2ad0df-139	Madam President, I would like It is true that ships can use various forms of fuel. My point was that the fuels that are on ships when they are at sea are also there when they enter port, and then there is the opportunity for the Swedish Transport Agency to take samples of the different fuels that are on a ship. It is important to point out – so that there is no misunderstanding – that this is not the only method used. I am convinced that it is an effective method of having unannounced random checks which, in fact, means that no shipowner can feel certain that a check will not be carried out just when the vessel in question enters port, but that risk is always present. This is clearly a risk that no shipowner wants to take because it has been found that there have been no samples where the sulphur content has been too high. However, we also use other techniques, such as a sniffer located in Öresund, where the shipping traffic that goes from the oceans into the Baltic ports naturally passes. It is located on Pepparholm. It is precisely there that the sulphur content of the exhaust plume is measured on ships passing through. If the figure gives a ruling, a signal will be sent directly to the official of the Swedish Transport Agency, who is on standby, deciding whether an inspection should be carried out on the vessel in question. However, in 2020 no signals were collected from the figures in Öresund indicating that there were unauthorised sulphur levels. In addition to the work we are doing nationally, there is, as I said, international cooperation. Here we have an EU-wide register called Thetis-EU, where all sulphur checks within the Community are reported. The Swedish Transport Agency monitors this register after deviations and if you receive information that ships on their way to Swedish ports do not comply with the rules. In addition to this register, the Swedish Transport Agency also receives direct indications from other countries – in particular from Belgium, Denmark, Finland, the Netherlands and Germany – when, for example by means of a number, they capture high levels of sulphur dioxide in the exhaust plume from individual vessels. So there is a network of controls which means that we have a good review and that we know with great certainty that there are actually no illegal fuels which have too high sulphur levels in the areas where we have clear regulation. Of course, we will keep on reviewing the work. As I said in my introductory speech, we also have ongoing work to review the environmental sanctions fees so that they become even more biting. This is a piece of work that I believe we will never finish, but we must constantly review both regulations and sanctions so that we ensure that the common rules that we set up to protect our environment are actually complied with. I would like to comment on what Johan Hultberg started with. From the Green Party we see that we need to work broadly with environmental policy. We can not only look at the end-of-pipe solutions – what comes out of the exhaust pipes – but to create a sustainable society we also need to look at the whole. Then it is also a matter of looking at how we affect the use of substances that can have a negative environmental effect. If, for example, with financial incentives, we can reduce the use of substances that can be dangerous, for example, when littering, it is also a very effective way of achieving a good environment. Sometimes it can be more expensive to build large control systems and the like afterwards, when the problematic substances are already in the system. I hope that the Moderates will be prepared to reconsider and see that it is not enough just to work on this type of regulatory framework – although of course they have an incredibly important role to play, we also need to see how, for example, we can reduce the influx of dangerous substances into society from the start. There we also need to make use of tax instruments.
i-2d8432b40a2ad0df-149	Madam President, I would like The Moderates are behind the polluter-pays principle, and we think it is right to price emissions. But it is important to find incentives and pricing that are right and that ensure that you have the effects you want to achieve. As far as shipping is concerned, it goes without saying – few industries are as cross-border as shipping, and it is very much about trying to find international and global solutions. We have said that the EU's emissions trading could reasonably include maritime transport if the negotiations at UN level do not bring about global progress; that would certainly be the best thing. Now both I and the Minister for the Environment can be pleased that, in fact, at the UN level, we have managed to agree on substantially strengthened rules for global shipping. It is not only shipping in the SECA areas, for example, that is now subject to reasonable strict requirements, but there has actually been a substantial tightening up of the regulatory framework globally. This interpellation is, as I said, about us in Sweden doing what we can to develop control possibilities. I'm glad the Minister says we'll never be finished. I strongly urge the Minister to continue to look at these opportunities and to continue to push for the wider issue globally in order to get better control systems in place internationally. We know that, globally, it is very much a matter of actually not switching to better fuel, but using scrubber technology. Then it is important how these systems are used. There are two variants: closed systems, where you take care of the water, and open systems, where the ships clean the air but instead release the sulphur into the sea. It is, of course, problematic, and I urge the Minister to press for us to have good rules on this internationally.
i-2d8432b40a2ad0df-154	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Johan Hultberg, for a good debate! I am pleased that together we can see the value of tough environmental regulations. It is something that is crucial for us to be able to reach all the way in goal and to ensure that we meet what Parliament has supported, that is to say that we will hand over to the next generation an environment where we have solved the major environmental challenges and environmental problems. There, I hope we also agree that we are far from finished but need to do much more to deliver on that generational promise. Then it is necessary to build on the good examples that we can see, to continue using them and to expand them to other areas as well. The reduction of sulphur in fuel in the sensitive marine environment in the Baltic Sea is an example of how we have jointly been able to push forward a regulation that really makes a difference and which now greatly reduces the environmental impact. Then we should be aware that sulphur is one of the problems that has existed in the shipping industry. We still have other challenges that we need to face, such as emissions of nitrogen oxides, which are also a major environmental problem. Here we need to work further to ensure that shipping is also part of the sustainable, fossil-free transport sector that we want to see. I note that what Mr Hultberg is asking for in his interpellation is something that the government will deliver. We are planning to have a proposal by the end of May that will tighten the sanction system for sulphur. This will give us better and even more effective environmental sanctions in place. I'm looking forward to that. Then we can be even more sure that we can continue to have very low concentrations of sulphur from Swedish shipping and shipping in Swedish waters through regulation and supervision systems.
i-2d8432b40a2ad0df-159	Madam President, I would like Markus Wiechel has asked me, among other things, whether I am satisfied with the carrier bag tax and its design, as well as the result that followed the introduction of the carrier bag tax. In addition, he has asked me what I intend to do in order to make it easier for Swedish producers and companies that invest in being environmentally friendly. Angelica Lundberg has asked me, among other things, whether I believe that it is compatible with the aim of the tax that also biodegradable carrier bags made from renewable materials should be taxed. She has also asked me how I intend to act so that consumers who want to act environmentally friendlyly are not misled by the tax to choose products that are worse from an environmental perspective. Björn Söder has asked me, among other things, whether it is my view that even biodegradable bags, which are made from renewable raw materials and which do not cause the spread of microplastics, should be subject to the plastic bag tax. He has also asked me whether I believe it is desirable for companies that develop and produce such bags to be forced to move their businesses from Sweden. Helena Bouveng has asked me, among other things, what analysis I have made of the effects of the site bag tax and whether I intend to take any action to change the tax. Mr Westroth has asked me, among other things, whether it is my view that the tax reform has been successful or whether I intend to make any changes. The tax on plastic carrier bags is based on a substantive political agreement between the Social Democrats, the Center Party, the Liberals and the Green Party and applies from 1 May 2020. The tax is part of the government's efforts to achieve Sweden's environmental objectives and the EU's consumption target for plastic carrier bags. As I have previously replied on several occasions, e n is a prerequisite for a carrier bag to be taxed that it consists of plastic to a greater than negligible extent. It is irrelevant to the question of whether the bag is made of renewable or recycled plastic material. This is mainly due to the fact that all plastics have the same negative environmental impact as fossil plastics when littering in nature, in particular by spreading microplastics. Even so-called industrial and biodegradable plastics are broken into microplastics when littering. The bill containing the proposal for a tax on plastic carrier bags included a customary impact assessment. The estimates of revenue were subject to great uncertainty, as described in the bill, including the lack of data on the price sensitivity of consumption. With the assumptions made, gross revenues for 2020 were estimated to be SEK 1.66 billion. The result for 2020 was just over SEK 0.2 billion gross. The steering effect of the tax in combination with the impact of covid-19-pandemin on retail trade is estimated to have had a powerful effect on the consumption of plastic carrier bags. How much consumption of plastic carrier bags has changed in 2020 will be reported during the spring when the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's next report on consumption of plastic carrier bags has been completed. However, the expected reduction for 2020 is positive and in line with the objectives of the tax.
i-2d8432b40a2ad0df-168	Madam President, I would like When the plastic bag tax was introduced last year, the argument was that it would reduce the spread of microplastics and prevent plastic from entering the oceans and then into dolphins' and whales' stomachs. The tax was introduced on all plastic carrier bags, including those made of recycled plastic. Swedish consumers are now forced to pay 7 SEK for a bag to carry home their food in. The tax h is both before the introduction and now afterwards met with severe criticism. But now the treasure is taking another strange turn. A company in Helsingborg has developed a biodegradable carrier bag consisting of renewable raw materials. The kit can be used at least 50 times and is approved as a multiple bag according to the State Research Institute RISE. After having been used repeatedly, it can be thrown into the ordinary compost at home and then broken down to soil. Instead, if it is recycled by incineration, it emits 80% less CO2, just as the major climate conferences across Europe demand. It does not contribute to the spread of microplastics at all and is thus a very good substitute for the fossil plastic bag. 30 million in Swedish tax revenue has been invested in the project through the EU, and the company itself has spent huge sums of money researching its product and finding ways to reduce its environmental impact. Of course, such a good bag is freed from the government's plastic bag tax, isn't it? No, I can't believe it's not. Both the Skatteverket and the Skatterättsnämnden consider that the bag should be taxed. This has meant that a whole factory is now standing still and many jobs are being lost. If the bag is taxed, although it does not contribute to the spread of microplastics and even though it lowers emissions, the company will be forced to move its business abroad, and investments in sustainable solutions in Sweden will be lost. Not only that all the plastic that was previously collected to be recycled plastic bags now has to be burned up or placed on landfills abroad – even bags that do not contribute to any spread of microplastics and that can be broken down at home in your compost are affected. To my written question on 26 January on degradable bags without microplastics, the Minister of Finance replied that she cannot comment on an individual case, of course. But this is not about an individual case, Madam President. It is a question of whether the Minister of Finance is satisfied with how the plastic bag tax has fallen out and whether she thinks that it is compatible with the tax's aim to also fully degradable, environmentally friendly carrier bags made from renewable materials that reduce CO2 emissions during combustion and that do not risk spreading microplastics are taxed. This is where the Minister for Finance owes the answer.
i-2d8432b40a2ad0df-175	Madam President, I would like I wasn't really planning on interpelling about the plastic bag tax. Many of my good colleagues have already stood in this Chamber and made futile attempts to get the government and the Finance Minister to change their feet on this tax, which has a very limited environmental benefit while at a high price for both households and businesses. But when I read about Helsingborg's company Gaia Biomaterials I could no longer stay. And long before that I had met and discussed with the Smålandsstens-based company Trioplast from my innovative Jönköping County and the industry association Ikem who was able to show how the tax is the end of one of the best circular initiatives in Swedish commerce and industry. Madam President, I would like The recyclable plastic bag has found its place in the circular chain. First it is used to carry home purchased goods, then it may be reused and finally left for recycling or used as a garbage bag. These bags have now been replaced, among other things, with organic cotton bags, but according to the Swedish Environmental Agency in Denmark, these must be used thousands of times to be a good alternative to the recyclable plastic bag. And the hand to the heart, the Minister of Finance, how many succeed in that? Another popular option is waste bags, imported from Asia and based on fossil raw materials. I have seen this more than once in the corona adapted food queue. Last time I noticed an older lady who had these bags on the roll with her in the queue, and she looked at me and said: You may think what you want, but I don't want to pay extra tax on my scrrail pension to Magdalena Andersson. I think that's what more people think. So we have a finance minister and a government with support parties who are pleased with the reduced use of recyclable plastic bags, although the risk is obvious that they will be replaced by much worse alternatives. Madam President, I would like The use of plastic bags has decreased from year to year. People are becoming more aware and using the same bag several times. That's great. In addition, Keep Sweden Clean in its picking analyses has seen that the plastic carrier bag is very rare in our forests and lakes. And if we really want to solve the problem of plastic in the oceans, tax on Swedish recyclable plastic bags is certainly not the solution as 90 percent of the plastic, dirty plastic in addition, is the result of littering in ten rivers in Asia and Africa. I find it hard to see that you find some consumer bags there. Madam President, I would like Therefore, I wonder whether one can really call the plastic bag tax an environmental tax. Is there any credibility? Rather, does it not have absurd consequences that we absolutely do not want? Once again, we have legislation from Absurdistan.
i-2d8432b40a2ad0df-184	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. It is a little interesting that today we are three interpellets from Jönköping County in this interpellation debate with the Minister for Finance. The fact that the Minister of Finance says that the tax on plastic carrier bags has meant a reduction in sales of these bags, which is in line with the purpose of the tax, is quite true. However, the fact that tax revenue was declared uncertain in the bill because it did not know the consumer's price sensitivity and expected a decrease in sales of only 30 per cent is surely evidenced by a somewhat lack of external analysis. Already in 2002, Ireland imposed a fee on plastic bags of EUR 0.15 per plastic bag, i.e. about SEK 1.50, and sales plummeted by between 90 and 95%. The Netherlands and Wales had also introduced charges with similar results. Now it turns out that the introduced plastic bag tax in Sweden has also meant a sales reduction of about 90 percent, and of an estimated tax revenue of 1.66 billion it was only 203 million. There should therefore have been little uncertainty about the effects of plastic bag tax, especially since the bill even referred to Ireland as one of the countries that had imposed charges on plastic bags. However, the Government has revised its budget for 2021 regarding lower revenues from the plastic bag tax, but it still looks optimistic when looking at the revenues from the tax in the last months of 2020. Madam President, I would like While sales of plastic carrier bags sold in stores have collapsed, sales of plastic bags that are not taxed have increased. This mainly refers to waste bags sold on rolls in grocery stores. Among other things, Ica stated last autumn that sales of waste plastic bags on rolls had increased by 60 per cent compared with the previous year. These roller waste plastic bags are often produced from virgin fossil plastic and imported from China, a country that accounts for the greatest environmental degradation in the world. Moreover, these bags have only one purpose and are used only once, namely as a garbage bag, and after use they are probably recycled in one of Sweden's waste incineration plants. The majority of plastic carrier bags sold, and to some extent still sold, in Sweden's stores were not only used to carry home goods from the store but also had other uses. After it had served its primary purpose of carrying goods in, 75 per cent was used as a garbage bag, 20 per cent was reused as a carrier bag and about 5 per cent was thrown into the garbage for material or energy recovery. Madam President, I would like The Swedish plastic carrier bag had found its place, and it was reused several times. Now, instead, disposable bags, many times in fossil plastic, are used for garbage. Instead, many now carry home their goods from the store in paper bags. It is, of course, a better choice of materials if it ends up in nature but at the same time a worse alternative in terms of resource consumption if you look at manufacturing, transport and re-use. That the paper bag has a limited capacity to be reused once the goods were brought home from the store, I think we can all agree on. Would alternative models rather than a tax have been more successful for the environment and climate while not entailing a tax cost for households? In Finland there are voluntary agreements on minimum prices for plastic bags, and in Norway part of the plastic bag money is paid into an environmental fund that then goes to clean beaches and other environmental improvement projects. Did the government look at other solutions, and if so, why did it not allow the government to investigate the alternatives in more detail?
i-2d8432b40a2ad0df-197	Madam President, I would like The aim of the tax is to reduce microplastics in the environment. Plastic bags are a problem if they end up in nature because they are broken down into microplastics that can be dangerous to animals and nature. According to the information I have, which is the best available at the Government Office, this company does not claim that their bags will break down completely or within a reasonable time if they end up in nature. If they end up in the compost at home, it may be so, but not if they end up in the sea, for example. One of the aims of the tax is precisely to reduce the risk of microplastics in the sea. It can look different in different grocery stores, Helena Bouveng, but you don't see – at least not in the grocery store where I shop – many people who come with rolls of waste bags. However, many come with multiple plastic bags from grocery stores or other shops. Such bags are used very often, and in this way the tax is a success. The aim was to reduce disposable plastic bags purchased in the store, and this aim seems to have been met. Then there are many other environmental problems that we also need to address. This is something that the government is pushing with full force, but I do not really see the same power in either moderates or Swedish democrats.
i-2d8432b40a2ad0df-201	Madam President, I would like The Minister of Finance says that even so-called industrial and biodegradable plastics are broken into microplastics when littering. Then I would like to remind the Minister for Finance that Swedish consumers are incredibly good at recycling and that they re-use the bag that the food has been carried home several times before it is finally used as a garbage bag and then recycled again and becomes electricity and heat. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency said as late as 2013 that plastic bags are not a major environmental problem in Sweden, precisely because we are good at throwing them in the right place. The fact that plastic bags from Sweden are thrown into nature is very rare according to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency. So we do not have a littering problem with plastic bags; on the contrary, we take care of them very well. It is hardly the case that Swedish consumers go to India and dump their bags in the sea, there either. A tax on plastic bags in Sweden is therefore an extremely bad idea to solve the problem of plastic in nature. In addition, Madam President, Magdalena Andersson says that the reduction in the amount of the taxed bags that has taken place is positive. Let's take a look at it. It is true, indeed, that the use of the bags subject to tax has been greatly reduced. However, the sale of paper bags has doubled. Paper bags require more energy in their production and have a very small use after carrying their food into them. Already there they are worse for the environment. In addition, paper bags take about eight times as much space as plastic bags. This means an increase in transport to shops, with a greater environmental impact as a result. Some consumers have switched to using fabric bags. As Helena Bouveng said earlier, the Danish Environmental Board has carried out a study and has shown that the organic fabric bag is the worst choice, as it needs to be used 20 000 times to compensate for the environmental impact it has caused. And not only that, Swedish consumers still need bags to throw garbage in. This need has not magically disappeared with the government's plastic bag tax. The use of plastic bags on rolls has increased rapidly, and in one part of SVT Ica says that sales of waste bags have increased by 60 percent. Such bags are tax-exempt but spread microplastics and are often imported and made of fossil plastic. How is this positive? From a state economic point of view, the tax is a disaster. It generated only 12% of the budgeted revenue, and so it missed the target of 11⁄2 billion. It's not a small miscalculation. Studies show that the recycled plastic bag, which was previously very common in Sweden, is the bag with the lowest environmental impact. Yet the government taxes it, and also completely degradable bags, while at the same time engaging in greenwashing when it claims to do so for the sake of the environment. Or as the founder of the company with the environmentally friendly counter put it: If you don't care what a bag is made of, you don't care about the environment either. How does the Minister think that Swedish consumers should be able to choose the right thing when the government taxes those bags that are best from an environmental point of view but leave those who are the worst without taxation?
i-2d8432b40a2ad0df-209	Madam President, I would like The Minister of Finance and I may go into a little different business, what do I know, but I can only say that bags on rolls are sold considerably more now than before. What this may be due to, we probably have different opinions about. But back to Helsingborgsbolaget Gaia Biomaterials. My previous interpellation debate with the Minister of Finance concerned the illogical clothing tax – you know, the suggestion that everyone should pay SEK 40 per kilogram of shoes and clothing, whether or not they contain dangerous substances, and that the producer or seller can subsequently apply for 95% of the tax back if the clothes do not contain dangerous chemicals. This, Madam President, is about as if Arla were to pay a certain alcohol tax on beverages and then get back 95% if you can show that the milk does not contain any alcohol. In practice, there will be an alcohol tax on milk. The Minister of Finance was then tired of my usual excuses and those of the Moderates for failing to enforce environmental policy. In the debate, she also said that the business community has understood this and is now making major investments and that the business community sees that the green is the future. Good there, Minister of Finance! I can't help but agree. One such company is Gaia Biomaterials. The company has developed bags that are degradable and can be used up to 50 times, but still have to be taxed. Of course, the question arises: Why? What's the reason? Well, they look like plastic bags. The Minister of Finance's answer that they would not be degradable in the seas feels that way, because, as with the consumer bag, I do not think they will reach the seas at all. The company has invested countless billions to ensure a sustainable future through the development of new eco-friendly materials that do not contribute to either increased co-emissions or plastic litter. I can only agree with the owner in his question whether it is not strange, when the EU provides the means to develop an environmentally friendly product, that this is then taxed in Sweden. Does the Minister of Finance not see the absurdity of how the plastic bag tax has now struck? In what way can the Minister of Finance defend the fact that the development of eco-saving materials is subject to penalties in Sweden?
i-2d8432b40a2ad0df-214	Madam President, I would like In addition to targets for microplastics, the EU has set targets to reduce the number of plastic carrier bags to 40 per person per year to 2025. At the same time, it is clear from the EU Directive that Sweden and all Member States have a freedom in the implementation of systems to achieve the EU's objectives. This means that the quantitative target is horizontal at EU level but that the Member States themselves have to choose how to achieve the target in practice. Therefore, Sweden does not have to apply excise duty as a method. A month after the introduction of the plastic bag tax, a new survey from the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency showed that plastic bag consumption was actually lower than previously reported and that we were already below the EU's reduction target in 2019. The second reason for tax introduction, in addition to being able to meet the EU's objectives, was precisely to reduce litter and the presence of microplastics in nature. Of course, you can stare blindly at microplastics. But I think everyone can agree that very few of the Swedish plastic bags end up in nature. We in Sweden will of course be responsible for our emissions and recycling, and our consumer awareness is an expression of the fact that we are many who are trying to take responsibility for this issue. But it is not, as I said, in Sweden that the big problems arise with plastics in nature and the oceans. On the contrary, Sweden was in a top position when a comparison was made of how much plastic emissions each country caused. There Sweden ended up in place 18 out of 186 different countries regarding emissions of plastic per person. In fact, 90 percent of all plastics in the oceans originate from ten different river systems in the world. Eight of them are in Asia and two in Africa. These river systems flow through developing countries where there is a complete lack of infrastructure and recycling systems in the way we have in Sweden. The plastic that they dump in their rivers is the one that later ends up in the great seas where they are eaten by whales and dolphins and who are drifting around the oceans or, as we saw at the beginning of the year, washed up on Bali's paradise-like beaches. Madam President, I would like If we really wanted to make a difference with regard to the plastics in the seas, we would rather have been able to help these countries create some kind of waste management or recycling system. Does the Minister of Finance not also consider that it could be more accurate and cost-effective to focus on evaluating how climate aid could have helped to address the problems of plastic waste in those parts of the world where even the simplest systems of handling and recycling are lacking?
i-2d8432b40a2ad0df-222	Madam President, I would like The debate is a little strange. On the one hand, it argues that the tax should be designed in a different way, so that it benefits certain companies. On the other hand, you don't want the treasure at all. Then my question will be: Do the Members of Parliament think that this tax is good but want it differently designed? Or don't they want the treasure at all? If they do not want the tax at all, the question must be: how are we going to reduce the proportion of plastics that end up in nature and risk being broken down? And how are we going to meet the objectives that we have also signed up to in Europe? Eric Westroth pointed out that we do not have to apply excise duty as a method, but that it is up to the countries themselves to design the policy so that we live up to the objectives that we have jointly set in Europe to reduce plastic litter in nature. It is clear that there are other methods that are applicable. There are countries that have banned plastic bags, for example. I do not know whether that is what the Swedish Democrats are advocating instead. If so, it would be an interesting position to hear from this pulpit. Then I'm a little saddened to hear that there are bigger problems in other countries. That is quite correct. There are major problems with plastic carrier bags in other countries. But that is not a good argument for us not to reduce our litter. On the contrary, we can show you how to go ahead. Rather, the Swedish tax on plastic carrier bags, which has obviously had a very large steering effect, can show a success example of how to steer away from the use of plastic carrier bags. Having said that, I think it is a good thing that all the countries of the European Union have jointly committed themselves to reducing litter. However, we are also very much in favour of supporting other countries, through aid, in tackling environmental problems. It is also one of many reasons why we support the fact that it is important that we continue to have good aid so that we can support other countries in their climate and environmental work. At the moment, aid is incredibly important to be able to support countries so that the entire world's population is vaccinated.
i-2d8432b40a2ad0df-228	Madam President, I would like In conclusion, the government's plastic bag tax has a number of negative consequences. It means that plastic that has previously been recycled now has to be taken care of in a much worse way, which is bad for the environment. This means that the use of paper bags, which require more energy and more transport, has increased. It's bad for the environment. Sales of waste bags on rolls, often imported and made of fossil plastic, are increasing. It is bad for the environment and for Swedish companies. Swedish consumers are misled by the tax to buy products that are worse for the environment. It does not bring the money to the treasury that the government claims in its budget – not last year, and probably not this year either. Environmentally friendly projects and investments in sustainable solutions in Sweden are hampered, and companies move abroad. It is bad for the environment and for Sweden as a country. Driven and resourceful people like Åke in Helsingborg – who have spent many years developing environmentally friendly alternatives that not only put Sweden on the map as a world leader in innovation but also create Swedish jobs and contribute to reducing climate emissions – they turn away the bones and penalties. Instead, we import fossil bags from Asia and allow Asia to benefit from the environmental projects that the EU has funded with Swedish tax funds. Madam President, I would like I don't understand how anyone might think the plastic bag tax is good. It's time for the government to do the right thing. Remove the counterproductive plastic bag tax and ensure that we can focus instead on environmental measures that will make a real difference!
i-2d8432b40a2ad0df-233	Madam President, I would like I note that I received zero answers from the Minister for Finance, not least if she can defend a penalty tax on the development of eco-saving materials in Sweden, despite the fact that the EU and entrepreneurs have invested tens of millions in developing this. Madam President, I would like There is no question of business seeing the green in the future. They have done so well before us in the political world, I would say. Therefore, it would be incredibly logical for the government to listen to anyone who actually does something. Pelle Mattisson, responsible for investments in sustainability-focused growth companies at the investment company Latour, is clear that the tax has consequences for the Swedish investment climate. He says: Of course this affects us as investors. A tax such as this creates uncertainty for us when we see that the legislation does not endorse investments in the area of sustainability but rather spoils. When politics chooses to focus on tax chandeliers instead of actual conversion, it becomes difficult to invest in sustainable solutions in Sweden. We Moderates, who, according to the voters in Demoscope's latest survey, have the best environmental and climate policy, were accused by the Minister of Finance in our last debate of not being where the jobs of the future are and of saying no. We say yes to innovation, conversion, jobs and climate policy that make a real difference. The question is what the Minister for Finance and the Social Democratic Government say yes to, in addition to the introduction of environmental taxes without environmental benefits and in addition to criminal taxation of the development of environmental saving materials in Sweden.
i-2d8432b40a2ad0df-238	Madam President, I would like It is clear that if you do not have your own plastic bag recycling systems, it is of course better to ban them. But unlike these countries, Sweden has a functioning waste system for plastic bags. No, the plastic bag tax can only be seen as a revenue from inefficient and unhealthy climate taxation. The plastic bag tax is also an example of how the Laffer curve works: it is therefore not the case that a tax increase always results in a corresponding increase in tax revenue, but on the contrary, tax increases can demonstrably also lead to tax revenue reductions. Although the tax on plastic carrier bags was increased by as much as 3 SEK, tax revenues were lower than previously collected only on the VAT on plastic carrier bags. Moreover, the tax is a shining example of the fact that we will not be able to rely on similar climate taxes to be included in so-called green tax exchange. Madam President, I would like The conclusion to be drawn is that this treasure was mostly symbolic. The bags decreased in number but were replaced by worse alternatives. It was a green-washed fiscal tax that was expected to contribute significant amounts to the state budget while it felt good to say that you prevent whales from dying because of plastic bags in the abdomen. Again: The plastic carrier bags in Sweden rarely ended up in nature. Most were made in Sweden in a climate-smart way, made of recycled plastic, and they were also used more than once before energy recovery. Sweden was in line with the EU's objective of reducing plastic carrier bags. This has proved to be a bad tax on the climate. It is bad for the environment, bad for Swedish industry and bad for Swedish consumers. It is also bad for the government budget.
i-2d8432b40a2ad0df-243	Madam President, I would like The purpose of the tax was to reduce the number of disposable carrier bags in Sweden, in order to reduce the risk of them ending up in nature, disintegrates and becomes microplastics. The aim was also to live up to the commitments we have made in the European Union to reduce plastic carrier bags. I note that the tax seems to have been successful in that the sale of plastic carrier bags has been drastically reduced. Finally, I thought I'd lift my eyes a little. Sweden is going through the worst pandemic in a century. The health care staff and the elderly are working hard day and night to care for the sick and protect the elderly from infection. The pandemic has given rise to the likely worst economic downturn since the Second World War, and 100,000 employees have lost their jobs. Even more people are worried about whether their jobs will still be there. For the past year, the government and all officials in the Government Office have been working for high pressure with measures to secure resources for health care and care for the elderly, to enable rapid and effective vaccination, to save jobs and companies and to support those who, despite the government's crisis support, have become unemployed with unemployment benefit and the possibility of conversion. But the interest of the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats in such matters fades in comparison with the interest in the issue of taxes on plastic carrier bags. Since the outbreak of the pandemic, the right parties have asked me a total of 19 interpellations and written questions about the tax on plastic carrier bags. While Sweden is going through one of the worst crises in modern times, this is what the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats consider a high priority issue on the agenda. Especially strange is the behaviour of the Swedish Democrats Björn Söder and Markus Wiechel : They take up time by asking questions about plastic carrier bags, which they are in their right to do – but they can't even get here to listen to the answer.
i-2d8432b40a2ad0df-247	Madam President, I would like Niklas Wykman has asked me whether I intend to refrain from introducing the new planned tax on disposables. He has also asked whether there are any specific effects with the introduction of the tax which I would like to avoid and, if so, which. The substantive political agreement between the government parties, the Center Party and the Liberals states that a tax or fee should be imposed on disposable items. Against this background, the government set up an investigation, which in August submitted its proposals in the report Tax on Disposable Items (SOU 2020:48). The Committee Directive states that the main objective of the tax should be to support a shift towards a more resource-efficient and bio-based circular economy and to reduce the negative environmental impacts of disposable items causing littering. The report of the inquiry has been referred. The period of referral expired on 30 December 2020. The report – and comments received – is currently being prepared within the Ministry of Finance. Many industries and entrepreneurs have been severely affected economically as a result of the spread of the Corona virus, not least the restaurant industry. I and the government are closely following developments and are constantly analysing the need for adjustments and the necessary measures for business.
i-2d8432b40a2ad0df-251	Madam President, I would like Sweden and the world are in a very serious crisis. Far more than 10 000 people have lost their lives in Sweden because of the pandemic and because of the strategy that Sweden has chosen. We have global problems with the spread of infection and disease. Here at home, in our country, it is not only those who have died and their relatives who are affected. Affected are also all those who are sick, all those who worry about getting sick and all the people who are isolated, who live in loneliness and who experience mental illness. Affected are also all the people who have lost their jobs as a result of the pandemic, Madam President. In this very serious situation for Sweden, the Ministry of Finance and the Minister for Finance are putting a great deal of effort into introducing new taxes. Instead of spending time and energy on combating the pandemic and the effects of the pandemic, memos on memos from the Minister for Finance and the Ministry of Finance will further combat Swedish companies and jobs in Sweden. Madam President, I would like How can we, as a government, give priority to tax proposals on tax proposals? There is a tax on plastic bags, on disposables, on take away food and on buying a cup of coffee. How can it be a reasonable priority for Sweden at this stage to spend so much time and effort in budgetary and fiscal policy on introducing new taxes that harm jobs and growth in the country? In the current situation, the Minister of Finance, the Ministry of Finance and the entire government have put considerable effort into introducing new tax charges on take-away food and on the restaurant industry. Does the Minister of Finance seriously believe that it is right to threaten new tax charges in the very difficult situation of the restaurant industry? How can it be right at this point to say that a take away coffee should be taxed with 5 crowns? How can it be right at this point to say that takeout should be taxed with SEK 7? Many of us probably read Visita's and Sweden's bakers and conditors' article in Gothenburg – I believe it was in December – where the absurdities of this new tax were pointed out. How can the Minister of Finance think it appropriate that it should be SEK 0 in taxes on industrially packaged food sold in stores while the craftsman and chef who work and work with their own small company should be charged with SEK 7 when selling packaged food? How can the Minister of Finance feel that it is reasonable for those who enter a supermarket and buy a juice in plastic packaging to pay a tax of SEK 0 while those who go to the local bakery and buy a juice in plastic glass to pay $5 in tax? How can it be reasonable for a tax that so elaborately hits the smaller companies – against those who themselves make an effort and work – but not at all meets the large-scale industry, where the large quantities are available? What has the Minister of Finance been thinking when she has designed this treasure?
i-2d8432b40a2ad0df-258	Madam President, I would like This was part of the January agreement, and we then set up an investigation that has now been working for some time. It has come up with its proposals, which have now been referred back. Right now we are preparing the question at the Ministry of Finance, and it makes it too early to answer the questions that Niklas Wykman is asking. We are, of course, looking at the points of referral that have come in. I am well aware that the restaurant industry is having a very tough time now during the pandemic, so it is of course also information that is included in the preparation work.
i-2d8432b40a2ad0df-260	Madam President, I would like So is it the Minister of Finance's announcement here today that the tax on takeaway and coffee will not be introduced? It would be desirable for all those who work hard in restaurants and cafés to have a clear answer. Taxes are, of course, always an expense for everyone who runs a business and who works, but the threat of new taxes must also be taken into account when planning one's business. Here, the Minister of Finance lets those who run cafés and restaurants in Sweden live under very great uncertainty when it comes to whether a new tax should come. This is not the only new tax the Minister of Finance is threatening Sweden's jobs and companies. In an interview, the Minister of Finance has said that taxes on entrepreneurship should be increased. Madam President, I would like It is a world unique position in a severe and severe recession to threaten the country's jobs with more tax increases. There cannot reasonably be any other Minister of Finance acting in this way. When you see that job after job is threatened, threats come after threats from the Minister of Finance: As soon as I get the chance, I'm going to raise the tax on your business! It is not a good way to take responsibility for a country, for public finances or for safeguarding jobs and security in Sweden. Why can the Minister of Finance not just give a clear statement that this harmful tax on jobs will not be introduced? It would be very gratifying for all bakers, chefs and waiters around the country who are now worried about their jobs. How can it be reasonable when we tell the restaurant industry to switch to more takeout food at the same time to say that as soon as the chance is given, we will introduce a tax on this particular thing? It makes it unprofitable to invest in different types of technologies and opportunities to sell just takeout if you know that next year this market will be destroyed by very high taxes. Then it becomes unprofitable here and now to switch to that kind of business. The Minister of Finance must reasonably understand that taxes have effects of this kind and that uncertainties and no information contribute to the threat and disappearance of jobs. It is difficult to understand the logic of the Finance Minister behind fiscal policy. It's like you want to tax the very essence of what's most Swedish. It's hard taxes on work, hard taxes on cars from Volvo, hard taxes on curiosity about the future and the world around it – and now a brand new tax on Swedish coffee. Why does the Minister of Finance want to tax what is Swedish so hard?
i-2d8432b40a2ad0df-268	Madam President, I would like If I were moderate, I would be somewhat cautious about talking about both jobs and public finances. We all know that the three times that the Moderates have had influence and held until or been in government power have left behind state finances with large deficits, which we Social Democrats have then had to ensure that order is brought about again. That's what the story looks like. As far as jobs are concerned, I can see that even now, in the greatest economic downturn since the Second World War, employment is higher than when the Moderates ruled. Niklas Wykman says he stands up for the most Swedish there is. But the tax change that I think he is now thinking about is that I am in favour of changing the 3:12 rules, is about a tax that mainly hits the richest percentage. What is sordid, Niklas Wykman, with the richest percentage being involved in contributing a little more to our elderly to have a safe elderly care?
i-2d8432b40a2ad0df-271	Madam President, I would like The Minister of Finance does not explain why Sweden is in a vulnerable position to present new taxes on assembly lines. How has the Minister of Finance reasoned when she has judged it right to investigate, introduce or propose a large amount of new taxes while we are in a global pandemic and in a recession? The Minister of Finance does not give any information to the restaurants, cafeterias and cafés that need a reply in order to increase the conversion of their operations to sell more of the Takeaway products. Madam President, I would like The hospitality industry, restaurants and cafés are now in a very critical position, where they are in great need of selling more takeaway products in order to survive. At the same time, the Minister of Finance says: As soon as the possibility is given, this type of product will be taxed very heavily. How, then, can the Minister of Finance imagine that these companies will be able to invest in the necessary transition? How can the Minister of Finance think it is reasonable to propose a tax that will affect a juice bought at the local coffee shop with 5 crowns, but the tax will be 0 crowns if you go in and buy a plastic box in the store next door? How can the Minister of Finance propose a tax that makes it cost 7 SEK for the local restaurant to sell a takeaway but 0 SEK for the same packaging in the shop with industrial food? What's the Minister of Finance thinking here?
i-2d8432b40a2ad0df-275	Madam President, I would like If it were the case that the government had finished preparing the report, I would be happy to answer Niklas Wykman's questions. But we are not, but the question is still being prepared in the Government Office. We are looking at and analysing right now the referrals that have come in, and we are of course well aware of how extremely tough it is right now in the restaurant business. That's what we're thinking. That is also why we have come with great support for the restaurant industry, which is one of the sectors that, fortunately, have been able to take most part in crisis aid. On the other hand, I did not receive an answer from Niklas Wykman to my question, namely what he sees as being so ostensibly that the richest percentage will contribute more to security and a good old age for our elderly. There it was very quiet.
i-2d8432b40a2ad0df-278	Madam President, I would like Alexandra Anstrell has asked the Minister for the Interior what he and the Government intend to do to improve for farmers so that in the event of a crisis or war we become more robust in terms of access to fuel, and what decisions the Government intends to take in the near future so that Sweden in general can have a better and more robust fuel supply. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. I should like to begin by saying that virtually all sectors that use transport and machines share the dependence of agriculture on fuel. I also note that the Government fully shares Alexandra Anstrell's assessment that measures are needed to strengthen the country's preparedness capacity. The Government therefore proposed in the budget proposal for 2021 that the Swedish Energy Agency's administrative allocation should be increased by SEK 72 million during the period 2021 to 2023. The increase in appropriations shall be used for the intensification of civil defence reconstruction, where fuel readiness is a self-evident and central component. In addition, the Government proposed to strengthen the Swedish Energy Agency's appropriations by an additional SEK 23 million for the same period of time and purpose. The Parliament has made decisions in accordance with the Government's proposal. The question of how best to strengthen preparedness for a secure fuel supply is complex and involves analysis of several systems, such as fuel availability, logistics and storage issues, the robustness of payment systems and the link with our neighbours. The issues should therefore be addressed together, and the Swedish Energy Agency reported on 10 February this year in the report from the mission on total defence planning and strengthening of total defence that it has developed a multi-annual development programme for Sweden's fuel preparedness that will result in proposals and measures that prevent and mitigate disruptions and disruptions in fuel supply and take into account the energy transition. As far as security of supply is concerned, the Government has announced that it intends to set up an investigation into what national coordinated security of supply should cover and how it should be organised and financed.
i-2d8432b40a2ad0df-283	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. The fuel supply has two primary and critical functions: to supply vehicles and thus enable the majority of transport in society, both in everyday life and in crisis and increased preparedness, and to supply backup power in crisis and increased preparedness. Satisfactory provision is a prerequisite for society to maintain its functionality. I wrote this interpellation on the basis that the Monitoring and Evaluation Group of the Committee on Agriculture and the Environment recently presented the report on the vulnerability of agriculture – a follow-up. The report's focus is on Swedish food production and questions about the level of supply and how primary production would cope with different crisis and deficiency situations. The report shows that there are many risks of vulnerability, but lack of fuel is the most prominent risk of vulnerability. The follow-up shows that there are, of course, a variety of risks of vulnerability in agriculture. In addition to the vulnerabilities of a shortage of fuel and electricity, monitoring shows that there is a risk that, for example, there may be too much or too little water, that it may be difficult to find the right staff and that there may be too few food facilities. Farmers' fears are the risk of a shortage of fuel, especially diesel. Working machines currently used by farmers are almost exclusively driven by diesel, and if farmers do not have access to fuel, production stops. Then there will be no food and potatoes. The diesel available is mostly imported. An undisturbed flow of goods and services both within the country and from other countries will probably not be able to be maintained during war or war danger. A disruption or interruption of supply flows may thus affect large parts of society. The Swedish Armed Forces are also highly dependent on the functioning of the rest of society in order to be able to carry out their activities. Madam President, I would like So we are talking about the bulk of transport in society and increasing back-up power, for example in order to deliver food to our stores, be able to deliver food and medical supplies to our hospitals and be able to have heat and cook for our elderly, our sick and our children. With all this in mind, I asked the Minister a few questions. One was what the government intends to do to improve for farmers so that, in the event of a crisis or war, we become more robust in terms of access to fuel. The second was what decisions the Government intends to take in the near future in order for Sweden as a whole to be able to get a better and more robust fuel supply. Strengthening the Energy Agency, as the Minister mentions, is, of course, a good thing. But not so much is in the near future that actually gives us a better and more robust fuel supply. What is it that makes the government both late on the ball and find it difficult to come up with any decisions? Another angle is, of course, the supply of electricity. If we don't have enough electricity, we can't pump out any fuel. Then you can't charge. What's taking so long? What is it that keeps us so late on the ball when it comes to having a stand-by?
i-2d8432b40a2ad0df-294	Madam President, I would like Alexandra Anstrell wants to claim that the government is late on the ball and is late. None of this is consistent with the truth. We have good planning for the fuel supply in Sweden and have had it for many years. With the new total defence planning, we have reviewed the issue again, and the Swedish Energy Agency will develop a multi-annual programme to ensure further strengthening of supply. We have a system that basically relies on large suppliers storing fuel for an intended period in order to cope with supply chain disruptions. In the longer term, I think it would be good if a larger part of the Swedish fuel supply could be produced internally, in Sweden. We are currently dependent on production in the Middle East, in Russia and in other countries for our fuel supply. This is, of course, an unfortunate development for a number of reasons. When it comes to electricity, Sweden has the largest electricity surpluses ever. When the TSOs, i.e. transmission operators, in Europe recently compiled the situation for the next 20 years, it showed that Sweden was better supplied than most other countries. When the International Energy Council did the corresponding ranking of electricity grid systems, Sweden was the second best in the world, I think. Unlike, for example, our neighbour Finland, who is dependent on net imports despite a number of reactors, we now have the greatest surpluses and exports ever. It is, of course, pleasing to our security of supply in all respects.
i-2d8432b40a2ad0df-298	Madam President, I would like We need a safe fuel supply throughout Sweden, but not least here in the Mälar region. We now have this in view of the decision that came about the operation of Berg in Nacka, which will last until 2032. But what happens after 2032? Emergency stocks are held in the normal storage facilities of the undertakings responsible for storage, together with the commercial stocks which the companies keep beyond their storage obligations, just as the Minister was. This ensures the ongoing turnover of the emergency storage facility and curant quality. A large part of the companies' total stockpiling is thus our emergency stocks. Decommissioning of fuel depots without additional storage capacity would result in a reduction in the physical storage capacity of the undertakings concerned and in less opportunities for them to maintain the storage readiness in the area of consumption, and thus in a less efficient supply of essential activities in the event of a crisis or an increase in preparedness. The year 2032 may seem far away. The Minister and I seem to disagree about the pace and the possibility of taking decisions in the government, Madam President, but my experience is that the government's decision-making capacity is rather slow. Then it's actually not that long until 2032 to play on. There are many stakeholders in this because, of course, we need to make balanced decisions between safe fuel supply and regional urban development. Emergency stocks that should be available to the country in the event of serious supply disruptions are, together with the possibility to resort to rationing society's most important protection against a supply crisis in the field of fuels and other fuels. We need to be able to drive food out to our stores, and we need to be able to cook for our elderly, our sick, and our children. Are these layers in the right places? Are they quite dimensioned? Out in Europe, they seem to be more dense than they do in Sweden. That we need stock in Stockholm is clear. The question is what kind of plan the government actually has after 2032. Because access to and dependence on electricity is so central to our society, reserve power, mainly through diesel or petrol electric generators, is a very common and important function for maintaining social importance in the event of the disruption of ordinary electricity supply. For example, you should be able to operate a hospital even if the electricity has gone. Does the Minister have an overall picture of the society's total need for back-up power and what capacity is actually installed and functioning and of the fuel consumption that would be necessary in a crisis situation to keep the units running?
i-2d8432b40a2ad0df-306	Madam President, I would like It is precisely against this background that the government and later the Riksdag have increased the funding for the Swedish Energy Agency to take a comprehensive approach to the issue and explain how the plans will be updated for the future. That mission will be delivered well before 2032, as was well the year Alexandra Anstrell said. As I said in my previous reply, this is a complex issue in which not only part of the fuel supply can be broken out, but all parts of the chain must work in order for us to have a safe and secure fuel supply. Today, this is mostly fossil. We will see what the Swedish Energy Agency will come up with in terms of the future share of fossil fuels. As long as it is fossil we are dependent for some time on contacts with the outside world because the fossil production in Sweden of petrol and diesel is diminutive. It would therefore be desirable if we had the production capacity of fuels in Sweden. However, it may be less suitable for storage, but the production capacity is probably very good to have if Sweden in a major crisis event or war situation should be cut off from the outside world.
i-2d8432b40a2ad0df-308	Madam President, I would like I think we'll always depend on contacts with the outside world, or I hope so, because I think it's developing. I was convinced that we also need a safe fuel supply in Mälardalen, and now the Minister is saying that we will not have to have any problems after 2032. I'm not so sure about that. I think you would have had to start working on that question a long time ago. The Swedish Energy Agency has been commissioned to investigate, and it has investigated and will investigate and will investigate. Already in 2014, there was good basis for the Mälar region to have a safe fuel supply. Yet there will be even more investigation and even more. The Minister also refers to the fact that we have an electricity surplus in Sweden. That may be the case, but it still doesn't work the way you've planned. Yet we have companies in Skåne and in the Mälar region that actually can't switch up their production and then can't help creating the new jobs that we so well need and that we might need even more now to be able to make a new start after the coronapandemine. I do not understand how the Minister can beat his chest and say that we have a surplus of electricity if it does not work out with our entrepreneurs and our citizens. I also asked whether decisions will be made in the near future. I still have no answer to that. I wonder, then, as a final question to the Minister: how long will this be investigated, and when can we see some decisions on the issue of emergency stocks?
i-2d8432b40a2ad0df-314	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by giving Alexandra Anstrell a mistake in the description of the Swedish energy system. I have now been Minister of Energy for three years, and I have also taken note of the tasks expressed by Alexandra Anstrell. But I can also say that I have spoken to the network operators in each of the cases mentioned in the newspapers. None of these companies have been denied accession or expansion. We have taken a joint initiative by the government and the energy industry to ensure short-term impact. My hope is that the Moderates will end up behind it when the bill is again on the table of the Riksdag. Both in Stockholm and Malmö, the regional network operator acknowledges that all those who wish to join can join. It is of course gratifying, because it is not only the case that we should have an electricity surplus, which we have – the biggest ever – but we should also ensure that we can exchange that electricity surplus in new jobs and new companies, as we do. Northvolt, Europe's largest battery park, is established in Sweden. Hybrid, the world's first carbon-free steel, is established in Sweden. Recently, they got a new competitor in the steel industry. Electricity-intensive industry across Europe looks at Sweden as a place to locate. Why? We have large assets of electricity, we have safe distribution and we have Europe's lowest electricity prices for industry. I have now presented in two replies to the Authority's mandate given to the Energy Agency and the budget enhancement received by the Authority. Once the agency has completed that task, we will also prepare the concrete proposals that will be made.
i-2d8432b40a2ad0df-319	Madam President, I would like Ida Drougge has asked me what I intend to do to help hopefully this year run Lidingöloppet, cycle Vätternrundan or swim the Vansbrosimmet in an infectious way and how I intend to compensate the organizers if the events cannot be carried out. Edward Riedl has asked me whether I would like to work to ensure that the government accedes to the proposal mentioned in the interpellation from the Moderates for better and more comprehensive support for culture and sport or what I intend to do to compensate and support these events. Let me begin by thanking Members for their commitment to culture and sport. Living cultural life and a strong sports movement are extremely important for our common well-being and individual lives, not least during the pandemic. That is why, throughout the pandemic, I have had a close dialogue with cultural life and the sports movement in order to ensure that activities that have been able to be carried out in a safe manner as far as possible have also been maintained. This is also why the government has contributed and continues to provide specific crisis support to culture and sport in addition to the general support that has gone out for jobs and entrepreneurship. The Coronandemine has had a major impact on culture, sport and the rest of civil society. I and the government have a close dialogue with relevant actors and a good picture of the situation in which culture and sport find themselves, and we act accordingly. We have seen it as important to support these sectors and are constantly looking at the need for further action. Today's consultation time for the Government's proposal for a new regulatory framework for general meetings and public events ends. This includes proposals for new restrictions on the maximum number of allowed participants, taking into account whether the event is organised indoors, indoors with a sitting audience or outdoors. It is also proposed to make specific provision for sports races and similar sporting competitions. When the contamination situation allows, these activities shall be gradually opened up. In its referral, the Public Health Authority will assess when it is possible for the new rules to enter into force.
i-2d8432b40a2ad0df-325	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. With 2020 in its back, there are, to say the least, many actors in the field of sport and culture who have it very cleverly. Even if it is achieved through adjustments and the support that many municipalities have provided to complement what the government has done, the situation is difficult to progress. It is of course good that the government develops and adapts guidelines so that you can carry out races with different types of adaptations. But we still don't know what the contagion situation will be like this summer and this autumn. Although it is possible to make adjustments or if it is not possible to implement any of these proposals at all, unfortunately, this type of proposal has no effect on these actors. After the autumn we risk having cancelled races, youth cups, festivals and events and actors who are going bankrupt because of it. Therefore, we Moderates in close cooperation with stakeholders have developed a proposal that would allow them now to plan for the implementation of, for example, Lidingöloppet or Vätternrundan, that kind of arrangement. Those plans have already begun. Planning normally starts the day after a race is completed. Then you start planning and also collect costs for next year's activity. So it's happening now. If they are going to be able to plan for a situation in the autumn when the spread of the disease is hopefully slightly lower and still survive if it does not, the kind of proposals that we have produced are needed, and that we fortunately have the support of a majority in the Riksdag.
i-2d8432b40a2ad0df-330	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. As my colleague described, the Moderates, together with the actors in both culture and sport, have produced a very broad proposal for support. We actually started that work and had the first meetings in summer 2020, but before Christmas we began to come up with a more active proposal on how to save the important cultural and sporting events that I know both I and the Minister for Culture and many others want to remain after the crisis. The background is that the support that the government has had so far has been good, but it has been far from sufficient if you want these parts to survive the pandemic. Yesterday we met in committee with one of the state secretaries, and I hear how the Minister for Culture also describes it. It is easy to believe that the proposal for support developed by the Moderates is about re-opening society to rock concerts, festivals, sports races and more. The problem is that all this is already going on, Madam President. My colleague Ida Drougge described it as well. It's all going on. When I talk to the actors, they say that the costs of the events due to take place this summer are greater today than a traditional year, because they work closely with the disease protection to ensure different scenarios for implementation. Sometimes it sounds to the government and government representatives like nothing happens and you wait for the summer. But this work is ongoing, and costs are being built up. There are quite a lot of costs. There was a good article yesterday. This is about tens of billions lost by the cultural and sports sector. It is heavy for the various actors. It is from what the Moderates have produced the proposal. We have looked and looked out into Europe where both red and green and blue governments, at least governments of different colours, are developing similar support in different ways to ensure that important cultural and sporting events will survive the pandemic. Madam President, I would like I therefore find it difficult to understand why the Minister and the Government, also in other contexts where we talk to the Government, do not want to contribute to this work. We have stretched out one hand, and it is genuinely meant. A majority in the Riksdag's Finance Committee is in favour of the proposal. But we would like the government to be in on this. If there is anything we can do to improve the proposal before it comes as a mission to the government, we are happy to do so. But then the government must also say what it wants to be done, Madam President. One of the things I have heard from the government is that the proposal is too detailed. The lower limit is not considered to be good enough either. Then I have a question for the Minister, Madam President. The Moderates have not set a lower limit in the proposal. We have said that the government should develop it in consultation with the cultural and sports players. So we have a very open view of improving the proposal together with the government. This support needs to be put in place now. It's about Vätternrundan, it's about Sweden Rock, it's about Lidingöloppet and it's about Brännbolic Acid in Umeå, from which I come. It's about things that most people like. Not everyone likes everything, but most of us like at least one of the different arrangements and want them to stay. I wish the government could say: The Moderates have made a proposal. We would like to contribute and make it as good as possible. I would hope so, Madam President.
i-2d8432b40a2ad0df-339	Madam President, I would like I would like to repeat what I said at the beginning. I really mean it. It is a very good thing that these issues are being discussed and that several parties in this House are engaging and producing different types of proposals. It has always characterized the government's work to both look at what we have done and see if we can adjust anything to have the best possible effect. I want to adjust the picture that is being given a little bit. First of all, of course, it is not in the way that the government does not see that things are being done. There's a lot going on. It's been like that all along. These include being able to adapt to the situation and to carry out as much cultural and sporting events as possible within the limits. First it was 500, then it was 50 and now it's 8. Much has been about switching to digital events or having hybrid arrangements of different kinds. It's everything from exercising through apps in your own place to being able to follow shows or concerts via streaming. Of course it's hard. Some types of events are created to be experienced live. It is a special feeling in a live concert or performing arts performance. Running a race, for example, still gives a slightly different feeling when you do it with several others around you in the track. Madam President, I would like The support we have already had has not merely been aimed at survival. They have been flexible in their design in such a way that they have been able to compensate for loss of revenue but have also been aid to production. We had special support for cancelled and postponed events via the Swedish Arts Council. The purpose was really what the Moderates' proposal is now about. The thing is that there are now no ready-made events that are cancelled or postponed. Now you're in a situation where you're planning for the future. However, the purpose of that aid was the same. We went in with great support that has saved operators and businesses from bankruptcy and has enabled them to retain employees and start planning for the next season and a possible reopening. What I want to do with it is to understand that our goal is the same: to secure important infrastructure – in associations and business, in culture and sport – and to ensure that there is staffing and the opportunity to continue working. In the field of culture and sport, there are a great many activities that are having a tough time. But at least we have avoided the worst waves of bankruptcy in those businesses. We have key competences that remain, and we will continue to work for that. It's hugely important. Before Christmas, we were able to present further crisis support for culture and sport until February. We have a start-up billion for culture this year. I think we all see that the crisis is still huge. We will have to continue to support culture and sport. I am very pleased with the commitment of the Moderates on this issue, because I think we parties need to hook arms here. We need dialogue and cooperation with our municipal and regional political colleagues. We need to realize that this is going to take time. We need perseverance in supporting our cultural and sports sector. Then the proposal can be discussed. The process is still ongoing within the Committee on Finance. I cannot, of course, enter into any budget decisions or negotiations. But you can always discuss in substance which model is the best. How big an event is it reasonable that we support to get planning started? We have just sent out the proposals for referrals and are waiting to receive referrals from the Public Health Agency on how events could be planned based on different levels of contamination. It is about what levels are reasonable and when. When we have it on the table, it may also be a little easier to see how we can best support those who will get to the events, so that we get culture and sport to people and so that we have events to experience as soon as possible.
i-2d8432b40a2ad0df-347	Madam President, I would like I also think, of course, that it is fun to discuss these issues, and perhaps even more so when, in such situations, it can become clear what is the difference between different types of proposals. On this subject, I would like to highlight the fact that there is a difference between trying to save companies, organisations and associations from bankruptcy afterwards and giving rules of the game in advance. The latter provides predictability and security. I wish the Minister could take this in. As the Minister is concerned, we do not know what the spread of the disease and the situation are. A proposal, like what we have, that the state should take 70% of the fixed costs incurred by operators if they need to severely limit or cancel events, would provide security for operators in their financial planning. I can take, for example, Lidingöloppet, an actor in whom I have a little more insight. Our proposal would provide security for the owner clubs that have gone in with funds and support the business and for the associations that depend on Lidingöloppet because it normally provides an additional annual revenue for them. It would also provide security for ticket buyers, who can think: I buy this ticket now and keep my fingers crossed because the disease control situation is good this autumn, so that I can carry out my race. But if I can't, I know I can get my money back. There is a big difference, I would say, between trying to save companies, organisations and so on afterwards and giving clear and good rules in advance. I would like to hear how the Minister views that difference between these proposals.
i-2d8432b40a2ad0df-351	Madam President, I would like What the Minister for Culture has to say about implementing arrangements within the limits that exist, I think, is a good thing. I think most people think so. If you can implement things in a disease-proof way, that's a good thing. It should form the basis for all the work we do, that is, how we limit the infection together but still can carry out various activities. That is of course very good, and the Pandemic Act provides additional opportunities for this. We very much hope that this will be better. Madam President, I would like However, the Minister for Culture is not responding to the extended hand. It is a question of contributing to this work, and it is linked to the proposal for which the Moderates now have a majority in the Committee on Finance. The question is frankly asked. We think it will be better if more parties participate and contribute. We have extended a hand to the government and said that we have a majority, but that the majority we are keen to invite the government to try to see if we can do things even better. It is nevertheless the government that will then be given the task, whether it is present or not, so it is clear that it is better if the government wants to participate in that work. This is genuinely meant, and I wish, Madam President, that the Minister for Culture could reply: In this we have been honest. What it is basically about is that we have sat down with all sorts of different actors in sport and culture, such as the Theatre Association, the Swedish Association of Musicians, Swedish Elite Football and Swedish Sports Races – you can mention as many as you like – to discuss what the situation is and what the problem is. The problem is that all the work I described is going on. Sometimes when I hear the government, I get very confused. The planning is in full swing. The costs are being worked up for what is going to happen this summer, right now even more than a normal year, given that you try to plan for different scenarios and have a lot of meetings – with the police, concerning infectious diseases and so on – all to implement this as safely and well as possible. When you do all this, you also have to think of a situation where you cannot fully or partially implement the arrangement. In the back you have a tough 2020, when you had to take huge financial costs. If, then, the small margins left behind are affected by these increased costs, you simply will not be able to make it. In a number of countries in Europe there is support similar to what the Moderates have proposed. That is also what culture and sport are asking for. The support that the government has produced in the field of culture and sport is not something that we intend to remove, Madam President, but we think they are good. This is a complement, but it needs to be scaled up in order to be there for those who could theoretically be hit quite hard. That is why we propose 31⁄2 billion to that package. We have also said that we are prepared to both scale up the aid if necessary and extend it if necessary, all in order to ensure that the cultural and sporting offer that we all want remains after the pandemic. Madam President, I would like I hope that the Minister for Culture can answer my questions: does the government want to contribute to this work before you get the assignment? Isn't it better to help – before you have a complete assignment from the Riksdag – and say how you would like it to be improved?
i-2d8432b40a2ad0df-357	Madam President, I would like I get the impression that Edward Riedl feels that the government is not working. We are, of course, working on these issues. I cannot take account of the process currently taking place in the Committee on Finance, nor of the budgetary negotiations. However, I would like to emphasise once again that it makes me very happy when concrete proposals come up on the table, whether they come from political parties or from the industry. Edward Riedl came in a little on the idea that these are, of course, proposals that are partly complementary to each other in character and form. I think it's good that Edward Riedl said that. The support we have given to the Swedish Arts Council, which is to be distributed to organisers of concerts as well as festivals and performing arts events around the country, has a degree of flexibility in its structure. It's about the survival of organizers. It is about operating support for actors, so that they can have employees and continue working and working. It is also about supporting production. I fully share the picture that is highlighted here that what the industry is asking for is both being able to get support in order to get started and, to the extent possible, conditions that are ready in advance so that you know what to plan. If you are a commercial player who usually needs 1,000 people in a salon to walk around, you may be able to receive only 300 when you are planning for this. You may never have received public support before. Then an operating grant or aid for production is absolutely crucial in order to dare to start anything at all. There may only be 300 people in the salon, but you can still keep the production going, plan for it and implement it. I want to think it's good. We must ensure that there is culture throughout the country, events and concerts, even if it is on a smaller scale than it usually is. We long for culture. We want experiences. We long for sport and that there will be races to be carried out even if it cannot be the thousands of people in a mass start. It may be a little fewer, and you can combine it with digital solutions even for some time to come. None of us believe that we will be able to go from 0 to 100% right away. What one might think about in the Moderates' proposal is: What size of events are things that we should actively encourage with issuing guarantees this way before a summer when we know that the pandemic will still affect us? That is why I will come back to the Pandemic Act and the rules of the game that hopefully we will soon be able to get on the table. What does the Swedish Public Health Agency see before you could take a first step? How could a second and third step be based on different levels of infection? We have given this task to the Public Health Agency to return to. It is reasonable to ask the question: how large an event should we encourage it to be planned for in relative proximity in a situation where the pandemic is still around us? I understand the intent behind the Moderate proposals. There is now a process in progress on this in the Committee on Finance, which, as I said, I should not go ahead with. But we can't send out a signal that makes you think you can plan for very big events within quite a short time when we haven't even realized how the Public Health Agency sees about the coming months. Madam President, I would like However, I mean – and we have already done so, and I think we need to continue to do so – that we need to support the sports movement, the cultural sector and the entertainment sector in being able to plan for events that are perhaps on a slightly smaller scale where you usually need a larger scale to go around. That's where the public can go in. Of course, that money and resources are needed before they can be planned at all. Not everyone has the big capital in their backs and has the prerequisite to get started. We need a variety of support; that is it.
i-2d8432b40a2ad0df-367	Madam President, I would like We assume that we Moderates, as it does exist, are behind the other types of aid that the government has already decided on and which are in place. This discussion is about what is beyond that. Let's start there. Then there is the extended hand of the Finance Committee, of the Moderates and the other parties, which are now a majority and stand up for this proposal. When the Minister says that you do not want to go ahead with the Committee on Finance, I do not really understand what she means, Madam President. There is an extended hand from the Finance Committee. There is now work on the matter. One may well sit down and discuss details. After such a discussion and negotiation, the committee may also change the proposal that is finally made and that is decided by the Parliament. Well, then you don't have to rip anything off. Then you've worked together. That possibility now exists. The Minister also says: We understand that stakeholders are planning today, but we do not want to actively encourage. There's a cleavage in it that doesn't really make sense. Actors are planning now. With our proposal you can be responsible, straight in the back, later this autumn or this summer if necessary, completely cancel events. Nevertheless, there is more complete support for these players. Then you can do what is required from the point of view of disease protection without having to have a guilty conscience and later get even greater costs when trying to restart those events and actors after they have gone bankrupt.
i-2d8432b40a2ad0df-372	Madam President, I would like Let me begin by thanking the Minister for a good debate, a good talk, or how you want to express yourself. I have no doubt at all about the intentions of the Minister for Culture to ensure that the cultural and sporting offerings are maintained after the pandemic. Let me also say that the government has already done some good things. What we say on behalf of the Moderates – and now a majority in the Finance Committee – is that more needs to be done. Additional resources are needed to ensure that the various popular arrangements are maintained after the pandemic. I hope that the Minister for Culture – although she cannot say it in the speaker's chair – will succeed in convincing the rest of the government of the need for this. She could also send a signal to her ministerial colleagues who are or could be involved in the preparation of the matter in the Committee on Finance. They are very welcome to let us know if there are things that they want to improve in the proposal. We're totally open to that. It's better to do things together. The Minister is into this with the size of the arrangements and that one does not want to encourage. SVT made a pretty good compilation that I recommend the minister to look at, if she hasn't already seen it. These are events such as Way out West, Summerburst, Lollapalooza, Sweden Rock Festival, Uppsala Reggae Festival, Storsjöyran, Dansbandsveckan in Malung and Brännbolic acid in Umeå. I can continue to list them. It's pretty big arrangements that are planned for the full. Costs are being built up. If they will not be able to implement them in full or in part, there will be major economic deficits as a result. That is why the kind of support that the Moderates have developed is needed, Madam President. I hope that the government wants to be involved in the work of making the proposal even better if there is any possibility of doing so. The extended hand applies. With that, I would like to thank the Minister for a good debate and wish you luck in trying to influence the government to land a little better than it has done so far.
i-2d8432b40a2ad0df-378	Madam President, I would like Once again, I would like to thank you for an interesting and fruitful debate. It is nice to know that cultural and sports policy issues raise a great deal of involvement in the Riksdag. We agree that culture and sport must be fully supported throughout the country. We must have support that can go to both small and large players who both secure survival and can support production, planning and implementation even if the arrangements are significantly smaller than we might be used to. Of course, we will also ensure that we have a readiness and an opportunity to support events that have been planned in a situation where the spread of infection is significantly lower. That is what I think we did when we provided support to the Culture Council for cancelled and postponed events. It has ensured the survival of a variety of actors throughout the country. It has been absolutely crucial. This also applies to sports subsidies, which have been granted to those parts of the sports movement that, for example, arrange the big sports races. They are usually driven by the sports movement. We are now working on making proposals forward. We should remember that we have been providing information on crisis support until February. I am pleased that the Moderates are behind the support that the government has presented and also the intention that a guarantee support is not enough. Operational support is needed for us to have a vibrant cultural life. Now we are working on a regulatory framework. We need to see a little better what we could see from the point of view of the infection. We all want events around the country. We must have the most flexible support possible in order to take account of different situations. I and the government are engaged in an active dialogue with cultural life, the sports movement and are happy to continue with the Riksdag and of course the cooperation parties. I see no need for us to have a high political tone. We will of course try to find good solutions for both small and large events around the country.
i-2d8432b40a2ad0df-383	Madam President, I would like Larry Söder has asked me what measures I intend to take to shorten the length of proceedings and to ensure that the county administrative boards meet their objectives in this part. Initially, I would like to say that I share Larry Söder's view on the importance of effective and efficient administration by county boards. This is one reason why the Government closely monitors the development through assignments in the county administrative boards' regulations with targeted targets for the processing times. Municipalities have also stated through the Swedish Municipalities and Regions that the administration of county boards could be more efficient and have a more even quality. The Government considers it important to streamline the handling of matters within the civil engineering process. On 4 February 2021, the Government has commissioned the county administrative boards to develop and implement uniform digital process support and common procedures for their participation in community planning. At present, there is no uniform digital process support and common procedures for the county administrative boards' handling of, among other things, building permit matters. Instead, each county administrative board has developed its own procedural procedures that are adapted for analogue processing, which makes it difficult for outside actors. A unified digital process support and common procedures can promote more efficient and quality-assured processes vis-à-vis other authorities, municipalities, regions, developers and the general public in general. This strengthens the ability of the Boards to meet the demands and expectations of the outside world in the process of urban development. All in all, it can help county boards to streamline operations, reduce processing times, increase transparency for outside actors, improve the quality of decision-making documents and, in the long term, reduce the cost of processing.
i-2d8432b40a2ad0df-388	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to congratulate the Minister on his new mission. Housing policy is an important part of Sweden's development, and I hope that you will take this seriously in view of the crisis we are in. I think it is important for Sweden that we build more and more homes. I think we can all agree that we see a need for new housing in Sweden as a whole – generally and not just in each municipality. I also think we can agree that this is not just a big city problem. Over 200 municipalities in Sweden say they need more housing. We are currently building around 50 000 homes per year, but we would have to build about 75 000 to get into a situation where we are long-term meeting the need for housing. So we have a job to do. Not building enough housing means, I mean, some are without housing. We live very crowded; Corona has shown that it can be a problem. We also have a market where prices run away, both in terms of preparation and secondary market. So we get unfair increases in prices, which means that people cannot buy a home. I realise that the housing crisis is a problem that the government, the parliament and the municipalities must tackle together, with joint action. The process of coming from idea to finished house is terribly long in Sweden today. We can expect between five and seven years, and then we realise that today's housing shortage needs to be addressed with measures today to be resolved in the future. A central part of this is that when an appeal comes, our common authorities are quick and do not increase in the time the process takes to take unnecessarily long. It is then well-pleasing to take into consideration the processing times at the county administrative boards when it comes to appeals of law cases. In this part, the government has taken the right steps both to address this earlier and to now try to solve the process part in order to shorten the processing time and bring about better processes. I think that's great! What usually happens when you do such a thing is that you don't do any follow-up. I would therefore like the Minister to take it along with him that a follow-up should be carried out in a few years' time so that it can be seen that the length of proceedings is actually reduced, which is the very purpose. I find it worrying that in 2019 they had processing times of 30 days if you end up with the right county administrative board but 259 days if you end up with the wrong county administrative board. I believe that this is a difference that cannot be explained otherwise than that the administration is not given priority on the county administrative board where it takes 259 days. For me, it is totally unacceptable that we on the part of the Government of Sweden should not deliver. The victim is the individual citizen or housing producer who takes the full blow, both in time and financially. I am pleased that the government has once again tried to resolve this problem or to improve the situation through procedural support. I think this is a way to help the county boards. I think there are other ways too. I wonder if the Minister sees other ways of helping the county boards or municipalities in this process. The processing time is not just the appeal period, but the time from idea to loaf, when the homes are in place. I can see that county boards can play a central role in reducing process times, for county boards but also for municipalities.
i-2d8432b40a2ad0df-398	Madam President, I would like Larry Söder and I share, I think, a great deal of commitment to finding more housing. We know that during the 1990s we built very little housing in Sweden and that this created problems that we are still trying to fix. It is also quite correct, as Söder points out, that we are now at over 50 000 homes started a year and have made it quite stable for a while, fortunately even in 2020, when there was a concern that the coronapndemin would hit the housing market hard. That is not what it looks like, at least not as far as construction is concerned. According to Boverket, we need to build somewhere between 59 000 and 66 000 homes to deal with the housing shortage we live with. So we have a bit left to get to that number of homes. Therefore, for example, investment support was important in order to create more rental apartments, even in these times. With regard to the length of proceedings or appeals by the county administrative boards, on which the issue is concerned, I share the view that there are too many differences between the county administrative boards of the country. The digital process that we have been working for some time to develop – a couple of my representatives have taken a number of measures to that end – becomes very important. If we are to get a coherent construction process and find opportunities to cut times, it is important that we get a unified digital process that allows more people to participate. We follow this development through annual assignments to the county administrative boards in the regulation letter. There are specific objectives for the administration. We are following developments closely. This also means that we can gradually screw in the necessary measures and the further assignments that will be required for the county boards to achieve this. I have good hopes that, in close cooperation with the county administrative boards and with more incentives for a digital construction process, we will be able to both shorten processing times and have a more unified and predictable process, which would benefit all parts of the residential building market.
i-2d8432b40a2ad0df-403	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to comment on this with investment aid, which I personally may not be very happy about. I do not think it creates more housing in Sweden. However, it has created more rental apartments – it is clear. But I don't think that's gonna create any more housing. We tend to build only rental apartments in Sweden today, which I think is quite wrong. I think we need small houses and flats but also rental apartments. But we can have another debate on that at another time. It is great that the county boards' appeal process is digitised and that it is ensured that it has the best possible quality. The fact that this works is a follow-up by the government is a hope that I have. But I can also see that one should be able to hijack the other end. The best thing for reducing the process time is that we do not get so many appeals to the county boards. I mean, the county boards should be able to work more proactively. After all, they are our – the state – extended arm in the regions. The way forward is to give county boards more opportunity to act within their region. For example, the county administrative boards, together with the municipalities, may point out areas that are good for building housing, so that from the outset you know the position of the county administrative boards before planning an area. One might imagine that we are helping to ensure that those who can appeal to a building permit or plan in number are fewer, so that we do not get too many matters up to the county administrative board. It should be those who, for various reasons, are actually important who come to the county administrative board. I believe that the county administrative boards can also be an engine for our goals on the number of homes in Sweden to be met. There is really no goal in Parliament's or government's documents that says how many homes we will build, but it is Boverket that produces a forecast of how many homes will be needed in Sweden. That's what we're starting from. I believe that the municipalities must be made to realise that it is their responsibility to ensure that we build housing. This can only be done through joint actions, i.e. looking beyond the municipal border and regionally looking at how many homes you build, how many you could build and how you can achieve the objective of the number of homes needed. Otherwise, we're building the wrong type of housing. We are only building what the individual municipality wants and not what we would actually need for the state of Sweden. I believe that the county boards must be seen as an engine in this concept. I would like to hear whether the Minister can see the county administrative boards as an engine of housing construction in the same way as I do.
i-2d8432b40a2ad0df-410	Madam President, I would like I am pleased that the Member of Parliament points to regional planning. It has been something of a heart issue for both me and my party. It is important that we point out which housing is needed within a region and where these housing can be built and that we are happy to link it to infrastructure planning. This task lies with the regions, of which I am sure the Member of Parliament is also aware. It has been an important tool to bring about an increase in construction. When we can combine infrastructure planning and regional planning with the municipalities' overview planning, we get a much more powerful housing planning. I'm glad to hear that we have the same view of it. The role of county councils here is to deal with appeals, while the planning task lies with the regions. If we are to have fewer appeals in this, it must be because we have strengthened the proceedings. That is, of course, important. Otherwise, the appeals are important for us to know that we are doing the right things. Those affected by a construction or intervention in their surroundings have the opportunity to appeal. When it comes to the county administrative boards, the appeals must then be dealt with quickly. This is what we are here to debate. It is important that we have a common and digital process that could achieve this. If we can start with regional planning being linked to municipal planning, identifying the needs and thus creating the conditions in the planning phase, we also provide a predictability for both housing and the market to know what the conditions are. Then we also have the opportunity to reduce the number of appeals. However, when an appeal comes to the county administrative board, the processing time should be predictable, and therefore we have commissioned the county administrative boards to find a digital process, and we follow this up annually.
i-2d8432b40a2ad0df-414	Madam President, I would like It seems to me that the Government and I are quite in agreement that we need to increase housing construction and that in one way or another it is a regional responsibility to bring this about. However, we may not agree on the role of county boards in this. I believe that the county boards can be more of an engine and that this should not just be put on the regions and municipalities. I think that one could give the county boards an opportunity to identify areas in the municipalities where housing could be built, where there are conditions after x, y and z with an argument that the municipalities can take on board. Then, of course, it is the municipalities that have a planning monopoly and decide how to handle the land that exists. I agree that appeals are a democratic right. You have the right to appeal against matters that apply to your close surroundings. But I sometimes think about the concept of a close environment. How close should it be to the place where you live so that you have the right to appeal? If it is a residential area in my small village, Frillesås, I may not see that someone who lives in a completely different part of the municipality has it as their close environment and should have the right to influence it, but it should of course be those who live in Frillesås who should have that right. I think that the possibility of appeal could be limited to a slightly smaller circle than today in order to reduce process management. Then it is great with digitalisation, process support and that we try to help the county boards to make it as clear as possible. I hope that we will achieve the goal of all county boards being able to cope with the 80 days, but perhaps I would prefer it to be 30 or 40 days instead. For every day, someone pays. Either it's the treasury that pays, or it's the one that's going to build a house. And in the end, it's not the one who builds the house that pays, it's the one who moves into the house. Today it is far too expensive to build homes, and we must reduce that cost too. This is one way to do it.
i-2d8432b40a2ad0df-419	Madam President, I would like Let me start where Larry Söder left off. I fully share the ambition that we should have as short processing times as possible, but it should also, of course, include as much legal certainty as possible. However, I fully agree that within this framework we should have as short a time as possible. That is also why we have given these missions and are also monitoring developments on an annual basis. When it comes to who can appeal, it's an interesting idea that Larry Söder brings forward. The municipality is the area we have as the smallest public community. This means that we pay together, develop together and together choose politicians who will develop our common area. I would say, therefore, that it is reasonable to have a right of appeal within one's municipality as well. Then it looks in different ways in different parts, but it is another debate. I would like to conclude by mentioning this with the regional development mission. We have moved it from the county boards to the regions. Although I am sure that the county boards have a great deal of knowledge to contribute – and I know that the regions cooperate closely with the county boards – it is today a regional planning mission. My picture is that it also works well and that it has started to find its shapes. In some regions we have worked for a long time on a regional development mission, in other regions it is newer and needs to find its forms. It is an important support for municipalities in their planning in terms of infrastructure, both municipal and national, and in terms of housing construction, so that more housing can be obtained at good prices that more people can demand. Having said that, I hope that we will be able to shorten the processing times and get a more unified process at the county administrative boards.
i-2d8432b40a2ad0df-423	Madam President, I would like Jonas Andersson has asked Minister Amanda Lind what impact she believes the state contribution to ethnic organisations has on the problem of segregation, parallel social structures and the like in Sweden and whether the Government intends to act for changes regarding the state contribution to ethnic organisations and regulation a (2008:63) on state grants to organizations formed on an ethnic basis, and in that case what changes. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. I would like to start by saying that, according to the government's assessment, the state contribution does not contribute to segregation. On the contrary, the state grant aims to support important activities such as organisations' collaboration with study associations and lectures on rights and obligations in Sweden, gender equality issues, violence in close relationships and preventive work against crime and drug use. Many organisations also work to facilitate the integration of newly arrived people through, for example, language teaching and community information. These are some concrete examples of how the state grant is used. The state contribution to organisations formed on an ethnic basis aims to strengthen the organisations' own initiatives and activities related to culture, language, identity and participation in society. The activities carried out by the organisations should therefore lead to the participation of members in society, among other things. In addition, the state contribution is conditional, including the fact that the organisation has a democratic structure and carries out activities that do not conflict with the ideas of democracy. The regulation letter to the Swedish Agency for Youth and Civil Society has a mandate that the authority should report on how it ensures that activities that receive state grants from the agency meet the democracy conditions in the regulations. There are also clear provisions in the Regulation on recovery and recovery to which the beneficiary relates and to which the paying authority is required to apply where the beneficiary has, inter alia, supplied incorrect information or otherwise caused the grant to have been wrongly submitted. The government takes seriously public funding that is used incorrectly and goes to activities that are not compatible with the fundamental values of society, as formulated in the Constitution and in the international conventions on human rights. In order to ensure that public funds go to activities and organisations based on democratic values, a democracy conditionality inquiry was set up in 2018. The report was submitted to the government in June 2019. Work on dealing with the proposals is now under way in the Government Office. As far as segregation is concerned, research points out that the causes of segregation in our society are above all social and economic differences. Large income inequality is a cause of increased segregation. While all income groups in Sweden have improved their economy in recent decades, the socio-economic differences and gaps in Sweden have grown and, in combination with developments in the housing market, also segregation.
i-2d8432b40a2ad0df-429	Madam President, I would like Initially, I would like to thank Märta Stenevi for her answer to the interpellation. I have asked these questions to the Government because I question the usefulness of this state contribution. It is an outdated contribution, from another time, which is not adapted to the Swedish political reality. The grant has been distributed since 2008 by the Swedish Agency for Youth and Civil Society, MUCF. Before that it was distributed by the Integration Agency, the then authority. It is therefore a very old contribution, which has been in existence for decades. During the same period, Sweden's problems linked to immigration have completely exploded. Sweden 2021 is a completely different Sweden from Sweden 2008. Unfortunately, I have to say that too many ways have changed for the worse because of an irresponsible migration policy. The contribution has been in place for a long time and during a period of upheaval, when the problems of segregation, parallel societies and the like have been cemented in a very serious way. Should it not then be time to review the grant and its regulation? Does Märta Stenevi and the government not feel that there is something in it? Madam President, I would like Despite the serious situation that Sweden is in, linked to these problems, immigrants are paid through the government's policy to form organisations with people from the same ethnic group. Actually, that's what it's all about. It is clear from the regulation in question that it is a question of support for organisations established on an ethnic basis, and the conditions of support indicate that a majority of the members of the organisations must have a foreign background. Does the Government not think it would be more sensible to invest in more clear incentives for people to adapt to Sweden and Swedish society than to do what they do now? It fosters the formation of various ethnic organisations. Madam President, I would like In the interpellation response, the Government points out that segregation in Sweden is mainly due to social and economic differences. I'm going to give the Government part of it right. These are important factors; we agree on that. At the same time, however, it is a truth of modification that we are told by the Government. It is precisely the irresponsible migration policy that has greatly fueled the social and economic differences that Märta Stenevi believes are important for segregation. It is the same immigration policy that is to a large extent the basis for the formation of these ethnic organisations. I would argue that the state contribution to ethnic organisations is by definition segregating because the regulation in question provides for conditions whereby an organisation without a majority of members with a foreign background cannot receive the grant. It is therefore necessary to get together in ethnic immigrant organisations in order to be relevant to the grant. Government! Is it not enough that Sweden spends huge money on a dysfunctional integration policy and that, despite that, there is a catastrophic gap between domestic and foreign born in terms of unemployment, school outcomes and so on? The situation is serious with these major differences. Why, then, does the government pay immigrants to form ethnic organisations, which only risks exacerbating an already catastrophic situation?
i-2d8432b40a2ad0df-438	Madam President, I would like It is well known what the Swedish Democrats think about the construction of or the basis of this state contribution. What I want to draw some attention to is what the contribution is used for. When we have organisations that, for example, can work with lectures on rights and obligations in Sweden, on gender equality issues, on men's violence against women and on preventive work against crime or drug use, it is something that benefits integration. It is something that benefits participation in society. This is something that benefits people's establishment in Sweden. For the government, it is very important what this money is used for, and we see that there is much benefit and that we get good work out of this state grant. It is important for the government to protect a free and independent civil society with a variety of organisations, activities and voices. It is also a prerequisite for a well-functioning democracy. I see that the Member of Parliament is smiling, but freedom of association is one of the fundamental rights enshrined in the form of government. To ensure the existence of an independent civil society, the state supports non-profit organisations financially. MUCF distributes grants for important purposes that enable activities that create community and trust between people. Do the Swedish Democrats think it is a bad use of money? It aims at integration in Sweden. These include contributions aimed at reducing the incidence of threats and hatred in public conversation, which we know is a growing problem and which I have just seen very close to myself. We know that this helps to strengthen the position of LGBT people in society, which I hope the honourable Member also sees as very important, to support the independent organisation and influence of children and young people and also to strengthen the work of culture, language, identity and participation in society. We still see a great value in this state contribution. The Swedish democrats have problems with the ethnicity of it, but we look more at what the contribution does for integration than how it is formulated.
i-2d8432b40a2ad0df-446	Madam President, I would like I can begin by saying that no one is questioning freedom of association. I hope that the Government understands the difference between giving state subsidies to an association and freedom of association. These are two completely different things. I hope we both understand that. The Government claims in the interpellation response that the state contribution to ethnic organisations does not contribute to segregation. Of course you can say that, but I would like to turn the question around. Does the Government have any evidence – in addition to public opinion, wishful thinking and various subjective assessments from those who receive the grant – that the grant has any positive effects on Swedish society? It is not the Swedish Democrats who are behind the contribution – I have made that clear – but the government. It should be possible to demonstrate some kind of concrete benefit from the policy pursued. The grant costs Swedish taxpayers tens of millions of SEK per year. I think it is important for us in this House to make sure that we take responsibility for such large sums of taxpayers' money going to societal ends with positive results. For this reason, I question this contribution. In MUCF's report from 2020 on the use and impact of organisational grants, which includes the state contribution to ethnic organisations, your husband found some interesting reading, I mean. In the report, it can be read that political scientists note that evaluations of impact require precise and measurable targets, which are lacking for state grants similar to those of ethnic organisations. MUCF certainly believes that the results and effects of the grant are in line with its purpose, but it also comes with a series of packages that create the basis for questioning. About the reliability of the assessment of the results and effects of the grant, MUCF writes that our report is based solely on reports and estimates from the organisations themselves. The subjectivity of organisations should be problematized, particularly as regards the answers to the questions relating to the results and impact of their projects. ..................................................... Specifically, the state contribution to ethnic organisations is written as follows:- the purpose of the contribution to ethnic organisations differs from the other organisational contributions by not explicitly indicating any expected impact on the social or individual level of the target group's position. This fact has been pointed out by MUCF since the Authority first wrote about the use and effects of the grant. ..................................................... It is also described in the re-reporting how the state contribution to ethnic organisations fully keeps several of these organisations going. It is therefore the state that, with a kind of artificial breathing, keeps organizations on an ethnic basis in a Sweden that is already very divided and segregated. When tens of millions of dollars of taxpayers' money goes to grants where there is no expected impact on the social or individual level, according to the responsible authority, when there are no measurable and precise goals to follow up the impact of the grant according to the same authority, when the ethnic organisations that receive grants would not even exist without contributions from the state and when Sweden, due to this government, is struggling with huge immigration-related problems such as parallel social structures and segregation – is it not time to re-evaluate, Märta Stenevi?
i-2d8432b40a2ad0df-454	Madam President, I would like No, I do not think it is time to reconsider whether aid should be paid to organisations that contribute to integration into our society. There is always reason to work on evaluating the state subsidies that are given; it does so in all areas. We do not want to see organisations that, for example, leave comments containing threats and hatred on their websites or that in other ways contribute to different types of discrimination or an unpleasant conversation. Therefore, we should always evaluate. That is why we have also appointed the Democracy Condition Investigation. It is important that money goes to what it is intended for. A free and independent civil society is not based on measuring its economic impact. It is based on our supporting a civil society that can act in an independent way, and that is one of the prerequisites for a well-functioning democracy. To ensure the existence of such a civil society, the state supports non-profit organisations financially. This applies in many areas. This is one of them, and we think it's a good thing. We believe that this is important and that it helps to support these important activities with which I have exemplified before. It is also in the interests of everyone, not least the authorities and civil society, to safeguard the legitimacy of the benefit system. Therefore, we constantly evaluate to ensure that the contributions go to the things that they are supposed to do, something that Jonas Andersson himself states is doing. The segregation is, again, not, as Jonas Andersson says, because tens of millions go to civil society. Segregation has completely different causes. What we need to do is talk about how we break segregation and how we get better integration. We are not doing this by withdrawing funds for civil society that are working precisely to achieve the effects that the honourable Member, at least sometimes, sounds like he actually wants to achieve in terms of better integration, better establishment and better participation in society for the people who have come to our country in recent years.
i-2d8432b40a2ad0df-459	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by saying that there is certainly a lot of money that should continue to go to parts of civil society, but there are also problems. For example, we have seen that a great deal of money has been cheated away to go to civil society when it comes to study associations. We have seen that money goes to Islamists and the like, and I hope that I and the Government agree that this type of civil society actor should have no contribution whatsoever. At least that's my opinion. Many aspects of the state contribution to ethnic organisations are problematic. The regulation on state grants to organisations formed on an ethnic basis reveals, as I used to say, that only organisations that have predominantly foreign backgrounds may be granted. No contribution is available in reverse order to people with Swedish background. Does the Government see a problem with a regulation that in practice only gives entitlement to grants when members have a certain ethnicity? Having associations in civil society for many members with Swedish background, they with this absurd policy are stopped from receiving subsidies. Doesn't the government see this is crazy? I assume, of course, that the Government had seen problems with regulations that prevent organisations from receiving grants if they have too many members with foreign background. What exactly is the situation, Minister?
i-2d8432b40a2ad0df-463	Madam President, I would like I don't see that this is crazy, no, but thank you for the question! On the other hand, I see that some of the state subsidies given to civil society are aimed precisely at groups that are not yet fully integrated into society and that there we see that work is being done that is very important. What we agree on is that money should go to the right things. Government subsidies should not be cheated, and state subsidies should not go to activities that harm and undermine our society. We believe that this is not one of those, but that it is very important that we comply with the democratic condition so that it is fulfilled. The investigation that we have set up in 2018 will be important in this, and it is currently being prepared in the Government Office. We need to know that we have a strong democracy condition and that it is being fulfilled. That is the honourable Member and, for once, I very much agree. The fact that civil society's work in general follows guidelines and works in line with the ideas of democracy is crucial. On the other hand, there is no indication that there would be a large number of recipients of this state grant who have not fulfilled the democratic condition. It is also important to emphasise this. The tens of millions that the Member of Parliament points to go to work aimed, for example, at breaking men's violence against women, promoting gender equality and breaking hatred and threats in society. We will protect that.
i-2d8432b40a2ad0df-467	Madam President, I would like Ludvig Aspling has asked me a couple of different questions. The first is whether I will work towards the Portuguese Presidency lifting the European Commission's Action Plan on Integration and Inclusion 2021 – 2027 with a view to issuing Council conclusions that take into account the Swedish experience of how difficult the integration challenge can be. The European Commission's Action Plan on Integration and Inclusion 2021-2027 builds on the Action Plan on the Integration of third-country nationals presented by the European Commission in 2016. The government welcomed the action plan then as it is now. It is not only positive but also important that the EU has a common framework and guidelines that create a standard for how EU Member States are expected to work with the integration and inclusion of migrants and EU citizens with a migrant background. New arrivals and foreign births who participate in working and social life contribute to building our common society stronger. We have seen a positive development in Sweden in terms of the establishment and employment of the target group. The number of employed persons with non-European backgrounds has increased and the employment rate of women born abroad is relatively high compared to the average of women born abroad in the EU. This is good, but we are not satisfied. There are still difficult integration challenges, both in Sweden and in other EU Member States. It is for this reason that the European Commission has launched a new Action Plan on Integration and Inclusion that focuses on actions in four areas that are important for integration, namely education, the labour market, health and housing. The European Commission's Action Plan on Integration and Inclusion is in line with Sweden's integration policy objectives, i.e. equal rights, obligations and opportunities for all regardless of ethnic and cultural background. This includes measures in areas such as labour market, education, health care and housing. The European Commission also notes that greater focus needs to be placed on integration efforts aimed at women born abroad. The Action Plan is therefore imbued with a gender perspective and measures aimed, inter alia, at increasing the number of women born abroad in the labour market. A gender perspective is also central to the implementation of Sweden's integration policy. People who start again in Sweden will have the best conditions possible to establish themselves and contribute to our common welfare. The work for integration and the establishment of newcomers in working and social life is a fundamental part of the government's goal of a society that holds together and provides equal opportunities for all. How the incoming Portuguese Presidency intends to take forward the action plan remains unknown. The government welcomes and values the European Commission's new Action Plan on Integration and Inclusion, and I will continue to work to ensure that women and men have equal conditions and conditions for participation and establishment in working and social life.
i-2d8432b40a2ad0df-475	Madam President, I would like The Commission's action plan on integration says quite a lot by not really saying anything at all. It is tired flosskeler, it is wishful thinking and obviously conflicting claims that are mixed into a political salad that will then be implemented using the same project funding that the European Union often uses. It is a method that we know invites corruption, cheating and very poor performance management. The plan itself contains almost nothing controversial. The policy area will provide everything to everyone, it will coordinate, strengthen, invest and so on. But what makes the plan so remarkable is that the difficult issues in the area of integration policy are completely left out. Firstly, we know that volumes play a crucial role. The more people move in from a particular area, the more difficult the integration challenge becomes. We also know that it is material prosperity that drives migrants to Europe with the hope of a richer life. At the same time, however, the plan puts the whole emphasis on raising the material standard of living of migrants through priority to housing, tax-funded jobs, leisure activities and entertainment, and so on. This will, of course, make more people choose to go to Europe, making the challenge of integration even more difficult. The fact that this equation does not go together, especially with the ambition to stop irregular sea traffic across the Mediterranean, does not even seem to have occurred to anyone in the Commission. That's a surprise. Secondly, no one seems to have noticed that there is one Member State that does almost everything the Commission asks for, which offers the entire social security system from day 1, which has extensive employment subsidies, generous association grants, priority to attractive rental housing, generous cash benefits and so on. However, that country still has the Union's biggest unemployment gap between native and foreign born, as well as the biggest gap in school outcomes between native and foreign born pupils according to the PISA survey. Moreover, this country has enormous problems with exclusion areas, criminal clans governing the local community and major problems of racism and hatred of the majority population. What is even more surprising is that the Commissioner responsible for Home Affairs and the plan, Ylva Johansson, also comes from that country, but for some reason she does not seem to have taken note of the problems that are quite obvious at home. Let me ask you a rhetorical question. How is it possible that no one at the European Commission, an authority with nearly SEK 40 billion in annual budget and about 30 000 employees, has noticed that none of what they are proposing in the plan has worked in Sweden? I can't believe it. The question I would like to put to the Council of State, and it should apply to her own professional activities, is as follows. Does she intend in any way to try to draw the Commission's attention to what we hopefully have learned in Sweden in the Government Office over the last ten years?
i-2d8432b40a2ad0df-483	Madam President, I would like No, I don't mean that. That's the straight answer to that question. One of the reasons is what the honourable Member points out, namely how we have succeeded in integration and establishment in Sweden. We have seen in recent years that the time for the establishment in Sweden has been significantly shortened, despite the fact that Sweden has received a large number of refugees. Sweden is well placed in European comparisons in terms of employment rates, which is an important measure not least in terms of women's establishment. This also applies in comparison with other countries that have received far fewer refugees than Sweden has. The Action Plan is in line with Sweden's objectives for integration policy, i.e. equal rights, obligations and opportunities for all regardless of ethnic and cultural background. I have the impression that the Swedish Democrats do not fully agree with this objective, but for the Green Party and the government that is an important goal. New arrivals and foreign births who participate in working and social life contribute to building our common society stronger. The establishment of new arrivals has improved considerably in recent years. In other words, we see a positive development in Sweden in terms of establishment and employment for the target group. What is a major problem is how this development is slowed down due to the pandemic. We see that it hits new arrivals particularly hard when the industries where they have been easiest to enter are also knocked out hardest in the pandemic. This is particularly true of women born abroad. That is also why we will want to raise this in Europe and why I am raising this when I meet my fellow ministers in Epsco. We will need extra focus on foreign-born women so that they will not lag further behind in the work on gender equality.
i-2d8432b40a2ad0df-489	Madam President, I would like So what the Government promises, on its honour, is that she will never learn anything from the mistakes of her party. Congratulations, Sweden! No, Märta Stenevi, we are not in a good position to rank the countries of the European Union by the extent of the gap in unemployment between domestic and foreign born. Then Sweden is the last. That's not good. How one can say that there is something positive is beyond my ability to understand. Another problem with the action plan is that the Commission has clearly not made up with the myth that integration is free and that migration will be an economic gain a little later on. The plan states in a toxic combination of southern European budgetary discipline and northern European naivety that, despite the huge efforts to be made, they do not need to be done at the expense of measures to help other needy groups. The Commission highlights the often and rightly mocked theory that migration should save pensions. We know here in Sweden that it didn't really happen that way. Most disappointing of all, however, is that the action plan lacks even a discussion of what the concept of integration means outside the purely material. That's an important point. In his State of the Union speech, the President of the Commission, Mrs von der Leyen, referred no less than ten times to European values. The plan also contains some references to the same, but this seemingly has no idea that many people who come from other parts of the world also have completely different values. If this were not the case, the word European values would mean nothing. However, the question of how to deal with the deeply illiberal, dysfunctional and not infrequently Western anti-ideology that comes with a great deal of migrants here is entirely illuminated by their absence in the plan. The political establishment in Sweden tried to put its head in the sand at the longest when it came to the fact that the cultural dimension of the integration challenge is a huge problem. These people have since had to admit that they were naive. We have heard it in this House a number of times. The question then is this: if we in Sweden are no longer naive about forced marriages with children, so-called honorary culture, organised political Islam or ethnically based crime syndicates and criminal clans trying to control society, why is it that the Commission is still naive about these phenomena? The plan for integration does not mention these problems at all. You sweep them under the carpet and pretend they don't exist. A simple question to the Government: why is there not a single word in this document about these problems, which we know today is very real? ( FIRST VICE TALMANN: I assume that it refers to the minister's area, because that is what the minister can answer. ) The question is obviously whether she does not intend to raise this in Council conclusions during the Portuguese Presidency. Why not do so in the light of the shortcomings of the document? ( First VICE TALMANN: In that case, the government will have to answer from its own point of view. )
i-2d8432b40a2ad0df-499	Madam President, I would like Since this is being recorded, anyone who wants to go back and hears that what I answered was the honourable Member's question whether I will bring this up with the Portuguese Presidency. I did not reply, as the Member of Parliament tried to suggest, that I will never learn anything. I'm deeply inspired by learning a lot of new things. For example, I have learned today that the Swedish Democrats want to strengthen liberal values in Europe also for immigrant people. I hope that this also applies to those Swedish people who would need to strengthen their liberal values. It was also something that was beyond the MP's ability to understand, so I was going to help a little with it. The gap in employment between indigenous and foreign-born populations also depends on the country's starting point. If you look at actual employment, you can still see that Sweden is very good compared to other countries in Europe. We are no better off than any other country, but we are a little over the middle of the scale. What I understand the honourable Member really wants to debate in this is about cultural values. This is not primarily my area, but I will say that I believe in integration based on equal rights and obligations, but also equal opportunities for all, regardless of ethnic or cultural background. I am convinced that when we can get more people into work faster, when we can get more people into employment faster, and when we get a participation in society, we will also benefit greatly from the people who have come here, and they will enrich our society – a word that I know the Swedish Democrats are particularly fond of. Having said that, we welcome the action plan and hope that it will be able to make a great deal of use for Europe in the future. Let us see what the Portuguese Presidency is doing with this.
i-2d8432b40a2ad0df-504	Madam President, I would like After all, this plan and the Council of State's desire for it are a guarantee that nothing will change. I don't know where this minister has been or what she's been doing before she took up her new position-- congratulations, by the way! I forgot to tell you. But in Sweden we have enormous problems with integration, segregation and the fact that a very large number of people are in concrete parallel societies and thus have very little contact with Swedish society. This may not have been noted by the Government. I think this is a direct consequence of the kind of policy that is highlighted in this plan, because this plan is very influenced by what we do in Sweden. This is not how the Government says the plan is in line with what we do in Sweden. It is rather the opposite – it is the Commission that has apeed after what Sweden has done over the past ten years and has obviously not worked. It is clear to every thinking person that the Swedish model of integration is a capital failure. The fact that the Government wants to hang up all its reasoning here on the concept of employment rather than unemployment is simply because Sweden always does better if you measure employment than if you measure unemployment. This is because we have a huge amount of labour market policy measures that are embedded in the concept, and that gives us a high level of employment. What I'm talking about is real jobs and unemployment. If we measure instead how big the difference is between domestic and foreign born in unemployment, then Sweden will last. There's nothing to be proud of. Then we can fill it up with talk about employment levels. Sure, fine, we can do it. But unemployment is what measures the reality.
i-2d8432b40a2ad0df-509	Madam President, I would like I cannot help but say briefly that the employment rate is important because it takes into account the number of people involved in the labour market. That is to say, if you remove half of a population and then look at unemployment in it, you get very different figures than if you look at how many people are participating in the labour market. I'm sure the Member of Parliament knows this. I am pleased that the honourable Member highlights the challenges we face with integration and segregation in our society. I wish the Member of Parliament would have been equally inspired to see solutions to how to get more people to work. I see a great need for more women to get into work faster, also in order for them to have independent livelihoods and be able to stand on their own feet to have the opportunity to leave, for example, a destructive relationship. Was there something funny about it, Member of Parliament? No. I want us to have housing available to everyone, including those with lower incomes. I hope that we will be able to invest in an equal school where more children will have better opportunities to enter the labour market when they graduate from school. And I hope for a society where we have better equality, where the income of men and women is equal and where we stop men's violence against women. With this, I thank the honourable Member for this debate.
i-2d8432b40a2ad0df-515	Madam President, I would like I'll start by apologizing for not getting my papers in order for these debut debates. I'm sorry about that. Ludvig Aspling has asked me if the government stands by the fact that asylum immigration will bring benefits to society a little bit later...
i-2d8432b40a2ad0df-517	... and what is meant by a little later, the scientific support that exists for the claim and how I will work in the future to ensure that the public financial impact of migration is better investigated. The commitment of society to refugee policy is primarily conditional on humanitarian reasons. We do not accept refugees to strengthen public finances; we do so because they flee for their lives. It is important to emphasise this. New arrivals and foreign births who participate in working and social life contribute to building our common society stronger. It is the responsibility of the political community to do what we can to speed up the entry of newcomers into the labour market and into society, while at the same time the individual has a responsibility to do what he can. The government has implemented a number of reforms to develop policies for the establishment of newcomers in working and social life both during this and the previous term of office and has implemented several structurally important changes. Let me mention, for example, that we have introduced a training obligation for newcomers with a short educational background. F robbery and with 15 April 2021, newly arrived women and men will be given the opportunity to participate in a so-called intensive year. In order to specifically strengthen women's opportunities for establishment, efforts are under way to ensure that new arrivals continue to develop their knowledge of Swedish during parental leave. Furthermore, the social orientation of new arrivals has increased from at least 60 to at least 100 hours, and efforts have been made to improve quality. The Government has also proposed the introduction of language requirements as a requirement for the right to the breadshed. We have seen in recent years that more new arrivals are coming to work faster, and that is a positive thing. Of the new arrivals received in 2014, 51 per cent were in employment in 2018, i.e. after four years. This compares with 29% after four years for the new arrivals received in 2010. The establishment of new arrivals has thus improved considerably in recent years, while Sweden has received a large number of persons in need of protection fleeing war and persecution. Having said that, it is important that we continue to work to ensure that new arrivals enter the labour market and into society more quickly, not least because it is clear that the current pandemic affects the labour market and to a particularly large extent industries where many new arrivals get their first job. The restrictions to reduce the spread of infection also affect the conditions for training and integration efforts. In 2020, the government has taken strong temporary measures to reduce the negative impact of the crisis on jobs and businesses and proposed further efforts to facilitate the retention or rapid entry of people into the labour market. Work to mitigate the consequences of the pandemic will continue as long as there is a need. I would like to conclude by saying that the government in the budget bill reports on the results and costs of the various areas of expenditure. As a basis for the state's budget and for the government's economic policy design, the government makes forecasts of macro-economic developments and public finances. It is of great importance that the government's forecasts are made with high precision. Within the Government Office, ongoing work is ongoing to evaluate and improve the precision of forecasts.
i-2d8432b40a2ad0df-525	Madam President, I would like During a party leader debate in mid-2015, the Prime Minister claimed that asylum immigration would be a social economic gain a little later on. An interesting question, then, is what scientific support exists for this claim. I assume that the Government knows that it is normal to count on the revenue and expenditure of certain policies that the State has and then to arrive at whether they are a socio-economic gain or a cost. I myself have examined this matter as best I can, and I find no support whatsoever for that statement. I therefore put a written question to the former Minister for Gender Equality, from the same party as Märta Stenevi, and received the answer that she, too, cannot show any support for that claim. The Stenevi Government is therefore here today to explain to the House whether the government stands by that statement, what a little further ahead and what scientific support exists for the same. The most thorough study of the public financial impact of asylum immigration that I have been able to find is called When is foreign born self-sufficient? It is written by Johan Eklund and Johan P Larsson and published by Entrepreneurship Forum. The report is very detailed. It uses a well-developed method and answers the question of how many people within a particular group are self-sufficient. Self-sufficiency is defined as having a life-time income that is sufficient for the individual to pay more in tax than it receives through transfer systems. This is exactly what we are talking about when we are talking about a socio-economic gain. According to the report, the number of immigrants from the Middle East and Africa who become self-sufficient in Sweden is unfortunately very small: 38% for people from Africa and 36% for people from the Middle East. Unfortunately, the overwhelming majority of those who come to Sweden from these regions never become self-sufficient in Sweden. Of course, I would have liked that to be the case, but that is not the case. Among those who are self-sufficient, average income is also significantly lower than average income among the rest of the population. The authors have also calculated the level of self-sufficiency quite low. They have set the limit at four price base amounts per year, which means more than SEK 12 000 per month net. Everyone who lives in one of our big cities understands that 12 000 SEK per month net is too little to support a family, for example. Thus, the actual number of self-sufficient persons is probably considerably smaller than the report indicates. I would therefore like to ask the Minister: is the government still standing by the claim that asylum immigration will bring a social economic gain a little later on? I would also like to ask the Minister: what does that calculation mean a little later, and what does it look like? What the Government is raising in the interpellation response has nothing to do with this – it's really a good day ax-shaft answer. What she raises is about the employment rate, i.e. how many people are employed. I assume that the Government uses SCB's measure of the same, which includes people who earn as little as 8 000 SEK per month. In addition, the Government elects the year 2014. If you look instead at those who came in 2015 – there are a lot more – you can see that it was one in three who worked in employment in 2020. So this is not at all a good measure of self-sufficiency because it does not say anything about income, and the level is prima facie far too low to mean a socio-economic gain. The question remains: Does the government stand by the claim? When's a little bit further ahead? What does the calculation look like?
i-2d8432b40a2ad0df-536	Madam President, I would like Society's commitment to refugee policy is an international commitment, primarily for humanitarian reasons. In simple words, we do not accept refugees to strengthen public finances, but we do so because they are fleeing for their lives. This is important to emphasise. New arrivals and foreign births who participate in working and social life contribute to building our common society stronger. What the SD describes here – or what the Member of Parliament describes here – is a snapshot of a public financial situation. It's a bit like screen dumping reality and then making decisions after that screenshot. What we choose to do politically to break segregation and what we choose to do politically to promote integration will affect what our future will look like. It also means that the projections for integration costs and revenues will move. The snapshot appears in the MP's description as a static truth, as if poverty was a characteristic of the people who come here rather than a life situation that can be changed. But this situation is not a static truth. This situation is affected by what we choose to do. I also wish that more people would get to work. Unlike the Member of Parliament, I am putting my main strength there rather than looking at what a person other than myself has said or not said and how it relates to this.
i-1f0afcdcdca23952-1	Oh, my God! ) Was it very funny? I just want to end by saying that my mission, which involves work against discrimination and work to break segregation and promote integration, aims at more people getting into work, more people being self-sufficient and more people getting into the labour market and into the housing market and being able to be part of this society. I hope that we will see a completely different development, hopefully soon, where more people are in work. The pandemic will have hit hard on integration this year, but it is not something that cannot be straightened out. There we need our strength now to get more people to work and thus stand on their own feet for the future.
i-2d8432b40a2ad0df-544	I would like to remind you that there are codes of conduct for this House that we must fully respect.
i-2d8432b40a2ad0df-545	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by saying that I agree with the Government on one point: Sweden does not accept asylum seekers to make a socio-economic profit. This is a humanitarian commitment; it is quite right. But we in the Swedish Democrats have never said that there will be a socio-economic gain either. It's your government that's told you that, not us. The Government says that the forecast is not static but will change. Okay. Great. If the Government can now say in advance that the forecast for when people become self-sufficient will change, it is obviously that she knows what year asylum immigration will bring a socio-economic gain, so let's hear it! Report the calculation! Don't stand there and tell us that we know it's going to change, but tell us when we're going to see this win! That is what this whole interpellation is about. Then there are the floats that there are also immigrants who contribute – yes, of course. I am married to an immigrant, I have three children with foreign citizenship and I am fully aware of that. But that's not what this interpellation is about. I'm asking you a very specific question. The government has said X, and I ask what you are basing your statement X on – very simple. The Government also says that she cannot be responsible for what another person has said. Now it is not that I put the Government against the wall here and talk about what anyone has said, someone in town, but it is the Prime Minister who has said this. It's not just anyone. And the ministers have a responsibility to report to the Riksdag what the government is doing. It's in the form of government. What the Prime Minister says is the government's position, and then it's the government's job to explain how you have thought. This is very simple. You cannot escape that responsibility by saying that you cannot answer for what the Prime Minister says. It's bullshit. The Government also seems to want to escape this responsibility by saying that she is actually responsible for another policy area, anti-discrimination and so on. Sure, fine, it's okay. I am not very interested in how you organise the work of the Government Office, but I would like a minister to be sent to answer the questions I put in the interpellation. Now they have chosen to send Märta Stenevi, and then Märta Stenevi will answer the question. It is obvious that Märta Stenevi does not take this issue seriously, because if she had, she would have been able to give a straight answer: Year X we will see an economic gain from this policy, and that is based on calculations from Y. But if we are to be honest, everyone in this House knows why the Government cannot give such an explanation. This is, of course, because even the people who are in the fantasy world of the Green Party are beginning to realise that this will never be an economic gain but only costs – costs that are gradually pushing out just about everything else that the state and the municipalities are responsible for. I also think it says something about the state of Swedish public administration in 2020. It is not just any project that we are talking about. Mass immigration is something that several governments in a row have subjected Sweden to of free will. We could have significantly lower volumes if we wanted to, but we did not want that. As this is a voluntary commitment, a thorough impact assessment of the decisions should also be carried out. In this context, I would like to remind you of the Swedish National Audit Office's report 2017:25 Impact assessments for migration policy decisions, which makes it clear that the Government Office's preparation of such matters contains far more of cotton candy, hand hearts and wishful thinking than actual impact assessments. I think that this is bad and that the Government should be better prepared, but she has one speech left. Come on! When will there be a socio-economic gain?
i-2d8432b40a2ad0df-554	I would like to remind you of the speech in this House. According to the Swedish parliamentary custom, the speaker, whoever the speaker is, formally addresses his speech directly to the President and thus indirectly to the Members of the House. Simply put, this means that the members of Parliament talk about each other and not to each other. Members speak to the President and tell him what they think on various issues. A Member who speaks of another speaker in a debate, for example by responding to arguments, should use the speaker's first and last name. This means that direct appeal between the speakers, for example, to say you or you to each other, should not occur.
i-2d8432b40a2ad0df-555	Madam President, I would like I'll have to apologize if I've stepped wrong in this. Ludvig Aspling says I don't want to answer the question. That's not true. I'd be happy to answer the question. However, I cannot answer when this will happen because it depends on what we do. What I would like to ask Ludvig Aspling is what Ludvig Aspling wants to do to change the forecast that we have today, because what we choose to invest in school, what we choose to invest in labour market efforts and what we choose to do forward will change the forecast. I also think Ludvig Aspling is very aware of that. Madam President, I would like I would also like to take this opportunity to congratulate Ludvig Aspling on both love and children. I'm very glad to hear that. There are a number of people who have come to our country, who live and work here and make a great contribution to our society. What Louis Aspling wants to know is, are you a profitable little friend? I cannot say today when or whether we will achieve it. But what I can say is that what we do and what we make for political decisions on integration, school, housing market and gender equality policy will have a major impact on what the socio-economic forecast looks like in the future. And this, Madam President, applies regardless of how much the Member of Parliament sighs and groans.
i-2d8432b40a2ad0df-560	Madam President, I would like So the government says she can answer the question, but she just doesn't know when there will be a socio-economic gain. When there is a socio-economic gain, the question I ask is the interpellation. The fact that the Prime Minister says that this will happen at some point is why we are standing here. When that happens, the question I ask is in the interpellation. If the government can't answer that, she can't answer the interpellation. It's as simple as that, sure, fine. I would recommend to the Government to be honest here. You can only admit that the Prime Minister has no idea what he's talking about when he claims that there will be a socio-economic gain a little later. It's just good, and it understands every thinking person. Instead, be honest, it's what I would recommend. Just tell me the truth! The government says: Are you a profitable little friend? No, that's definitely not what we're saying it's about. Little friend suggests that it would be about children. Children are never a socio-economic gain, and that is not why we have children. I hope the Government knows that. That is not the attitude we have either. I would also like the Government to be able to come a little more prepared to the House and instead of saying that you are doing one and the other read what is in the interpellation and then answer the question. If that is the case, Madam President, that you cannot answer the question, that is perfectly all right. After all, it is not the Government that has said that migration will be a profit a little later on. That's what the Prime Minister has done. And it's perfectly okay for the government to change its mind and say, "Let's withdraw this. We no longer believe that there will be an economic gain, because that is what is closest to the scientific facts that we have on the table. It's okay. It's okay to do that. The Government now has one speech left, and I would like her to be completely honest and just to say as it is. This will never be an economic gain. We all know that's the case.
i-2d8432b40a2ad0df-566	Madam President, I would like I am happy to talk about public finances and what needs to be done to improve the establishment and integration of new arrivals in order for more people to get to work, as we have now tried to do. I've also talked about what the government wants to do. Meanwhile, Mrs Ludvig Aspling, Member of the Swedish Democrats, has spoken about his screenshot and his snapshot of what the forecasts are today. Well, when the Swedish Democrats talk about the effects of migration and public financial calculations, we need to have in mind how they view migration and the people who have immigrated to Sweden. Just a few weeks ago, Jimmie Åkesson said that Sweden needs a total ban on all immigration that constitutes a social, cultural and economic burden and a moratorium on the reception of quota refugees. When Stefan Löfven, on the other hand, described that the people who are immigrants will be a benefit to society a little later on, I think of the man who may have come from Syria and who was driving the bus this morning, I think of the assistant nurse who is perhaps right now giving a vital vaccine shot to an elderly person, I think of those who care for my dementia-sick grandmother in the nursing home, I think of the doctor who took care of my daughter in the hospital when she was seriously ill. These are people who provide practical help and security and warmth to someone we love, even though they may not generate fiscal plus signs here and now. We need each other. That is my view of humanity and that of the government. I wonder: What is the view of the Swedish democrats? Which other groups do the Swedish Democrats want to exclude from welfare and our community if narrow calculations would show that they are net minus for the treasury?
i-2d8432b40a2ad0df-572	This was the final speech by the Government, so it had to be a rhetorical question because the honourable Member is not able to answer it.
i-2d8432b40a2ad0df-573	Madam President, I would like Ebba Hermansson has asked me more, in addition to what has already been done on the subject, the government intends to do to stop the violence in partnership, if I and the government believe that there is reason to review and develop the strategy used so far, given that the deaths have not been reduced during the government's time in power. She has also asked how I and the government should work to ensure women's safety in the particularly vulnerable situations that arise when they leave a partner. Preventing and combating men's violence against women and honour-related violence and repression is a high priority for the government. In order to increase the efficiency, quality and long-term sustainability of the work, the Government decided in 2016 on a 10-year national strategy and a targeted action programme for the period 2017-2020. The strategy came into effect on 1 January 2017. The Government intends to present a new integrated action programme to prevent and combat men's violence against women and honour-related violence and repression for the period 2021 – 2023. The action programme will also include actions against genital mutilation and prostitution and human trafficking, as well as continued efforts against sexual abuse based on the lessons learned from the metoo. The Action Programme will include the exposure of LGBTI people to all types of violence covered by the Strategy. Efforts to combat men's violence against women and honour-related violence and oppression must take place widely in society. R egeringen has therefore decided on assignments to several authorities for 2021. Let me give a few examples of the missions that have been given. The National Board of Health and Welfare has been awarded SEK 20 million to continue to support the development of health and care work regarding men's violence against women and honour-related violence and oppression. Of the funds to the National Board of Health and Welfare, parts should go to the operation of the telephone line Choose to stop, which is aimed at people who want to change violent behaviour in a close relationship. The county administrative boards have long been tasked with combating men's violence against women and honour-related violence and oppression. From 2021 onwards, they will receive permanent funding of SEK 100 million per year for this work. Försäkringskassan, Arbetsförmedlingen and the Swedish Migration Agency will continue to work to become better at discovering exposure to violence in close relationships and honour-related violence and oppression among people they meet in their activities. Together with the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare and the Swedish Gender Equality Agency, the authorities are awarded a total of SEK 10 million for 2021. The assignment shall be presented by 31 March 2022. It is important to develop governance in combating men's violence against women. Statskontoret is therefore tasked with monitoring and analysing central authorities' work with the national strategy to prevent and combat men's violence against women, including honour-related violence and repression, as well as prostitution and human trafficking (A2020/ 00238/ JÄM). The evaluation will be presented in March 2021. In order to tackle men's violence against women, it is also important to work preventively. The municipalities will receive SEK 30 million for 202 1 and 60 million per year from 2022 to improve the work on relapse prevention aimed at perpetrators of violence. One of the objectives of the national strategy includes stronger protection and support for violent women and children. Since 2015, the Government has allocated large funds in state grants to women's and girls' shelters. For the feminist government, combating men's violence against women is a clear priority, and the government takes this issue very seriously.
i-2d8432b40a2ad0df-584	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for the answer to my interpellation. Let me also take this opportunity to congratulate you on the new mandate as Minister for Gender Equality, which seems to me to be one of the most interesting and important for Sweden. Violence in close relationships is, unfortunately, always a matter of concern. It goes on all the time, and of course even more during a pandemic when more and more people are forced to be in the home, where the perpetrator is. Despite the fact that violence in close relationships is both gross and repeated violence, it is a type of crime that I feel receives little attention in the public debate, which may seem a little strange given how much other criminal policy issues are being addressed. I believe that the Minister for Gender Equality agrees that this is an issue which, unfortunately, is often obscured even though it is so serious and that in many cases the consequences are fatal. As I stated in my interpellation, and as I have noted in previous gender equality debates, the government has very high ambitions on this issue, and I think that is a good thing. Many important efforts have been made, such as on women's shelters and on the work against honour-related violence and oppression. All that is, of course, good. But the fact remains that the figures for women who are murdered each year remain at the same level and have been doing so for quite a few years. Despite all the ambitious efforts and despite the fact that the feminist government often talks about women's vulnerability and about gender equality, the figure is constant. For me, then, the obvious conclusion is that something needs to be developed, supplemented or changed further. I have two more questions to ask.
i-2d8432b40a2ad0df-592	Does the government and the Minister for Gender Equality see that there can be important lessons to be learned from other countries? At least before the coronapandemy struck, Spain was relatively successful in repressing relationship violence. Special courts and special police forces, for example, were introduced. This is probably more on the Justice Minister's table, so I'm sure I'll have reason to come back. But other efforts have also been made to combat this violence. So to reconnect: How will the government ensure that this issue will receive the attention it deserves in the future? Does the government see that there are lessons to be learned from successful examples in other countries in order to achieve a zero vision once and for all?
i-2d8432b40a2ad0df-595	Madam President, I would like First of all, how we can raise this debate more. I would like to start by saying that I am extremely grateful for the work done by civil society. Political parties have an important job to do to raise issues and propose changes and proposals that can counter these problems. But, as I said, I would also like to take this opportunity to thank the large sections of civil society that help us push these issues forward and raise the individual women's stories so that it becomes clear to all of us what this is all about – how this happens in everyday life and how some women are beaten every day by a boyfriend, husband or ex-husband, and often even after they have left a destructive relationship, children get to experience being used as bats against them. Here we have a major social problem. This government will not settle down until we have achieved a zero vision. I thank Mrs Hermansson for using that word because I think it is incredibly important that we have a zero vision. No woman should be beaten by her husband. This is extremely important to us. We will have to invest more in the prevention of violence, and we know that there are criminal measures. It is not in my area in the first place, but we have done that the number of changes that we hope will have an effect, including the ban on contact. More proposals are also being prepared at the Government Office to detect and prevent violence. I hope that I will have reason to come back to this very soon. We also need to see what we can do, because the focus must always be on no woman being beaten. We want to punish anyone who strikes, but just as important is to ensure that this never happens. If no one becomes a perpetrator, no one will have to become a victim either. I think that is incredibly central to the work that is going on and that needs to be continued and intensified in order once and for all to stop men's violence against women.
i-2d8432b40a2ad0df-601	Madam President, I would like It was very timely that the speech was concluded in a tone of prevention, because that is what I was going to mention in this speech. Some of the men's violence against women that I might think is a little forgotten is boys' violence against girls. There have been very worrying reports that it is much more common than perhaps thought. As the report very brilliantly stated, men's violence against women with boys' violence against girls begins, and of course prevention is crucial. One thing that, among others, I, through my party, but also others have raised in the social debate is the question of accident investigations, i.e. investigations that one makes after a woman has been murdered by a current or former partner to find out whether there have been components previously that society has missed and whether attention to these could have contributed to another outcome. Has there been information that has been known and that has been missed, has it fallen between the chairs or has it simply failed to put the person behind bars? I've met some women who testified that they've basically gone underground after they've gotten out of a relationship. They have experienced that it has been their responsibility to change their name, move and perhaps acquire protected identity in order to get away from a person whom the rule of law cannot help. That, of course, cannot be allowed to happen. In order not to end up there at all, people with violent behaviour must be given early attention by society and by the bodies responsible for dealing with that type of person so that they cannot expose more people to violence. I believe that accident investigations are a tool that can contribute to this and that positive experiences and examples can be used to prevent future cases. It will also be a knowledge base. My question is simply: how does the Minister for Gender Equality view accident investigations as a method for preventing men's violence against women?
i-2d8432b40a2ad0df-606	Madam President, I would like We have made amendments to the Act on Investigations of Certain Deaths precisely to enable them to include crimes committed but which have not resulted in death. The aim is for the investigations to be able to capture where it has broken and why society has not caught up that the situation has arisen and worsened and has not been able to go in and break it. It is important that we can continue to make use of these investigations. The legislative amendments took effect on 1 January 2019 and will be evaluated. The National Board of Health and Welfare has been given another year due to the covid situation and the considerable burden it has caused, and the report will be published on 31 January 2022. It will be an important job to take on board. Based on the investigations that we have launched and that we have received, we are preparing proposals to prevent and prevent violence to a greater extent. I would also like to take this opportunity to say that I am very pleased that Ebba Hermansson raises the issue of boys' violence against girls. We cannot place the full responsibility for men's violence against women at school, but the school has an important normative and compensatory role in this, too. The changes that are now taking place in what was previously sex and cohabitation education are important – that we receive an education from the teachers who are going to meet the children at school. The fact that we have a changed attitude and, not least, the consent dimension, and that discussion in the education of children, will be extremely important in the future, because we must not forget that we will have to break standards. We live with hundreds, thousands of years of sanctioned violence by men against women, which society has accepted, turned a blind eye, hidden away at different stages and not taken seriously. We have done a lot and have taken many steps along the way, but we have a lot to do. As I said, the government will not be satisfied until we get there that no woman is beaten by a man.
i-2d8432b40a2ad0df-611	Madam President, I would like Thank you for another clarification and clear answer. There, too, the school was brought in. Soon I can't say it anymore, but it wasn't that long since I went to school myself. Soon it will be a long time ago. I fully agree that, at least on certain occasions, there seems to be a certain culture that may never be as strong as when you are in your teens. I really think it is good to direct resources towards the education of cohabitation, with a consent perspective. I thank you for that. I realise that although we sometimes have some different solutions, we are probably quite in agreement on the basic problem, and we probably have a similar vision for what we want to achieve, that is, that no one should ever be beaten by his partner. I appreciate this with the government – that they have it as a high ambition and that they do a lot in this area. As an opposition politician, I can admit that it actually does, even though the figure has not gone down, as I said. I would like to thank you very much for the debate. At least we have made a small contribution now to put the issue on the agenda. I look forward to this not being the last debate but that I and others should raise the issue and that it should be given room in the electoral movement and in the public debate much more, because that is what is needed. Last but not least, given that it's Friday, I'd like to wish everyone a nice weekend.
i-2d8432b40a2ad0df-615	Madam President, I would like I thank you and wish you a good weekend back. The best thing we can do for the victims of crime is to contribute to crime never being committed. We must not settle down until violence and abuse have ceased. It is, of course, about effective work in the judicial system and about protecting those women and children who are at risk or who are already exposed. It is also a question of preventing crime from happening in the first place. Then efforts to break with destructive male standards and to give everyone, from an early age, the opportunity to become the person they want, without being limited by gender stereotyped standards, are an obvious part of the work against men's violence against women. To prevent men's violence against women right from the start, we need to deal with the gender power regime and destructive macho culture and promote gender work at all levels. Promoting gender awareness and crushing destructive gender norms are effective ways of reducing men's violence against women. It is a social problem, and norm criticism must be part of the solution. In order for not one more woman to die, we need to change the work to break the standards, not dismantle it. If we are ever to get rid of the problem of men's and boys' violence against women and girls, we need to attack the root of the problem. It will not be good to work only with one or the other. We cannot choose between more effective judicial systems and protecting women and children at risk or combating destructive male standards, but we will have to do both.
