i-XjGUhM1KEFy8xLTqK5eY8X	Madam President, I would like Now we are debating the Enterprise Committee's report NU2 Area of expenditure 19 Regional development. In the report, S and MP have a separate opinion. Parliament has set the framework with 500 million less than the government in this area of expenditure. What the Moderates, Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats are taking away are grants 1:1 Regional development measures. What is behind this appropriation? Yes, the re-launch of SMEs in need of post-pandemic support. This support for small and medium-sized enterprises is so important. This is also the case in Category 24 Enterprise. Small and medium-sized enterprises are saved. Here you remove 90 million for business ventures that would have been used for Robotliftet, Digitizationliftet and competence.nu. According to the report we have received from the Committee on Economic Affairs, 11 000 companies have taken part in the digitalisation lift, about 5 000 companies in the Robotlift and 125 companies in competence.nu. Now it won't be like that next year, which is a pity because this is important for Swedish companies to be able to keep up with technology development and be at the forefront. Small and medium-sized enterprises are very important for regional development throughout the country. One can think about why you have removed the money for this very thing, because that is one of your big profile issues. It is a little strange that you have agreed to remove this particular appropriation – especially because in the Committee on Finance's report you are writing, in order to improve the conditions for entrepreneurship, trade and competitiveness so that more jobs can be created throughout the country. The Social Democrats think it is important that we have a business community throughout the country that is developing and can get started after the pandemic, as we are now seeing all over the country. We spend 70 million annually on developing the business environment in 39 sparsely populated and rural municipalities. The whole country should be involved in taking Sweden forward after the pandemic. Madam President, I would like Regional development is an area that spans several areas of expenditure in order for it to have an impact. In this report it is about money for investment sometimes other fuel stations that need to replace their pipes and cisterns. Here we add 75 million extra in addition to the money that already exists. This is important for the functioning of society in rural areas. We also permanentise operating aid of 70 million to stores in vulnerable and vulnerable areas. In my county of Kronoberg there are several shops that receive the support. They are located in Häradsbäck, Konga, Älmeboda, Linneryd, Tannåker, Södra Ljunga, Agunnaryd and Skruv. For these stores, this support is very important and crucial for the stores to remain. These shops are more than shops. They are a meeting point in the village but also post office, system company, pharmacy, sometimes library and parcel delivery point. In addition to operating aid, there is investment aid of 160 million for such shops. Over the period 2015 – 2020, more than 1 billion went to support grocery stores and fuel stations. Kronoberg County would have been without shops in many of these locations. Indeed, the absence of aid would significantly impair service and cohesion. Madam President, I would like As a rural resident in Sweden, you can do things yourself. You can build broadband, build playground and outdoor gyms and set up Christmas lights in the village. It is therefore important that the state supports where it is needed. Money for broadband is such an important investment. The government has therefore invested 7 billion in broadband roll-out in rural areas and adds an additional 1.3 billion in the 2022 budget. In total, 95 per cent of households in Sweden have access to high-speed broadband, and the proportion is growing rapidly. But we are not satisfied as this is crucial for reducing the gaps in our country and creating the conditions for more jobs throughout Sweden. The importance of broadband cannot be stressed enough now in pandemic times. This has enabled me and the other Members to sit at home and work without problems. True, it has been very sad not to meet, but it has worked. I have sometimes been very tired and thought to throw either the computer or the toad out the window. But you don't, you connect again and have another meeting. The only ones who have been happy about my home sitting are the cats and the dog. Especially the dog's pretty pissed at me now that I'm leaving. Broadband enables people to live in rural areas and not have to go to work every day. It enables people to have a job quite far away and still put together the puzzle of life. What we are now seeing is that more people want to live in rural areas, which is a positive thing. This wave we need to ride on and make sure that it is still attractive to live and live throughout Sweden. Despite the pandemic, we see that many companies invest heavily in Sweden's rural areas, especially in northern Sweden. It is about investments in green change and green new industrialisation. Of course, we want to see this throughout Sweden, not only in northern Sweden. That is why the reductions of 500 million in this particular area of expenditure are very unfortunate. The investments also mean large reductions in emissions and many new jobs, which means that there will be a need for labour in these places. Norrbotten is the county with the lowest unemployment rate in the whole of Sweden. That is why we must ensure that the unemployed can take the jobs that exist. This requires, among other things, validation, which we spend money on in the budget for the regions, but also the transfer of knowledge to train for the jobs that exist. The tourism industry is another industry that consists of entrepreneurs in many different industries across the country, and the government is now adding SEK 80 million more for the tourism industry's conversion but also more resources to Visit Sweden to market Sweden. It is an industry that is and has been severely affected by the pandemic. We need to do many things to do this, and then we need a strong society, a more secure society.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-23	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Monica Haider, for raising the issue of the 500 million and small and medium-sized enterprises! It is a one-off amount from the Social Democrats that lasts a year, but what we want is long-term and structural reforms. We know, among other things, that since 2014, there has been an increase in regulatory costs of 1 billion a year, and they are now up to 7 billion. Such measures are important to us. During the pandemic, it was not exactly the government that went ahead for small businesses. I remember the first summer when we called for the government's response and where, only in the autumn, thanks to the Moderates and other parties, we were able to get in place that forms of enterprise that were not relevant to the Social Democrats were supported. I have also stood here and debated about limited partnerships and partnerships that would receive money in conversion aid. First it was an amount they were supposed to meet and then another. When it was lowered, it was even an entrepreneur who was called by a department who said that now he could apply. The problem was that he could not because the silent partners, who never exist in these companies, were to be included, and the county administrative board did not pay out the money. From there we come, and now there's a one-off. Then there are structural things to do. I would also like Monica Haider, now that she has the chance, to tell us about the fuel stations, whether we can now get the state aid rules in place so that there will be advance payments or money in the account so that you can hire those who are going to do the job and if the exemptions are in place. It did not come out in the debate we had last week; it was just about the money.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-28	Madam President, I would like Thank you, honourable Member, for your questions! You say you want long-term money. This money is going to start up after the pandemic, and then we have seen it as one-time money. What we then put in the budget in 2023 is not quite clear. We are not yet there, but we are putting forward one-year budgets and appropriations in time. You want structural reforms with regard to regulatory problems. Rule simplification is something we work with all the time, and we need to keep working on it. I fully agree with Ann-Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson that more needs to be done there. As I said, the 500 million would have been allocated to small and medium-sized enterprises to enable them to restart and develop their businesses in the coming year. We see it as very unfortunate and strange that you are taking that particular money away for small and medium-sized enterprises. We believe that they are needed to restart businesses.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-31	Madam President, I would like There will be a business debate next week, and then all the proposals relating to entrepreneurship will be on the table. Again: It is important to make long-term solutions. 1 billion a year for seven years will be 7 billion that the current government has imposed on entrepreneurs. Monica Haider mentioned the green transition and says that we are now developing northern Sweden. Yeah, that's great, but I'd like to know how Monica Haider views the power supply. 70 per cent of the companies in Sweden are located in the southern part, and that is where the largest part of the electricity is used, so that they can walk around. Now we're going to build on the northern part that's going to need its power. How do you expect this equation to be solved? I would like an answer to that.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-34	Madam President, I would like The energy debate was held here last night. I'm not going to continue it today, because I thought Mattias Jonsson was able to do that for us. I am therefore not going to go into that question at all. I forgot to say something about the fuel stations. It's actually the same answer there. We had the debate on fuel stations last week, and I thought that I made it clear then what I thought, what we want and what the government is doing to cope with the fuel stations, so that they will not have to shut down because of the requirements of MSB. Thank you for the questions, Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson, but I am not going to say any more. I just think it is very unfortunate that, with surgical precision, you focus on small and medium-sized enterprises when you remove money from our budget.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-37	Madam President, I would like Since, in the first stage of the budgetary process, Parliament has given a different direction to budgetary policy than that desired by the Center Party, we are abstaining from taking a position on the distribution of appropriations in Category 19 Regional Development. The Center Party's budgetary options should be seen as a coherent package in which no parts or parts can be broken out and treated in isolation. On the other hand, we have a specific opinion in the report which sets out our views on policy orientation and the draft budget of the Centre Party. Madam President, I would like Sweden is one of the world's best countries to live in, but at the same time it needs reforms. Hopefully, when the coronap pandemic is over soon, we want the economy to be fully restarted. However, many parts of the economy lack the conditions necessary for, among other things, small business and job creation to flourish throughout the country and for the integration of vulnerable groups and the achievement of climate targets. The Center Party believes that valuable time has been lost with long-term unemployment, exclusion and excessive climate emissions as a result. Economic policy needs to focus on important and sensible liberal reforms so that, among other things, unemployment and exclusion can be combated, so that sustainable growth can be achieved throughout the country with more and growing companies and so that climate change can take place. The Center Party's budget options contain several such reform proposals that could have put Sweden back on course. Madam President, I would like As far as the policy orientation of the expenditure area is concerned, we would like to stress at the outset that rural conditions need to be greatly improved. It should be possible to live, live and work throughout Sweden. Therefore, policies should be based on regional needs, and regional development funds should be managed primarily by the regions and not centrally. At the same time, policy should also contribute to national objectives. We therefore believe that the regulations for regional business support and the transport grant need to be better adapted for smaller companies and to contribute more clearly to greater sustainability and gender equality. We believe that high achievement of objectives and simplification of implementation are important starting points for the implementation of the EU's cohesion policy. In order to reduce national administration and simplify funding for applicants, we therefore believe that Sweden should, among other things, promote the overall management of the Structural Funds by an authority. Madam President, I would like We would also like to stress that the efforts of the regions are important in maintaining adequate access to commercial services and are of great importance to viable societies. The local shop or fuel station is often a prerequisite for a small rural area to function and attract residents, businesses and visitors. The Center Party was therefore under the alliance government and substantially increased public spending on support for commercial services in rural areas, but we have also been involved in negotiating enhanced support in the budget during the January agreement. The proposal for permanent support for grocery stores in sparsely populated areas from 2023 onwards is a good one, and it creates the long-term approach that is so urgently needed. I have mentioned, in previous debates, the country dealer Joel Zackrisson in my municipality of Mora. Joel runs a shop in Venjan, which was a municipality of its own before the municipal assembly in the 70s. The shop is the lifeblood of the village and has received support in many different ways, from both the state and the municipality. Joel is a true entrepreneur and has in recent years started four new shops in villages where the shops have been closed. He has opened small fully digital stores that are open 24 hours a day every week throughout the year. You open the door with the phone, scan your goods and pay. Then the door opens and you can go out. It is a fantastic solution that increases service in rural areas and also increases the opportunities for Joel to continue running a store. Madam President, I would like As far as the appropriations for the expenditure area are concerned, we would have liked to see a reduction of 1:1 Regional development measures of SEK 350 million compared to the Government's proposal in the budget proposal for 2022, due to the Centre Party rejecting the Government's temporary investment of SEK 500 million on what is called regional development measures for restarting. For us, it is crucial that rural and sparsely populated areas are given permanent and structurally correct conditions to grow. This is done not primarily through one-year packages but through better business environment, competitive green industries, infrastructure investments and a housing policy that enables construction in rural areas as well. Instead, the Center Party has chosen to invest in what provides long-term better conditions for rural areas. Madam President, I would like We would also like to see an increase of SEK 150 million in the proposed support for fuel stations, which is a much greater effort than all other parties in the Riksdag have proposed. Fuel stations in sparsely populated areas often provide important public services by acting as agents for mail and pharmacies and managing tourist information. We also believe that the aid should be designed so that compensation can be given to the owners of the fuel stations in question, so that, in connection with the work to replace the pipelines that need to be replaced, they can also install charging points. We believe that, at the same time as the aid is introduced, owners of fuel stations should be granted a certain time limit when measures need to be taken. It is therefore positive that the committee has proposed in a report that the Riksdag should issue an announcement to the Government that, among other things, it needs to review the possibility of a temporary exemption for fuel stations in areas where the service is sparse and which have not yet made or are not deemed to be able to make the necessary investments in accordance with the requirements of the Swedish Civil Protection Agency, which will apply from 1 July 2022.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-52	Madam President, I would like Peter Helander talks about the need for liberal reforms. Such a liberal reform must nevertheless be said to be the green start-up programme proposed by the Red-Green Government. But now Peter Helander, but also the Moderates, the Swedish Democrats and the Christian Democrats, is proposing a sharp cut of half a billion SEK. So this is money to go to small businesses around our country. It is money for Almi, and it is money for the green re-launch with climate entrepreneurship and climate companies. So this is what Peter Helander and the Center Party want to cut back on. The interesting thing was that when the budget movements came, neither the Moderates nor the Christian Democrats thought this was a grant that should be reduced. They suggested raising. But in the joint reservation, which then went through in the Riksdag, there was the same reduction that the Center Party had proposed. In this connection, I would like to ask Peter Helander: was it the case that the Center Party was involved in finally negotiating the M-SD-KD budget?
i-e347e5b376859e8d-55	Madam President, I would like I thank Maria Gardfjell for the questions. I'm glad I finally got that question. I had intended to mention this in my speech, but I thought I would wait until I was asked. I believe that we are spending much more on regional development than is stated in the budget. Compared to the government, we spend SEK 1 billion more on the Rural Programme. We spend SEK 300 million more on the fine mesh network and individual roads. We spend SEK 500 million more on broadband next year. We spend SEK 900 million more in 2023, and SEK 1 1⁄2 billion more on broadband in 2024. We spend SEK 200 million on municipal road lighting, as the state and the Finnish Transport Agency remove their lighting poles in the countryside. We are introducing safe and close care in the countryside. We are expanding support for ambulance care in rural areas. We reduce the regulatory burden and implement tax cuts to make it easier to hire people, especially the long-term unemployed and young people. Let's get rid of the dance tape stuff. How it gets in here I don't really know. But a lot of people think it's a good thing. We look at fiscal conditions for mountain rescuers who are doing a fantastic job of saving people who go out on the mountain. They are usually people from the city and also Danes and Germans. We are looking at rural deductions for the people who pay for being part of a broadband association, in a road association and so on. We believe that we who live in rural areas should be able to deduct this from the declaration, unlike those who live in the city. This is what we want to do, and it represents much more than a one - time investment of SEK 500 million. Then we want to invest SEK 150 million on charging poles and to support fuel stations in rural areas. I was asked if we have negotiated with M, KD and SD. We never have, and we will not.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-59	Madam President, I would like None of what Peter Helander read from his list will be implemented, because what the Center Party did was give passive support to the M-SD-KD budget. This means a reduction of half a billion SEK in funding for small businesses and a better business environment. These are small businesses that want to invest in digitalisation and adaptation to climate change. When the authorities were in the Committee on Economic Affairs and Economic Affairs and described how charging infrastructure needs to be developed in rural areas, one thing was said above all: It is at home that people should charge. And there's money in the Climate Tree. Why does the Center Party think it is better to spend special money on this?
i-e347e5b376859e8d-62	Madam President, I would like I thank Maria Gardfjell for the question. That is again a good question to which I shall now answer. The Center Party produced its own draft budget. There is a practice in the Riksdag, which the Left Party and the Swedish Democrats have admittedly abandoned, that they vote on their own budget unless they have negotiated with someone else about a budget. We have not negotiated a budget with anyone else. Then the question is: why should we vote on other people's budgets that we have not been involved in negotiating? That is the big question. Maria Gardfjell then says that we gave passive support to the budget voted by Parliament. If we had got what we wanted, other parties would have voted for the Center Party budget. Then that would have been the alternative to the government's budget, if we were to ignore all the practice and just vote purely tactically. The Center Party stands up for the policies and proposals that we pursue and do not vote for the proposals of other parties.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-66	Madam President, colleagues and perhaps someone who is listening! With regard to Category 19 on regional development, I naturally begin by mentioning what has been said earlier by the Social Democrats, namely that I find it regrettable that the SEK 500 million that disappeared. Then, of course, it is not as easy for us in the opposition parties, no matter where we come from in Sweden, to work on different issues as for the government party that has a government office that can work with the issues in a completely different way. I will come back to these differences. But of course I regret the 500 million crowns that had been very important for the re-starting. By its decision of 24 November, the Swedish Parliament has decided that the total expenditure for category 19 must not exceed just over SEK 4.7 billion for 2022. As the Left Party's proposal for appropriations in the area of expenditure is above that level, I cannot reserve my support for our proposal. The left-wing budgetary options should be seen as a whole. That is why I choose to abstain from taking a position on the allocation of appropriations and instead choose to present in a separate opinion the policy of the Left Party in the field of expenditure. At the final stage of the preparation of the budget proposal for 2022, representatives of the Moderates, the Swedish Democrats and the Christian Democrats submitted a joint draft budget, which I believe has made the budgetary process more difficult. The Left Party has reached an agreement with the Government on future forms of cooperation, substantially increased pensions for the most deprived pensioners, improvements in health insurance, i.e. the so-called Arne pension, increased compensation and the so-called functional tax. That is why the Left Party, after our own draft budget has fallen, supported the government's draft budget in this House before the proposal of the Conservative Trio – if I can call them that. It was about practice, Peter Helander – yes, it can be avoided. I believe that the Government's proposal as a whole is better for Sweden because it has different starting points from the conservative values contained in the proposal from the trio. And I also believe that Sweden needs a green and modern transformation of society that creates development and jobs throughout the country. This requires a red policy for a green transition and reforms to both restart and restructure the Swedish economy after, among other things, the coronapandemine. Efforts are needed for jobs, the climate and greater equality instead of neoliberal reforms, including privatisation of the Public Employment Service and other market experiments that only separate our society. They do not benefit the countryside. It is now clear to me that neoliberal economic policy affects not only equality and prosperity but also growth in the country. Instead of tax cuts, I therefore advocate substantial investments aimed at speeding up the green transition, strengthening the rural and municipal sectors, and upgrading the security and health systems. Such a policy will improve the conditions for small businesses, among other things, and will increase infrastructure and transport. With regard to the policy direction in the field of expenditure, I would like to start by saying that I want to see a policy for the whole of Sweden. There are large and growing regional differences in which the rural areas, mills and working-class parts are left behind in Sweden. One example is that the ten poorest municipalities are located in the countryside, and the ten richest are located around Stockholm. Can't be the reason why the richest municipalities around Stockholm would provide Sweden with the production of something of social importance, such as minerals, forest products, food or electrical energy? Madam President, I would like I believe that the disappointed parts of Sweden have one thing in common, namely that when market forces have been given leeway, it has led to the closure of shops and the disappearance of jobs. The policy I advocate is about setting priorities other than what the market does. I cannot influence or comment on the fact that the services sector is crowded around the big cities, except that some government agencies could certainly be relocated to the country. But it is definitely a system error if a municipality like Jokkmokk, the municipality with the largest electricity generation in the country, is still one of the poorest municipalities in Sweden. Let's compare with Norway. What's it look like there? The municipality with the highest tax revenue per capita in Norway is Bykle. In itself, only 870 inhabitants live in Bykle, but each year the municipality receives 80 million in tax revenue only from hydropower. In fact, 9 of the 10 richest municipalities in Norway are sparsely populated municipalities with large hydroelectric power plants. Madam President, I would like I am not saying that the Norwegian model fits us in all parts and how resources should be shared with us. But clearly where resources are created that benefit the whole country, such as energy, whether it comes from wind or hydroelectric power, more of the values created there should remain in those regions. It is the same with the mines that exist in the country. A little more of the mineral fee they could leave behind in the municipalities where they are. The overall strategy needs to be based on long-term sustainability, developed collaboration, greater regional influence and a clear responsibility for the state to ensure that basic public services exist throughout the country. I also believe that conditions need to be created for everyone to have the opportunity to live where they want to live in Sweden. The creativity and action of rural people must also be exploited. The different conditions of rural areas must be taken into account and citizens given the opportunity to develop their areas so that they can influence local and regional development issues. I shall return to the appropriations for the area of expenditure. I would have liked the allocation for regional development measures to have been 60 million higher than the government's proposal. I would have liked to see targeted support for municipalities with a high percentage of forest in order to promote increased tourism. Although visitors' interest in the country's protected areas is growing, many of the sparsely populated municipalities have a negative development in employment and tax revenues. However, these municipalities bear considerable responsibility for the collective benefits of protected forests with high natural values. I therefore believe that these municipalities should be compensated by increased state aid, for example for tourism investments. I would also have liked to see an increase in the same funding for investments in projects aimed at seeing whether there are development opportunities for cheap holiday destinations in neighbouring areas, especially for those families who cannot afford to make expensive trips abroad. Madam President, I would like I realise that our proposals are also a bit of cosmetics compared to the government's proposal, but the signal value should not be underestimated. If the countryside and the betrayed part of Sweden see that we have started with something that has not existed before, it actually raises hope for the future. But we need a greater overhaul of the tax system so that those localities in the country who take responsibility and create the values that benefit the welfare of society as a whole may retain a little more of the cake they deserve.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-80	Madam President, I would like I thank Birger Lahti for his speech, which gives me the opportunity to ask questions. There seems to be something terrible about the policy contained in the budget that the Left Party has chosen not to support. I am thinking, for example, of health care, where there are 3.4 billion more than in the government budget. It is about equal care, to eradicate uterine cancer, a central agency so that people will not be in line but receive care and to find more care places. Birger Lahti spoke about the northern part of Sweden. If I understand correctly, there are few police officers on a large surface. It presents a massive package in the field of justice to deal with all parts, from the police to the courts, prisons and so on. So it's a matter of penitentiary. Is the proposal Birger Lahti rejects? Last week we were on the issue of fuel stations. We were told that all parties have set aside funds, but no one said anything about how to solve the issue. Birger Lahti referred to tourism. Tourism needs scooters, and fuel is needed if it is to retain this type of tourism. You choose not to support a proposal for a budget that in the meantime allows you to have a functioning electricity supply in place. Then both entrepreneurs and private individuals living in northern Sweden can make their way. In the meantime, we want to lower fuel prices so that people don't get poorer. Birger Lahti will be happy to respond to this.
i-EcbKExnUFV7Mrsoxms72KM	Madam President, I would like Thank you, AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson, for the questions! First of all, I had to choose whether a few billion should run between my fingers to the capital owners of health care facilities or whether they should go the way where we control that the money ends up right and goes to health care and even to the police, I would rather choose the latter. As far as the police are concerned, we are now trying to train a lot of police officers. Are we getting them in place? It's not that simple. It is not at all easy to get police officers who have been trained elsewhere in the country to want to move to the countryside, because, as I said in my speech, the countryside has long been suffering from a lack of regional policy. This was also the case when Ann-Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson's party led the country. The headlines were very large, but the trend was in the same direction, that is, in the wrong direction. As far as fuel stations are concerned, I would like to say that if Ann-Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson believes that 50 öre's reduction in tax will solve the problem in the countryside, she will probably have to take another turn to Kitkiöjärvi. I would argue that I buy so much fuel that I know where my cost of fuel ends up. Trying to put me in place so I wouldn't know what fuel costs and how much it affects won't work. I am convinced that other medicines are needed than reducing the tax on fuel by 50 cents when we want to phase out fossil fuels from society. As far as support is concerned, I fully agree with what the government has put in place with the 70 million to go exactly to this end.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-90	Madam President, I would like Birger Lahti says: If I could choose, I would choose this. Yes, Birger Lahti, you have to choose! That's what we're here for-- we have different budgets. When it comes to the public sector and a woman-dominated one, it is absolutely horrible that it should always be so that one should not be able to run companies in that sector. You have to be able to do that, and on the last row you have to have some over, because otherwise you can't invest again. There are a lot of women who have gone that way since we allowed it. I also know that in Jämtland there was no public health centre that wanted to start, but it wanted a private one. And I know there's an amazing private health center up in Lycksele. These health centres are helping the entire healthcare sector and doing an amazing job. When it comes to degeneratives, it is always the case that they are handled when they appear, but you do not lay down, destroy, and break. As far as police officers are concerned, they are also missing in Stockholm. Only 1,500 are in place by 4,000, so something is wrong with the system. We need to remedy this. I'll get back to that later.
i-7Wzc2mpQqHiNrknbqSAct1	Madam President, I would like Thank you again, Ann-Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson, for the change of line! I agree with it if it were to stop at people who are passionate about their profession in the health care sector and these companies. Then I wouldn't have any problem with it being a bit over, but big owners who are far away and don't think it's enough with a little bit over, I don't have much left for. What man cannot opt out of, the market should stay far away from. School is just one example. We are soon unique in the world when it comes to having no restrictions on profit withdrawals, for example in the school sector. I don't have time to answer that. Briefly on police officers: v i try to give money to training courses, but it does not seem to be easy to train police officers.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-98	Madam President, I would like Although I was born in Iran and raised in Småland, I have lived and worked in Värmland all my adult life. I'm a proud Heater. I am proud of Karlstad as a municipality of residence, which has grown so that it has creaked and has taken a great responsibility as a locomotive in the county. I am also proud of the whole of the Värmland countryside where the municipality after municipality struggled to create both a fantastic place to live and opportunities for companies to grow. I don't need to break in any open doors, but our elongated country Sweden is so much more than Stockholm, Gothenburg and Malmö. All of Sweden will live and grow, and Sweden needs sustainable regional development. What we are debating today is the tickle of what we see as Sweden. It is important to have an understanding that Sweden looks different but that at the same time we are the same. Many challenges are found throughout Sweden, but at the same time there are also major differences. Liberals want all of Sweden's development power, growth potential and employment opportunities to be exploited. It is entrepreneurship and economic development that are the basis of our prosperity. That is why people and businesses all over the country must be given opportunities to grow and develop. We need to have good conditions for business and training, and that is crucial for regional development. It is clear that targeted efforts may be needed, but above all general efforts are needed for more companies to be able to grow and employ throughout Sweden. A generally improved business environment with reduced taxes and less red tape benefits all businesses, especially those in sparsely populated areas. Each municipality and region has a major responsibility to implement the necessary efforts to improve the nutrient climate. General efforts at national level for jobs, training and an improved business environment need to be combined with regional growth efforts. There, municipalities and regions have a great responsibility to improve the local and regional business environment. Madam President, I would like As a former entrepreneur, I am genuinely interested and curious about entrepreneurs and entrepreneurship. It is striking, but no matter which company you visit or which entrepreneur you meet, there are some recurring problems that policy has to solve. One example is the problems faced by companies with skills supply and the lack of matching between unemployed and job vacancies, which has a major impact on Swedish growth. If skilled and skilled workers are not available, companies risk being forced to close down or relocate to other countries. In addition, the digitalization shot that we have received through the coronapandemine, where teleworking has been more the rule than the exception, has enabled new ways of recruiting talent and thus also increased competition for talent globally. More and more people are searching for and recruiting talent increasingly online and across national borders. This in turn creates new opportunities but also new challenges for both companies and policy. The long-term supply of skills requires high-quality adult education, higher education institutions and universities. I would like to strike an extra blow for universities of applied sciences, which have an important role to play, as it is an effective education linked to the regional labour market. Regional higher education institutions are also important for the development of their geographical area. Liberals welcome the localisation of university branches where appropriate and increase cooperation with the regional business community in which the neighbouring municipalities and the region in which they operate. Madam President, I would like The tourism industry is one of Sweden's fastest growing industries. It employs almost 200 000 people throughout the country and consists of various types of service and experience companies. The hospitality industry has had a tough time during the Corona, very tough. It should then be remembered that it is almost 3 000 activity and guide companies that, together with accommodation, restaurants and rental activities, comprise about 10 000 companies. These are companies that are often run as small family businesses and that are strongly linked to the countryside and are particularly important in many rural municipalities that can offer visitors and not least foreign tourists amazing nature experiences, glamping, stays on farms, sports fishing trips and other nature tourism. These companies must be given a good opportunity to run and develop their entrepreneurship without bureaucratic obstacles and without tax policy that disadvantages entrepreneurship. Madam President, I would like It is quite obvious that people go where it is actually possible to get to. This calls for continued investment in rail, road and other infrastructure. Efficient and well-functioning transport is central to companies being able to deliver goods to customers and suppliers. Swedish aviation must become more sustainable. Measures are therefore needed to reduce emissions from the sector. Elflyg aircraft are an area under strong development. It is important for the state to contribute to research and development, as electric aviation has the potential to reduce the climate impact of aviation and at the same time become a new branch of industry in Sweden. Electricity Elflyg may be an important factor in the development of the country's regions and provide fast transport for business in particular. This would be a huge boost for regional airports, the climate and the regions they operate. Madam President, I would like Although it is easy to get anywhere, it is even more important to have a roof over your head. Today, almost all municipalities, including smaller municipalities, have a housing shortage. All residents, regardless of their place of residence, need different forms of living in different phases of life. The difficulty of financing, write-down requirements and high building costs are the main obstacles to housing production, but too detailed regulations can also hinder residents to live and live as they wish. Of course, we will also continue the expansion of government services throughout the country, as well as in terms of good access to digital connectivity and postal services. Madam President, I would like Regional development can often be seen as fashion words, fine words that do not lead to any direct action. Sweden is so much more than Stockholm's inner city. We need policies that are there for the whole country, enabling the whole country to both live and grow. Finally, Madam President, the Liberals' draft budget is a coherent whole. Since the Parliament in the Framework Decision supported the joint proposal of the Moderates, Christian Democrats and Sweden Democrats for a financial framework for the state budget and the direction of budgetary policy, we have not taken part in the current decision on the distribution of appropriations in the area of expenditure.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-118	Madam President, I would like Together with the rest of the world, Sweden has been fighting against the covid-19 pandemic for a year and a half. The situation is still very uncertain, while the economy is recovering. More people are coming to work, and there will be new opportunities to solve social problems. But as highlighted in the budget bill from the Red Green Government, it is time to build Sweden stronger, safer and more sustainable than it was before the crisis. Through reforms, the pace of climate change will increase and more people will get to work. The red-green government took a responsibility to change Sweden. Investments were made to give companies the courage to invest in new technologies and solutions, to develop the new green jobs of the future and to make it easier for people to train themselves to the jobs needed. Efforts were made to protect and clean water, strengthen outdoor life and ensure that our waste is used as biogas. These are initiatives that really complement regional policy. To achieve Sweden's climate goals, large public and private investments in climate-smart technology are required. To this end, the green policy's drive towards the so-called "Industry and Climate Action" should be strengthened in order to further accelerate the industry's climate transition and enable climate investment at local and regional level. I cannot stress enough the importance of climate change in developing charging infrastructure in rural areas. And we know from the meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs, which I also attended, that the authorities specifically point out how important it is for individual households to receive support for developing charging infrastructure at home. If you live in the countryside, it is smarter to refuel your car at home than to go to a special gas station. Emissions are to be reduced by extensive electrification of both transport and industry. The Moderates, Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats are moving forward with changes in the budget bill that in a crucial time are driving Sweden in the wrong direction. This applies very much to the area of expenditure that we are now debating here today. But let me first say something about the massive reductions that are being made on climate and environment. The fact that we have fewer climate and energy strategists on the county boards and that efforts on the power issue and faster state processes in the electricity grids are being removed from the Moderates' budget is astounding. The removal of regions' efforts to ensure increased wind power expansion and the disappearance of electrification pilots is incredibly serious. We also believe that the removal of investment aid for energy efficiency and the reduction of taxes on petrol and diesel are completely the wrong way to go when we are in the midst of a burning climate crisis. After months of negotiation with the aim of improving forestry policy and creating better conditions for dialogue, the Environmental Party, together with the Social Democrats and the Center Party, presented a joint forest bill to the Riksdag. The bill contains many different parts that together form a whole that the Green Party is behind and that could increase and strengthen ownership in forestry but also protect the environment. Several parts of the bill are linked to the investments made in the red-green budget. Once the budgetary resources have been removed, the preconditions for implementing key elements of the bill are lacking. It is even so bad that the Swedish Forest Board is forced to prioritise other work. The proposals in the forest bill, which cannot now be implemented with the financial framework adopted by Parliament, include: strengthening ownership and compensation for landowners; increasing the commitment to voluntary formal protection; more favourable tax conditions for forest owners; the possibility of waiting agreements; investments, as Birger Lahti talked about, on tourism and nature tourism in rural areas linked to nature protection; compensation for nature conservation agreements and, above all, money for the management of the existing nature reserves, as the Moderates usually point out. This is taken away. The forestry programme is also in danger of being closed down due to the lack of long-term funding. It also removes the investment in extra services, which in turn reduces the possibility of more green jobs. This affects jobs and entrepreneurship throughout the country, especially in rural areas. Madam President, I would like About 10 billion of what is invested in the M-SD-KD budget, which will finance, among other things, the reductions in climate taxes, is financed from EU funds from the EU Recovery Fund. This funding is in danger of missing, as Sweden no longer meets the requirements of 37% climate change efforts. The Moderates spend the money on climate degradation instead of climate action. As a result, not only 10 billion people from the EU are at risk of freezing in, but the entire Swedish share of the recovery fund, more than 30 billion SEK. This money has already been spent by the Moderates, the Swedish Democrats and the Christian Democrats in their budget. And in its desperate cut in climate investments and the reduction in climate-governing taxes, the opposition is thus in danger of creating a financial deficit in the state's budget of 30 billion. It is bad when parliamentary parties that lack the resources for preparation, similar to those in the Government Office, do such napkin sketches and confront Sweden with such a great embarrassment but also a great risk of losing so much money. Madam President, I would like The two most important economic policy issues are climate entrepreneurship and the business environment. Compared to the red-green budget, the Moderates, the Swedish Democrats and the Christian Democrats have made a cut of half a billion SEK in the budget. We wanted money for a green start for small businesses after the corona, with money for the climate, digitalisation, companies' smart specialisation and their ability to switch up at a stage when even companies that have gone well in the past had a bad period. Re-launching companies into the new era has been extremely important for the Green Party and for the former Red-Green Government. But this is now completely impossible. In order to meet the major societal challenges of our time, sustainable regional development is needed where the whole country is given the opportunity to develop. Many small and medium-sized enterprises have been hit hard by the coronapandemine and are still in need of support in order to restart their activities in the most climate-smart way. We need a commitment to the business environment and climate entrepreneurship.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-133	Madam President, I would like Yeah, where to start? This is crazy. After Christmas Sweden stops working. Impossible! Stop! Help! It is astounding to listen to these words that are being used. I wonder if the Swedish people are listening to Maria Gardfjell at all. Last time we were in a debate we were talking about Norrland; Helena Lindahl is sitting in the hall. Then the honourable Member said that people who are going somewhere can take public transport. But it is not always easy to live in Sorsele and take your children to Friti d s. The carpet is pulled away from those who are going to be in a transition to a new society, so that they have nothing. You have to pay high prices for electricity, because that system has been broken. Once upon a time, in our country, we built up a system where we had nuclear power in strategic places and hydropower in the north – fossil-free electricity. Now we are running an oil plant in Karlshamn full time so that you had to break what we had. It's environmental. That's great, isn't it? I'm sarcastic, if anyone doesn't understand. There is much to be said about this. EU funds will come, believe it or not. It's just that you do this again. You haven't had much of a rush from the government. They started last spring, but they didn't get shot. Now, this is all over. You search again, and then it comes in place. I think the world will be a little better on January 1st.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-137	Madam President, I would like The one who is astounding is rather Ann-Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson, who cannot put together one by one. But I will. The Green Party has a policy that really states that the car will be needed, especially in rural areas. Therefore, it is also incredibly important to speed up the development of electrification and the investments in biogas to provide continued opportunities to have car traffic throughout the country in a safe and good way. When it comes to increased electricity prices and the problems facing Sweden, the biggest issue is the lack of power in some parts of our country, especially linked to the big cities. In the Red Green Government's budget, there was an effort to ensure that the county boards would speed up the permit process and reduce the concerns about the expansion of the strategically important electricity networks. This whole bet brings the Moderates in with a pen line in the budget. And it's not just in terms of the effect being reduced. It also reduces opportunities to speed up investments in wind power. It doesn't matter that the Moderates say they want to build nuclear power. It won't happen for the next 15 years anyway.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-140	Madam President, I would like While we are on the issue of electricity and the lack of power, I note that subcontractors to the electricity supply companies tell us that they do not even buy electric cars for their own companies. Why don't they? Because electricity won't be enough. There's no point in that. In addition, they tell us that in four years' time there will be a shortage of 10,000 electricians to deploy the network that Maria Gardfjell and the rest of us want to have in place. What are your proposals on this? We are seriously lagging behind when it comes to education and getting things in place in this country.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-141	Madam President, I would like Aren't you surprised? The Moderates stand here and say that there may be a shortage of electricity in Sweden. At the same time, they reduce the opportunities to invest in expanding electricity generation in the form of wind power. It is so difficult to make the cuts in this budget! It also makes it much more difficult for small businesses to create better energy management in their businesses and to switch and become more climate-smart. Among other things, it is about investing in smart grids. Yes, 10,000 electricians are missing. And why, then, did the Red-Green Government make a huge investment in continuing training to meet the climate challenge with more manpower? Because it takes 10,000 electricians. But the Moderates don't do anything.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-143	Madam President, I would like I wasn't going to take any line on Maria Gardfjell, but then she started talking about the forest bill, the Forest investigation and the budget initiatives. I would like to ask Maria Gardfjell a few questions about this. At what stage did the government put the 2 extra billion in the forest protection envelope? Did it happen when we had negotiated in the Forest investigation, or did it come forward earlier? Why did they just put 2 billion? Did they say so on the proposal of the Forest Investigation or on what we negotiated in the Forest Investigation? The Fjällskogs package has been removed in the Forest investigation. It is not described in the same way in the forest bill as in the Forest investigation. I wonder why all of a sudden it wouldn't work. I would also like to ask Maria Gardfjell: what was the amount of funding last year, and what is it like this year compared to the proposal for 2022? Those are my questions.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-145	Madam President, I would like There was a lot we agreed on in the Forest investigation, among other things when we sat and negotiated. For example, the Center Party and the Green Party agreed quite early that we did not want to see the forest investigator's proposal to go forward with the mountain forest package under coercion. We wanted it to be done on a voluntary basis. When they wanted and if they wanted to, the forest owners would receive compensation for their forest. But since courts have established that every forest owner in the mountain area should be able to receive compensation, it is of course important to be able to simplify it. Instead of forcing all forest owners to have to report their forests, we want to create an opening because one can only turn to the county administrative board and say: Now we want this compensation. It costs as much to pay the forest owners if they do so under coercion as if they were willing to do so. Since we agreed that all these forest owners could receive voluntary compensation, money was needed for compensation. The money that was expected was 2 billion extra in the budget each year for six years in order to pay for it. That is exactly what Peter Helander and I have agreed on in various negotiations. It is about the individual forest owners sometimes other mountain areas being able to say: We want the compensation for this. I still want to own my forest. I'll be able to get the compensation. I'll be able to get wood. I'll be able to build a house. I'll be able to fish and hunt on my land. But the forest is protected from logging.
i-XrzxhYjahRaEbYmNCDKpdq	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the answer, Maria Gardfjell! I'll tell you the answer to the questions I asked. Last year, the grant for forests was about SEK 800 million. This year it is 1.7 billion. Next year it was proposed 3.7 billion. In our budget we have said 2 billion. If it was a disaster that the extra 2 billion did not exist – it is so expressed – how can it be that it was not a disaster last year or this year when you are at the same level as Maria Gardfjell herself has been negotiating? Now we hear Maria Gardfjell say 2 billion times six years. It became a mountain forest package anyway, although we said it wouldn't be. We have said that the mountain forest should not be treated differently from others even if we have Änokdomet and forest legislation. The county administrative board in Jämtland said that it was 125 000 hectares that were in the pipeline and would come. That's a big difference to 525 000 hectares. Not all mountain forests are needed either.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-154	Madam President, I would like Yesterday the news came on SVT Jämtland that 40 000 hectares that were planned to become nature reserves now cannot be because the money does not come in the budget. There were 40,000 hectares in Jämtland – voluntarily. It cannot now become a nature reserve. The Center Party is responsible for the answer. You have to read what it says in the forest bill about what we have agreed. We have agreed that forests with a protected nature should be saved. That is what we have agreed.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-156	Madam President, I would like I wasn't going to take a line on Maria Gardfjell either. But I couldn't help it. In an earlier change of line here with Peter Helander, Mr Gardfjell argued that the Green Party's proposal was full of liberal proposals. However I twist it and turn it around, and when I look at the last few years in which the Green Party is a member of the government, there has been a consistent imposition of penalties on the countryside. All I see is pure socialism. The tax burden on energy taxes and fuel taxes is socialism. Mr Gardfjell noted that the M-SD-KD budget was harmful and embarrassing. But if you are going to do a little more international consideration, I think you should look at the phenomena that took place here a few weeks ago when the Green Party, Gardfjell's own party, left the government seven hours after we had appointed a prime minister. It sent an echo all over the empire. If we are now concerned that we are sending embarrassing signals from Sweden and this House, perhaps it is time to examine ourselves.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-159	Madam President, I would like I am pleased that Eric Palmqvist wants to take a line on me and discuss whether it is liberal, socialist or perhaps green to invest in climate taxes. I'd like to say it's green. Green ideology is neither right nor left. It's more forward. As far as climate taxes on petrol and diesel are concerned, this is absolutely necessary. We are facing a climate crisis and a major climate change transition. It will bring an incredible change in our country and our way of life. I do not really believe that this will be seen as such a big difference for the general public in terms of cars and transport. Many are already on trains, and the electrification of the fleet of vehicles has started. It will have to happen much faster. It is precisely in order to get the transition on the roll to go even faster, that economic instruments in the form of taxes are needed. We in the Green Party want a green development and not a brown one. What is very important is what is said from Eric Palmqvist. From the Green Party we were very clear that we were not prepared to sit in a government that would not rule on its own budget but be dictated by the Moderates, the Swedish Democrats and the Christian Democrats. We believe that governments should govern on their own budget in order to be able to assume their responsibilities.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-163	Madam President, I would like Mr Gardfjell says that green policy is aimed at the future. It will be for Mr Gardfjell. I do not think it is a step forward to phase out functioning nuclear power and to burn fully in the Karlshamnsverket. I'm a terrible leader, but I can't see it's forward. But that may be Mr Gardfjell's interpretation of the green policy. Then we have heard a lot here about electric cars. We have now looked at the E6. There were full of electric cars during the blizzard. I certainly do not have a problem with electric cars and that the technology should move forward. But the technology isn't ready yet. In a previous debate, Gardfjell has even claimed that you can drive for between SEK 2 and SEK 3 miles. That's not true. Today we see that it is even more expensive to drive an electric car than a fossil car. That equation doesn't add up. I do not understand how it is planned to supply them with electricity in the future.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-166	Madam President, I would like Of course, it is for safety reasons that nuclear power plants are being decommissioned. It is not profitable to reinvest in the old nuclear power that is not safe enough. That's the way it is. It is also not profitable to invest in new nuclear power. On the other hand, it is profitable to invest in new wind power and not least in offshore wind. These are the investments we now need to see. We need to see really big investments in renewable energy production. But we also need to see investments in energy management and investments in different ways. These are the efforts that the Swedish Democrats have made to reduce. With regard to the back-up power plants in our country that are still fuelling oil, the old initiatives are. I think they'll be phased out pretty soon. That is absolutely nothing that the Green Party supports.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-169	Madam President, I would like We are approaching Christmas, and we have now reached the debate of the Committee on Economic Affairs. We are in the middle of the debate, and it is about regional growth policy and its budget. Sweden is a fantastic country. But I must also say that Sweden needs to have a new course. A policy is needed to create development power, growth potential and employment opportunities in order for us to continue to have the welfare we have. People and businesses should be given the opportunity to grow and develop, and everyday life should work. Growth makes us raise money for our well-being. Growth enables companies to operate and employ. Growth means that people have a job and a livelihood and that more jobs and entrepreneurs are created. The problems facing society as a whole affect regions as well as municipalities around the country. It is about serious crime that affects companies and people's everyday lives. It is about long-term unemployment that is at risk of getting stuck, and it is about care queues that need to be managed. Add to this the high fuel prices and electricity prices, to name but a few other areas. I'll start with the latter. Access to electricity is the major challenge in Sweden. Looking back, we can see policies that have decided on and built a robust electricity system with a fossil base so that the whole country can live. There was hydropower in the north and nuclear power in strategic locations to get a smart system across the country. I have no words when, now, in an extension phase of more electricity use, before a system is in place, the carpet of this system is removed. It pains to see that the accelerating development in recent years has meant that, while Sweden is building a society based on switching to more electricity use, the government is shutting down Ringhals Reactor 1 and then 2. Now we are in a situation where Swedish power networks warn that they may prioritise the order in which different businesses will receive electricity. Who thought this before – that in December 2021 we would be standing at this landmark, or whatever one should call it? We've built up and we're at the forefront, and then you take it all away. We have a business that provides us with jobs and growth, and we have a welfare sector with care, care and school. In what order is this to happen? In the south there are 70% of the industry and companies that need electricity. The price has now sometimes been up to shock levels – SEK 4 and SEK 6. This will change when new industries arrive in the north. It is gratifying that it is coming, but the problem will increase as more and more businesses need access to electricity. An ordinary family gets poorer with government policy. There will be electricity bills at high and sky-high prices. How will a family of children put this together? How are we gonna do that? At the same time, those who make it back to work and home must use the car. Then they will be punished for not being able to take public transport; it will cost about $1,000 for a tank. And it might be even more expensive. There is no sense in breaking people's privacy and private finances and whipping out that they cannot take the car outside public transport and at times when the car is necessary. Think of shiftwork! Think of those who work at irregular times and where there is no public transport! In industry, prices increase as electricity prices increase. Pågen's CEO has now gone out in an article and written that the price of bread will increase by 2 SEK. So electricity prices are increasing. When the ovens go hot, food prices increase. It is also about our agriculture. There, the energy price, the price of manure and feed prices increase. Madam President, I would like People must be able to get to and from work and be able to get through their work and still keep money in their wallets for all other expenses. For me, it is extremely strange that people should have to get poorer in order to make them understand that they are going to change and buy an electric car. We are proposing in our draft budget a reduction in the tax on fuel. Someone's been ragging about it, but it's heading in the right direction. But, of course, more is needed. Electric cars cost a lot of money, and not everyone can afford it. It's about big investments. If it is the case that the electric car is a solution and you can buy such a used one – which we will come to in a forward position – you also have to think about this with batteries. It is not fully developed either. What happens if I buy a used car and the battery doesn't work? When I listen to the automotive industry, I hear that electric cars are not yet in a phase where they work in the cold climate either. We were talking about the E6 now that it was cold and the cars were standing still. It has to work! We cannot expand a system where cars do not work and we must not run on the old fuels in the meantime. When I talk to electricity suppliers to energy companies, they say that they know that we are not buying electric cars – which I was talking about earlier in the debate – because electricity will not be enough. And it has nothing to do with the expansion of wind power, but everyone knows the situation. Everyone understands what happens when it's cold and still and we have a system that doesn't work. Once again, it hurts to shut down what works. In four years, we'll be missing 10,000 electricians to build electrical systems. It has been said that these are on their way now. I wonder what has been done since 2014 when this is happening right now – six months before the elections. I share Mr Arman's kind statement on polytechnics and vocational programmes. They are very important for regional and municipal growth. It is fast and smart education that makes use of where they can. Madam President, I would like It's urgent now. There should have been efforts in the electricity system much earlier. We've had a number of lost years. Last week we debated fuel stations, and it is still the case that the funds are being talked about. You talk about it, but you don't answer if there will be exemptions. Will the issue of money be settled in the account so that you can pay? And will there be companies that can solve this and deliver? These are issues that are important for getting this in place. All, possibly with one exception, agreed that fuel stations will have to be in place for the foreseeable future. Regional growth is about long distances and extensive rural and sparsely populated areas. Interregional cooperation is needed to keep the country together with infrastructure networks. It is about working road, rail, broadband and air transport. These different modes of transport constitute nodes and networks so that Sweden can be well planned for both transport, export and import, where Europe forms a large part of the market for products and services. We also need our hospitality. We Moderates believe that technology development goes hand in hand with sustainable development, and we do not want to phase out without developing. Therefore, we are pleased with the decision made last week that a government cannot close Bromma airport. We need our nodes if Sweden is to work. We have seen the importance of broadband during the pandemic. Several areas have become white spots in view of the opportunities and difficulties of homework, which have increased. We must continue to increase investment in broadband. When it comes to EU funds, according to Moderates' way of looking, they should aim as much as possible to contribute to activities that can ultimately carry themselves. It is also important that the programming documents to be used nationally are as user-friendly as possible and are based on targets and measurability in terms of efficiency. We believe that efforts should be made at national level to create programme structures that generate sustainable activities locally and regionally and that go along with time. For us Moderates, it is extremely important that the policy is based on creating growth in order for development to take place. Therefore, we want to see a focus on enhanced competitiveness by the fact that products and services are and continue to be attractive and stand well to attract buyers. In this way, we increase welfare and the opportunity to live throughout the country. Companies are located in localities and in regions. Madam President, I would like I would like to say a few words about crime. It makes us vulnerable in different ways, both as people and as companies. It must be possible to operate without imposing costs. People shouldn't have to get hurt anymore. That is why a large part of the budget we have added to the area of justice and important efforts are being made there. Without the legal system, a country stands flat. Madam President, I would like There is a long list of answers to why one should vote for the budget presented by the Moderates with the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats. I would like to conclude by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-200	Madam President, I would like Thank you, AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson, for your speech! It is clear, Madam President, that the Moderates want to talk about all sorts of different policy areas except for regional development in their speeches. That is why I have to ask a question about this speech. I would like to know what kind of investment the Moderates are making in nuclear energy in the budget. That seems to be the basic proposal in Moderate politics.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-202	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question. The Moderates are pushing the line to change the legislation – it is our policy – so that it will be possible to have nuclear power in more places than today. Research is also being sought in this country. You shouldn't have to have hydropower going east to carry out research. We should sit with, which the government does not do, in international contexts and push this issue to be on the map. It is extremely urgent. Maria Gardfjell's own sister party in Finland has realised that fossil-free is important and that nuclear power should be run. Then you can tell me it's taken time. We also heard that it would take 15 years if there was even an opportunity. There are those who build in 7 years. There are also small modular reactors. You can stand there and smile a little foolishly about this, but it's actually serious things we're talking about. I would also like to say that if Maria Gardfjell is to invest in sea wind power, she can also tell us that it will cost 20 billion to connect it to everyone. It seems that for one energy type we will talk about what it costs but not for others. Let's just count some parts. That's how you can trip with the electrical system. I don't buy that anymore. Now it's important that people find out how it works. Everything should be measured in the same way. I cannot understand why Maria Gardfjell says that nuclear energy is dangerous. Vattenfall itself has said that they could drive Ringhals until 2035. Then we would also have had the opportunity to make this change. But you broke the bridge that would bridge over to the new society to do something else. Then you'll also have to tell me how it's going to work.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-207	Madam President, I would like I didn't hear an answer to my question. I asked how much the Moderates had invested in nuclear energy in the budget. The fact is that there is really no obstacle in itself to building nuclear power in Sweden. The problem is that it is so expensive, so someone has to subsidise it. Then it is the Moderates who need to make such proposals in a budget if there is to be any nuclear power to talk about. Otherwise, it's just air castles. I would also like to ask the Moderates what strategy they have over the next few years to address the electricity situation – how they want to reduce the impact crisis when they have now deducted all the money from the budget and how they want to invest more in electricity generation in the near future.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-209	Madam President, I would like If you can't talk about your own politics, you can talk about other people's, and you can distort and twist it. There is currently a difficulty – Maria Gardfjell knows that. It is her party that has made sure that we are where we are. When you shut down fully functioning nuclear reactors in Ringhals, you have also broken things in this country. You should have driven to 2035 and had a transition, built at the same time, because so do you: build bridges over each other. We don't get capacity down, because we don't have the pressure left. You can't do what you're supposed to do, so it's gonna be hard. But we are going to do what we can, and we are going to start building the new – as soon as we get to the day when we can start a new construction for this country, where we allow nuclear power, can have small regular reactors and can change the legislation. But you can start with one thing: you can change the harmful tax on waste.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-212	Madam President, I would like I just need to get something straight. AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson mentions in the speech and also in the line shift that the government closes fully functioning nuclear power. There's been so much talk about it that some people think it's a truth. There is much I do not agree with the Green Party, nor is it my mission to defend them, but I just need clarification: when has the government closed down fully functioning nuclear power in Sweden? There has been talk of 100% renewable instead of fossil-free. Nuclear power costs of 41⁄2 billion were removed on an annual basis when the thermal power tax was removed so that the owners could make their investments for independent core cooling when there were statutory requirements for it. They were given more space to do this. The owners of the nuclear reactors themselves choose for economic, purely market-based reasons to close down. You keep telling me the government's closed. I may not go along with the government and the Green Party on many other issues, but here I have to ask: where do I find what Ann-Ann-Charlotte Hammar claims, that the government has closed fully functioning nuclear power?
i-e347e5b376859e8d-215	Madam President, I would like I do not know if Birger Lahti remembers the occasion when the Committee on Economic Affairs had a proposal to look at nuclear power unconditionally and gave the parties the opportunity to take this chance. There was also a comparison between other types of energy, which I had a debate with the Green Party about, and to drive nuclear power further. In that situation, they chose to say no to look unconditionally at the electrical system that is built up. To give the conditions that turn on an energy type in such a way that it becomes unprofitable is to send a signal to a state-owned company like Vattenfall. One could also have given a new owner directive and said that this is very important for Sweden's future. We have built up a robust system. Now it says and dabbles and is quite uncertain. There are risks, and we are losing growth in the meantime – investments and more.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-217	Madam President, I would like As long as someone else pays, the Moderates suddenly think you can socialize the electricity market. That sounds nice. One thing I have to touch. I think Ann-Ann-Charlotte Hammar should wait to cork up the champagne for Bromma. I don't know how much you go with your party leader, but today you can read that Ulf Kristersson is open for expansion of Arlanda in favour of closing Bromma. At least I think you should wait to open the champagne because Bromma will survive.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-219	Madam President, I would like Now we have two parts to this. One is the power supply. There is a business sector that is helpful, but it must provide long-term solutions. The question is whether the Left Party is willing to provide solutions. You're not interested in nuclear energy. The question goes to all parties that do not want nuclear power. I'm not an urge for it itself, but I want all the qualities it gives us so we can take this country further. What do you want instead? That is the question. What should we have to avoid getting into situations where we risk our business and more? As far as airports are concerned, I am leaning against the decision taken last week, a decision that I feel we were all behind, including the Moderates.
i-8KzaTQuA2P6PXMqUxNPaGx	Madam President, I would like Initially, I would like to support the committee's proposal for a decision in report NU2 Area of expenditure 19 Regional development. Regional development, what is it? Whose responsibility is that? How do we achieve that? And what's in it for us? According to the government agency, the Swedish Agency for Regional Development is about strengthening the development power of cities, urban areas and rural areas and contributing to sustainable development in all parts of the country. This work will be done by exploiting the potential of Sweden's 21 regions, all with their unique needs and prerequisites. Central actors in this work are the country's 21 regions, which coordinate and develop the work in each county. But the conditions and the great brush strokes are our responsibility here in this House. In this context, we tend to point out from a political point of view, regardless of party affiliation, the importance of the whole country living. That is what we will certainly do today in this debate on regional development. But, Madam President, although we seem to agree on this in substance, from left to right on the political scale, the political debate and decisions over time show that we do not have the same view of how it is to be achieved. One of the great benefits of the assignment as a Member of Parliament is all the contacts you get with people, companies and organisations around our elongated country. For a member, many doors to worlds that are otherwise closed – or rather unknown – are opened to the broad masses. These may be rural entrepreneurs who describe their everyday lives, voters in a district characterised by decades of depopulation or municipal councillors representing municipalities that are in one way or another adversely affected by the decisions we make here in the Swedish Parliament. That is the case; it is usually when something is not good that we are told. When everyone is satisfied, the sun shines and the political decisions are like a caressing in the hair of the tailwind we rarely hear it. I have seen many impressive examples of innovation and entrepreneurship in many parts of our country. If it isn't the production of finished bathroom modules in Kalix, it's the world's fastest sports cars in Ängelholm. We see how people realize ideas about building hotels entirely of ice in the wastelands. We see how entrepreneurs adapt their production from outdated products to products that are in time or even take us to the future. We see how the base industry is in the middle of a technological leap, and we see in many places how creativity flows. We are many who have all these driving people to thank for their contribution to building Sweden strong as a welfare nation and strong as a brand. We owe them part of our debt. I believe that it is we in politics, not least here at national level, who are obliged to create the best of conditions to facilitate entrepreneurship throughout the country. If this is to be possible, we must at the same time create good conditions for living and living in all parts of the country. In order for this to be possible, we must create the conditions for the country's municipalities to deliver municipal services. This applies to large and small municipalities, from Kiruna in the north to Trelleborg in the south. It's all connected. The conditions for regional development therefore depend not only on what is being dealt with in this report but to a very large extent on everything we decide in this House. Let me take an example. Last Thursday we debated NU10 Support for rural fuel stations. This is an issue that in many ways is important for us to maintain or strengthen the development of our most sparsely populated regions. In other debates, our colleagues in Parliament's other committees will consider proposals on infrastructure, police presence and a lot of other things that have a direct or indirect impact on the conditions for Sweden to develop as a nation. Madam President, I would like Speaking of other debates that have a direct bearing on Sweden's regions' prospects for development – or phasing out – I cannot help mentioning the debate on Sweden's energy supply and the record high electricity prices. That is not what today's debate is about, but this issue of someone should demonstrate how important it is to have a holistic view when we talk about regional development. Madam President, I would like I am old enough to remember the 1980 nuclear vote. I remember the reddish yellow campaign buttons for line 2. On them it said:abolition of nuclear power! But with reason! ..................................................... Now we have decommissioned about half of the reactors, and the country's companies and consumers are rewarded with the highest electricity prices they have ever had. How reasonable was that? Well, in Category 19, there are some initiatives linked to regional development funds. There are also targeted measures, such as the transport premium. On the whole, it is important to invest, but yet the expenditure area with its more than SEK 4.7 billion can be considered relatively small. Without taking any advantage of the appropriations contained in the UO19, I would like to emphasise that it is not in this area of expenditure that we are creating the really good conditions for regional development. We are creating them through intelligent policies in all policy areas. Now this debate is not about infrastructure – neither digital nor physical. With respect for our colleagues in the Committee on Transport, which owns the issue and is probably best placed to conduct that debate, I would say that a well-functioning and modern infrastructure is an example of a policy area that is perhaps more important for the conditions for regional development than the area of regional development itself. I would like to say here that fuel prices also play a crucial role. Fuel prices, which, like electricity prices, have broken new records in recent months, have a major impact on the private economy of ordinary people. Furthermore, Madam President, fuel and electricity prices have a major and negative impact on the competitiveness of our companies. The high prices are also the driving force behind the cost of the country's municipalities, which, if development persists, will be forced to cut public services or increase municipal taxes. As a result, several industries, not least in our smaller municipalities in sparsely populated areas, testify that it has become even more difficult to recruit staff in a situation when it costs more and more to commute to and from a job that you can only get to and from with your own car. In this situation, even thinking about making a proposal for a travel allowance, which is a major deterioration for the vast majority of people, I think is extremely damaging to regional development. Madam President, I would like I was just talking about some innovative and market-leading companies in various parts of our amazing country. As I said earlier, I have seen and come into contact with many such companies that arouse my admiration. Some are new and innovative. Others are old but have tremendous know-how and world-class research and development. One should be clear that there are a lot of people behind all these companies. It is entrepreneurs, employees and people in the public sector who create the conditions for the others to live and work near where these companies are located. It is all these people who make Sweden's wheels spin. Thus, Madam President, it is these people's everyday lives, conditions and well-being that are the real key to regional development throughout the country. I mean that perspective in every political debate in this House.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-246	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the proposal in the report on Category 19 Regional Development to be approved. All people, regardless of their place of residence, should be able to benefit from society's basic social rights and public services and be given reasonable opportunities to make a living. The main task of regional development policy is to contribute to the development of viable regions throughout the country. Viable regions are built when people with power and will interact locally in a bottom-up perspective. Fire souls who are passionate about an idea can mean a lot to a district's development. The Christian Democrats want to give them tools so that these ideas can be realised. The Christian Democrats' vision is that the whole of Sweden should work. Both people and businesses must be given good opportunities to grow and develop. Sweden's sustainable growth depends on both the business environment and the environments in which people live and work. Competitive companies, good communications, attractive living and housing opportunities and access to public and commercial services are crucial for the development opportunities of regions and municipalities. There should be a policy aimed at enabling people, wherever they live, to benefit from the fundamental social rights of society and to be given reasonable opportunities to support themselves and develop their environment. General efforts at national level for jobs, education, infrastructure and improving the business environment need to be combined with regional and local growth efforts. We want to see opportunities for growth in all parts of the country where regional benefits are to be exploited. Country and city are not opposites, but complement each other and make Sweden a better country. Madam President, I would like Christian Democrats' policy in regional development can be summed up by the fact that the whole of Sweden must work. We are used to thinking about the basic infrastructure in terms of roads, railways, broadband and electricity. And that's right. It is a common interest and a common responsibility in which the state must be the guarantor. If these puzzle pieces are in place, it in turn creates the conditions for individuals, associations and companies to develop and do their thing. In addition to the physical infrastructure, there are more parts. The judiciary is also basic infrastructure. In order to safeguard security, it is urgent that the police have the resources to be present throughout the country. We are proposing significant efforts on the whole judicial system in the form of police officers, prosecutors and courts. As more efforts are made to tackle criminals, more of them will go to court. Against this background, more resources need to be provided to authorities in the area of justice. This is something that we are involved in taking responsibility for in the budget that has won the approval of this House. Health care is also a basic infrastructure. In order for Sweden to be able to live up to the goal of the whole country to function, a fundamental change in the organisation of care must take place. Today, it is an unworthy postcode lottery that determines how long you have to wait for the necessary treatment. I would not hesitate to designate this injustice as the most important issue for us Christian Democrats. That is why I am very pleased that in our budget we have been able to make extra investments in health care, including by setting up a national health service to ensure that available capacity is used for those patients who have been waiting illegally for a long time. We Christian Democrats want to go further and want to see a collective state primary responsibility for health care. This is an issue that we will continue to pursue, and we will not stop until it is brought to a conclusion. Sweden should be a good country to live and work in, regardless of age, health or other circumstances. The whole of Sweden will work.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-259	Madam President, I would like Let me first congratulate Magdalena Andersson on the new important task. Welcome to the party leader circle! Sweden is in the middle of a new, large and severe electric crisis. The lack of electricity makes it expensive for all Swedish households, and it is harmful to all Swedish companies. It threatens the climate change and, in the long term, threatens Swedish welfare. At the Social Democratic Congress, Magdalena Andersson closed the door to all new nuclear power. That is a pity, because Sweden will need twice as much electricity until 2045 as we use today. This electricity must be clean, stable and cheap. Four parties in Sweden now agree that the solution to Sweden's problems is not to phase out Swedish nuclear power, but to develop it. The same four parties recognise that a change of power is necessary in order to have a new energy policy. But it is not too late for Social Democrats to join. Perhaps we do not want to join in a change of power, but at least a new view of nuclear power. I therefore wonder whether Magdalena Andersson is now prepared to reconsider nuclear energy in these times of electricity crisis.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-264	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by thanking Ulf Kristersson for the welcome into the party leader circle and in the new role. Many Swedish households are currently worried about what the next electricity bill will look like. I have a great deal of sympathy for that. It is with electricity prices and electricity bills just like with mortgages. You can have fixed interest rates, and you can have variable interest rates. This may also be the case with the price of electricity. If you have a fixed electricity price, the fact that electricity prices are high at the moment will not significantly affect you in the short term. If, on the other hand, you have a variable electricity price, you get a higher electricity bill the next time it comes. Now this electricity bill can also come in connection with Christmas, and that of course worries many people. What needs to be done to ensure that we get electricity prices down is, first of all, of course, to increase the transmission – capacity – of electricity grids. The government has worked to increase investment, and we are currently seeing larger investments there. We have also speeded up the processes. Secondly, it is a question of expanding what is quick to expand. There are major requests to expand more wind power in Sweden. This can happen quickly, and it also creates low electricity prices. We are also affected by high gas prices in Europe. In Europe, a lot of gas is used. This affects Sweden. However, it is free to build nuclear power in Sweden. It's quite possible. However, there do not seem to be any private operators who think it is profitable, and therefore no one does. If nuclear power is to be built, then taxpayers must go in and provide funds for it. I note that the Moderates have not done so in their budget, that is, the reservation that was voted through. The question is why they have not done so if nuclear power is now the solution.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-270	Madam President, I would like I note that the Prime Minister gives several different reasons for the very high electricity prices, but at all does not mention the fact that during the reign of the Prime Minister four nuclear power plants have been shut down in southern Sweden. There is no other judge who does not see this as an important reason too. In addition, I think it is a bit strong to say in the first place that the answer to the question about the electricity crisis for Swedish consumers is A government has a little more responsibility for energy policy than that. Let me go over to the market. The government very often returns to market forces on this particular issue but rarely on other issues. I find that a little interesting. I think it is clear that the market is seeing opportunities. The other day, for example, one could read that Fortum believes that rapid expansion of new nuclear power is quite possible. They wrote that just a few days ago. They thus show that political obstacles lie in the way. My question was: is the Prime Minister prepared to change his mind about new nuclear power?
i-e347e5b376859e8d-274	Madam President, I would like When you don't have good answers, you often try to put the wrong words in the mouth of the other. What I said was an explanation to Swedish households that some have tied electricity contracts and others do not. And if you have a tied electricity contract, you don't have to be as worried as if you have a moving electricity bill that risks getting higher. It was to allay the concerns of those who have bound agreements that I described the situation. My picture, based on conversations with people, is that not everyone quite has this in mind. Having said that, it is of course free for Fortum to build new nuclear power plants. What I'm saying is that we don't see anyone who has so far done it. If Ulf Kristersson thinks that this is important, then he should set aside money for it in his budget, but he has not. It may be a worn-out expression, but as long as Ulf Kristersson does not spend taxpayers' money on this in his budget, his talk about nuclear power is nothing more than empty barrels that rattle a lot.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-277	Madam President, I would like Sweden is in an energy crisis where electricity prices are rushing to unreasonable levels, which affects both the competitiveness of companies and the private economy of households. The reasons for this are several. This is partly because we are more dependent on our environment where the prices of natural gas are high. We also have partly a lack of transmission capacity, but above all this has been caused by the closure of nuclear power in southern Sweden. This is linked to an energy policy that has been badly managed for a long time. At the same time, the state is now charging billions of euros on electricity and capacity charges, while many families with children are now in danger of saving Christmas money for the electricity bill due in January. There is much that can be done in the long term with transmission capacity and with a view to greater electricity generation, but my question to the Prime Minister is whether the government intends to do something in the short term to alleviate the consequences for the households now affected.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-280	Madam President, I would like The government is of course following developments very closely and sees the concern that Swedish households can have with future electricity bills. Now it is only a few weeks since the Swedish Democrats, Christian Democrats and Moderates' budget reservation was written and went through here in Parliament. Then the question is: how is it that there were no such proposals in that reservation? It is written much later than the budget bill that I put on Parliament's table.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-282	Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats have repeatedly highlighted the need to compensate companies and households for the high energy prices that exist and which are linked to the energy policy that the government has been pursuing for a long time. It is regrettable that the government is not prepared to take any action to alleviate the consequences. It will take time to expand the transmission capacity. It will take time to build power lines. It is also regrettable that we are making ourselves more dependent on fossil power production when the government and the Social Democrats consistently opt out of nuclear power.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-284	Madam President, I would like Here, then, the Swedish Democrats are asking the Social Democratic Government to clean up after their mistakes. It sounds like you think you made a big mistake in the budget reservation that was written just a few weeks ago. Now you want me to clean up after what you caused. I can thank Mattias Bäckström Johansson for his high confidence in the government's ability to clean up their own mistakes.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-286	Madam President, I would like Our agriculture and green industries are a central part of the Swedish economy. Our green business sector has a turnover of over 80 billion a year, taking our sparsely populated countryside – yes, our whole country – forward. It's a job. It gives entrepreneurship. It gives development, pride and faith in the future. But right now the ground is swaying under their feet. The LRF's green business index, which measures the economic cycle of green industries, forests and the food industry and its suppliers, shows a historical decline in all sectors except forests. Above all, it is a question of running costs of raw materials, which eat up the margins. These are historically high prices of feed and manure. And it is about energy costs, not least for diesel, which have run out. Furthermore, there is still a high cost and tax burden on farmers' shoulders. What is actually a future industry is now on its knees and is forced to postpone investment, see growth decline and lag behind in its important work on the green transition. It is an emergency situation that has come in recent months and which requires urgent action. We, as a country, cannot afford either human or economic to let this go on. Despite the situation, the answers and measures of the government in the autumn have shone with their absence. I would therefore like to ask the newly elected Prime Minister: how does the government intend to act to ensure the competitiveness of agriculture and to safeguard our world-class food production? What is the concrete plan for the next six months to offset the cost yoke which is currently threatening our green economy and which is breaking the confidence of farmers but also of many others living in rural and rural areas?
i-e347e5b376859e8d-290	Madam President, I would like I appreciate the commitment of the Center Party and Annie Lööf to Swedish agriculture. That's exactly what Annie Lööf says. It is a fantastic nutrition and a great asset that we have in the country. It is also an industry that creates jobs throughout our elongated country. It produces high-quality food products and it has a high level of animal welfare. This is something that we really have every reason to be proud of in Sweden. Of course, when we have high prices for different parts of the inputs needed in agriculture, agriculture is affected. In agriculture, there are also not always alternatives. This, of course, affects Swedish agriculture. What we are doing in the budget that we have proposed is that in the coming years we are providing very large resources for Swedish agriculture and for rural development. In addition, we have a major investment in infrastructure that will be planned next year. We also have special efforts to ensure that services are available throughout the country. You should have the opportunity to buy food and refuel all over the country. In addition, of course, the government is closely following these developments in order to ensure that we can have the competitive agriculture that we have and of which we are all proud.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-293	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for your answer. It is true that there are a great many efforts to strengthen rural areas but also agriculture in the budget presented by the government. But what I now focus on are the coming years, the next six months. Since last summer, it's a cost shock. The costs have risen sharply, by several hundred percent, for example for manure and feed. A lot of farmers go under that cost pressure. This will allow us to face a potential food crisis in the spring, threatening jobs, businesses and the green transition. I think we need to act here and now and act very smartly. Responsibility for saving such a crucial part of the Swedish economy lies with the government. That is why I would like to ask again: what is the government's plan to lift the cost yoke that only in the coming months risks beating away the bones of very many entrepreneurs – very many farmers? Fertilisers and feeds need to be bought in, and now the price is record high.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-295	Madam President, I would like Of course, the government is following developments very, very closely. We are also keen that it should be possible to farm in Sweden. That's why we've made a lot of effort in recent years – we're doing it in the coming years too – to ensure that we continue to have a high-quality agriculture that delivers very good products throughout our country. In addition to the efforts already made by the government in previous years and those we had in the budget, we are of course following developments very closely.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-296	Madam President, I would like The government held a press conference this week about once again introducing compensation for the Karen Day, which was of course very good. The first day you are sick in Sweden you do not get paid at all. Sweden is the only country in the Nordic countries to have such a health insurance system. So we all pay in to health insurance, but it's a pretty bad insurance policy. The first day you don't get paid at all. Many Swedes cannot afford to stay at home when they fall ill. We know that a lot of people go to work even though they are sick because they do not have the protection that allows them to stay at home. It is a kind of vector-spreading mechanism that we have in Sweden, which means that we have a very high sickness absence. We know from research that in the long term many people get long-term ill when they often go to work when they shouldn't. The Social Insurance Agency produced a report on who previously applied for this particular allowance. There are a lot of people who have to be at work who have applied for the allowance. Many who can be at home have not done so, so they are not really affected by Karen's Day. In fact, I wonder what is preventing the government from completely removing this Karen's Day. It affects almost only the people who have to be at work – health professionals, teachers and industrial workers. Those who don't have to be there can be a little sick and work from home. This makes it an injustice. Everyone pays the same amount to the health insurance. What prevents the government from taking away this Karen's Day, which we are the only one in the Nordic countries to have? Is it not foolish that we have a disease-spreading mechanism right into health insurance that exacerbates the pandemic situation?
i-e347e5b376859e8d-300	Madam President, I would like The reason why we are now reintroducing the withdrawal premium and removing the withdrawal date in the way it normally works in Sweden is precisely because we are going to prevent the spread of infection during the pandemic. Now that we see a moderate but still increased spread of infection in Sweden, we believe that it is appropriate to reintroduce this so that more people have the opportunity to be at home when they become ill. In this discussion, I also think it is important to point out that many hourly workers have problems with the fact that they are covered by health insurance at all, including the systems we have. It is more a call to Sweden's employers to make sure that they employ people on such contracts that they also have the opportunity to take part in health insurance. It is important for the safety of workers, but in the pandemic it is also a way of reducing the risk of transmission. Having said that, the question is what to do with Karen's Day in the longer term. We are open to looking at how it can work in the future. It is quite correct that Nooshi Dadgostar says that there are occupational groups where it is possible to work from home if you have a light cold while for other occupational groups it is not possible. These are then faced with an increased cost, and there is an injustice in this. Of course, there is also a risk that people who have a weak economy and get a cold choose to go to a workplace where they risk contracting, for example, people who are not really going to get infected. Against this background, we are open to look at how the Karen Day works and how it should look in the long term. It may also be worth recalling that in the budget we had a wide range of other reinforcements of health insurance so that people in Sweden who are affected by disease can have increased financial security.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-304	Madam President, I would like I am, of course, very pleased that the left-wing health insurance reforms in the budget will be implemented now at the turn of the year. I am also pleased that the government understands that it is good reforms that we should proceed with. I would also like to thank you for your reply, because I understand that the government is now prepared to move forward with the long-term abolition of the Karen Day. It is not possible to perceive the Prime Minister in any other way. We in the Left Party are prepared, in cooperation with the government, to come forward with such a bill, preferably as soon as possible. This is currently a very serious situation with a serious disease, but it is also a matter of other diseases that older people are suffering. Even winter vomiting and flu are very serious diseases, and then, of course, people should not go to work when they are sick. I really want to inculcate that it is unique for Sweden to have a Karen's day. There is no other Nordic country that has it, and sickness rates are not very high in the other Nordic countries either. So it is now free for the government to put forward such a bill.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-308	Madam President, I would like I am also very pleased that the government's reforms in the area of health insurance have been joined by Parliament. But I do, of course, appreciate the fact that we are having this discussion about Karen's Day. It is important that we do this now to try to reduce the spread of the corona virus. However, as far as long-term changes are concerned, it is my assessment that it is important to take a long time and make a proper investigation to see what different effects you can have from different possibilities. There are various systems that could be envisaged, and it is important to think this through in a reasonable balance so that justice can be improved while not risking a situation where confidence in health insurance is undermined by the risk of over-exploitation or, even worse, cheating.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-312	Madam President, I would like Prior to the parliamentary vote on this year's budget, the Party Secretary of the Social Democrats claimed that KD-M's budget option, negotiated with the Swedish Democrats and won the Parliament's hearing, will take away the legs of ordinary people. This is the budget that Magdalena Andersson now does not think there is a problem to govern. It is, of course, a little surprising given how her party has previously expressed itself on the matter, but let us put it aside. What I wonder is, instead, what reforms it is that knock away the bones of ordinary people. Is it the tax cut of $150 a month that everyone who works receives? Is it reduced tax and increased housing allowances of up to SEK 10 000 per year for the most deprived pensioners? Is it that we are spending 3.4 billion more than the government on health care and starting the introduction of a national health service? Is it that we raise police salaries and give the police more resources and more tools? Is it that we are greatly reducing the costs of hiring the long-term unemployed or possibly lowering fuel tax so that ordinary people can better afford to get to work? Is it that we invest in removing shared tours in care for the elderly or that we spend 2 billion more than you to reduce the size of the children's groups in preschool? Which of these proposals put aside the bones of ordinary people?
i-e347e5b376859e8d-316	Madam President, I would like I think there were some reforms that Tobias Baudin had in mind. One of the important reforms is about the fact that there is a large housing shortage throughout the country, not least in those parts of Sweden where new industries are now expanding, getting new industries and need to build a lot of housing. Just in this situation, the Christian Democrats, the Swedish Democrats and the Moderates in their reservation are taking away investment support, which creates tens of thousands of new opportunities for people to get a rental agreement with a rent that they can afford to pay with a regular salary. I'm sure that's one of the suggestions he was thinking about. I think another suggestion is that you remove the increased opportunities in the form of extra services that we want to give, not least, long-term unemployed women born outside Europe, the opportunity to take a first step into the labour market. We know that additional services are a labour market policy measure which is widely used precisely by long-term unemployed women born abroad. I think I'm ordinary people. I also think he was thinking about the funkis tax. In the Government's budget, we completely abolish the functional tax, which means that people with disabilities who are unable to work pay higher taxes than employees. That tax is still in your budget. In addition, we have the family week, which was an opportunity for parents who work scheduled, such as a bus driver and a nurse who has five weeks' vacation, to be free when there are development discussions at preschool or when preschool has closed for planning days in the autumn just when you come back after the holiday. It is precisely to make life easier for such families that we want a family week with compensation. You have turned it into a family week that especially people who already have high income and six weeks of vacation and who rarely work scheduled can take part in.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-321	Madam President, I would like I note that it is rather shrewd on Magdalena Andersson's list and, above all, that the main thing that is being highlighted is ineffective measures. It's true that we took away family week. Instead, we have redirected it. We have reduced the tax for everyone; compared to the Social Democrats, it is the tax cuts that do not kick in at 22 000 SEK per month, but at 13 000. Unlike Magdalena Andersson, who chose to prioritise tax reductions only for those with the highest incomes and to remove the military tax, we reduce the tax, once again, for everyone and above all for those who have the narrowest and smallest margins. Finally, I wonder if the reason why Magdalena Andersson has so much difficulty in stating what it is that strikes ordinary people and why she can imagine ruling on our budget is that she knows deep down that this is actually a lot of good changes for the good of Sweden and for those who have the toughest things in our country.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-325	Madam President, I would like Removing the unfair tax gap that means that we in Sweden in 2021 and 2022 have a system where people with disabilities who can't work pay higher taxes than employees think Ebba Busch is an ineffective measure. Let it sink in. In addition, we have family week, which would enable all the LO workers who have five weeks' vacation and therefore very difficult to get the puzzle of life together to be free when it is day care planning day – an ineffective measure. Let it sink in. It says something about the policy of the Moderates, the Swedish Democrats and the Christian Democrats.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-331	Madam President, I would like Peace on Earth — that is how you wish for it at Christmastime. But it is a bit hopeful if you look out over ours in many places sad worlds. However, we can hope for peace in the energy market in the Nordic countries. That would be good. That is why I have a question for Prime Magdalena Andersson, whom I also welcome in the role of Prime Minister – congratulations, once again! We have an infected conflict between Sweden and Norway, Finland and Denmark. The energy is rising, so to speak. Not least, it is a bit difficult between the Swedish power grid and Statnett, but in practice it is between Magdalena Andersson and the Prime Minister in Norway. We know the background here, with the closure of Swedish, well-functioning reactors and a sharp increase in the tax on thermal power in nuclear power. It has been written in numerous reports from 2015 onwards that the situation we are now in would arise. This has taken place without regard to Norway, Finland and Denmark, and they have responded in different ways. Finland will start its nuclear power plant next year, and then some of these problems will be solved. Until then, however, we must try to bring peace to the Nordic countries. That is why my question is: what does the Prime Minister intend to do to make contacts here? Will the Prime Minister go to Norway to try to broker some peace with the Norwegians when it comes to our exemption from delivering? We have a market in electricity, which is very good – we always get power. But it will be incredibly expensive; my electricity costs, for example, 3.50 now, and I live in Örebro. So my family is toasting bread at night right now. However, if we are to move forward, we must ensure that these exceptions can continue. We must instill courage in the Norwegians and Finns that we will have to continue to change the Swedish system. When does the Prime Minister go to Norway and broker peace in the energy debate?
i-e347e5b376859e8d-335	Madam President, I would like We may not want to go through Johan Pehrson's personal finances, although he believes that he needs toast at night with a member of Parliament's salary. But it is good to use electricity when there is less shortage, so there are big points with! I can also reassure Johan Pehrson that we have good contacts both with the Social Democratic Government in Oslo, Norway, and with the Social Democratic-led Government in Helsinki, Finland. I was in Finland as late as yesterday, and I have already met the Norwegian Prime Minister – but in a party context. Of course, we will also have direct contact with Norway on these issues in the near future. As Johan Pehrson says, we have a common Nordic electricity market. Sometimes there may be technical problems in this Nordic electricity market, and that is – from what I have been told – what happened. We will of course work together to remedy these problems so that we can ensure a well-functioning Nordic electricity market.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-338	Madam President, I would like No, I can assure you we'll toast in the morning at the Pehrsons' Pehrson. The Norwegians, however, have shown a little harshness now; they are holding back with their delivery in the same way we have had to do. It feels that we do not really deliver into the common market because we have removed so much functioning energy production in Sweden – which, to put it mildly, is very strange. Now we're reassigning, and we've got long projects. I appreciate the government's efforts on hydrogen. That's the good thing; if those spins really spin, it's great that we can store it in a smart way. While we are changing, however, it is important that we ensure that Norway does not continue to hold back on its production. We must show some respect for them and understand that we cannot keep slowing down as we have done. I therefore sincerely hope that the Prime Minister's next trip to Oslo may not lead to peace on earth – but peace on the Nordic electricity market.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-341	Madam President, I would like Yes, of course we will have peace in the Nordic electricity market, and we are working hard to solve the problems that have existed. Not only in the short term, but also, of course, in the long term, it is important that there is a well-functioning transmission capacity between our countries; it creates stability in the electricity grids. It may be important to point out that Sweden is a major exporter of electricity. If I remember correctly, it is only one day this year that we have been a net importer of electricity – every other day of the year we have been a net exporter. So we have good electricity production in Sweden, which we do not always hear in the debate.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-343	Madam President, I would like Several speakers have mentioned the high electricity prices, and so do I. This is an issue that affects many people today. The environmental party's analysis is relatively simple: we need to increase transmission capacity, but to meet future needs we also need to increase the production of cheap electricity as soon as we can. The market, industry, experts and authorities broadly agree on what is the answer, namely wind power. I was very pleased to hear the Prime Minister mention it in his speech earlier, because it is the energy source that has the potential to give Sweden's green industries the electricity they need in the short term. There is a willingness to invest in wind power in Sweden today – there are major applications from the responsible authorities. But will they receive yes or no? My question to the Prime Minister is whether she intends to present the investigation, A legally secure wind test, where there are a number of proposals that would make it easier, clearer and more legally certain to have their wind power projects tested in Sweden.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-346	Madam President, I would like It is gratifying that Karolina Skog is addressing the issue of wind power, because there is a great potential here to quickly and safely expand Swedish electricity production. Not least in those parts of Sweden where today there are high electricity prices, this is really a way to quickly bring down electricity prices. It is something quite different from the discussions that some parties are having on nuclear power. There is no market for nuclear power; there are no companies applying to build nuclear power plants in Sweden, and that is why it is not a quick solution. On the other hand, there are lots of applications for wind power, and that is what there is potential to move forward with. Precisely when and how the government will proceed with this investigation is something that is still being prepared in the Government Office, and we will, of course, give notice as soon as we are done with this.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-349	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. We fully agree on the solution. There are investors who want to invest in wind power, but around the country there are unfortunately moderates with too much local power. The Moderates today say no to a total of almost 60 terawatt hours of new electricity generation. The trial is not legally secure and predictable today, and it needs to be changed. This is something that we in the Green Party attached great importance to during our time in the government, and I hope to hear soon when these concrete proposals are put on Parliament's table.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-351	Madam President, I would like It is clear that it is worrying that wind power production is not expanding at a fast enough pace and that there are various obstacles along the way – even moderate municipal councillors – in those parts of Sweden where there are very high electricity prices. I'm sure it's about councillors of other colors, too, I'll tell you. As I said, we are preparing this question and will come to the conclusion as soon as we are finished.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-353	Madam President, I would like I will of course begin by congratulating Magdalena Andersson on the confidence to be Sweden's Prime Minister. It's a big responsibility. Warm congratulations! The Prime Minister has been very clear about her priorities for Sweden in the future: The government will turn all the stones around to break the segregation and break the criminal gangs. We should take back democratic control of welfare. Sweden will also be the leader in the transition to a fossil-free society – mainly for the climate, but also because it creates growth and jobs throughout the country. This is a political programme that I think many outside the Social Democracy can support, so I would like to ask the Prime Minister how the government will work to break the segregation, break the gangs, take back control of welfare and lead the climate transition – or, if you like, what stones the Prime Minister intends to start by turning over.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-356	Madam President, I would like As far as segregation and crime are concerned, I have made it clear that all the ministers in my government have been asked to look at what can be done in their area to break segregation and thus also to combat crime. During the last week we have been in government, we have also been able to deliver some information. We have been able to decide that the police will have new opportunities to use electronic evidence and open mobile phones and computers that are seized. We have also been clear that we want to go forward with legislation on the need to have binding contracts when bringing labour immigrants here in order to reduce the risk of working life crime. Only two of the decisions we have already taken in this area. Of course, we will continue to work at a very high rate. This is one of the top priorities for tackling Sweden's social problems.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-361	Madam President, I would like Sweden has a large number of problems. Long-term unemployment is breaking new records, the shootings are breaking records, the price of electricity is flashing – yes, there are plenty of problems for the new government to grab. But instead of focusing on solutions to these problems, the Prime Minister's first time in this role has been marked by various scandals linked to her minister. Formally, the Prime Minister has the right to appoint his ministers, but this decision must be recorded and prepared. My question to the Prime Minister is therefore what information the Prime Minister has obtained and how the Prime Minister has ensured the suitability of his Prime Minister candidates before the appointments have taken place.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-364	Madam President, I would like I can begin by congratulating Mr Malmqvist on the fact that the government has already taken a wide range of decisions in the priority areas. I mentioned earlier additional possibilities for the police to access electronic information and open telephones. We have also come up with a tightening up of terrorist legislation with better opportunities to combat terrorist offences. In addition, we have made new recommendations on limiting the spread of corona. We also provide information on stricter requirements for labour migration. The government is therefore working with full force, which I hope will make Josefin Malmqvist happy. In the run-up to the appointment of the Minister, of course, I have talks with the candidates about their background and what they have done in the past, what their history and background is. Several of the appointed ministers are also well-known personalities who have been ministers in the past and also MPs for a long time.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-367	Madam President, I would like When the government initiated the European summit in Gothenburg on the social pillar for Europe, it did not understand which doors it opened. The intention was to export the Swedish model to Europe, but, as we know, the result was the opposite. Now you have to fight for the Swedish model not to be replaced by a federalist, supranational model, which, unfortunately, everything points out, will happen – and it will happen very quickly. Naively and credulously by a government that claims to stand up for Swedish employees and the Swedish welfare. After Britain's withdrawal, the federalists were given an open goal to drive through the social pillar, which includes the proposal for minimum wages, when Britain previously served as a protective force for Swedish interests. My question to the Prime Minister is this: did the government not understand the consequences and risk for the Swedish model when it celebrated, spoke out warmly and pushed for the introduction of the EU's social pillar?
i-e347e5b376859e8d-371	Madam President, I would like Magnus Persson does not write a correct history here. After all, there are parts of Europe that have been pushing for minimum wages at European level for a long time, well before the social pillar, so there is no connection between these issues. During all the years, Sweden has always stood up for the Swedish model and the collective wage model that we have and which works extremely well. After all, we have one of the highest employment rates in Europe. That is what the government is working towards in the process currently under way with regard to the minimum wage directives. The assessment is that what is now on the table is a solution that also ensures that we in Sweden can continue to have our very successful labour market model.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-375	Madam President, I would like In his government declaration last week, the Prime Minister stated that border barriers that separate the populations of the Nordic countries are a foreign phenomenon in our history. The declaration was that free movement between the Nordic countries needs to be restored as soon as possible. During the pandemic, the Center Party has highlighted how thousands of border commuters to and from Sweden, Åland, Norway, Denmark and Finland have been hit hard when borders have been closed completely without prior dialogue or coordination. Instead, if we were to face common challenges together in the Nordic countries, we would be much better off than if each country were to move forward on its own. Now the spread of the omicron variant is taking off, and we see an increased burden on health care in Denmark and Norway, for example. My question to the Prime Minister is what measures or initiatives she and the Government are prepared to take in dialogue with neighbouring countries to find ways of avoiding or preventing new closures as far as possible.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-378	Madam President, I would like I am pleased that Linda Modig addresses these issues, because it is extremely important that the Nordic cooperation can work and work well. It is a question of having a common labour market with good opportunities for cross-border commuting, thus widening the labour market regions and enabling companies to recruit staff better than when they have closed borders. Cooperation is also important because when we are able to speak and act together in different international contexts, we get a much bigger and stronger voice than when we speak with different voices in different countries. That is why strengthening Nordic cooperation is one of the priorities I see before me in foreign policy. Of course, we will continue to engage in dialogue with the other Nordic countries on how to deal with these issues forward in order to enable us to have an open labour market.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-382	Madam President, I would like It is often in this House that we are addressing China's human rights violations. On 4 February, the Winter Olympics will start in Beijing. In addition to human rights violations, China is the country that carries out the most death penalty in the world. Human rights and democracy activists are being arrested on a continuous basis. Even the Swedish publisher Gui Minhai has been imprisoned for many years. On Monday, Ann Linde will meet and have lunch with Qatar's Foreign Minister. In Qatar, the World Cup will be held later next year. The too many dictatorships which have had major sporting events and at the same time violate human rights. Now there is a clear chance for the government to implement a boycott against China's political leadership from Sweden's political leadership and from the Swedish royal house. I'm wondering if the Swedish government is prepared to take that chance. Does an S-led government dare boycott the Olympics?
i-e347e5b376859e8d-386	Madam President, I would like Yes, the government is concerned about the developments that we are seeing in China regarding, among other things, human rights. Sweden has also put forward on a number of occasions the demand for the Swedish publisher Gui Minhai to be released. We will, of course, continue to engage in dialogue with China and express our views on these issues. Exactly how the government will approach the Winter Olympics and that, so to speak, visiting the Winter Olympics is a question that we will discuss in the government. We're not done with it yet.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-389	Madam President, I would like Never before have families paid as much for their electricity as today. There are many factors that affect the price of electricity, ranging from weather to commodity prices and currencies. But this is not the whole truth. If Sweden, for which the Liberals fought, had protected nuclear power and not shut down fully functioning fossil-free, planned electricity generation in southern Sweden, our competitiveness would have been stronger. We would have had the opportunity to produce more fossil-free nuclear electricity that could have been delivered to customers in southern Sweden and, in addition, we would have pushed away the demand for fossil production on the continent by being able to export to neighbouring countries. My question is why the Social Democrats do not defend the Swedish energy mix, with both nuclear and hydropower, along with renewable energy? This is how we strengthen Swedish competitiveness and really tackle climate challenges. I think that the Social Democrats are really turning their backs on industry, the climate and, not least, households.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-392	Madam President, I would like It is important that we have a good energy mix in Sweden, and therefore it is important that we can quickly expand wind power. There is a great demand from electricity producers to be able to produce more wind power. On the other hand, there is no demand from the market for the construction of new nuclear power plants. There are no such applications. It is possible to build new nuclear power in Sweden, but it is simply not profitable. Then, of course, we should instead invest in what the market sees as a profitable investment, namely wind power and solar power. With the new development of hydrogen, it is also possible to increase the stability of the electricity system when you have solar and wind power production.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-394	Madam President, I would like The Green Party, which has been pushing for the strengthening of the rights of national minorities for a long time, was pleased with the government declaration, which highlighted the right to culture and language. Several important initiatives are under way. It is about the consultation order, which will give better influence to Sami people in matters that affect them, and the Truth Commission, which will shed light on the abuses that the Swedish state has subjected the Sami to. Today, however, I would like to ask about mining exploitation in the Kallak region. There were many of us who reacted with concern when the Minister for Economic Affairs expressed the Social Democrats' love for opening more mines without saying anything about risks to either the environment or reindeer husbandry. So I wonder: how will the government ensure Sami people's right to clean up when dealing with mining cases? I also think it is important for the Prime Minister himself to meet the Sami people in dialogue, including on issues such as Mr Gállok. What will that dialogue look like?
i-e347e5b376859e8d-398	Madam President, I would like I think it is important for Camilla Hansén to address the fact that, when new mines are opened, there are several different interests that stand against each other. When it comes to the government's table, it is of course the government's task to weigh these interests against each other and then come to a decision. As far as the Kallak mine is concerned, this is a matter that is being prepared in the Government Office, where it is precisely a matter of weighing different interests against each other and of seeing how the intentions of existing legislation can be observed. Having said that, we see the need to have different forms of minerals to cope with the green transition. It is a key element for us to be able to drive the transition, and therefore it must be possible to break minerals in Sweden. But, of course, this should be done in such a way that one can also protect the interests of minority peoples as well as the natural and environmental interests that exist.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-401	Madam President, I would like Welcome, Prime Minister, to the first Question Time in a new role! In parallel with the pandemic's challenges, it is extremely central for Sweden to future-proof our business community for a climate-neutral and circular economy. The business community plays a crucial role in the green recovery, where we create the jobs of the future and make Sweden fossil-free. The technology shift requires capital-intensive investments with a long life and also high risks, which of course poses challenges in terms of access to finance for the investments. How can the government contribute to the financing of socially important industrial investments and thus the transition to the world's first fossil-free welfare country?
i-e347e5b376859e8d-404	Madam President, I would like Hanna Westerén raises an important issue. What we are seeing in Sweden now is a veritable green industrial revolution. There are so many companies that want to invest in Sweden and that will create thousands and thousands of future jobs. But there are also investments that are long-term sustainable and would create additional jobs in Sweden but without funding. This is also something that could drive climate change not only in Sweden but also through the creation of export products that help with climate change in other parts of the world. That is precisely why the government in the budget has invested heavily in green credit guarantees, where the state goes in and lifts some of the risk of getting these important investments further up for the jobs of the future, but also for climate change. Next year, as much as 50 billion in green credit guarantees will be able to help with large job-creating investments across Sweden.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-408	Madam President, I would like This week the electricity price has broken record in large parts of Sweden, including my hometown Gothenburg. In order to meet the demand for electricity in southern Sweden, fossil power plants in Blekinge and Gotland have also been set up. Reactors Ringhals 1 and 2 were closed in 2019 2020, and several energy experts point to the fact that in Sweden we have gone from being almost completely fossil-free in our electricity production to now being forced to rely on fossil power. My question to the Prime Minister is how the climate has benefited from the energy policy of the present and former government.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-410	Madam President, I would like The results of the government's policy are seen in the hundreds of billions of investments that we see across Sweden in the new green industry. Many companies choose to put their production in Sweden precisely because we have such a green electricity mix. If you're going to create batteries for new electric cars, you want them to be green, not brown. That's why they put their production in Sweden. The answer to the question is that the government's policy has led to huge investments and a new green industrial revolution that is currently sweeping through the country, resulting in large employment plans. This is about being able to meet additional investments by rapidly expanding what can be expanded quickly and cheaply, namely wind power.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-412	Madam President, I would like Sweden's rules on labour migration invite to cheating, corruption and trade with both people and residence permits. The minimum wage is SEK 13 000 per month, which is hardly viable. The employee can then bring family members here without having either housing or sufficient income to support them, leading to already widespread poverty and overcrowding. About half of the jobs created do not require training and could be taken by any of the hundreds of thousands of long-term unemployed who are already here, but wage dumping policy puts these people in a difficult position. They simply cannot compete with labour immigrants. I would therefore like to ask whether the Prime Minister will do what the Social Democrats have promised for more than ten years, namely propose a proper labour market test for work permits. If they do, they will have our support.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-415	Madam President, I would like There is no doubt whatsoever that labour migration in Sweden – among the most generous in the entire developed part of the world – is not working properly. A new policy is needed in this area. During my first week as Prime Minister, I have already been able to announce that we will proceed with proposals to have binding employment contracts in order to have the opportunity to come to Sweden as labour immigrants. It is about reducing the risk of cheating but also about people not being exploited in the way we see happening today. I am prepared to make more proposals in this area, and it is no secret that we Social Democrats believe that we should return to a system of labour market testing. People should come here because we need that particular workforce, but where we do not need it and instead you can hire people in Sweden who are long-term unemployed is of course what you should do.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-418	Madam President, I would like The Nordic labour market has served us well, but during the pandemic it has had a big break with closed borders and people who have lost income – not because they have become unemployed but because they ended up on the wrong side of the border. When the borders were reopened, the hope was that we would find our way back to good cooperation. But it has turned out that many of those who previously had their place of work in another Nordic country do not dare to return. They do not trust that a similar situation will not arise again. More than fine words are needed in government declarations. There's a need for insurance. The Norwegian Prime Minister, Jonas Gahr Støre, said during the Nordic Council's session that he could imagine an agreement between the Nordic countries that would clarify who is responsible for people not losing their income the next time a government chooses to close the borders. Will Prime Minister Magdalena Andersson also work for such an agreement to be drawn up? This is needed to restore confidence in our important Nordic labour market.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-423	Madam President, I would like Cecilie Tenfjord Toftby talks about a problem that was real for Swedish employees commuting to Norway, not least during the period when they did not get the opportunity to come to work in Norway and did not receive any compensation. It was a completely unreasonable situation. I myself was deeply involved in contact with the Norwegian Government to resolve this situation, and it was good that the then Norwegian Government finally, after great pressure, resolved the situation for these workers. We do not want to end up in such a situation again, and I am, of course, prepared to talk with other governments to ensure that Swedish employees do not end up in such a terrible situation again. I also see great opportunities for good cooperation between the Nordic countries, not least because I have social democratic colleagues in both Helsinki and Oslo and Copenhagen.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-427	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. We are now debating Category 22 of the state budget relating to communications. It is a fairly large expenditure area that includes SEK 77 billion in new investments and maintenance of our infrastructure. That may sound like a lot of money, but the need for a change in the transport sector is very great. Then 77 billion is not enough, and the Left Party has therefore allocated a total of 13.5 billion more in its budget movement than the government, which means that we spend the most money of all parties in this House. Madam President, I would like Why are we making this big effort? Because a well-functioning infrastructure is a key element in an equal and sustainable society. We need a well-functioning infrastructure to have equal opportunities to get to work, school and so on. We also need well-functioning transport in our society in order to switch the transport sector. We need to make major investments in the transport sector in order to quickly reduce the huge burden on the climate of the transport sector today. One third of our emissions come from the transport sector, and we have a separate target of reducing emissions from this sector by 70% by 2030. The Left Party takes this objective very seriously, and that is why we are investing so much money in our budget to change the transport sector. How can we have all this money to make these big investments? Well, we prioritize rather differently from the other parties in the Riksdag. We do not give priority to tax cuts for high-income earners, large companies and banks, but on the contrary we say that they should contribute more to changing the transport sector in Sweden. In addition, we take the polluter pays principle very seriously. We believe that those who emit the most should also contribute more to the transformation of the transport sector. That is why we want a higher and progressive air tax and a road wear charge for heavy goods transport, and that is why we are spending no money building new motorways, but on public transport and rail development. The left-wing party's vision is that Sweden should have a world-class infrastructure. We will achieve this by renovating what we already have and also by investing in new investments. Let me make a few comments on the investments we are making in this area. We spend 2.5 billion more than the government on railway maintenance. We have a maintenance debt on the railway of about SEK 60 billion. Large parts of today's railway system are decaying and need to be upgraded. Switches must be replaced, overheads replaced, rails improved and so on. All that we want to do. We also want to invest in the so-called less trafficked tracks, on regional tracks such as Bohusbanan, Dalabanan, Kinnekullebanan, Tjustbanan and others. If these bets are not made, these tracks will decay and become so bad that it will soon be impossible to run trains on them anymore. The Left Party is also committed to re-launching the railway sector after the pandemic. The rail sector has lost about 60 to 65% of its travellers during the pandemic. That's why the Left Party wants to halve train companies' track charges and allocate SEK 1 billion to it. Through this reduction we want to make it easier to travel by train and also to transport goods by rail in Sweden. We also invest more money in road maintenance. It is not just our railways that are at risk of decay. The roads around our country, especially in rural areas, are also very poorly maintained. More money needs to be invested there, and we do so in our budget. Madam President, I would like Public transport is one of the sectors most affected during the pandemic. During the pandemic, regional public transport authorities have lost nearly SEK 1 billion a month in lost ticket revenues. We in the Left Party welcome the additional funds provided by the government to support regional public transport, but that is simply not enough. That is why in our draft budget, in the Left Party, we are proposing a major investment in public transport. We will allocate SEK 3 billion extra to public transport by next year, and that is the most money of all parties in this assembly. We believe that it is time for a sustainable restart of public transport. Everyone who has stopped travelling collectively during the pandemic hopes to find their way back to the buses, commuter trains, trams and so on. In addition, we want more people to travel collectively, because a well-functioning, high-capacity public transport system is a key element in climate change. That is how we can reduce emissions quickly. Madam President, I would like Last week we were able to take note of the Swedish Transport Administration's proposal for a national infrastructure plan for 2022 – 2033. It is SEK 800 billion to be invested in new construction and maintenance of the infrastructure in Sweden. It sounds like a lot of money, but it is far from enough based on the needs that exist. The fact that money is so inadequate is entirely the responsibility of the government, for it is the government that has set up this tight framework. We in the Left Party also say that not everything can be accommodated within the framework of the infrastructure plan, but some investments are in nature so large and extensive that they are better suited as separate loan-financed projects. For this reason, we in the Left Party, as an example, want to lift the investments on new high-speed rail from the national infrastructure plan and finance them with loan funds and build high-speed rail lines as a separate loan-financed project. Then you would build the new railway in ten years. It is a little strange that we do not have a separate investment budget for infrastructure in Sweden. Everyone who has been active in municipal politics or is involved in running a company knows that it separates operations and investments. This is what we did in Sweden earlier, but now we do in t e so longer. Our investment in infrastructure is far too low. Previously, they were around 2 percent of bnp, but now they are just over 1 percent of bnp. It just doesn't hold. With Left Party policy we not only get new main tracks for high-speed trains, but we can also complete the railway along the Norrland coast, double tracks from Gävle up to Sundsvall and Härnösand and then further with a completed Norrbotnia track all the way up to Luleå. We also want to upgrade the Inland Line, more than 100 km of railway from Gällivare in the north down to Kristinehamn in Värmland. And we want new rail connections between Stockholm and Oslo and also new rail links between Gothenburg and Oslo. We need four tracks between Alingsås and Gothenburg. Alingsås is today perhaps Sweden's biggest bottleneck, where there are the most delays on the Western Main Line. Speaking of four tracks, it is also needed here, from Stockholm up to Uppsala, where the load is very large. It is possible to build all this at the same time, but then we need money. We need a separate investment budget, and we also need more money in the ordinary budget. I would like to remind you that when we built railway for the first time in Sweden, we built the Western Main Line, from Stockholm to Gothenburg, and the Southern Main Line, from Malmö to Stockholm, for about ten years. When was that? Yes, it was 1860. In the 19th century railway was built faster than we do today, and that is something to reflect on, I think. In our draft budget, we also make large earmarked investments in bicycle infrastructure. We need regional coherent trails for increased cycling in Sweden. Happily, bicycle is the only traffic that has actually increased during the pandemic. It is positive that more people have found their way to the bikes to get to and from work, for example, and we in the Left Party want to safeguard this by investing more in bicycle infrastructure. But then it must be safer to cycle, and that will be by building separate bike infrastructure so that cyclists will not be squeezed in the middle of the carriageway among cars and trucks, etc. Madam President, I would like I would like to conclude by saying a few words about sustainable freight transport. I have spoken here about the importance of us people and people being able to transport us in a more sustainable way, but that also applies to the goods, not least. We know it's getting more crowded on our highways. More and more trucks are driving goods on our motorways today, and a large part of these transports could be transferred to the railways or shipping. A large part of the emissions from the transport sector are due to goods transport by lorries. We in the Left Party have a plan to make the shift from road to shipping and rail so that we get sustainable freight transport. We want to introduce a road wear charge so that it costs a little more to drive a truck on our roads. We also want financial support for freight pendulums, i.e. the transport of goods by rail. If we go in with financial support, we can kick off a number of pendulums that will soon carry themselves. We also want to provide separate support for shipping so that we can move freight transport from road to shipping. Is it not a little strange that the Swedish Maritime Administration is today entirely financed by fees? The consequence is constantly increasing pilot and fairway charges, which make the transfer of goods to shipping difficult. We must change this. We also need to support the train ferry link between Trelleborg and Rostock so that more goods can be transported that way. It is gratifying that so many in here want to listen to the Left Party's policy on sustainable transport. Now I come to my final clamp. We in the Left Party are making the biggest effort of all parties in this Assembly to change the transport sector in Sweden. We do so because we need to reduce emissions from the transport sector by 70% by 2030. The climate crisis is acute. It's here and now. We in the Left Party call this a red policy for green conversion. I refer to our specific opinion in the report.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-453	Madam President, I would like I promise you, I won't be quite as tedious. There are exciting things that you can see when you're out in an urban environment. At some point I saw a graffiti where it said something like: Be realistic. Take it all now! It was a bit of that feeling that I got when I listened to Jens Holm's speech. The theme was: We in the Left promise everything good to everyone, and someone else pays. I've got a little idea. When you have raised all the taxes that were reported, the jobs have left the country and the business community has established itself elsewhere, how do you intend to pay for all this good infrastructure?
i-e347e5b376859e8d-457	Madam President, I would like From a historical point of view, I would say that our tax increases are, after all, quite modest. But I think the question that needs to be asked is whether you take the climate challenge and the other challenges that we have in Sweden seriously. If you do so, you want to do something about the great injustices that we have in our country. Then what we in the Left Party are saying is that rich big companies and banks can be involved in paying more. If we also want to do something about the acute climate crisis that we are in, those who pollute a lot will be involved in paying – everything according to the polluter pays principle. That is the policy of the Left Party, and that is how we finance this extremely ambitious transformation of the transport sector. I would like to say that it is only the Left Party that has a plan for how we should really change the transport sector in Sweden. When I read the Christian Democrats' proposals here, I even see that they want to cut back on the money for international train traffic. It's really backing into the future. Magnus Jacobsson, don't the Christian Democrats believe in the railways? Don't you want more people to ride trains internationally?
i-e347e5b376859e8d-461	Madam President, I would like What I note when I listen to Mr Holm is actually a variant of tax nationalism. The rest of us are trying to work within the EU system and to set as similar rules as possible. And we are trying to make a carbon trading system work. It's actually starting to work really well. You can see that the price picture has moved. This is beginning to put pressure on business. Madam President, I would like Nevertheless, the Left Party wants the Swedish companies to have it even more sweaty than all their competitors. It is clear that this line can be pursued. One can always say: A little more treasure. It's not that much. It's fashionable right now. We are just going to raise so that we are the highest in the world and the highest in the European Union. But this has consequences. It has the consequence that jobs leave Sweden. And it has the consequence that we cannot afford a good environmental policy.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-464	Madam President, I would like I note that I did not receive an answer to why the Christian Democrats are proposing reductions in international rail traffic in their draft budget. I can assure Magnus Jacobsson that we in the EU also want more people to take greater climate responsibility. It was a good thing that Mr Jacobsson raised precisely the price of emissions within the EU. I myself have been sitting in the European Parliament, and I can tell the House that every time we put forward a proposal about the price of release having to increase in the EU's emissions trading, it was the right, including the Christian Democrats from Sweden, who voted against. Every time, Madam President. Magnus Jacobsson says one thing, but in practice his party does something completely different.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-467	Madam President, I would like There was much that Jens Holm had time to make during his 13-minute speech. I would like to raise a question of principle. We have all signed up to the climate targets and the transition. There was a lot of focus in Jens Holm's speech on shifting traffic to rail. Trains and railways are always good, and cars are basically always bad. What surprises me in the reasoning is the question of the enormous technological development. It takes a long time and is expensive to build a railway. How do you bring back all the climate debts that you build up while building rail if car traffic is fossil-free when the railways are finished? It's possible that it looks like that. Then there is no way to recover the climate debt that has been built up during the construction period. Then both modes of transport are climate neutral, and then we are talking about creating an efficient traffic system instead of investing unilaterally in a traffic law.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-470	Madam President, I would like I would like to correct Maria Stockhaus slightly as regards the extension of rail. Of course it takes time, but rail can be expanded relatively quickly. There are now proposals to build Rail Baltica through the Baltic countries. It is planned to build the 500 - mile - long new railway in less than ten years. I mentioned in my speech that at the end of the 19th century, when the first main tracks were built, the Western Tribal Line and the Southern Tribal Line, this was done in ten years. It's amazing, so of course it's possible. Stockhaus is absolutely right that we need to do things here and now. That is why we are proposing a road toll, that is to say a charge on heavy, dirty lorry transport, so that we can move more freight and get money for the transformation of the transport sector. This is something that is now also welcomed by the Swedish haulage companies. But the Moderates seem to hold on to the fact that this is absolutely not to be done. Trains are supposed to pay rail charges, but why aren't trucks supposed to pay for their emissions? We in the Left Party think it is fantastic if it is possible to change the Swedish fleet of vehicles so that it is electrified. We also want to do something about the vehicles that are here and now by providing extra support for conversion, so that cars can be rebuilt so that they can run on biogas, ethanol etc. I do not see such support in the Moderates' draft budget. Even though the Moderates talk nicely about the modal shift, we know that the most concrete thing that the Moderates are doing now is to reduce fuel taxes so that emissions will increase even more from road transport, by 150 000 tonnes as early as next year. Madam President, I would like Why are the Moderates backing into the future?
i-e347e5b376859e8d-477	Madam President, I would like I would also like it to be possible to build all kinds of infrastructure much faster than is happening in Sweden right now. The way you handle infrastructure investments, the cost picture and the time period for building is sad. But one cannot argue on the basis of any wishful situation where it takes ten years to build a railway. Environmental permits and appeals do not actually make it possible to build on ten years at present. As far as high-speed rail is concerned, we are talking about 2045 at the earliest. Then the situation with regard to emissions from road traffic will be quite different.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-480	Madam President, I would like It feels like the Moderates are dreaming into the future. Emissions should only disappear from road transport. But one thing is certain: if the tax on petrol is reduced, emissions will increase. The forecast is 150 000 tonnes as early as next year. We in the Left Party do two things. We invest in those who change, we invest in public transport, we invest in new railway capacity and we say no to building new motorways, for example the proposal Cross-connection Södertörn. It has been condemned by the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency because it will lead to increased motorism and increased emissions. The Moderates are allowed to go home and review their policy if it is to be linked to the environment and climate.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-483	Madam President, I would like The climate crisis is here and now, said Mr Jens Holm. It could be true. But then you have to think about why you should spend a lot of money in something that doesn't pay off until 2045, when we stand here with low-hanging fruits and can do something about the problem here and now. I'm thinking about freight. Jens Holm said truck transports are dirty. They're getting dirtier. Why is that? Well, it's because the government has been passive in accessing illegal traffic. Huge amounts of fuel are being smuggled into Sweden by these trucks. You move from full-sized combination down to 40-toners. There are therefore three EU haulers on two full-sized Swedish trucks. Something can be done about this now. Why not? Here we can do something directly where we stand, with very little means. Why have you been so passive, Jens Holm? You know that we Swedish democrats have pushed the issue.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-486	Madam President, I would like One cannot accuse the Left Party of being passive on the question of environmental and social dumping of freight transport in Sweden. We run the issue in the European Parliament, and we run it here in the Swedish Parliament. It is absolutely true that there are many foreign combinations that come into Sweden. Drivers have poor conditions and poor wages. There are vehicles that are driven here that should not be driven on Swedish roads. One of our proposals, apart from the fact that the EU mobility package must be tightened up and that there must be more checks on our roads, is the creation of a road toll for heavy transport. Then we get all transport into a system, emissions are reduced and transport can be controlled. Are the Swedish Democrats prepared to introduce a road wear charge, much like the proposal put forward by the Swedish haulage companies and the Swedish railway companies? Thomas Morell talks about low-hanging fruits to reduce emissions. We in the Left Party allocate extra money to rail freight commutes. The Swedish Democrats do not do so in their draft budget. We allocate extra money to the railway ferry between Trelleborg and Germany, so that there will be redundancy to have sustainable transport also that way. We propose a reduction in rail infrastructure charges so that more goods and passenger traffic will be transferred to the railways. That is not what the Swedish Democrats are proposing. What the Swedish Democrats are doing is to reduce fuel taxes so that emissions increase by 150 000 tonnes. What kind of climate policy is that? Thomas Morell said it might be true that the climate crisis is here. Then you want to ask: Is the climate crisis here, Thomas Morell? Does Thomas Morell think that man is influencing the climate, and shouldn't we do something about it? I do not see this in the policy of the Swedish Democrats.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-492	Madam President, I would like That I asked the question in this way was because what the Left Party proposal is about is so far away in time that it does not seem that the climate crisis is at hand. Then you would have acted much faster. That's one thing. The second is that the road wear charge that you are proposing will affect people living in rural areas, because food production and the forestry industry will be more expensive. Just introducing a road toll straight up and down is not the solution. We have proposed that everyone who drives in Sweden with foreign vehicles should pay a toll equivalent to that which they have in Germany and which is called Maut. Then everyone who drives on the Swedish road network pays. You'll have to read a little bit about the Swedish Democrats. We have proposed quite large railway initiatives, including on Inlandsbanan and four tracks down to Gothenburg to increase the capacity of the railway network. We do so in a much shorter time than it takes to get this proposed high-speed train going. Here we are talking about politics in real life.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-495	Madam President, I would like When I look at the draft budget of the Swedish Democrats, I see that there is about one-tenth of what the Left Party is doing on the development of transport infrastructure. The Swedish Democrats are investing half a billion and the Left Party is investing 4.5 billion. There's quite a difference. The road wear charge that we in the Left Party want is of course distance differentiated, so the shorter the transport, the lower the charge. There is also the possibility of excluding certain roads in sparsely populated areas. It is therefore a very well thought-out and good proposal. Once again, with the policy of the Swedish Democrats, all we know for sure is that we will have increased greenhouse gas emissions next year, because that is what happens when we reduce fuel taxes. This is the wrong way to go.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-498	Madam President, I would like Our country, like many other countries, is in a serious situation. At the beginning of the week, new recommendations were made in relation to an increase in the spread of infection. This morning I went extra early on public transport to the Parliament House with the ambition to avoid the worst congestion. I noticed that a lot of people made that choice-- it was tight. I also noted that very few people followed the latest recommendations on the use of mouthguards in public transport congestion. Madam President, I would like We must help each other to protect ourselves, to protect our loved ones and, perhaps the most important thing, to help us not to overload health care but to ensure that care can be given to those who need it most and that it is available when it is needed. Madam President, I would like It's time for investment. With the right priorities and investments, our country can emerge well from this crisis, and we can build Sweden strongly. Before the summer, we decided in this House on a new financial framework for the forthcoming investment plan covering a total of SEK 799 billion. This is an increase of 176 1⁄2 billion compared to the previous period. In addition, funds come from rail charges and congestion charges. They are estimated to total SEK 77 billion, so we are talking about SEK 876 billion. Investment in infrastructure is needed, and it is perhaps particularly needed right now. They create faith in the future and new jobs, and not least they make our country work better. It is important to remember that when the state makes big investments, the starting point must be that we do it to connect the country. We are making efforts to strengthen our competitiveness, and we are making clear industrial policy priorities. Above all, however, we must meet the challenges that we have signed up to in the Paris Agreement and the commitments that were also made at the UN climate summit in Glasgow just a month ago. We will make the transition so that we can look our children and grandchildren in the eye and say that in our generation we did what we could and made the necessary decisions. If we are to achieve the 1.5-degree target and achieve the high ambitions that we have set ourselves with a fossil-free vehicle fleet, it will be a major constraint in the transport sector and in the infrastructure sector. More goods must then be transported by rail or by sea. Then truck transport must be made more efficient. Then we must continue to modernise the vehicle fleet. Then aviation must be able to bear its own environmental impact. We have to do this if we're going to be able to reset. Madam President, I would like Expenditure area 22 is about meeting the transport policy objectives, which are all about a socially efficient and long-term sustainable transport supply for citizens and businesses throughout the country. In addition, we have a function objective that deals with the design and functioning of the transport system. Furthermore, we have a goal that concerns the design and function itself – that no one should be killed or seriously injured in traffic, and the overall generational goals for the environment and environmental quality that will contribute to everyone's health. Around this there are also measurable milestones that are formulated. We agree on these objectives. Madam President, I would like The climate stage target is for greenhouse gas emissions from domestic transport to be reduced by at least 70% by 2030 compared to 2010. On the whole, it is a fossil-free vehicle fleet until 2045. That is why I am concerned that the brown-blue cooperation is opting for a reduction in the tax burden on fuels, while we know that one third of the emissions come precisely from the transport sector. One might think that it is worthwhile that the poor people who live where the car is the only option get a little lower costs to fill the tank. But with our hand on the heart: If we are to have a fossil-free vehicle fleet in 2030, there must be a powerful shift pressure. It is also the case that the tax cut of 50 cents, as it is, gives a reduction of 35 crowns per time you fill the tank for someone who has a large, heavy suv. To be honest, there are so many other good reforms to make it easier for people living in sparsely populated areas that could be found for the cost that this actually entails in our finances. Madam President, I would like As I said, we have major challenges to meet the transport policy objectives. One then gets a little worried when one sees how the budget management has been here in Parliament. On the whole, the government has put forward a budget bill of 74 billion in key reforms. In our area, we are talking about EUR 77 billion, and there are no changes here, while other areas have been given re-priority. At the same time, this doesn't really feel serious. The Swedish Democrats, the Christian Democrats and the Moderates have put their own reservations to begin with, i.e. their own draft budgets, which have now actually been voted down. You choose not to move on with them without actually moving on with a red-green budget. In our area of expenditure, it is exactly the same budget. At the same time, this is a great whole, and so we Social Democrats choose not to take part in the decision. But the procedure really does not feel serious, and it does not seem serious to the voters that they do not show what they want and what the voters should be facing until the next elections. Ten months to go. I would like to emphasise, Madam President, for both voters and listeners, that they want more order in Swedish politics and the Swedish economy, there is an easy way, and that is to vote for the Social Democrats when we go to elections next autumn. Madam President, I would like The basic thing for us Social Democrats is that the different modes of transport complement each other. They are all needed in a modern, well-organised and functioning society. It will work across the country and even out gaps while the transport system will be sustainable. The charging infrastructure for electric cars is becoming increasingly important, and road safety will always be central to us social democrats. No one should have to die in traffic. Not least, the transport sector must be characterised by order and order. Transport policy is, of course, about ensuring economic efficiency and sustainable transport supply. In the area of digitalisation, it is about Sweden being the best in the world to use the opportunities of digitalisation. But we are in a serious situation in our area. Having a good connection has become a prerequisite for a lot of people to even manage their work. Therefore, we provide large resources for broadband in sparsely populated areas. Public transport must work. We are adding an extra billion to public transport so that they can deal with the problems caused by the pandemic. Madam President, I would like There's a lot to say. I realize that I shouldn't drag out too much time. In conclusion, however, I would like to point out that there are good and important reforms that this House is dealing with here today. After all, it is a red-green proposal for Category 22. The previous framework decision shows some counterproductive elements when it comes to achieving transport policy objectives, and I very much regret that. However, when the Moderates, the Swedish Democrats and the Christian Democrats present a Red Green Government's draft budget on the Transport Committee's remit, it nevertheless shows a consensus, and I think that is a good thing. And today we could read that the party leaders of the Moderates are approaching the Social Democrats also in terms of securing capacity at Arlanda and closing down Bromma. We really need to have consensus and long-term rules of play on infrastructure planning. And perhaps, Madam President, we have a new time to wait.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-526	Madam President, I would like Teres Lindberg said something very important, that we need to be able to look our children and grandchildren in the eyes of the policy we are pursuing here now. That's exactly what it is. What we are doing today will affect future generations, and that is particularly true in terms of infrastructure policy because it is such long lead times and large investments. The SEK 799 billion proposed in the national infrastructure plan is not enough to solve our major challenges. We have SEK 77 billion for the coming years in this budget. When I talk to Norrbotniabanan, they say that the proposal for a new infrastructure plan is too little and too late. The new Oskustbanan, which wants double tracks all the way up to Härnösand, asks: Why are we now getting cuts in our area? In a comment on Trafikverket's proposal, the West Main Line says that it will not solve Alingsås as Sweden's largest bottleneck, since it does not build the announced lighthouse track. We in the Left Party believe that some infrastructure projects are so large that they are better suited to be financed with loans. And the Swedish public finances are now also very good, so it's no big problem to take out loans to build, for example, new main roads for high-speed trains or the like. If we don't, we'll be underinvesting. We will then pass on responsibility precisely to our children and grandchildren for not solving the transport policy objectives, including the climate target. Therefore, I would like to ask Teres Lindberg, who is primarily a social democrat, not as a representative of the government party S: Do the Social Democrats consider it appropriate to finance certain items in the national infrastructure plan, and who could it be?
i-e347e5b376859e8d-531	Madam President, I would like We Social Democrats have had a party congress quite recently, and we have decided and are ready to move from a surplus target to a balance goal. It is clear that it also changes our view of how to finance things. However, I think we should always be a little careful to believe that loan financing always solves everything, because even if you borrow money for a project, it has to be paid for. Borrowing money is not a free solution. The Minister for Infrastructure has also been clear throughout his term of office that there are actually no free lunches. However we choose to finance things, it has to be paid, and that is the taxpayers' money we are talking about. Perhaps the most important thing that we have to do as elected representatives and decision-makers is always to ensure that we find the best possible financing solution and also ensure that we get as much bang for the money as possible, so that it is not money that runs out and does not go to what we have actually decided they are intended for. We shall ensure that we have effective decision-making processes, effective authorities and good procurement procedures. This means that we get the most out of the investments we make. That way we can get a lot more infrastructure for the money than we get today.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-534	Madam President, I would like I fully agree that we need to get the most out of our money, that we need better public procurement, more efficient authorities and shorter lead times. It's a little obvious, but you always have to work actively with that. What I miss in the politics of the Social Democrats today is a true spirit of social construction. It's like you've forgotten how to build a society fair and sustainable with a long-term horizon. If you're going to do that, you're going to need a lot of money. It does not work that crown for crown finance the construction of new main roads, which may cost 300 billion dollars. A loan would affect our public debt by a few percentage points. It is not very much, but it would solve much of the challenges that our children and grandchildren otherwise have to face. Why do the Social Democrats shift responsibility to our children and grandchildren?
i-e347e5b376859e8d-537	Madam President, I would like I do not agree at all with Jens Holm here. What we are currently seeing in northern Sweden is a typical example of social democratic visions, i.e. investments in investment and green growth. It is no coincidence that enormous investments are being made at the moment in terms of the construction of the future. It is about future jobs, and it is about future railways that benefit everyone. The green transition would never have taken place if we had not had, during two terms of office, a social democratic government which has consistently driven these issues. We can meet the future by showing that we in Sweden go ahead and manage the transition and at the same time ensure that we create the green jobs, so that people have jobs, can pay taxes and live and feel good in Sweden, that together we can create the good society.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-541	Mr. Old President! I have to say that I was a little annoyed during the honourable Member's speech, because she put quotes around those who are forced to fill their car. It was a bit condescending to the people who live in rural areas and have no alternative to their own car but have to have a car to get to and from work and be able to drive the children to their activities. I think it is a very strange view of those people who have no other option. What we are talking about is changing our society to biogas and hydrogen or, for example, electric drive on the heavy side. There is now a great success with trucks from the two major manufacturers in Sweden who drive full-sized combinations with electric drive. The big hump there is about getting power out so you can charge them. But we cannot allow ourselves that individuals and businesses do not have the money left to invest in new vehicles. If we get rid of the economic conditions, there will be nothing left of the transformation. This view of people living outside the subway coverage area is something I dislike most strongly. Those who are out there in the country are forced to have the car to cope with their everyday lives. They contribute to the survival of society. They contribute tax revenue. Do not view these people as if they were a burden!
i-e347e5b376859e8d-544	Mr. Old President! I really don't see that rural areas would be a burden. Actually, it's exactly the opposite. I really think you should be able to live and live in the whole country. We Social Democrats are not against cars or petrol. On the other hand, I do not believe that a tax reduction which in practice means that it costs 35 SEK less to fill a 70-litre tank solves the problems of rural areas. We need completely different measures. Rather, it is a benefit to the urban population that becomes the dilemma – most people live in the big cities, and it is they who benefit most from the tax reduction, if you look at groupings. I think this is wrong. Instead, I think we should spend resources on meeting the climate challenge and ensuring that we have a charging infrastructure that allows people in sparsely populated areas to drive, for example, electric cars, hydrogen cars or whatever infrastructure they need. That's what we're going to spend our resources on. You now choose to reduce resources to the Treasury. These funds could be invested in other things so that you can live in sparsely populated areas. You're the one who benefits the big city, not the other way around.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-546	Mr. Old President! It is important to listen to what rural residents say about their ability to cope with everyday life. For example, agriculture, which currently has sky-high fuel costs, is one of the examples. Add to that that you have to pay sky-high energy prices for the electricity you buy. In addition, the price of manure, which is record high, comes as onion on the salmon. It removes the conditions for our food production. It puts aside the conditions for us to have a society that can handle the most basic. We need to be in the game and see what happens outside the big cities. That is where food production and industrial production take place. That is where the forest industry and all the other heavy industries we have are. There too, people must be able to live and live.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-547	Mr. Old President! It will be counterproductive if one believes that the increase in fuel prices will be addressed by reducing fuel tax. It's almost silly, because it's not about that. The large increase in costs has not been due to the tax at all, but to deficiencies in refinery capacity as a result of the pandemic and the rise in oil prices. There are things we can't control here. This is being met by making a tax cut equal to $3 per tank. It'll be almost silly. If we are to be able to guarantee that people will be able to live throughout the country and live a good and dignified life, it is not these 35 crowns that will solve it, but quite different factors. It is about daring to invest in the railways and to dare to come up with proposals that make it possible to live and live in the whole country. Your policy is only for the benefit of the people of the big cities. It is ridiculous when you say that it is a rural policy, when it is actually the case that the big money goes to the rich in the cities.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-549	Mr. Old President! I asked for a reply because I felt that in his speech – certainly unconsciously – the honourable Lindberg was negative or even a little arrogant towards the countryside. I thought that was boring. I would recommend that the honourable Member listen to his own speech then. There are at least two of us in the room who understood it that way, and then there is probably a risk that some of the audience did too. I am very pleased with the honourable Member's later comment on this and believe that it is quite correct. I have never seen the honourable Member as negative towards different parts of the country. However, as I said, Mr President-in-Office, I reacted to the speech. When it comes to the substance of the matter, it is clear that we can have views on the Parliament we have today. Sometimes when I'm out in schools, I describe it as that in some sense there are three blocks in Parliament. We no longer really have the situation that at least I have been used to since I grew up, where it is clear what is right and left and what is bourgeois and socialist. It looks a little different. If, then, what is originally a budget reservation then becomes a budget report, it is clear that Parliament is not really rigged to take the whole system. It is absolutely no secret that we Christian Democrats have put forward our own budgetary motion in this area. But now that we go in and vote, we will vote the same way as the honourable Member says. There are issues I would like to highlight, particularly regarding funding. I'm going to come back to that in my next line.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-552	Mr. Old President! I sincerely apologize if I was perceived as arrogant towards rural areas. Both personally and as a social democrat, I am absolutely convinced that politics has a challenge in ensuring that you can live, live and work throughout our country. The companies are supposed to work. People should be able to live a good life. Children and young people should be able to get to school in a sensible way. Then the infrastructure is absolutely central. I would have liked more people in this House to be able to see it. We're talking 35 crowns for a 70-litre tank. It is almost silly to think that it will solve the problems of sparsely populated areas. It's the other way around. This means that we will not have enough resources to solve the real problems and challenges we have in rural areas. We have a country that is geographically very large but is very small in terms of population. Much of our natural resources, our industry and so on are in sparsely populated areas. That the whole country should work is therefore a national interest. That is where our real challenges lie. My frustration is because this lands so wrong. These proposals are certainly not within our area of expenditure, but within the scope of the Committee on Taxation, but they have an impact on our area of expenditure. I think this is a pity, because I would have loved to have seen us do more things to make rural areas work.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-555	Mr. Old President! In the last part, I share Teres Lindberg's view. I have tried on a couple of occasions in this House and also internally in the party to raise the question of how we should actually look at long-term funding. There was a big change in 1975/ 76, I think it was, where they changed the financing model and went from an investment budget to the budgetary model we have today. If I have read correctly, investments fell from 2% of GDP to 1% of GDP. It is clear that such a long period of under-financing has led to the major problems we are seeing today. We Christian Democrats have on several occasions put forward proposals on bimpeng. We have been talking about a whole new fuel and vehicle taxation. We've been talking about alternative taxation. We have highlighted examples such as Arlandabanan and Öresundsbron. I believe that this question will come, although it may concern another committee. We will have to talk more about that issue. No, we haven't launched 50 cents as the great savior of the whole world. But it was a signal that we care.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-558	Mr. Old President! This is what makes us so frustrated. After all, it is not just us social democrats or politicians in this House, but also the whole of the overall research and economic research that highlights the need to raise fuel costs radically in order for us to meet the climate targets. We'll never make it otherwise. Now I'm not prepared to raise the fuel tax. But at the same time it is completely counterproductive to lower it. How many steps do you want to do that? That is certainly the wrong way to go. We need to do completely different things that ensure that we both meet the climate challenges and that Sweden is a good country to live and work in all over the country and also in sparsely populated areas.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-560	Mr. Old President! Area of expenditure 22 Communications – could it be the most important area of expenditure that will be debated? Maybe it is. In any case, these are issues that affect and engage people every day of the year. We want good roads, a railway that works and that it will be possible to call wherever we are. We want a good broadband connection so that we can work both at home and at work. We want the flight to be able to take us within Sweden and abroad. We want there to be a shipping service for the transport of both people and goods. Infrastructure is also about making it easy for people to travel and get from one place to another. Therefore, we need to constantly think in the whole journey perspective. I can take myself as an example. At home in Björketorp in Sjuhäradsbygden I have to start with a drive to get away somewhere or start with a walk down to the railway station and then be able to travel further. A journey begins when you lock your door at home no matter where you live. It does not start at an airport, a ferry terminal or a railway station. But we who sit in here will make the journey easy. Mr. Old President! A well-functioning transport and IT infrastructure is a prerequisite for living, living and operating throughout the country. The fact that business freight transport works is just as important as the fact that we have good broadband that works all over the country. Technology development, efficiency, digitalisation, regulatory simplifications and a shift to electrified transport and an increased share of renewable fuels will make it possible to continue to have a high degree of mobility with significantly reduced climate impact. The Center Party is pushing for Sweden to reach the target of a fossil-independent vehicle fleet and emissions reductions from domestic transport by 70 per cent by 2030. In this work, state infrastructure investment has a very large and important role to play. The Center Party prioritises increasing the maintenance and expansion of the railway and also wants to invest in alternative financing solutions, making investments in electrification, renewable energy and more public transport, and making further investments in IT and broadband expansion. It is the five modes of transport aviation, rail, shipping, road and IT that all together create the conditions for transport efficiency and a smart transition and make it a good climate benefit. As the Center Party protects the development of the whole country, it is also of the utmost importance that the resources invested in infrastructure be distributed throughout the country. The opportunities to run businesses, live and live outside big cities need to be strengthened, and therefore a fossil-independent vehicle fleet and investment in better roads and railways, public transport in the form of trains, buses and taxis throughout the country without imposing penalties on those with long distances. Mr. Old President! Good roads throughout the country is an important issue for us in the Center Party. We center parties daily meet people who are just raising the issue of better roads in rural areas, which should be able to be used both by private cars but also by freight transport. It is about the forest being taken out and driven to the sawmills, that the milk truck should be able to fetch milk and that farmers' tractors and machines should be able to manage to drive on the roads. One should be able to walk along the roads, perhaps with a stroller, and it should be safe. Here, the Center Party wants to invest SEK 300 million annually over the next three years more than the government. The money should go precisely to the fine-meshed road network in rural areas to strengthen it, and a minimum acceptable standard should be introduced on rural roads. The Center Party also wants to take part of this money to distribute to the individual road network in the countryside so that road associations for these roads can cope with snow ploughing, frost securing and gain increased bearing capacity with accessibility all year round. Here is the Center Party one of the few parties that want to invest more on the roads. In the budget that has now been passed, we want to invest more than the government. In fact, the question is: Where are the other major investments in the fine-meshed road network in rural areas? Mr. Old President! Being able to feel safe and secure when moving in traffic is important, for example if you drive or walk. Therefore, the Center Party wants to invest money in improving and ensuring that the countryside is not extinguished by removing road lights. The discussion that has been about who is responsible for road lighting is completely absurd: Is it the Finnish Transport Agency or is it the municipalities? Now people are being squeezed to divide who the responsibility lies with. Here we need better dialogue and cooperation. But it also needs to be paid for in order to be able to maintain, change and maintain road lights. The Center Party wants to spend 400 million annually in 2022, 2023 and 2024 on this. Where are the other initiatives from the government and from the other parties on this particular issue? The Center Party does not want to extinguish Sweden's countryside. Mr. Old President! Infrastructure investments are important whether they are made in cities or in rural areas. There are different conditions, and different infrastructure solutions are needed. Of course, these should not resist each other, but planning this should take place in all parts of the country. With good infrastructure, we connect the country. We are creating larger labour market regions so that skills that may be needed in a neighbouring region can be transferred. This has improved with digitalisation. But investment in roads and railways in urban and rural areas must continue and be given priority. Mr. Old President! A well-developed infrastructure for mobile telephony and broadband services is a vital prerequisite for people continuing to live, operate and operate in rural areas. Prime Minister Magdalena Andersson said in his government declaration that there is now a major investment in broadband. I wonder where the big investment in broadband is. It is not a party other than the Center Party that can say that it is a major effort on broadband roll-out. For the years 2022, 2023 and 2024, the Center Party is investing SEK 3.4 billion in further broadband expansion. However, this will not be enough to meet the objectives set. The Center Party wants to invest more money in further broadband expansion. But we also want to review the objectives of broadband and mobile telephony precisely in order for everyone to have access to good digital infrastructure throughout the country. The important thing is that we talk about what we should use the broadband for. It is about work, health and care services, the conversion of forestry and agriculture, and that you should be able to study at a distance. Now, in coronatides, broadband has become particularly important throughout the country. Mr. Old President! Finally, by its decision of 24 November 2021, the Riksdag has determined the total expenditure for category 22 for 2022. As the proposal by the Centre Party for appropriations in the field of expenditure is above the level laid down, we cannot reserve ourselves in favour of this proposal. Of course, the Centre Party's budgetary options should be seen as a whole. We therefore choose to refrain from taking a position and instead present a specific opinion on the policy of the Center Party in the field of statistics 22. Finally, I would like to wish my colleagues in the Committee on Transport and Tourism a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year and thank you for your cooperation and also wish the same to the House and the President of the Age.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-578	Mr. Old President! Today we are debating the 2022 budget for Category 22 Communications. I would like to start by saying that the Liberals are behind our special opinion number 4 and that we are not taking part in the decision. Liberals have laid down their own budget this year and can thus clearly demonstrate our own priorities and our liberal policy in order to solve today's problems and facilitate people's everyday lives. In the area of communications, we place the greatest focus in the budget on the transport system's climate transition. It is part of the Liberal reform agenda that gives Sweden the opportunity to become the world's first climate-neutral welfare country. The transport system is a cornerstone of the country's development. Reliable and environmentally friendly transport is important for jobs and sustainable development throughout our country. By investing in climate-smart solutions, Sweden can be developed and competitiveness maintained. In the transport sector, there are a number of targets, not least the 2030 climate target of 70% reduction in climate emissions. The Finnish Transport Administration's basis for the next planning period indicates that transfer between different modes of transport can provide many benefits, but from a climate perspective it contributes only a few percent to the goals. The conclusion is that in order to achieve the climate target, each mode of transport must find its own solutions to reduce its emissions. Mr. Old President! Road transport accounts for over 90% of our domestic emissions, and it is here that the measures can do the most good from a climate point of view. The electrification of our road transport really needs to be speeded up. Liberals are behind the bonus malus system as a means of driving the initial modal shift in road transport. Now, however, the sale of rechargeable vehicles is approaching 40%, and by predicting that an electric car will cost as much as a fossil-powered car in 2025, the Liberals are now putting our policy in place. We phase out the bonus part of the bonus malus system to 2025 and instead put all the effort on the expansion of charging infrastructure. A survey by Kvarndamm's car has allowed Sifo to do shows that 38 percent of respondents say they want to own a rechargeable car in five years' time. Liberals therefore see the lack of charging infrastructure as the greatest risk that companies and individuals do not choose an electric car at the next car purchase and that the climate change will stop. You must be able to charge the car where you live and where you work to experience that rechargeable cars are in a reliable system. Here, the government spends far too little money, and so we add 3 billion more in 2022 and 2023, which are aimed at charging infrastructure at multi-residential buildings and parking spaces. The sale of electric passenger cars has taken off, while electric trucks and machines are in their infancy. The liberals therefore add 400 million extra over the next three years to investment aid to facilitate the transition to electric power also to heavy goods vehicles. In order to cope with the shift in road transport, the production of biofuels also needs to increase significantly. Not least, we need to use the raw materials for the production of biogas, as manure, among other things, emits climate emissions. However, biofuels have a higher value for other modes of transport that are more difficult to switch, not least in aviation. Mr. Old President! Flying has an important function for our international contacts and to keep Sweden together. However, the flight also needs to be changed, and that process is going on with full force. Already today you can fly fossil-free for SEK 300 extra per flight hour, and developments in electric flights and alternative fuels are taking major steps forward. Several airports run fossil-free today in Sweden, several charging stations for electric flights have already been installed and in Skellefteå starts during 2022 training for traffic pilots with a focus on electric aircraft. These days hydrogen aircraft were presented for production in 2035, and Swedish Heart Aerospace produces electric aircraft for production in 2026. So it happens a lot around Sweden! We liberals believe in aviation's important function in society, and in order for Sweden to continue to have a prominent position in aviation development, the Liberals are increasing their investments in fossil-free aviation. The current programme of energy research is extended and complemented by a specific programme for electricity aviation of 25 million each year. The Fossil-Free Flight 2045 network receives funding to continue the collaboration platform, and the Swedish Energy Agency is tasked with establishing cooperation with neighbouring countries to make the Nordic region a centre for fossil-free flights. We want to give Svenska Kraftnät and Swedavia the task of coordinating the preparations for airports to be able to provide charging of electric flights with high effects. The mission shall be carried out in cooperation with regional airports. We Liberals also believe that Bromma has a very important role to play in the development of electric aircraft. The importance of Swedish maritime transport for Sweden cannot be stressed enough. 90% of international freight goes by sea. In this year's budget, the Liberals have removed the stamp duty on the registration of new ships in order to promote the growth of Swedish shipping. We also closely monitor the Swedish Maritime Administration's finances so that future investments do not result in dramatic increases in pilotage and fairway fees. Mr. Old President! We continue the development and maintenance of the Swedish road and rail network. Among other things, we add nearly 700 million to increase road safety and thereby be able to restore the speed of many of the roads in Sweden that have been reduced from 90 to 80 kilometres per hour. Liberals make infrastructure investments to allow long trucks on the Swedish road network in a safe way. This is a cost-effective way of reducing emissions quickly; the potential is 5% lower for truck traffic. The government should have done this a long time ago. Finland has already successfully introduced it, and now the Liberals are pushing the issue. We believe that the reduction in the energy tax on public transport should be technologically neutral and therefore equate the energy tax on electric buses with that on other public transport. At the same time, the technology shift in the transport industry places great demands on the long-term supply of skills. In this context, the education sector, industry and the state must work together to meet the skills challenges of the transport system. Finally, with better digital connectivity, freedom across our country increases while reducing the burden on our physical infrastructure. To strengthen the expansion of broadband, we increase the funding by SEK 900 million for 2022 compared with the Government's proposal. We believe that the digital way of communicating can give people around our country a better life and increased freedoms. Mr. Old President! We Liberals believe that all modes of transport are needed and that emissions, not certain modes of transport, should be reduced. This is the starting point for the Liberals' offensive budget to drive climate change even in the transport sector. I support the Liberals' special opinion number four.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-600	Mr. Old President! The climate is the great destiny of our time. What we do in the coming years will determine mankind's future for a very long time to come. Traffic accounts for about one third of Swedish emissions. If we are to reach the 2030 target, the work needs to be greatly accelerated. There are almost only eight years left until 2030. We're on the right track. Very good has been done. But more needs to be done to achieve the goals. When you look at the Swedish emissions statistics, it goes without saying that traffic is our really big challenge. It is therefore self-evident for the Green Party that Sweden's transport policy and our infrastructure planning should be in line with the Paris Agreement. Traffic policy must help us achieve our climate goals, not discourage them. We are proud of very much of what we have done during our more than seven years of government and also reflected in the government's budget bill. At the moment, a fantastic development is taking place in our country. The electrification of the fleet of vehicles is taking place, thanks to the policy of the Green Party, at a raging rate. In August, about half of all new cars were rechargeable. In the third quarter of this year, sales of electric cars increased by as much as 157 per cent compared with the same period last year. It is incredibly positive and a very important part of climate policy. However, it is not enough to change our fleet of vehicles. IVL The Swedish Environmental Institute believes that we also need to reduce car traffic in order to reach the 2030 target. Biofuels and electrification alone are not enough; car traffic as a whole must be reduced. For this to be possible, we must invest in sustainable transport, including public transport, rail and bicycle. Public transport has suffered a great deal throughout the pandemic. Travel has been reduced for good reason, which of course has also reduced revenues. We see that public transport is facing huge challenges here and now. The Green Party sees that public transport has a central role to play in the green transition and wants public transport to be strong when we leave the pandemic behind. In June last year, Parliament decided to introduce a temporary contribution to the maintenance of public transport. I am very pleased that the S-MP government in the budget bill also chose to extend this contribution. Among other things, the Government's budget proposal includes an important investment in a national ticketing system. This system will make it easier for more people to choose public transport, even if they travel in several regions or want to travel to public transport elsewhere than in their locality. I hope that the new government will take this further and that we will have a system in place that is simple and works for all travellers. The railways are in great need of long-term investment. At present, it is crowded on our tracks. The railway needs more capacity to enable sustainable travel for more people. There are very large investment needs. But there are also things we can do here and now, with current infrastructure, to improve the railways and facilitate sustainable travel. Therefore, the Social Democratic and Environmental Party government chose to invest 1 billion in railway maintenance in the budget bill. I would also like to highlight the initiative proposed by the government on road maintenance. As an environmental party, for climate reasons I am very sceptical about making new investments in road infrastructure. However, maintaining the existing roads we have is an important issue, not least for rural and sparsely populated areas. It should be possible and safe to get through our road network. Mr. Old President! In national infrastructure policy and in this type of debate, there is far too little focus on the cycle. The bike is an excellent means of transport for flexibility in everyday life, for our climate and for public health. The bike has very good potential to compete out car travel, not least on short distances. About half of the car journeys in Sweden are shorter than five kilometres, a route that for the vast majority is excellent for cycling. Yet the cycle is often forgotten in debates like this. I am very proud and happy about much of the bicycle policy implemented by the Green Party in government. I am also pleased that the then S-MP government proposed in the budget proposal a strengthening of the urban environment agreement to finance bicycle ventures. It allows more municipalities to greatly strengthen the infrastructure for cycling, allowing more opportunities to choose this means of transport. What happened earlier this autumn was that the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats presented a joint draft budget which was then voted through in this House. That budget is actually a manslaughter battle against climate change. That is why we choose to refrain from taking a position on the allocation of appropriations in Category 22. We also have a special opinion with the Social Democrats. Although no changes are made in this area of expenditure, it is closely linked to several other areas of expenditure. Transport policy should be seen as a whole, a coherent policy area in which infrastructure, tax rules, subsidies and other instruments all play a role. For us, the overall objective of transport policy is to reduce climate emissions. We can make as many good investments in infrastructure as we like, but if we don't do the right things in the other areas, then not much has been won. Making it cheaper to release, as the Moderates, Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats chose to do, will counteract our climate goals. It is not possible to overlook this debate. Mr. Old President! The climate is the destiny of our time, and this spending area in the state budget is very important for us to succeed in reducing emissions and achieving the Paris Agreement. I am proud that during our more than seven years of government we have come a long way. But much remains to be done. I feel both hope and anxiety. I feel hope when I hear parts of this debate and some of the proposals presented, also from other parties. However, I am also very concerned that Sweden will now be governed by a state budget, which is mobilized by parties who obviously do not see at all the challenges we have before us, who do not see the need to significantly reduce traffic emissions and who are simply carrying out an expensive reform to increase traffic emissions in the midst of a climate crisis. I had hoped we'd come further. I had hoped that the reports that have come from, among other things, the IPCC had had effects also in the Swedish parliament. This demonstrates the importance of green policy. It shows the importance of continuing major reforms to build a climate-smart transport system, to invest in sustainable alternatives and to reduce unsustainable transport.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-618	Mr. Old President! When we are discussing Category 22 today, the issues concern the bloodstream itself for growth, employment and the environment. Jobs, commuting and conversion from fossil to fossil-free requires efficient and sustainable transport. Given this, it may seem strange that in our budget we do not change the government's proposal. If we are in complete agreement across block borders with S and MP on the infrastructure and budget for next year, someone might possibly wonder. My answer is: No, it's not that simple. We have almost two years of pandemic behind us, a period that has hit the transport sector hard. During this period, the government has presented its infrastructure policy proposal and pointed out the direction of what to do with 800 billion SEK up to 2035. Last week, the Finnish Transport Administration came up with its proposal for a plan. During this period, the Swedish National Audit Office has presented eight different reports with devastating criticism of the management of Swedish infrastructure. These are criticisms that the government has done very little about. Much can be said of the political process in the field of TU in recent years, but the last thing you can say is that we in this House would agree. Mr. Old President! After the election, the Moderates want to form a bourgeois government. That government should build its infrastructure policy on certain basic principles. In fact, for these principles, there is quite a lot of support today in this House, as a number of announcements have shown, not least with regard to the government's mismanagement of the issue of Bromma airport. After the election, we have the opportunity to fundamentally change the policy towards strengthening freight and commuting flows in a sustainable way so that the whole of Sweden can live and develop. A new government should realise that progress towards fossil-free engines is making great progress. We are in the middle of a paradigm shift – in the near future, all modes of transport will probably be fossil-free. The focus must be on creating an efficient transport system where socio-economic profitability and growth are in focus. Swedish emissions are falling too slowly to reach the target of net zero emissions in 2045. After seven years with a red-green government, the goal seems to be missed with as much as one third of Sweden's total emissions. This corresponds to emissions from the entire Swedish transport sector. If we are to have a chance to reverse the trend, the climate efforts we are making must actually be useful. High demands must be placed on efficiency. In order to reduce emissions quickly, we are spending more money in the common budget on capturing and storing carbon dioxide. This technology can significantly reduce emissions. We are investing EUR 36 billion in our budget. This is not in itself in the field of TU, but it has a major impact on emissions. Another thing that is extremely important for people to dare to buy an electric car or a rechargeable car is that the charge can be secured all over Sweden. That's where we want to bet more money. In MJU's budget is 600 million to expand the charging possibilities. This investment will last for several years, because it is important that the charging infrastructure can be secured throughout the country. A new government should also protect and equip the infrastructure we already have. When you read the Swedish Transport Administration's documentation, it is very clear that our road network will decay during the coming planning period. We want to spend more money on maintaining both rail and road. This is the most economically profitable thing to do. We want to see a greater effort to maintain what we have instead of the expensive prestige projects that this government wants to invest in. It is not good enough for road standards to continue to fall and for speed to be reduced in order to increase road safety. An important part of our funding to be able to build on what Sweden already has is that we say no to high-speed rail. Today, in the Committee on Transport and Tourism, we had a drawing of all the difficulties that the Finnish Transport Administration sees in moving forward with this construction. The question is when this will be done and whether it will ever be clear, given the situation. It is a priority to shorten travel time between Stockholm and Gothenburg and between Stockholm and Malmö instead of investing in people being able to get to and from work in an effective way. There are many other projects that we consider more urgent than investing in high-speed rail. One issue in which we differ in terms of infrastructure is the view of the economy. The Moderates think that mobility and mobility are something positive and something that should be acknowledged. This is not what we should be tackling when we are going to achieve our climate targets, but emissions. We want people to be able to fly, but they should be able to fly fossil-free. In order for this to succeed, it is important that Arlanda is expanded so that there are good conditions there. There should be charging infrastructure at airports so that electric aircraft can be charged at all airports around Sweden when they arrive in 2025. Another important issue for us Moderates, who will be guiding the next term of office, is to get track of the Swedish Transport Administration's cost control and how to plan and invest in both new infrastructure and maintenance. As I said, eight reports have been received from the Swedish National Audit Office. Criticism is devastating, and we have a government that has not actually done much to tackle these problems. It's a billion roll we're talking about. This also leads to considerable delays in important infrastructure projects, which is very serious. The question of the Finnish Transport Administration is perhaps not something that will be debated in the electoral movement itself, but of all questions in our area, this is precisely the issue that is most urgent when a new bourgeois government takes over power. We need to ensure that the 800 billion to be invested in the next planning period is really useful and that projects become a reality. With this, Mr President-in-Office, I would like to support the proposal in the report.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-642	Mr. Old President! You get almost a little full of laughter when Maria Stockhaus is standing here talking about reforms in their draft budget that they are not voting for. They are actually voting on a joint proposal from the Social Democrats and the Green Party. I think it's a little exciting. I would like to ask a question: why are you not voting on the budget that you, Maria Stockhaus, are standing here talking about? Then Maria Stockhaus continued to talk about the fact that the parties do not agree at all. We had a rather in-depth debate here last week about Bromma Airport, and as recently as today Maria Stockhaus' party leader went out and invited to dance about just securing the capacity at Arlanda and thus being able to shut down Bromma. In what way, then, do the parties disagree? These are important issues for Swedish growth and competitiveness. You get a little perplexed. If it is the case that you in the Moderates have a lot of good proposals, do not vote for them and then claim that we do not agree when you vote for the Social Democrats and the Environment Party's draft budget – or now the Moderates, the Swedish Democrats and the Christian Democrats' proposal for Category 26 – please define where we do not agree in this House today.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-647	Mr. Old President! I would like to clarify one thing. In the interview with Ulf Kristersson in Dagens Industri, he says something that we have always stood for, namely that we want Arlanda to develop into the leading airport in the Nordic region and that decisions are needed. We need to lift up the Arlanda Council and start a new Arlanda negotiations to secure Arlanda's development. All this will happen before we are prepared to discuss Bromma's future at all. We therefore do not agree with this government to close Bromma in this situation, but we want to ensure that the airport is developed first. Then we can have a discussion about Bromma. As far as the allocation of the money for 2023 is concerned, we agree, if possible, because our budgets look the same with regard to the UO22. However, as far as the focus on infrastructure policy is concerned in the future, it is very clear that there is very little on which we actually agree.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-650	Mr. Old President! I just want to make it clear that the Social Democrats just recently had a party congress, and we just decided that we want to secure the capacity at Arlanda. It allows for the closure of Bromma airport. I find it hard to see why we don't agree on that. But the Moderates are welcome to dance on that plane too. Maria Stockhaus mentioned some other problematic issues in her speech, not my questions about the infrastructure bill. I would like to clarify what is actually in those plans when it comes to high-speed rail. It's about the ends. They say that they are against high-speed rail and want to move new investments in rail to other parts. What's going away? Is it Lund– Hässleholm, Linköping– Järna or Gothenburg– Borås? That is what this is about. One cannot remove the resources for those parts and believe that it will not have an effect. You have to opt out of something.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-653	Mr. Old President! I would like to make it clear once again that we want to see a development of Arlanda before we are even interested in discussing Bromma airport's future. This is not at all in line with the decision of the Congress of the Social Democrats presented by Teres Lindberg. Problems have been identified with regard to high-speed rail. At today's meeting of the Committee on Transport and Tourism, it was clear that the problems in terms of drawing are enormous. It has to do with driving at high speed and not wanting to add stations that would facilitate commuting. There is much to be done there to bring down costs, such as pulling the railways near existing rail lines and slowing down speed. There is a possibility of reducing costs. We also see that there is a need for those routes. But it is possible to do so in a different way than it is planned under the high-speed rail project.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-657	Mr. Old President! The attraction referred to by Maria Stockhaus took place at the Transport Committee today and was rather that it is moderate-led municipalities that oppose new railways. No wonder it goes a little slower, when moderate-led municipalities are constantly obstrusive. Speaking of some things going a little slow, it was interesting to hear about the Moderate climate policy, which quickly glimpsed by in Stockhaus's speech. Among other things, major investments in carbon storage, known as CCS, were mentioned. I thought Maria Stockhaus mentioned the figure of SEK 36 billion for that purpose. SEK 36 billion is a gigantic sum, if there is so much money the Moderates want to spend on carbon storage. Since the Moderates are keen to have a rapid impact on climate policy, I would like to know what the Moderate plan is for the major investments in carbon storage. When can the Moderate plan begin to store carbon dioxide in the framework of the carbon storage they want to invest in? Everyone knows it's a technology that doesn't exist or work yet. Many also believe that it may take a very long time before we can benefit from any potential carbon storage. My second question concerns the fuel tax that the Moderates have now voted through with SD and KD. It leads to slightly cheaper fuel, but emissions will increase. I have heard from scientists that emissions will increase by 150 000 tonnes of carbon dioxide as early as next year. Is that an effective climate policy, Maria Stockhaus?
i-e347e5b376859e8d-661	Mr. Old President! This is particularly true of high-speed rail, which is also supposed to be an environmental and climate project, but which unfortunately does not seem to be completed by 2045, and then all modes of transport are supposed to be fossil-free. So there is no way to recover the carbon debt you build up during the time you build the railway. When it comes to the municipal councillors who oppose this, which in itself is not only moderate municipal councillors, it is about a huge impact on the municipalities. It is both the use of virgin land and the fact that there are large projects in some of their urban areas. But they get no pleasure from it, because there will be no station that will allow for better commuting for their inhabitants. I fully understand that local councillors in those municipalities cannot support this. There will be a great impact on the individual municipality, but the municipality gets very little back. You need to look at how you can pull the railway in a different way. The important thing is, above all, how we can facilitate commuting by train. As the project now stands, that direction does not exist at all. This is where we can see not least great climate gains but also socio-economic gains. As the high-speed rail project now stands, it is highly unprofitable. There are many other measures that would have a greater impact on the climate than the high-speed railway, which costs huge amounts.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-665	Mr. Old President! I asked two specific questions in my previous line. I'll have to repeat them. This concerns the carbon storage effort that Maria Stockhaus spoke about in her speech. When can Sweden benefit from it, speaking of rapid results of climate policy? My second question concerns whether we are going to change faster or slower if we reduce petrol and diesel taxes, which the Moderates have now voted in favour of.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-668	Mr. Old President! If you want to make sure that people feel safe about getting a rechargeable car, you need to invest in expanding the charging infrastructure. We must also ensure that clean electricity is available so that we do not use oil-fired electricity in our systems to charge the cars. It is clear that there will still be some environmental benefits, but it will be more limited. The important thing to get the climate change of passenger car transport going is to ensure that we have charging infrastructure so that people dare to trust that they can charge the car. This, in turn, should not cost a fortune, as it does today – thanks to the closure of fully functioning nuclear power plants, thereby jeopardising our access to clean electricity in all parts of Sweden.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-670	Mr. Old President! It is positive that Maria Stockhaus spoke about sustainability in the speech. But it is very much about technical solutions. It's electric flights, supposed to be here in 2025, and it's large-scale carbon storage. But it is very little politics and very much hope. It is like technology optimism as an ideology to reduce emissions, as the more the Moderates hope for cool technical solutions, the faster emissions will decrease. The truth is that emissions must be reduced incredibly quickly, and the technology is not there, either in terms of electric flights or in terms of carbon storage. I am therefore curious as to whether there is something that the Moderates think we should stop doing. Is there anything to reduce, such as flying or motorism? Or should we just do more and more of everything and sit and hope that the new technical solutions will soon come, so that all our problems will disappear?
i-e347e5b376859e8d-672	Mr. Old President! There is every reason to be a tech optimist. I stepped in two years ago and took over responsibility for infrastructure issues on behalf of the Moderates. At that time, no one thought that heavy transport could run on battery power. Now we see the first trucks start rolling out. It's a fantastic development that we're going to embrace. It is important that we create an efficient transport system so that the transport we need, whether it is for people or goods, is carried out as efficiently as possible. Unfortunately, we have before us an infrastructure plan where a large part of it is eaten up by a high-speed railway. It will not create efficiency in our transport system or build out the bottlenecks we have in both the rail system and the road system. There is also an announcement to invest in icebreakers to ensure that northern Sweden can trust that transport works by sea even in winter. So there is an enormous amount we can do to make our transport system more efficient and thus reduce the need for the number of movements. But I do not think that mobility itself is something we should limit.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-676	Mr. Old President! If mobility is sought, high-speed trains are extremely positive. They make it easier and faster for people to travel. The Swedish Environmental Institute says that car traffic must be reduced if we are to reach the 2030 target and that biofuels and electrification are not enough. We also have to drive smaller cars. But it will not happen by itself. For that to be possible, politics is needed. Then we must have political proposals that reduce motorism.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-679	Mr. Old President! I think the solution is in more electrification and biofuels. There is a problem there today, given that we are unable to deliver enough clean electricity. People dare not trust that it is possible to charge the car with clean electricity. Right now, for example, the Karlshamnsverket is being run, which burns 140 000 litres of oil per hour. We need to ensure that we have fossil-free electricity in the future in order to be able to charge our cars. We also need to create an efficient transport system and acknowledge the technological development that we see in the collaborative economy. It would enable people to share resources and mobility in a way that is not possible today. I still think that technological development for fuel and for creating an efficient transport system in the form of different sharing possibilities is the way forward, not to hinder people's travel.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-682	Mr. Old President! We are now dealing with the Transport Committee's report No 1, Area of expenditure 22 Communications. The Swedish Democrats support the report, and I therefore support the proposal in the report. Mr. Old President! A well-functioning infrastructure is essential in our modern society. Both freight and passenger transport depend on roads, railways, aviation and shipping. It has been discussed here that we must limit one and the other. I'm an engineer at the bottom, so I can look both children and grandchildren in the eye and tell them we're gonna figure this out. What is important is to focus on that it is technology neutral. The aim must be to reduce emissions, not to limit mobility, because then it will be crazy. Sweden is an elongated country, and this means, of course, that goods are transported long distances and then exported to the rest of the world. There is no contradiction between the different modes of transport; rather, they are interdependent. The truck is often a prerequisite for the goods to reach a railway or a port. The same is true when the goods arrive by boat or train. Then the truck takes over the goods to finally deliver to the customer. For us Swedish democrats, it is important to develop the infrastructure throughout the country. On 30 November, the Finnish Transport Administration presented its infrastructure plan for the period 2022 – 2033. We are not going to deal with this plan in this report, but there are still a lot of remarkable statements in the plan. The infrastructure plan now proposed will knock the bones of a large part of the country's small and medium-sized enterprises. It is usually these very companies that use and depend on the fine-meshed road network. On this road network, the Swedish Transport Administration writes in its proposal: a risk of minor disruptions and temporary restrictions will increase on this part of the road network. The Finnish Transport Agency will ensure that the roads are not so bad that the accessibility of light traffic is affected. ..................................................... Think a moment about the wording in the last sentence! It is the light traffic that should be prioritised. It is a particularly strange statement from the road operator responsible for ensuring that the road network is navigable throughout the country. In the fine mesh network there is extensive transport by heavy vehicles, as most of our food production and forest industry is there. If the road network is becoming so bad that food production is threatened, the situation is serious. It's just as bad on the railroad side. Let me quote from the text once again: a deterioration in the technical condition of the lower-traffic routes, a deterioration in their robustness, an increase in the risk of traffic impact and a temporary reduction in speed. This runs counter to what we want to achieve. That's remarkable. Mr. Old President! Let me give two examples of many that the Swedish Democrats have as proposals for developing the infrastructure. The Swedish Democrats want to build four tracks between Alingsås and Gothenburg, that is to say another double track. Such an extension would represent a dramatic improvement for the traffic on the Western Main Line. In addition, the cost of this is considerably lower than that of a high-speed railway. We also want the Inland Line to be upgraded. The Inland Line extends from Gällivare in the north to Kristinehamn in the south. The stretch between Mora and Filipstad has been closed for many years. Between Filipstad and Daglösen there is some traffic, which is called carriage pick-up. Between Daglösen and Kristinehamn traffic is in full swing. Through reinforcements of the current route and re-starting of the closed part of the Inland Line we get a well-functioning route for goods through the inland, and at the same time you can resume passenger traffic. For the goods, there are three different options for further travel south:
i-e347e5b376859e8d-695	.................................................................................................................................................................................. With an equipped inland track we get a robust railway system with good capacity in the northern part of Sweden. By creating a freight corridor on the Inland Line, the capacity of the upper Norrland network can increase overall. In addition, a redundancy is being created in the system that is missing today. However, while we have the theme of efficient transport up for discussion, I must comment on the opposite developments we are seeing in the transport sector today. More and more goods are being moved from the rail system to foreign so-called European haulers who usually have a gross weight of 40 tonnes. Nor are Swedish hauliers able to compete with the rogue traffic that is taking over more and more domestic goods transport. From an environmental point of view, this development is totally reprehensible as there are three Europeans in two full-sized Swedish combinations. Mr. Old President! If we are to create a healthy, environmentally friendly and functioning transport market in which road, rail and maritime transport can develop a healthy and sustainable transport industry, we need to push for those operators who do not comply with the existing regulations on freight transport. Something is really crazy about a transport industry that moves goods from efficient and environmentally friendly modes of transport to small and energy-intensive units. If we do not get things right in the transport industry, all the ambitions about renewable fuels, a fossil-free vehicle fleet and electric drive will remain dreams. Mr. Old President! Finally, I would like to say a few words about road maintenance. This year's winter season has started with news. Several serious accidents have occurred, and stops are reported almost daily when foreign vehicles block the road. The main cause is poor tires and incorrectly loaded combination. When these so-called European drivers become standing, they block the way for the vehicles with the correct tyre equipment. They are also blocking the way for rescue operations, i.e. emergency services, ambulances, police and so on. This is not a sustainable situation. Road maintenance is important whether it is a summer road or a winter road. Road users can rightly expect roads to be of good standard. I often get pictures sent to me in the computer where you can see that the roads are barely navigable due to lack of effort in the anti-slip. People ride on their shoes where the roadway is to be seen as ice skating rather than road. The Finnish Transport Agency has a great responsibility to ensure an acceptable standard of winter road maintenance. It cannot be said enough how important transport is in our country. We are in great need of all modes of transport such as air, shipping, rail and road. Together with other parties, the Swedish Democrats have clearly highlighted the importance of Bromma remaining until Arlanda is adapted to take care of Bromma's air movements. For us Swedish democrats, it is therefore important that we make long-term investments throughout the infrastructure so that we get a well-functioning transport system regardless of the season.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-702	Mr. Old President! Thank you, Thomas Morell, for your speech. I have a question on Thomas Morell's speech, which is linked to broadband and digitalisation. I think I listened all the time – I hope I did – but I didn't hear Thomas Morell mention any initiative that the Swedish Democrats want to make on broadband rollout in Sweden. If I have understood the initiative in the Swedish Democrats' draft budget, it is EUR 550 million for further broadband expansion in Sweden. My question to Thomas Morell, Mr President of the Age, is really: Do the Swedish Democrats think that this sum is sufficient for further broadband expansion in Sweden, and do they believe that we will achieve the targets set for broadband expansion in Sweden with the effort that the Swedish Democrats want to make?
i-e347e5b376859e8d-704	Mr. Old President! I'll try to answer the question. Now we have entered a common budget. We would probably like to make greater efforts, because we have proposed more ourselves. However, since we have a common budget, we have to put forward this view. However, this does not prevent us from making further efforts in the future. This is exactly what Mikael Larsson says. The broadband is extremely important for industrial activity in rural areas. And more and more digitized. It's monitoring milking processes in the barn and so on. Although we are up in Dikanäs in the mountains, this infrastructure must work. It is as important an infrastructure as it is on the road or rail. We will propose initiatives in the future, but we will have to calm down a little and wait until we get to another point.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-707	Mr. Old President! Thank you, Thomas Morell, for your answer! That's exactly what Thomas Morell says. It is extremely important that we have continued broadband expansion in the country. One can look at the efforts that the Swedish democrats want to make with the money they spend on this. You can also look at what M and KD add to this. Among other things, we in the Center Party spend a great deal more money on this. As we entered into this budgetary cooperation, it may seem strange to me that we did not choose to invest, for example, in further broadband expansion in the country. We have seen, for example, that digitalisation has become even more important in the tracks of the pandemic. I find it a little strange that they did not join forces on this and made an investment in broadband expansion in the country from M's, KD's and SD's side.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-709	Mr. Old President! We can allow ourselves to look a little at the crystal ball. We will work to ensure that the 104 billion in the Swedish Transport Administration's infrastructure plan will be spent on other important efforts in our infrastructure. This frees up quite a lot of money that can be used to restore our existing rail system and the road system, but you can also invest in broadband where it is needed. You can free up quite a lot of money if you take this instead of the high-speed trains that are really of no use, if you are going to look at the whole of Sweden's opportunity to live. If we allow ourselves to look in the crystal ball, we can see that there is quite a large amount of money that we can use even for broadband.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-711	Mr. Old President! I remember a young SSU in the election movement 94– I myself was KDU – named Miguel Odhner. He is now Chairman of the Municipal Executive Board of Kungälv. He really started every debate about this: Sweden can, can better. That's a little bit what I feel when I stand here today and think about Swedish infrastructure: We can, can better. Swedish infrastructure has been severely neglected for a large number of years, which means that both roads and railways suffer from a lack of maintenance. The effect of poor maintenance is that we see freight and passenger trains getting stuck on the track, which creates major problems for travellers, carriers and companies waiting for the goods to arrive. We also see how Trafikverket, regions, municipalities and individual road keepers are becoming increasingly difficult to maintain a good standard on the roads. One effect of this is, for example, that the Swedish Transport Administration has reduced the speed of some roads. This reduces road wear and tear while maintaining road safety despite the fact that the roads are getting worse. But it also means that it takes longer to get to work for those who live around these roads. They get less mobility. In addition to the problems we see in road and rail transport, we also have problems in maritime transport. Ports need dredging. Bridges and locks need renovation. Roads and railways need to be developed so that ports can serve business and other travellers well. We see that in rural areas, in particular, broadband is not expanding at the rate that we envisage, and we see that postal services are deteriorating. We also see how in parts of the countryside you start to have problems getting your morning paper. There are, therefore, deteriorations that we need to take into account in these discussions. Mr. Old President! This week the Finnish Transport Administration's draft national plan for 2022 – 2033 finally arrived. This plan is based on the government's long-term financial framework. That is the framework we are discussing today, but these documents are somewhat interrelated. Given the major problems that exist in the infrastructure, we are many who hoped for this plan, but unfortunately the overall assessment is that in principle everyone is dissatisfied. According to the plan, we will not be able to restore roads with current resources, but the roads will continue to deteriorate at the same time as too few new investments are made. Although the plan and the budget we are discussing today make great investments in the field of rail, we can see that high-speed trains are not being completed during that planning period. Norrland does not receive a coherent railway system. Stockholm – Oslo will not develop. Oslo – Gothenburg – Copenhagen is not included. A new link between Sweden and Denmark is missing. Strengthening the southern Bohusbanan and Alingsås – Gothenburg is not included. The new Ostkustenbanan and Norrbotniabanan are not completed. Ertms will not be finished either. In short: We see big investments in rail but nothing that gives us functional freight or passenger traffic routes. If the railway is to be successful, it must function as a system, but the Swedish Transport Administration's plan continues to deal with the railway as a patchwork. It is also the effect of the budgets over time. The plan does not answer how shipping will work in the Gulf of Bothnia when our current icebreakers retire. There is also no strategy for future national and international flights. In fact, if we are to develop Sweden also on the air side, we need to discuss Arlanda. We probably also need to discuss in the future, as I had in the debate last week, some form of major airport in northern Sweden. And we will probably have to acknowledge that Copenhagen is the main airport for many of us who live in southern Sweden. At the same time, the air side is very positive. It's technology development. Swedish companies are so far at the forefront that what they do in Sweden actually leads to an environmental improvement worldwide. In fact, there are no clear investments to reduce CO2 emissions. The technology of the future already exists, but if the transport sector is to switch, the infrastructure for electricity and charging stations and natural gas and hydrogen stations must be expanded. We must also ensure that the new technology is safe and works regardless of the weather or the season. Mr. Old President! The current plans actually allocate 80% of all rail investments, 15% to road investments and 5% to shipping. Nevertheless, rail investment will not result in major modal shift from road to rail. Mr. Old President! We have great challenges, but unfortunately we do not see that today we are fully responding to these challenges. Instead, we see how the Finnish Transport Administration and the business community repeatedly warn that the lack of resources in practice means that we will not be able to build and maintain an infrastructure that takes social, economic and ecological considerations into account. From a Christian Democrat point of view, we have tried to meet this lack of resources through two different proposals. On the one hand, we believe that municipalities should have the right to co-finance various infrastructure projects via bompeng. We also believe that today's vehicle and fuel taxation must change if we are to cope with future climate change and financing of our infrastructure. At the same time, these changes will not be enough. If we are to meet all the needs, we must find new ways of financing our infrastructure. We have used loan financing in the past for example the Öresund Bridge and Arlandabanan, which shows that other solutions can be found. If we are to solve major investments such as the New East Coast Line, the European track Landskrona– Copenhagen, a new Öland bridge, Oslo– Stockholm and Oslo– Gothenburg – Copenhagen, we need to find new financing solutions. Mr. Old President! We face major challenges, and if we are to solve these needs, we need a new government that tackles these major challenges. I support the committee's proposal in the report. Moreover, I think that the climate of discussion in politics is good because we talk more and accuse less. With this, I wish everyone who listens to a coming Merry Christmas.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-731	Mr. Old President! I largely share Magnus Jacobsson's analysis of Trafikverket's proposed infrastructure plan. A large part of the road and rail network will change over the next eleven years. It's short for a little money for maintenance. Like Jacobsson, it is also too little money for new construction. Not least a number of very important railway objects will not be ready in time. I note that the SEK 355 million allocated by the Christian Democrats in re-prioritising in this area of the budget will not really be enough to renovate roads and railways that are in decline in our country. We need to re-prioritise the expected expenditure on infrastructure. I would therefore like to ask Magnus Jacobsson why the Christian Democrats are such supporters of building new motorways in our big cities. Trafikverket proposes that a completely new motorway be built here in Stockholm – Cross-connection Södertörn, a 20-mile-long new motorway that will cost at least SEK 16 billion. That's almost a million dollars a meter. Why should we build such large motorways here in the Stockholm area? This is money that could be useful out in rural areas. I thought Magnus Jacobsson was a supporter of investments in rural areas and not that all the money should go to the big cities. Am I mistaken?
i-e347e5b376859e8d-735	Mr. Old President! No, Jens Holm is absolutely right. I am defending rural areas and highlighting them in principle in all my interventions in this House. At the same time, and we have debated this in the past, it is not possible to create well-being if we do not have a functioning economy. It is not possible to create welfare if there is no trade. There are those who have believed that production creates welfare and has tested it before. But if you produce something in the warehouse, you have actually only produced one cost and environmental damage. It is when what you produce meets someone else, when there is a trade, that the welfare is created. To make these trades, we need shipping. We need the railways, we need aviation and we need broadband. And hear and be amazed: Although the Left finds it hard to accept, Mr. President of the Age, we need well-functioning roads both in Stockholm and in sparsely populated areas.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-739	Mr. Old President! I can agree with that, but Magnus Jacobsson is not answering my question. When Trafikverket now in the plan that Magnus Jacobsson quite detailed reviews a proposal for a completely new motorway here in Stockholm that will cost SEK 16 billion, what about the renovation of Bohusbanan? What about roads in sparsely populated areas? The money will go to Stockholm to build a new motorway. I have never heard Magnus Jacobsson or the Christian Democrats oppose this great proposal. Are the Christian Democrats really in favour of spending so much money on a new motorway in Stockholm, which is also dismissed by the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency because it will lead to increased traffic and increased emissions? We know, of course, that the freight traffic to be carried out on Södertörn can be done by rail and by inland shipping rather than on a new motorway. Why do you want to build new motorways in Stockholm, Magnus Jacobsson?
i-e347e5b376859e8d-742	Mr. Old President! It is quite correct that we are in favour of this motorway. It will lead to increased well-being and make it easier for everyone living in the Stockholm region, which in itself is positive. I share Mr Holm's view that priority must be given. In our own draft budget, which we are not voting for today, but where we have nevertheless highlighted our vision for the future, we point out that, for example, the resources spent on high-speed trains need to be redistributed to other things. At national level, we have said that we are not really behind high-speed trains, but we have also said that if there is a majority that wants to build, it must be done outside the plane. At present, it will otherwise be a cuckoo, and we have for example been prepared to invest more in Alingsås towards Gothenburg, well aware that Borås – Gothenburg will have to wait a while. New resources are needed if this type of project is to work.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-746	Mr. Old President! In his speech, Magnus Jacobsson pointed out that the proposal for a national plan presented by the Finnish Transport Administration implies a relatively limited shift to rail. It's true, and of course it's incredibly boring. It takes more to get a big transfer, and then we can't just go for what's good; we actually have to reduce what's bad and stop doing it. One thing that I am relatively convinced of is that it will not help the transfer to make it cheaper to release by lowering the petrol tax. The Swedish Environmental Institute says that in order for us to reach the 2030 target, car traffic must be reduced. Linked to the transfer, I therefore have two questions to Magnus Jacobsson. The first is: how is the shift to rail and other sustainable means of transport affected by a reduction in the tax on petrol? The second question is whether the Christian Democrats are prepared to implement policies to reduce car traffic.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-749	Mr. Old President! To question two, the answer is no. To question one, the answer is no too. We will not be helping to phase out car traffic. We are not looking to reduce car traffic. We are looking to ensure that it is environmentally friendly. It's a completely different perspective. As far as the tax cut of 50 cents is concerned, this is correct: it does not lead to less CO2 emissions. On the other hand, it is also not what changes the whole infrastructure. If we are serious about changing emissions from the vehicle fleet, we need to start discussing completely new energy systems. Then we have to get wires out along roads, and we have to get charging stations. We need to develop hydrogen tanks. We need to work on the new frozen biofuel technology. This is a completely different discussion. These 50 cents become a symbol in two directions. They become a symbol on our part where we say that we think the countryside is important. It will be a symbol on your part, Axel Hallberg, where you say: Look here – now they have given up all the environmental goals! And none of that is true, I was about to say. That's 50 cents we're discussing. In reality, it is like this: If we want to improve our environmental objectives, get a functioning infrastructure and protect the Swedish business community and the Swedish countryside, we need more electricity. Then we need more new technology. We need to be more positive, and then it is not about having proposals, ideas and ideas about limiting growth. The strongest factor for fewer who are starving, fewer who are without water and fewer who are suffering is growth. We have seen this throughout my generation; I was young in the 80s, and there is an incredible difference in welfare between now and today. This has been achieved through growth, and this will also be the case now with regard to environmental issues.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-755	Mr. Old President! No, the tax on petrol is not symbolic policy. On the contrary, taxing carbon dioxide and taxing emissions is by far the most effective thing we can do to reduce emissions. Nor is it the case that the reduction in petrol tax simply does not reduce emissions, as Magnus Jacobsson says, but it actually increases emissions. It's going in the wrong direction. It is not that it only has no effect at all, but the direction is completely wrong. Magnus Jacobsson also says that the Christian Democrats are not prepared to do anything to reduce emissions. But the Swedish Environmental Institute says that car traffic must be reduced if we are to meet the 2030 target; biofuels and electrification alone are not enough. Does this mean that the Christian Democrats have abandoned the 2030 target? Is that how I'm supposed to interpret this?
i-e347e5b376859e8d-757	Mr. Old President! Then I've obviously been unclear. What I said was that we do not intend to act to reduce car traffic in general. On the other hand, we intend to act to reduce emissions. I'd like to make a little parable. When I was a number of years younger and was in high school, it was quite common to have an oil boiler at home. In the first house I bought, together with my family at the time, we had an oil boiler. There is no one today who would come up with the idea of installing an oil boiler in a new house, and I think it will be exactly the same in the area of infrastructure. Future aviation will go with completely different fuels, shipping will use other fuels and agriculture will use other fuels. And in a few years' time, one will look back and say: Do you remember that there were those who used diesel in the car? No one is installing an oil boiler in a house today, and I believe that the same development will take place in the area of infrastructure.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-760	Mr. Old President! I was a little happy when Magnus Jacobsson began his speech by mentioning a friend of mine, Miguel Odhner, and linking it to the early 90s. I think it is quite important to recall why we have had a lack of investment in infrastructure. At the beginning of the 90s, Prime Minister Carl Bildt was named, and although the financial crisis that Sweden underwent was partly internationally affected, it was diluted in those years. The Christian Democrats were part of government cooperation during this period. Göran Persson's government then took over, and Göran Persson himself described it as having to go around to the financiers with his cap in hand to borrow money so that we could pay for our welfare at all. There was, like, no room to invest in infrastructure. Afterwards Fredrik Reinfeldt took over, and there you were also included, Magnus Jacobsson. You sat for two terms of office, and in fact there were no investments, even though they should have been made. What's this about? Yes, it is about Christian Democrats having been involved in government cooperation, which has prioritised tax cuts over investments in both welfare and infrastructure. I find it a little strange that we should then stand here and complain about what we are actually responsible for, namely the shortcomings in the infrastructure. I also think that Sweden can better – However, it is totally counterproductive to pursue a policy of government cooperation and then stands here and complains about these shortcomings. It is only now, in the last two terms of office, that we have really seen increased investment in infrastructure.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-766	Mr. Old President! I always find it fun to debate with Mr Lindberg, but it is not entirely clear that what is said is always correct. I had the privilege of being a local and regional politician for 16 years before I returned to the House, and I can see that in those years – especially during the eight years of alliance – we received more money every year for the municipality. There was one exception, namely during the 2009 financial crisis. It was the only time when I had to save in my role as mayor. All other years there was more money for the public sector. This was done, among other things, by having a tax policy that encouraged work, encouraged more people to make a living, and so on. As far as infrastructure is concerned, it is rather other decisions that have caused us to lag behind. I return to 1976, when the model was changed in Sweden. In all other organisations we have an investment budget. I want to be clear when I say this: my party is not on this issue, but my party is content with the budgetary model we have. But if we look at when there is a major change in investment in infrastructure in economic terms, we can see that this is happening - 76. Before that, approximately 2 per cent of GDP went to investments, and after changing the budget model here in the Riksdag, approximately 1 per cent – regardless of the government – was added. Of course something happens if you do it over so long. You start puddleing out of the system. In addition, we have had strong urbanisation, which has forced investment, especially in cities. The countryside has fallen behind. We need to get to grips with this, and that is why in my speech I pointed out several ways of spending money in the budget and finding other solutions – e.g. bompeng.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-771	Mr. Old President! I would like to remind Mr Jacobsson of the following: when Stefan Lövven's government succeeded the previous government, which included the Christian Democrats, a budget deficit of 60 billion was taken over. That's what we brought home. We are now able to invest in welfare, and we are able to invest in infrastructure. I'm still a little surprised when Magnus Jacobsson highlights different OPS solutions. We have probably only had two in Sweden. One is the Arlanda runway, as the honourable Member mentioned, and the result is still that it is far too expensive to go. There are far too few people riding the Arlanda railway. If you are more than two people, it is cheaper to take a taxi, and it is not reasonable from a climate perspective. The second OPS solution is Karolinska Hospital. You have been an active driver in both of these projects, Magnus Jacobsson. Karolinska Hospital is the world's most expensive hospital; it cost more to build than Burj Khalifa did. I do not know if these are reasonable priorities for taxpayers, even if the hospital is nice.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-774	Mr. Old President! I am pleased that the honourable Member mentions the Arlanda runway. I am not pleased, however, that the current government extended the agreement on the Arlanda runway. Here we have a course that is complete – and it had not come about without Mats Odell and the then government taking the initiatives they made – but which do not go with full capacity. This was a choice made by the Social Democrats and environmentalists in the previous government. It is a huge mismanagement of resources to do that. Then there are other, good examples. We have built a bridge at my home between Sweden and Norway. It is customs-financed. We built the Öresund Bridge. We built in Sundsvall. There are other ways to find funding. We also know that Italians have been good at using EU aid. I believe that in addition to what we are doing in this House, in addition to what we are going to decide on, we need to look at other solutions if we are to cope with the economy in the future. Now it's broadband, friends!
i-e347e5b376859e8d-778	Mr. Old President! Magnus Jacobsson happened to me and said that this will apply to broadband, and it will. Broadband is of course extremely important for the whole country to be able to live and jobs and businesses to be created. Magnus Jacobsson mentioned digitalisation and broadband in his speech, which pleased me. My supplementary question on this is how much the Christian Democrats want to invest in further broadband expansion in the coming years, namely 2022, 2023 and 2024.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-780	Mr. Old President! I have to be the answer when it comes to the exact amount. We now have a joint budget with several parties, so I am guilty of that answer. With regard to the principle of broadband, we have a problem. There I would like to commend Mikael Larsson, because I think he is highlighting this in this House in a very fine way. I remember sitting in the Chamber for the first time, 1998-2002, when Göran Persson started talking about broadband. I think it was as little as 10 million that was the big bet then. We had a minister who talked about the Internet being a fly and so on. The whole thing about broadband is super important. It is important for both city and country to function. The entire covid period has shown that we probably need to talk even more about broadband than we do. And I admit that this means that we would have to spend more resources on broadband than we do. I also believe that broadband in itself will become a collective concept. But when we talked broadband when I was here for the first time about twenty years ago, it was copper grid. Today it's fiber. What is it in 20 years? This issue of broadband investment will probably be an issue that this House will have to raise every year. But what we also have to do is connect broadband to different technologies, because we probably won't be able to have fiber across the country. I'm one of those who wish we could have it. I think it's unfair that we can't reach it. However, I believe that we will still have to use airborne technology in certain areas. We will also have to work with radio and radio link in different ways, especially in paths where you might hike or as I am hunting and so on. I am very pleased that the issue has been raised. We Christian Democrats think it is an important issue, and I would like us to be able to spend more resources on this in the future.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-788	Mr. Old President! I thank Magnus Jacobsson for his answer. The Swedish Post and Telecom Agency has in reports developed that if we are to achieve the targets set by the S-MP government, it would need somewhere between 15 and 20 billion. The Center Party chooses to invest 3.4 billion in further broadband expansion over the next three years. That won't be enough. As Magnus Jacobsson says, it is fiber, mobile networks, radio link solutions and perhaps several other options. Here too, technology development is progressing very quickly. It is clear that if we are to achieve the objectives set, and perhaps in the whole of the transport sector, it is very much about money. But there may be other initiatives that can be seen and taken to achieve the objectives. My next question to Magnus Jacobsson is therefore whether the Christian Democrats have any other proposals, which do not concern the issue of money, on how to achieve the set targets for further broadband expansion in the country.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-793	Mr. Old President! I know I sat with a gentleman who worked a lot to build up broadband in the beginning. What he showed, and I think I have also seen such figures from the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency, is that you should work in collaboration. Wherever we have fibre associations, it appears or suggests that the price is actually lower than where municipalities and states have in different ways advanced. There are also areas where we see a completely different thing. The Stockholm region has a fantastically well-developed municipal broadband cooperation, and I think that many municipalities in Sweden would need to study the Stockholm region and see if you can collaborate more. I believe that all of us in committee have been affected by the discussions about the fact that broadband should not be transferred to the neighbouring municipality and to all these boundaries that exist. I think we need to realise, and here I would like to once again commend Mikael Larsson, that broadband is a fifth mode of transport. We must see it as that and therefore invest it as well.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-797	Mr. Old President! We are now debating MJU2 on agricultural, rural and food industries – perhaps one of the most important areas in order to make the whole country live and develop. On 24 November, the Parliament established the financial framework for expenditure category 23 Areella industries, rural areas and food. So our draft budget came to fall when the draft budget from M, SD and KD won. That is why we have a special opinion. However, I would like to mention clearly that the majority of the S-MP government's budget with very many good reforms remains. In our view, the coherent rural policy should cover the whole country. It will be based on broad initiatives in many areas. Rural policy shall also contribute to the achievement of the objectives of regional development policy. The Food Strategy, Forest Programme, Agricultural Policy, Maritime and Fisheries Programme – all contribute well to a vibrant rural environment. There are also a great many investments in other budget areas that involve getting the whole country to live and develop. If we are to have a competitive and sustainable agriculture, as we think, it is important to invest in this. We will contribute half a billion annually to the rural development programme in the future. It now covers 28 1⁄2 billion in the coming years. If we are to achieve the objectives of the food strategy, we need further efforts in this area. We believe that further efforts are needed to achieve more robust and competitive food production adapted to food production, climate and environment, health and sustainable animal welfare. This is why, among other things, we have commissioned the Swedish Food Safety Agency to investigate and implement a new charging system for slaughterhouse control. The Authority shall also pay particular attention to the competitiveness of enterprises in its work and subsequently lay down rules and conditions. That is why the appropriations for a competitive food sector are increased by 19 million. We are also increasing the funding for the Swedish Food Safety Agency by 29 million to ensure that slaughterhouse fees are fully financed. We are making further efforts in this area with 10 million to counter the increase in the wild boar population and allow control. But maybe the most important parts are about CAP. We have worked in committee for a long time on a CAP programme, a programme for a common agricultural policy. The strategic plan is now in the final stages of its preparation at the Government Office based on the formation of the government that has been implemented. In the next few days, it is likely that a statement will be given as to how this will take place. For us, it is about competitiveness neutrality, but also about food on the table at reasonable prices. This means that we must make use of economies of scale without at the same time compromising animal welfare. At the same time, we will rake to support small-scale, local production and eco-production. Our budget supports a proposal to strengthen Eldrimner by 10 million for small-scale food production. We add 25 million annually to the Swedish Board of Agriculture for coordination on organic food. As I said, our policy is a whole. Therefore, efforts in other areas are also very important for rural and agricultural policy. I would like to mention in particular the major investment in road maintenance – SEK 750 million for infrastructure in the form of small roads in rural areas. There was earlier talk of broadband in the second area of the budget; we can only subscribe to what was said. More is likely to be needed, but it is particularly important that government efforts are made in areas where the market is not strong. We provide SEK 1.3 billion in this area to specifically support the roll-out of broadband in sparsely populated areas. An important investment in fuel stations is being made. This is important in north-west Sweden, where the conversion is not fully completed. These are a small number of sandwiches, but it is all the more important that the investments are made. In the same area, of course, there is support for grocery stores to ensure a public service in sparsely populated areas. The budget ensures funding of 70 million annually in the coming years. The emphasis on business climate in sparsely populated areas means that the 39 most sparsely populated municipalities are strengthened. What is important in terms of climate, environment and agriculture is that if we are to build, transport and farm the land requires transport and machinery. The budget adds 10 million to this, but it is also important for this sector to get started with its conversion work. The budget also makes it possible to support small municipalities with special challenges; this is particularly important in the whole of northern Sweden. There will be extended support for temporary emergency airports and special support for those small municipalities that have taken a major responsibility for the reception of refugees. It is very important and sends a clear signal that those who have taken responsibility also receive support for this. We debated fisheries very much in the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture. My colleague Markus Selin, two weeks ago, very clearly drew our view of a sustainable fisheries policy, so I think I do not need to do it now. When it comes to hunting and game, we have presented a good package of wild boars; it will make it easier. We want to work extra for more game meat on the table. We think that the work that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has now begun with new criteria for the protection of predators is welcome and good. We will push this work forward. I now turn to talking about the forest one, Mr. Old President. It is about the spruce bark drills and the törskate sponge – all that is covered by an initiative at SLU and is extremely important to manage sustainable forestry in the future so that we do not have to cut down the forest prematurely because it is attacked by pests or fungi. A fundamental part of Social Democratic forest policy is freedom under responsibility – that the forest should be managed sustainably and that we can use the sustainable products from the forest. But, Mr President-in-Office, we are going to debate the EU and the EU's forestry policy on Monday, so I think we will come back to the forestry issues at that time. I'd like to end by wishing you a Merry Christmas. I would like to extend my special thanks to the secretariat for their work on the budget area and the budget texts. The chancellor's way of running is always as welcome. Thank you, and Merry Christmas!
i-e347e5b376859e8d-819	Mr. Old President! It was a very interesting speech by Isak From on the direction of the continued work of the Social Democrats and the Government on the agrarian industries and rural policy. In recent months, we have been able to take note of alarming reports on how Swedish farmers are affected by the consequences of the pandemic as well as by increases in input costs and costs of just over SEK 4 billion, according to the forecast on a full-year basis presented by the LRF for next year. There are huge increases in costs, and we have not yet seen at what levels this ends. In view of the established food strategy and the objectives of the political work on Swedish agricultural policy and the development of agriculture, the question for the representatives of the government party in this debate is: What does the government intend to do in concrete terms? Are there plans for any crisis package similar to what was done after the effects of the drought became a reality in 2018 and 2019? These are extremely urgent issues, and Isak From did not touch the conditions for Swedish agriculture and how it looks at present very much. The latest survey shows the worst outlook for the future for Swedish farmers since this was measured. What measures does the government intend to take?
i-e347e5b376859e8d-823	Mr. Old President! Welcome, Daniel Bäckström, to the debates of the Environment and Agriculture Committee! We look forward to debating with Daniel and the Center Party. I think we can do a lot of good together. We can, of course, see that right now, when diesel prices in the wake of the pandemic reached all-time-high, both fuel costs and the costs of fertilizers and other inputs increased. What has been particularly worrying are the inadequate transport chains that we now see in different parts of the transport sector. I think we need to think about different parts. During the pandemic we have clearly seen that Swedish consumers want to choose Swedish and local produce more than imported. I think we can do more with clear labelling. We haven't come all the way. For example, we have had proposals on origin labelling in restaurants. I think it is very important that consumers also do their part. Then, of course, it is about ensuring public procurement and more municipalities and regions actually choosing the right way. There are several reasons why Helena Jonsson's study on climate-neutral agriculture, for example, looks at what efforts can be made to support the sector. We should remember that this is a sector that receives a great deal of support through European policy – the CAP. The efforts we are going to make here also need to be anchored in Brussels. We intend to do so.
i-TPZmbvSQ3rMJyUmrPmwYwG	Mr. Old President! I thank Isak From for his greeting. Do the Social Democrats see this as a consequence of the pandemic's consequences for Swedish business, as described by the LRF? Together, we have implemented several support packages over the past few years to deal with the effects on Swedish companies and public services that have been severely affected by the effects of the pandemic. The consequences are now also presented for the green industry. This is, among other things, part of the follow-up effects of the pandemic. We can also see safety policy links, not least how Russia regulates and regulates access to gas and how it has indirect consequences for the supply of manure and other things to Swedish producers. When does the government intend to come back with concrete proposals to deal with this, so that it becomes short-term manageable for Swedish farmers?
i-e347e5b376859e8d-831	Mr. Old President! Daniel Bäckström is a full member of the Defence Committee and is well known for his work on defence issues. I welcome the fact that civil defence issues are coming up on the table. We must be honest and say that Sweden may not have seen all the threats and obstacles. We learned that not least during the pandemic. Who's responsible? We saw during the great forest fires that there were errors and shortcomings. These are now addressed by clearer directives to MSB. I definitely believe that clearer directives are needed for a state authority to ensure that basic public services, whether electricity, water or food, are ensured in various forms of crisis, disaster and threat.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-832	Madam President, I would like Then we stand here again and debate our budget for Category 23. I was going to continue on the path that Daniel Bäckström from the Center Party so exemplaryly took. We are in a rather tough situation right now for Swedish agriculture. We can all agree on that in here. Some say that this is even going to be a worse crisis than the drought of 2018. The question is also how long it will last. The cost situation is significantly increasing, as was highlighted earlier. Security's tight. We know that fertilizer production has basically been down all autumn in the EU. This means that in the spring there may not even be plant nutrients, fertilizers, mineral fertilizers or whatever you choose to call it to all farmers who need it for their production. We also know that in Sweden we had a rather poor harvest of the spring crops season that passed. That problem was also present in our neighbourhood. This means that there may be a shortage of seed in the spring. We also have significantly increased fuel prices and energy prices. There are a lot of factors involved here. The Social Democrats have been in the government – now alone – ever since the 2014 elections. You can no longer blame anything else. Now there is a lack of funds and capital in Swedish agriculture. You haven't done your homework. The intentions of the food strategy have not been met. It is time to demonstrate the momentum of the Social Democrats. What do you intend to do for Swedish agriculture in this situation? In 2022 it may be that we are reducing our food production rather than increasing it according to the intentions of the strategy. If we start to reduce it, there is a great risk that there are many areas that will not start their production again. What is the response of the Social Democrats to this?
i-e347e5b376859e8d-837	Madam President, I would like I thank John Widegren for the questions. Perhaps I can say that we can do it ourselves! At least we can do some ourselves. I think it is quite far-reaching to accept that Swedish agriculture should be held hostage when the Opec countries choose whether to pump oil out of their wells or not. I think it is very important that we ensure our own production of, above all, sustainable biofuels. The Social Democrats sat from the beginning together with the Green Party in the government. Last term of office we had budget cooperation with the Left Party, this term of office with the Green Party. Now we have the government under our own control. During the milk crisis, we implemented various support measures to ensure milk production in Sweden. During the drought we also ensured support. I believe that such support is needed. Of course, you need to look at it. But we also need to build our own capacity. We cannot build sustainable agriculture on oil from Opec countries.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-839	Madam President, I would like I am absolutely convinced that this is the case. Of course we shouldn't build this on someone else helping us. It has been one of Sweden's biggest concerns for a long time: our naivety, our belief that someone else will solve the problems for us. But now we are in fact dealing with these problems. It's not that all the worry clouds have come sneaky slowly. We have had a lack of profitability in agriculture for a long time. It's sunk and sunk. The Social Democrats, who have been at the forefront of governments since the adoption of the Food Strategy, have been in favour of their action plans. But out in the country today, farmers ask the question when you meet them: this food strategy-- is it even, or is it just something you talked about a few years ago? That is how farmers experience it, and now they are entering this tough situation. Then I think that the Social Democrats, who are still the largest party in Sweden and who are in government power, should be able to come up with some solid concrete proposals.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-842	Madam President, I would like We need to ensure that the authorities we have work together to ensure a long-term competitive and sustainable agriculture. It's a mission the government has, regardless of color. When we developed the food strategy, we leaned firmly on the Competitiveness Investigation, which clearly pointed out that there was a lack of a food strategy, and on what shortcomings there were. There is quite a lot of potential in own-owned agricultural properties. On the other hand, the farmers are much worse off. What we now see as perhaps the biggest threat to Swedish agriculture is the age structure. We have older farmers and older farmers. We need rejuvenation, and we need to ensure that young people who actually want and dare also have capital. I think that's the big part ahead.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-844	Madam President, I would like As a defence policy and now also rural politicians, it is particularly interesting and important for me to make connections when it comes to our everyday readiness and questions about how we strengthen our security of supply at home and in cooperation with other countries. During the pandemic, we have seen how our society has been tested in many areas. Although the fears we saw initially did not always materialise, the situation remains worrying. From an economic point of view, there is a clear risk that the latest mutation of the corona virus will further exacerbate our situation. But the storm clouds are not just linked to the pandemic. There are also indirect effects on our economy. We also have many different geopolitical challenges and issues to address. We are very dependent on the world as a nation. Some who have noticed the increasingly tough situation are the green industries. These are extremely important activities for the whole country. Increased costs have not been curbed in recent months. Rather, we have seen a sharp increase in costs. The forecast is that they continue to increase. These are high prices of fuel, feed, nitrogen fertilisers, electricity and other inputs. It is extremely difficult to be able to plan the business for next year here and now. Much is done, autumn sowing and other things, in agriculture. But what is the economy like for next year's activities in Swedish agriculture? It is a very important issue for us to reflect on when we debate these key issues. We have been able to take note of both forecasts and reports from, among other things, the LRF. They show how farmers look to the future. It is all the gloomier forecasts that are being reported. Uncertainty is growing, insecurity is increasing, and we do not yet know what scope it will be. It is not a question of higher building costs to get up a terrace or to buy a used car, which is so often reported about. These are major central issues that have larger dimensions when it comes to the conditions of Swedish agriculture. The stakes are bigger there. Many consequences can be that we see continued radical and drastic restructuring or closures of Swedish agriculture. These are farms that stop or stop or reduce their activities. It really does not agree with the important objectives that Parliament has decided on when it comes to food strategy. This is a strategy that all parties have supported. The aim and ambition is for Swedish food production to increase. That objective is under threat at the moment. We cannot, apart from looking at farmers being forced to give up their life's work or refrain from making the necessary reinvestments or new investments because of the tough consequential effects of the economy. There are consequential effects directly linked to the pandemic. The Center Party also sees that rural issues are about many different things. We are permeated in the discussions on what is important for Swedish agriculture and rural areas. We have been involved in this term of office and have contributed to agreements and budget negotiations in order to obtain more money for broadband, roads and railways, but also to increase the budget of the rural development programme. But we also see now that much more is needed. That is also why we, as a party in our party proposal for the budget next year, have added an extra 1 billion to the rural programme. It is 1 billion that we see needed in the near future also to deal with the cost. Our focus is on getting jobs and entrepreneurship to develop, seeing reduced climate emissions and turning this country into more sustainable conditions. It is about better conditions for living and working in rural areas, and it is also about security issues. It is possible to discuss and debate a lot. In this debate, I suspect that this will happen. Many times it is more than rhetoric that makes a difference in practice. It is not always the proposals submitted that produce results. Now three parties have settled and come up with a common budget for next year. It is about the Swedish Democrats, the Moderates and the Christian Democrats. Although the signals are often that rural areas are very important, I can see that this report for this area of expenditure does not provide any more money for agriculture. Rather, the total budget is reduced by 400 million. Although these parties too, I assume, have been fully aware of how the conditions have changed drastically in recent months, there was no agreement with more money for the rural programme. It's something I and the Center Party regret. We have enormous challenges in the coming year. This applies not only in the next programming period, but here and now. I had expectations that others who run rural issues would also deliver in practice. Madam President, I would like There are many parts to this budget. Some elements highlighted by the Center Party are to introduce a rural deduction, to get through a bio-premium, to ensure that the predator package is implemented, investments in veterinarians and a wild boar package. But it is also about issues that can be outside but that still affect the conditions in rural areas, such as more money for broadband. It is extremely important for agriculture to be able to function throughout the country. Work on rural development is to deal with these issues regardless of whether we are local politicians, regional politicians or parliamentarians. I often encounter the culture of centralism and how much starts from a central location where you often expect activities to exist. At this time we see the possibilities that have been born around Sweden in the pandemic. There is perhaps no better time than now to debate together in Parliament and think about how we take advantage of the possibilities of turning centralism into decentralism. It is about encouraging and stimulating migration flows so that jobs can be created in many places. This also applies to the flexible approach of being able to have employers both here in Stockholm and around the world with a base in rural and rural areas. It is an extremely important issue both for the outlets for the basic activities we have but also because population development brings growth around the country. Madam President, I would like I think we now have the chance of the world. It's about working to deal with the challenges and the big problems that we have to deal with. At the same time, we need to think about how we take advantage of the opportunities that are now ahead of us for rural areas in the short term and in the long term.
i-GNBiKLXmwKYztigthovZXB	Madam President, I would like Welcome, Daniel Bäckström, to the MJU debate! At the moment, there is certainly reason to discuss the high costs to agriculture when energy costs are high and therefore also the costs of the extremely energy-intensive mineral fertilisers and other inputs. I think that Daniel Bäckström mentioned the word crisis package in a previous change of line. There is, of course, reason to discuss how agriculture can cope with the difficult situation. I discussed the regional growth strategies earlier this afternoon. At the time it was clear that the Center Party was the party that pulled down investment in small businesses in rural areas in terms of both the business environment and climate entrepreneurship. It really is something that affects the countryside very hard. I would like to put a question to Daniel Bäckström about precisely how to deal with the crisis of energy costs for rural areas and agriculture. Is the Center Party prepared to subsidise fossil energy more?
i-e347e5b376859e8d-869	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Maria Gardfjell, for both the greeting and this important question! The Center Party focuses both on the long-term work of changing society and on reducing dependence on the outside world. We see direct links in how imports and deliveries of fossil fuels and gas from Russia, among others, affect the European market and production conditions for inputs to Swedish agriculture. Not least, we see how it affects fuels and fuel costs to these necessary transports and the hours of tractor and other agricultural tools – what is needed to both grow and produce food in our country. We need to be able to have both a long-term goal and a long-term strategy to change, because it is also a huge opportunity for agriculture and forestry to produce fuels and find sustainable solutions. We must do more research but also invest more in machinery and in the production of renewable fuels. At the same time, we will make the necessary changes to phase out fossil fuels. But at a time when we are experiencing the toughest pressure on Swedish farms for a very long time, it is also extremely important to see the whole picture and to take responsibility for the phasing-out, while increasing competitiveness becomes a fact for farms. They must be given the margin to invest in the new machines in order to reset. The removal of subsidies at this stage and the further deterioration of the conditions for farmers do not benefit sustainability.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-874	Madam President, I would like Here we see a classic turnaround in the policy of the Centers, where we now speak well in favour of subsidising fossil energy more. Another reversal was made in the budget vote, when an extra 400 million for forestry work disappeared. It was not only the protection of forests that disappeared, but also the proposals for a consultation campaign for more nature-oriented forestry practices and improved tax conditions for forest owners. But the focus on advice for the Center's own heart issue, increased growth in the forest, was also removed. Will the Center Party with Daniel Bäckström in the leadership of rural policy protect and nurture agreements?
i-e347e5b376859e8d-877	Madam President, I would like I too listened to the previous debate on regional development, and I can agree with the question put by my colleague, Peter Helander, to Maria Gardfjell, on the basis of how different budgets are compared. It is about what has happened in recent years. We budgeted this 400 million, that is 2 billion in the Center's budget. You can learn to do that. We have said no to the mountain forest package, and we are making a clear mark when it comes to the funding increases that the Green Party had presented before there was an agreement on a future forest bill. Of course, I always strive to comply with and implement agreements. But it is also extremely important to have a balance and to communicate in a way that keeps you as close to the truth as possible.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-880	Madam President, I would like I must pay tribute to Daniel Bäckström with a reply, and I think that the speech calls for a few questions. This is particularly true of what I see when I read the draft budget. I can, of course, welcome the fact that the Center Party has a commitment to forestry, for example, which is even larger than the government. One can see that, for example, the new right does not have it, but they have direct opposites. Daniel Bäckström talks warmly and well about agriculture and the agricultural sector. Let us remind ourselves that for a number of years now we have not only had a pandemic that has hit us people; we have also had a pandemic that broke out among minks. We have had a bunch of recurring bird influences that have harvested quite a large part of many bird populations and that even caused us to have an egg shortage. At the same time, I read in the Center Party's draft budget that there are cuts in the State Veterinary Institute and subsidies for veterinary field activities. It is something that is absolutely crucial for us to be able to withstand new pandemics and diseases that affect our pets. There will be new bird influences. Is this a market that's supposed to handle this? We have assessed this in the Committee on Environment and Agriculture and have seen that the market is not actually able to do so. At the same time, the Center Party is making major cuts. Why?
i-e347e5b376859e8d-885	Madam President, I would like We have made an assessment, and that is a whole of our draft budget. I am fully aware that these are important issues; we in the Center Party think so. We have made the assessment that we can reduce by SEK 305 000 when it comes to the State Veterinary Institute. Isak From can, of course, account for the practical consequences this has for the operation.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-887	Madam President, I would like The consequences that we have seen from the liberalisation of the Alliance Government are that during weekends and evenings in the countryside there is no veterinarian available or that pet owners and farmers must travel very long distances with their sick animals. In the worst case, it may be a case of forced killing or forced slaughter of an animal. These are the consequences of an activity that is not fully operational. As I see it, we need to make the efforts announced by the government, and we will probably do much more. The liberalisation that we are still living under will not fix this.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-889	Madam President, I would like Summarising the budget lines proposed by the government, it can be seen that they are in the order of 290– 300 million. To say then that a reduction of about 500 000 would have the dramatic consequences described by Isak From here is somewhat drastic. We have made this assessment, and we have focused on prioritising 1 billion to the rural programme based on the situation that Swedish agriculture now finds itself in. It is extremely important money that is needed to enable us to continue the work and see the results when it comes to implementing a Swedish food strategy.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-891	Madam President, I would like I felt that we were more or less apostrophated in the speech, so I felt that I wanted to go up and say a few words about the budget that was heard in this House, i.e. the M-KD-SD budget. It is no secret that the billion we in the Moderates' side also had for the rural programme disappeared at the last negotiating stage. It was not the case that it was prioritised, but rather that it was a rather short time for negotiation and that priority was given to some other areas where changes to the state budget were sought. It is not really more than 20 billion in change compared to the budget presented by the government. Then there were some things that fell away. It is clear that we, as the Moderates, had a number of other rural initiatives as well. Nor is it a secret that, if we now have the opportunity to take power after the elections this autumn, we will return a great deal of these efforts. We believe that these are important efforts. The Moderates believe that rural areas deserve better conditions and need investment. It was just an explanation for the situation right now. But I would also like to put a question to Daniel Bäckström of the Centre Party. How does the Center Party think it has been for the benefit of Swedish agriculture that the Green Party has been allowed to sit in government during the last parliamentary term? Does the Center Party think it serves the countryside and its industries well that they actually let the Green Party be in charge of government, regulation letters and other things? That would be interesting to hear, Madam President.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-895	Madam President, I would like Now Mr John Widegren describes the thoughts of the Moderates who are not in writing when it comes to 1 billion for the rural programme. When I read the committee's documents on today's dossier, I see that it says minus zero in the account dealing with rural environment and structural measures. To give the picture in this House that the Moderates in their own proposal would have made 1 billion will be surprising to me. Even more surprising is that Moderates and Christian Democrats, who often have a very high profile in rural policy, cannot come up with a few weeks' work to add at least 1 billion to the rural programme for next year. After all, it is in your DNA to deliver on your promises, and this is an area for which you really want to prioritise and fight. I therefore ask again: why is there no money for the rural development programme in 2022? Yesterday, I debated defence issues. There was something similar there: some parties have very high ambitions in their own draft budgets. Then when, in this case, the Swedish Democrats signed up with the Christian Democrats and the Moderates fell almost 3 billion away from their defence budget. In this case, it is clear that in practice the issue is not given priority by either the Christian Democrats, the Swedish Democrats or the Moderates when it comes to the real situation. Yes, the parliamentary situation is as it is these years. We have released a number of prime ministers, including most recently. We have a few months to go before the next election campaign, and I hope that these will be the conditions for stability and long-term sustainability in the work of this House.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-899	Madam President, I would like No, that's what I wanted to explain. That's exactly what it was like. Now it is a common budget. We have managed to negotiate a budget, which shows that we could do it again. It is free for the Center Party to negotiate that budget and be part of a budget that could mean good investments for Sweden's countryside. Instead, however, the Center Party has prioritised Social Democratic prime ministers and the Green Party in government. When you talk to rural representatives – with all due respect for the Green Party – it is hardly so high in the course when the Green Party is allowed to take part in the decision. I think the question deserves an answer, so I try again, Madam President: does the Center Party think it has been useful to have a government with the Green Party in the last parliamentary term?
i-e347e5b376859e8d-901	Madam President, I would like I will sum up the work that we have carried out together on behalf of the Center Party with a view to the end of the term of office, but perhaps also with a view to the New Year. Since we concluded the January agreement, we have been involved in influencing the work of the government but also the initiatives that have been taken in various areas, not least in rural policy and the green industry. We have had many investigations but also results, most recently when it came to the forest bill and the agreement that forms the basis for it. Of course it's always a choice. But we choose to take responsibility. We choose to participate. We choose to make a difference. We choose to prioritise rural areas and green industries. I still cannot find in the Moderates' individual budget motion any figure confirming that you would have added money to the rural programme.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-904	Madam President, I would like The Left Party budget contains several elements that increase equality through redistribution and create the conditions for success in the green transition. For us, it is a matter of course that people should be able to live and live throughout the country. It is also clear that Sweden today has a society that makes life in several parts more difficult, not simpler. Lack of public services, disused health centres, merged schools, bi-day delivery of mail, poor road maintenance, missed public transport and unwieldy internet are some of the problems. The cuts made to the public are called by some efficiency improvements, but they are anything but just that. An abandoned school can provide hours in a school bus instead of a bicycle ride. An abandoned country store can mean several miles of extra driving for the weekly document. A hospital can be the difference between life and death. As a country, we also need a redistribution between people, between city and country, but also consistent efforts on the common public service and on public services. It is the whole country that has worked together the country's assets, and that is why we also want to see them benefit the whole country. In a green society, sustainable agriculture is central. Swedish agriculture has always been an important part of Swedish self-image, as well as an important factor in social development. A sustainable and close agriculture is needed for a society with a secure supply of food. It will be a green transition that creates jobs throughout the country. Just as agriculture has great potential to contribute to improved climate change adaptation, it is also facing major challenges itself. Drought as well as torrential rains affect agriculture and require adjustments. The increased rainfall will make different demands than in the past on agricultural water management, with increased costs as a result. That is why we are proposing new state aid for investments and measures in agriculture that strengthen water management in a changing climate. In order to strengthen the positive impact of agriculture on the climate, we want to introduce two new allocations: support for investment in fossil-free machinery and vehicles in agriculture, and a bio-premium as aid per litre of fuel. This will be two new appropriations in the field of expenditure. The Left Party wants to see an increase in the proportion of herbal foods. This is something that is seen by several as a threat to Swedish agriculture. I never really understood that spinal reflex. Of course, our future herbal foods will be produced in Sweden. Demand from consumers already exists, and Swedish agriculture is already changing to meet this demand. That is nothing but positive. For the Left Party, strong organic farming is also important. It has several advantages, since chemical pesticides and fertilizers are not used. We want to support the transition from conventional farming to organic farming. It gives us a strong biodiversity as well as a strengthened animal welfare. The support we want to see is aimed at both conversion and production. We also want to see an increase in funding for support for pasture land. The meat we still consume in Sweden should be Swedish, have short transports and contribute to a strong biodiversity. Speaking of animal welfare and the previous discussion here about veterinarians, the Left Party in this part wants to spend extra money on strengthening the veterinary corps. There is today a great demand for more veterinarians, and the shortage is so great that animal welfare cannot be maintained. Veterinarians themselves have testified that animals were killed for lack of access to care. The assessment is that the number of places of study in veterinary education needs to be doubled in order to meet the needs. For this we would have liked to see a further increase in funding. It is also a question of having access to equal care throughout the country. That is not the case today. District veterinarians need sufficient resources to carry out their activities. They need resources to enable good working conditions and a reasonable salary to keep and attract staff. The activities of district scientists are of great importance, especially in those areas where private operators are absent. These are often areas with longer distances and a higher proportion of on-call activities than in and around cities. Therefore, we propose an increase in the grant to veterinary field activities as well as an additional grant to SLU for study places. In order to promote small-scale opportunities and increase animal welfare, the Left Party proposes investment aid for mobile slaughterhouses. The number of slaughterhouses is decreasing. It is also too many long distances, which is not preferable. The pressure to keep prices down due to imports of cheap meat and competition from large slaughterhouses are factors that cause this, but it is also due to a lack of trained staff. By improving access to local slaughterhouses, we can reduce the need for longer animal transport and strengthen the conditions for local production and improved national self-sufficiency. The same applies to mills and other facilities that several can handle together to produce food. Although the pandemic has not yet become a crisis that has led to a shortage of food, for example, it has shown us that we need to be more prepared. The Left Party therefore wants to see that we in Sweden raise the ambition for our self-sufficiency rate from 50 to 80 per cent and for a food emergency stock, which we had previously had. Madam President, I would like Sweden needs more – not fewer – farmers. What would have happened if we had really faced food shortages and a situation where, for example, my local grocery store at home in Ed could no longer replenish the shelves because just-in-time delivery was no longer just-in-time? Well, I couldn't have gone to the central warehouse in Västerås anyway. A robust society needs more people working in agriculture. In times of climate crisis, as in other concerns, we need more small-scale, regional production that is close to people and where what is produced is cultivated, reared, caught, processed and cooked in the same geographical area. This results in reduced transport, open landscapes and jobs in rural areas. It also gives us the opportunity to reduce our climate impact. This is a high priority for the Left Party. Madam President, I would like As our spending framework has fallen, we are not taking part in the decision.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-923	Madam President, I would like We are still in this pandemic. It is a crisis that puts society at its head and raises questions that were, how and why we want to live our lives. For many people in our country, the answers to these major questions are in the area of expenditure that we are debating today, namely Category 23. I want to talk a lot about the countryside. I am standing here today with a fresh country meeting in our party behind me. We Liberals, especially from small rural municipalities, have created a rural policy programme for people to live and live throughout the country. In other words, we are talking about Category 23. The starting point for us Liberals is that people's power over their own situation is important and that it is important to create opportunities for their own future. A liberal policy for the whole of Sweden strives to create the conditions for those who want to live, work or run businesses in rural areas or in a small village to do so. We need to take advantage of the unique conditions for each person's development power and for every company's competitiveness that exists throughout our country. You should be able to live and work where you want, with whatever you want and if you want. Digitalisation allows us to see and expect a return to the countryside. It creates a new society. Many leave the big cities and, fortunately, think that it is more beautiful in our countryside and that digitalisation can make it possible to settle there. Society is changing. We're not gonna put a city against a country. Instead, we will create a level playing field no matter where you live. At the same time, we want to give people the opportunity to take advantage of the improved opportunities that open up for living and living outside the big cities and at a long distance from population density. Good roads and good broadband offer opportunities to operate from home. In municipalities with declining population, the consequence is often an ageing population and a reduced tax base. At the same time, we have seen in recent years that the country's small municipalities have experienced positive population growth due to the increase in the number of new arrivals in these municipalities. I see in my small Småland municipalities how the industries have gained good power from these new arrivals. This is positive for rural areas. The Liberals, however, want more. Young people who grow up in the countryside should not have to leave the beautiful home and surroundings you want to be in. You should be able to build your own home – realize the dream of a home – and be close to preschool and primary school. Our policy contains good proposals for housing policy and school policy as well as for rural areas. Liberals want all of Sweden's development power and growth potential to be exploited. This, of course, covers many committee work and more budget areas than Category 23. With a more business-friendly policy, Swedish food production would be well placed to develop by making better use of the advantages of Swedish agriculture. Sweden has one of the EU's best animal welfare, low use of antibiotics, high environmental concerns and world-class disease protection. Food processing is a sector with a wide geographical spread, allowing the industry to contribute to job creation throughout the country. Food-based tourism is also an important sector. It can provide increased opportunities for jobs and strengthen Sweden's position as a matnation. Madam President, I would like I recently visited a couple of good friends in my locality who have chosen to invest in ecotourism in the area I grew up in. On a Småland farm, where it is not always huge fields and large barns that dominate, they have seen the potential of ecotourism. Just before the pandemic, they got the vision of what to do. They contacted one of Sweden's best architects, who designed and designed houses built on poles that would blend into the pine forest. In addition, they chose to contact one of our county's best advertising agencies to reach out with the message of what they were trying to create there in darkest Småland. Despite the pandemic, it has now become a reality to live there among the pine peaks, to be found in buildings that have been burned wood from forest fires to and to eat the sustainable, locally produced and climate-smart food. These are rural peoples, with faith in the future and optimism in the midst of a pandemic. I asked these good friends what politics could do for them. They create opportunities from almost nothing in rural areas. One thing they said: You have to give us better broadband; how else are we going to get the big city people here? That's an excellent answer. Therefore, the Liberals have a broadband initiative to create the conditions for this. It is good to hear that there is agreement on strengthening this particular issue of digitalisation and broadband connectivity for rural entrepreneurs. Connecting the city and the country, not creating contradictions and lifting both belong together. Sometimes I'm not really worried about the countryside, even if there's a cloud of anxiety. I can be more worried about the city. The city depends on the countryside. Everything comes from the countryside into the city. The countryside will be fine. There's land for cultivation. But the fact that the countryside works is important for the whole of our country to live. In general, our budget does not stand out. We attach great importance to switching to fossil-free fuels. That's a big part of our budget. We want the green industries to have the opportunity to make that transition. At the moment, however, people in rural areas are faced with high electricity costs. In my home country there are farmers who use electricity on an annual basis that corresponds to the electricity consumption of about 18 villas. They now need to drive the farm mill at night, to keep costs down. Nor is it unusual for a rural homeowner to pay 10 000 more per year in electricity tax. For farmers and families in rural areas, reduced electricity tax would make a big difference. It is a measure that the Liberals want to see immediately. Madam President, I would like What is it with the countryside that attracts, even though living there may be difficult and difficult? It's a hard-working life, and above all, the proximity of most things shines with its absence. I think it is that we dare to be ourselves in the countryside, that we are well and well. That more people should benefit from the countryside is important. That is why Category 23 is incredibly important in our budget. The forests, the animals and the people are in their right elements in the countryside.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-949	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank you for a very good speech linked to rural conditions and opportunities and what is needed for us to see that it is developing around the country. I have a question about what Jakob Olofsgård was about towards the end: increased fossil freedom in Swedish agriculture. Liberals have proposed a 20% phasing-out per year of this refund in the case of diesel. That's 150 million for 2022. It is compensated by allocating the corresponding amount to encourage a transition to fossil-free fuels. The transition is important. I would like to hear how the Liberals have assessed the impact assessments of this for the coming years. What is a 20 per cent phase-out for direct consequences in a situation where the pressure on Swedish agricultural holdings is very worrying and the challenges are great? I also wonder about the Liberals' view of the proposals presented by Helena Jonsson in the study on achieving fossil-independent agriculture. How do the Liberals view a tax shift here and the possibility of tax deductions for the individual farmer?
i-e347e5b376859e8d-953	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Daniel Bäckström, for a very important and relevant question! As I said, that is where we stand out in our budget. We would like to emphasise that a change is important. We want to see a transfer of diesel subsidies instead of being transferred to fossil-free fuel for agriculture. We also see that in the industry, which you were into, there is a goodwill to change. This is our way of showing that we want to support a shift to fossil-free fuels. It's a big challenge. I'm not standing here calling out simple answers to exactly what it's going to be like. You mentioned Helena Jonsson's investigation. We welcome that. There are many good suggestions to look at. Personally, I have not been able to understand the detailed proposals of the investigation. But I'm happy to do it together with the Center Party and Daniel Bäckström.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-956	Madam President, I would like I think the ambition is right in the long term. However, based on the current situation and the reports on the situation of Swedish agriculture next year, not least due to large increases in fuel and diesel costs, it is important to look at what such a change would mean in practice for Swedish agriculture already in a few months' time. My appeal is that one should be able to see an impact assessment and present the overall picture in a situation where Swedish agriculture has major challenges. I hope that the Liberals and Jakob Olofsgård will come back with such an impact assessment in the future.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-958	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Daniel Bäckström, for putting this forward in a good way! We also see this and share the concern of the Center Party for agriculture. I would like to emphasise once again our reduction in energy tax. It is an important measure here and now, to deal with one of the things that is tough about energy and that affects many parts of agriculture. Here and now it is the energy tax that we see could be reduced. I would like to return to you on the consequences.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-961	Madam President, I would like You don't miss the cow until the booth is empty, it's called. The Board of Agriculture has shown that there is a risk that 1 000 of the approximately 3 000 dairy farmers we have will actually close down shortly. This would be a very serious blow to biodiversity. The most valuable habitats in the agricultural landscape, the natural pastures, are at risk of growing again. And only 5% of total natural pastures are used today. We have to act against this now. It is not a solution to the climate crisis or to the natural crisis that milk production only increases in the way that is happening today, in accordance with the food strategy. There the solution is the structural rationalisation and closure of farms and farms. No, we must have more cows and more farms, instead of concentrating cows on fewer farms in southern Sweden's milk belt, from Gotland to Halland. We cannot count the success in the amount of milk per cow. We have to count the successes of the future in the number of farms and how they are spread across the country. We have to count the success of agriculture in how many young farmers we have. We have to count the success of how generational change actually works and how many educated young people there are who can take over the farms. We have to count the success of how many small-scale food producers there are, whether there are slaughterhouses, dairies, charcuteries, breweries, bakeries and so on, in where throughout the country they are and in that they use the Swedish products. That's where the success is. It is not available in how much milk is produced per cow. We need a new updated and greener food strategy for the climate, biodiversity and farmers' confidence in the future. Climate and biodiversity are interrelated. Both are necessary for the survival of mankind. Business as usual is not possible whether we look at climate, biodiversity or the profitability of agriculture. There is a need for a major climate shift with more organic farming methods, increased carbon storage, reduced food waste, changed dietary habits and so on. To achieve this, we need economic instruments and a strategic plan in European policy. Organic farming systems are the right way to achieve more sustainable farming systems. It shows the IPCC, and that is what the EU's green hand says. It is possible to increase the efficiency of climate and climate benefits in all farms by taking advantage of the experience that organic farmers have of managing without commercial manure. This is particularly true now that the prices of fertilizers are enormous and the shortage may be here. It is now that the colleagues of organic farmers need to ask themselves how they do without commercial manure. It is important to see the whole picture of climate emissions and not just stare blindly at the Swedish emissions. We need to focus on fertilizers, food waste, methane, deforestation, transport and machines. In addition, we should focus on carbon storage, more fertile soils, more multi-annual grassland and how grazing contributes to carbon storage in agricultural land. A new research report from SLU shows that dairy farms store more coal in the soil than other agricultural areas over a ten-year period. The annual increase in topsoil is 5 per mil. These are far higher figures than have been calculated to date in the production of life cycle analyses for milk. Also causing lower climate emissions are healthy animals. Cows that get to go out and graze are healthier. Therefore, we need to safeguard the grazing requirement in Swedish animal welfare law. The Green Party's climate roadmap may not be something that my colleagues in the Committee on Environment and Agriculture have read yet, but it is at the forefront and shows how we can achieve the Paris objectives. I can certainly recommend reading it, in particular the section on sustainable agriculture and the parts dealing with the role of animals in agriculture. I think you would be surprised if you realised that it is the Green Party that is pushing forward a policy in this area. Animals from animal industries are to be phased out. Of course, cows emit methane, but cows that give us both good food and biodiversity do much more good. That's where the stakes are to be made. It is not the imported meat that should remain, but the Swedish-produced meat from animals that grazes out. It is important that the added value of agriculture throughout our country pays off for farmers. This applies both to payments from the market and to the compensation of farmers for the public services they provide when they produce ecosystem services. Agriculture should not only produce food. It should not only be grain in kilograms per hectare, but should also contribute to much else, such as earthworms in the soil, birds, biodiversity, open landscapes and tourism. In future, we must measure what agriculture contributes in other ways in order to understand what kind of rural areas we want. A new food strategy is needed for this. It is important to develop the investments in organic farming in the strategic plan. It's nice to see how Denmark has constructed its plan. They have more eco-schemes. One of them is to produce edible foods such as potatoes and vegetables. It is a fantastically fun focus that, I think, would also have benefited Sweden. It also wants to focus on binding climate targets, reducing the leaching of nitrogen, removing soils from production, doubling organic production and so on. We must invest in living agriculture throughout the country. The compensation for dairy farmers must not be reduced now. We can't just bet on big farms. It is local family farms that must be competitive, not animal industries. Agriculture is needed in forest and intermediate areas. We do not want Sweden to grow again. Furthermore, we need a goal to save more of Sweden's natural pastures with pasturage and grazing. If all the bulls currently reared on stables could come out and graze, there would be a potential for 280 000 hectares of pasture to be grazed. Madam President, I would like The Green Party wants to protect the mountain forest that is one of Europe's last large contiguous wilderness areas. That's why it's called the Amazon of Sweden. How can we convince other countries to protect valuable forests if we are not prepared to do so ourselves? In addition to the mountain forest there is still a great need for protection of valuable nature of other nature types, but without sufficient budget resources Sweden will not be able to protect nature throughout the country. We have asked for and we will continue to ask for an amending budget for the forest. It is needed not only to protect valuable nature but also to strengthen ownership in forestry. As Isak From said, we will talk much more about forestry policy on Monday. I will come back with more on this then.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-978	Madam President, I would like There is also much work to be done in Brussels, as Maria Gardfjell mentioned in relation to the future development of the EU's agricultural policy. One of the more worrying signals I have recently received is how one of the Commission's working groups has presented drafts on technical criteria and detailed regulations for agriculture and forestry within the framework of taxonomy. Some examples of this are that no animals are allowed to walk by watercourses as long as the authorities have not said it is okay. It is proposed to minimise the proportion of land ploughed. There must be no conversion of forest land over one hectare into farmland and pastures. There must be no changes in waterways. There are proposals not to replace cover ditching when creating areas with high biodiversity. The herb may be only one hectare in the case of deciduous trees and three hectares in the case of conifers. There must be at least 100 meters between the huts. There must be at least three tree varieties per area, and they must represent at least 20 % of the area. These are some examples of issues currently being addressed within the framework of the Commission's work. I wonder what it would be like if Maria Gardfjell's party had still been part of the Government Office. How did you reason on these proposals when things get sharp? I wonder what the Green Party has just presented about ambitions for a living countryside and open landscape with grazing animals.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-981	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Daniel Bäckström, for questions about European policy! The very area we are talking about now, agricultural policy, is indeed a whole European policy issue. You're asking about taxonomy. The basis for the entire work on taxonomics is extremely valuable. This can form the basis for the investments to be made in the business sector, and then financial resources can be directed towards a climate change change. The details are being discussed. I can also have comments on the details. The Green Party is happy to comment on EU policy. And I want to tell you, whether we're in government or not, we're going to be working really hard to actually meet the objectives of the Paris Agreement. We will also work to ensure that we do not leave either the climate crisis or the natural crisis. As far as the issue of detailed regulation of animals is concerned, we can see that something that is very important in Sweden is that more natural pastures are grazed. Among other things, beach meadows are areas that really need to be grazed to a greater extent. I would not assume that any authority in Sweden that is responsible for nature conservation, agriculture or the environment would think it is bad that we have been grazed by meadows in Sweden. So it will fall in such cases.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-985	Madam President, I would like I highlighted this on the basis of the risks it could entail for Swedish forestry and Swedish agriculture if this were to happen. It is extremely important who represents Sweden through the Government Office in the negotiations conducted within the framework of EU cooperation. For many years, the Green Party has had an influence in many areas, not least when it comes to environmental policy. In the speech Maria Gardfjell clearly talks about that it should preferably not be larger units – you want small-scale or family farming. It does not concern what measures it is prepared to take from the Green Party to strengthen competitiveness and survival in Swedish agriculture in the long term, and it does not link it with increased detailed regulation and economics. It seems impractical to me. That is why I ask: how do you view competitiveness in the future?
i-e347e5b376859e8d-987	Madam President, I would like This is my favorite question, Daniel Bäckström. Competitiveness is not a simple matter. Competitiveness is about where to produce one thing in the world being the best at it. That is what competitiveness is all about. This is a great risk to Swedish agriculture. We need to ensure that we have agriculture throughout the country and that we have farmers able to sell their products. We cannot only aim to sell more Swedish products on export. We must also have a much stronger goal of selling the Swedish products in Sweden. Why do we eat so little Swedish cheese in Sweden? It is because of the scale rationalization and industrialization we see of Swedish agriculture and also of the Swedish food industry, which today is a farmer-owned industry. We can't have it like that. We have to stop it.
i-PoJqPRD4QPsRfY5cmeaWtY	Madam President, I would like First of all, I support the committee's proposal in the report. For the Moderates, ownership is fundamental. That is the basis, especially when it comes to Category 23. Then it is absolutely the foundation. This is the foundation because we have good Swedish farmers and forestry workers. We have men and women who own forests in Sweden and who do the right things, according to the Forest Protection Act, which we adopted in 1993. It's freedom under responsibility. It's a great team. That's good forestry policy. What we have seen recently is not good. The state is taking more and more land from individual forest owners because the public believes that they take care of high environmental values better than the individual forest owner does. It is contrary to what the Moderates think about ownership and forest. In the budget that won Parliament's attention, we have removed 400 million in Category 23. It is 400 million that is linked to the forest investigation that the Environmental Party and the Center Party have been re-entering since February 2019 and that we got on our table a little while ago. The funny thing is that after that you have continued to grapple about what the agreement actually means. There seems to be no real clarity in what was agreed. Then it seems very strange to put in a lot of budget money for this. That is why we have removed the 400 million in Category 23. We haven't removed anything that existed before. These were new funds that were added precisely in connection with the Forest investigation. And it's not that there are no funds left to work with the spruce bark problem. There are funds left for it at the Forest Board. There are still funds for forest damage at SLU. There are still 410 million SEK left to forest farmers who are denied felling in mainly mountain areas. That's exactly what the Forest Board loved. That's what they wanted in the budget. And that money's still there. Is ownership weakened when these funds are removed? Depends on what you mean by ownership. If property rights mean that the state should have money to redeem private land, we have made this worse. But for the Moderates, that's not ownership. Ownership is when you use your forest in an exemplary and sustainable way to preserve high environmental values and build up high environmental values over generations. This is often what Swedish family forestry looks like – over generations. Madam President, I would like For a long time we have put more and more forest under the state. It has also meant that we have built up a management deficit. This is evidence of both the Swedish Forest Agency and the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency. We have a management deficit in relation to the high natural values. Of course, it's very unhappy. But then why should we rush on and take more land out of production? One example is the whole discussion about the mountain forest. These are areas where we already have the most protected forest. There we shall continue to protect even more. We don't understand that from the Moderates. So we've already protected forest. And in relation to many other countries in Europe, we are doing very well in terms of how much land we have taken out of production. It's just that we haven't reported that we have. Instead, we have reported some form of self-harm to Europe. This has also been stated by the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency. But you say instead: The others are doing the wrong thing, and we are doing the right thing. If so, we can have a different discussion about that. This is what the major change in Category 23 is about. We believe in the individual forest owner. We believe in strengthened ownership, and we believe that high natural values are best managed by individual forest owners. When it comes to agriculture, Madam President, many thoughts have been raised about the small scale and that we should have more food processing. I say, absolutely, we will. But there is a reason why we have driven Swedish agriculture incredibly hard in terms of size rationalization and that we continue to do so. It is called profitability, and we unfortunately have poor profitability in Swedish agriculture. A previous speaker said that if you produce the world's best food, you should be at the forefront. But we produce the world's best food in Sweden! Swedish farmers produce the world's best food. Yet we do not have profitability. Swedish farmers have almost the best production results worldwide, Madam President. But profitability is one of the worst. It's a system failure. Why should it be like that? About 50% of the food we consume in Sweden today is imported. If we have a worse development in 2022 and reduce our production, we will go below 50%, this in a tense safety situation but also in a situation where we could instead increase production precisely because we have sustainable Swedish food production. Organic or conventional does not matter – Swedish food production is sustainable. Well, then let's decide to increase it. But then you have to take action. If you do not want to take measures for increased food production, such as reduced taxes, strengthened ownership rights, long-term rules of play and reduced regulatory burdens, bureaucracy and administration for Swedish farmers, then you should say so. If you do not want to live up to the intentions of the food strategy, whether it is as it is today or if the food strategy is to be green, then you have to say it. You can't talk hot about thinking this is the way forward and then doing nothing. We've done that long enough. As I said before, Swedish farmers are increasingly experiencing that the food strategy is something that does not exist. It was only one decision that we took four five years ago in the Swedish Parliament. It doesn't mean anything. That has gone a long way, Madam President. Then we are on very dangerous land, because Sweden needs to produce more food. We usually say that milk production in Sweden is the engine of Swedish agriculture. As the previous speaker said, 1,000 dairy farmers may disappear in the near future, and the number of dairy farmers is usually halved every ten years. In ten years' time, we will have reached the intentions of the food strategy – with half as many dairy farmers. I don't know how we're going to manage to increase production then. So there are many things we need to look further at, and I think we also need to be prepared to take some decisions on something that actually benefits Swedish agriculture. We cannot sit back and refer to the food strategy all the time, because it no longer helps. One, two and three action plans don't help. Concrete proposals and policies must be put in place to make this a reality. If we get a strong Swedish agriculture, a strong Swedish food production and a strong ownership in the forest with a high production in the countryside, no matter where we are, it is a success factor for Sweden. A strong green economy throughout Sweden is also the guarantor of a vibrant countryside, although it is a rather boring expression. But that is where we must come, and I hope that the Social Democrats in government will now show us that they have the medicine for this. Sweden deserves a little more than this in the difficult situation that Swedish forestry and agriculture are in now.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-1007	Madam President, I would like I like to debate against John Widegren! It is a bit of a chizophrent to listen to the Moderates in the debate on the current state budget, the M-SD-KD budget that the Moderates have voted for. After all, they have got their budget through, and at the same time they have put motions against it. But we're not gonna talk about that. Speaking of forests and the forest bill, the current state budget does not give a penny to the reforms contained in the forest bill. It is forest owners-friendly nature conservation efforts and climate adaptation of forestry. It is about reducing taxes for forest owners, and it is about more efforts to manage the forest so that you can cope with forest damage. It does not help to have investments in research only now if you cannot also have advice and bring the knowledge to the individual forest owners. The abolition of the financial investment in the forest also means that the Swedish Forest Board will have to prioritise a great deal of its work, and then it is the smaller family forest farmers who will be hit hardest. They will not be able to help either with inventories or to speed up efforts to protect forests. Protecting the mountain forest says John Widegren is not needed, because it must not be harvested. But what has happened in recent years is that we have been given a number of rulings that give every forest owner the right to receive money from the state. That was what would be simplified with the forest bill, and that is why money is needed. Does John Widegren think there's no need for money for the forest?
i-e347e5b376859e8d-1012	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the questions. As far as the various parts of the Forest Investigation and the Swedish Forest Board's increased work are concerned, as I said, we are not taking away anything that exists today. Well, that's new stuff, isn't it? As regards the proposals in the Forest investigation, very many of them landed in new investigations and government assignments, such as the tax part. It was to be further investigated. The Forest Bill is a specialization proposal that we will hopefully take a decision on in March. In September, we have elections again. Will it be possible to do so much in those days? I'm very hesitant. As far as the mountain forest is concerned, there seems to be no limit to how much forest we should take out of production for the Green Party in this type of debate. Today we are not very far from the limit of what we can harvest in relation to growth. If you want to lower the production in the forest, you should say that: We will grow the forest less. Or is it de facto the case that we should increase production so much in the remaining forest that is not protected with, for example, fertilisation and other things? Shall we do it? Then say it! If we push for continued forest protection at this rate, we will soon have reached the limit of what we can harvest in relation to growth. I find it interesting questions to be answered by the Green Party.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-1018	Madam President, I would like The budget that we are now considering states that we should have a forestry policy that meets environmental objectives, and we only do that if we protect the valuable nature. It's a budget signed by John Widegren. With the Moderates' budget, property rights are weakened. The Moderates strike both on the forest and on the forest owners. Nevertheless, I would like to take this opportunity to put one final question to John Widegren, Madam President. I have heard the talk that he is disappointed with the food strategy. Does he agree with the Green Party that we need a renewed focus on the food strategy and new texts in it?
i-e347e5b376859e8d-1021	Madam President, I would like If we stop using the Swedish forest now, we will still not achieve environmental objectives. Our authorities have been very clear about that. That is why we believe that we need to review the environmental objectives linked to forests today and make them realistic and achievable. That is not the case today. A new focus on the food strategy – why not? Perhaps it is time to do so, because the food strategy we have today does not seem to fulfil its role. I think the objectives in it are pretty good, so I don't know if we need to change the lyrics and other things. These are good objectives in the food strategy, but we need the tools. Above all, those who produce the food need the tools, so let's talk about it.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-1023	Madam President, I would like Thank you for a committed speech, John Widegren! The care deficit was John Widegren inside. I believe that it will certainly be discussed on Tuesday, when Category 20 and protection of a valuable nature will be dealt with. I agree that the state must actually have money in its wallet to meet its commitments. Then John Widegren has a rather high tone when it comes to ownership. I would like to say that it is the parties behind the forest bill that have actually done the work to ensure the ownership – the right to compensation – of all the individual forest owners who live with the effects of the legislative changes and implementations made during the alliance years. The implementation of the bill Borders in the forest specialises in the mountain forest as a particularly sheltered forest, and the consequences of that we know; we have, for example, Änokdomet, which highlights the mountain forest as particularly sheltered. Then the state did not have tools in its box to replace fully. The authorities didn't have instructions and tools to do this. That is what the forest bill should ensure, of course, together with the budget appropriations. There are a number of other measures that were taken. The implementation of the Species Protection Regulation failed, which was the basis for the Species Protection Investigation. Now there is nothing here, but there is much to do to ensure that property rights are fully operational. This is something that the Moderates have completely misunderstood or absolutely ignored.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-1028	Madam President, I would like Yes, here it comes again: Reimbursement opportunities – that's what you perceive as a strong ownership. It's not! It is not a strong ownership that the state goes in and takes the property of individual forest owners, regardless of whether they receive compensation or not. We have funds in the budget for those who are denied felling, but at our hearing, Skogsstyrelsen raised § 18 of the Forest Protection Act. Would the Social Democrats be prepared to review it? Perhaps that would be an interesting way forward. I think the reasoning heard from the Social Democrats is a little the same as that of the Green Party, Madam President. There doesn't seem to be any limit up. Does this mean that the Social Democrats want to reduce production in Swedish forests? Is that so? The Moderates don't want it. We believe that the forest is an incredibly important part of the transition. It's a functioning bioeconomy. When it comes to substitutes for what we can use in the different parts of society, the forest becomes incredibly important. We believe that we should cultivate the forest more than we do today, and we are absolutely convinced that it is possible to do so. Production and environment can be achieved together; Swedish forest owners have shown this before. There are many things that go in the right direction when it comes to biodiversity. As long as those things go in the right direction, what reason is there to change this? I would like to put the question back to the Social Democrats: is there any limit up to how much forest we are supposed to protect?
i-e347e5b376859e8d-1032	Madam President, I would like We will of course protect the relevant forest. The forest is a basis for climate change, and we will of course use the forest and wood fibre for all the benefits of the forest. But John Widegren and the Moderates completely miss volunteer. You may not have read the forest bill, but there is the voluntary basis. It is the forest owners who can take the lead and protect their areas, and these are the ones that are now actually being trampled on. Västerbotten has agreed to protect a fairly large proportion of forests. For the common forest, landowners receive a fairly large remuneration, and of course they now want to invest in new forestry and continue their use. But their doing so, and having had to do so, is due to the fact that this government has made increases in appropriations in this area to ensure what did not exist before and to remedy the shortcomings left by the alliance government.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-1034	Madam President, I would like I guess it's just a little bit as usual, you blame the Alliance government. It's been seven years now, but it's still the alliance government's fault. The Social Democrats have been in power for seven years, and now we are approaching an election. Then the Social Democrats lift up everything that is a bit bad in Sweden and say: This we will fix. In the election campaign, we promise we'll take care of this. Regarding the fact that volunteering is the basis of the forest bill: Is it so very voluntary? It is almost a bit under the gallows instead, and we do not think it is voluntary. In addition, we write about this with voluntaryism a little bit with suspender and belt, i.e. using expressions which are used when justified, and other things. It is better for us to use, that it should be voluntary, isn't it? Then we will investigate further in the environmental code in which exceptional cases – the few that should exist – the voluntary approach does not apply. Otherwise, voluntary arrangements shall apply.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-1036	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved. The conditions for this budget debate are not similar to those for the three previous ones I have been involved in. The Swedish Democrats came forward with their own proposal, which we have since resigned to vote for a joint budget reservation with the Moderates and Christian Democrats. I am very pleased with the agreement and the constructive spirit, and I am impressed that the negotiators managed to build the agreement in a fairly short time. The agreement raises both business and welfare at the same time and corrects things that the government has missed. But a budget reservation under pressure is, of course, something other than an entire budget negotiated in peace and quiet. Both the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats, of course, lack several of their proposals in the compromise. This means that the investments made by the Swedish Democrats in Category 23 Areella industries are no longer relevant this year. However, they are relevant for the future, which is why I will tell you how we thought in the proposal put forward by the Swedish Democrats before the agreement. We believe that it is the whole that counts. That is how we Swedish democrats think about the budget for agriculture. It is also not enough to focus only on one issue, because the issues are intertwined. First, however, there will be increased profitability, because it makes as much more possible. A high degree of freedom for the farmer is important. This requires profitability, and it requires technological development. It also requires a reduction in the hassle and an increase in legal certainty, as well as a reduction in the number of EU initiatives that make it difficult for our farmers. In terms of profitability, EU support for agriculture has decreased. A smaller budget in the EU is actually something that benefits Sweden because a large part of the budget goes to other countries. However, the assumption is that the Swedish Government and the Riksdag will compensate for the loss. Enough national funds must be added to the funds coming from the EU budget. In order for the food strategy, which all parties like, to be achieved, more money is needed. The Swedish Board of Agriculture has calculated how much is needed to achieve the food strategy's goals and has set the figure 6.6 billion SEK per year. By adding SEK 900 million more than the government, we reach that goal. We decided to add the same amount already in 2022, i.e. before the next programming period in the support system. It is important that increased investments and productivity developments are made as soon as possible. That's the way forward. Given the increasing prices of intervention funds that we have seen in the summer and autumn, it was a pity that we did not reach all the way to this point in the negotiations. The money is needed now, and I think that the will is in all three parties. The time was well too short, and the space in a budget reservation is much smaller than in an entire budget. The increase in national aid funding must be complemented by a reduction in diesel tax on agricultural and forestry machinery down to the level of Danish competitors. This means SEK 1 350 million more for agriculture without any requirement for compensation. The lack of compensation is very important for profitability and free development. By giving the world's best farmers a higher degree of freedom, the industry will develop best. Madam President, I would like The tax reduction also gives climate benefits directly as food production increases, and every kilo produced in Sweden makes a positive difference for the climate globally. It also contributes to environmental benefits in Sweden when more parcels can be used. Improved profitability is also an investment in climate and environment for the future. This leads to a competitive, larger agriculture that can afford to make even more environmental and climate efforts in the future from a position of strength. Everything has to be done in the right order. The general entrepreneurship measures in the Swedish Democrats' budget also benefit agriculture, for example the abolition of three employees' pay and the abolition of sick pay liability for nine employees. In addition, there are several investments in research, technology development and technology diffusion for long-term profitability. It is central to a knowledge nation like Sweden. What about the rule issue? Among other things, we want improved governance and better regulation, such as a review of the environmental code and a system of regular simplification revision of old legislation. We want the understanding of verifiers of the industry they control and its conditions, and we want to set up an environmental assessment delegation for permit testing with specialist expertise in agriculture. All of this will increase realism, reduce the hassle and increase legal certainty. The measures that need budgetary effort to achieve this objective shall receive it. Here I want to stop and repeat what I said at the beginning. A high degree of freedom for the farmer is important. It requires profitability and technological development, a reduction in the problem and an increase in legal certainty, and a brake on the EU's initiatives that make it difficult for our farmers. Madam President, I would like Soft issues are not missing in the Swedish Democrats' budgets either. We want animal welfare to be improved through research into alternative stunning methods for pigs for slaughter. We also want to find alternatives to animal testing. We want a review of the country's zoos to be carried out, and we want to provide funds for increased supervision of livestock holding farms and slaughterhouses. This is for the sake of the animals. We continue to work for the subsidization of replacement services for animal keepers. This is for the social situation, for animal welfare, for equality and for the attractiveness of the profession. It is totally unacceptable that some keepers in Sweden in 2021 cannot take time off. It's not sustainable. We want the industry to be supplemented for its major problems with predators, which have been documented in several reports. Finally, we had an interesting investment in an entirely new function to curb food fraud, which is often carried out by criminal networks – an operational group with specialist expertise that can focus on the issue, which is not limited by municipal borders as in the current system and which can cooperate closely with border police and ordinary police in a new way. Maybe this got a little sprawling. On the other hand, it became clear that things are connected and that it is important to see the area as a whole with both soft and hard issues. The attentive one has noted that I did not mention the forest. That's what my party friend Mats Nordberg will talk about in a moment.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-1056	Madam President, I would like I have a few questions for Staffan Eklöf. I know that Staffan is very knowledgeable and committed in this area. The explanation in the speech that there will be no effort on the rural programme in the Swedish Democrats, Moderates and Christian Democrats' joint budget was that there was a lack of time. We heard a similar statement from the moderate representative earlier in the debate. It is possible to reflect on how much time you would have needed to land this issue, given that everyone in the debate today is expressing how important it is to better economic conditions for Swedish agriculture. I can assume that there will be more occasions in the future when the same or similar answers are given as an explanation that you do not deliver concretely on what you agitate for. The rhetoric is high with many promises. The results are missing. Is that the objective that these cooperation parties are laying the foundations for in the run-up to a future change of government? Why did the priorities of the Swedish democrats not appear in this agreement? After all, you are the party that has proposed money – 1.2 billion more than the framework presented by the government in the budget. For me, this is difficult to explain.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-1061	Madam President, I would like I thank Daniel Bäckström for the question. In the budget that follows the elections, I am absolutely convinced that there will be a greater investment in agriculture. In fact, there is a consensus in the will and planning from the budget to make investments in agriculture for the year 2023. It is on condition that the blue-yellow block wins the election. Otherwise, it's not going to happen. The Center hasn't given us a longer time horizon, I must say. It has not been contributed to. But it is actually possible to change government at any time, and it is the Center Party that can decide that. If I count right, it could be one voice. This means that Daniel Bäckström can decide this question for himself. He can decide tomorrow or in spring to support another government, a blue-yellow government that can save Swedish agriculture. Let me know when you're ready, Daniel Bäckström, and we'll take over and save Swedish agriculture!
i-e347e5b376859e8d-1064	Madam President, I would like In our draft budget, we in the Center Party have added an extra 1 billion to the rural programme next year with a focus on measures within Swedish agriculture. That would not least have made money possible in a very difficult situation. Staffan Eklöf himself mentioned in his speech the difficult situation that has been since this summer. Today is just over three weeks from next year. Then why choose to wait another year when things are getting worse and worse? Liquidity means that farmers may be forced to close down in a very short time. Why do you choose not to put important bets when you yourself have proposed it in individual motions? Well, the commitment is no greater than that.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-1067	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Daniel Bäckström, for the question! In the past, I have tried to explain the very special circumstances that have prevailed during the autumn. It is very special to develop a budget reservation instead of an entire budget, which you can sit and negotiate in peace for a few months during the summer. It is of course a good thing that the Center Party wants to add 1 billion more, just like the Swedish Democrats. However, because of difficulties in negotiations that I am not transparent about, this has not become a reality. I believe that there is a consensus and that, when possible, an amending budget can be drawn up, for example, to increase the appropriations for agriculture. At least this is something we should consider.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-1069	Madam President, I would like All the audience heard Staffan Eklöf from the Swedish Democrats from the pulpit talk about all the Swedish Democrats' proposals, which are not really there. Now you're sitting there. Jimmie Åkesson jumps even with joy, for now he has put together a budget – which in this area takes away all the efforts of the Swedish Democrats. And then Staffan Eklöf forgets to talk about this. We don't have these bets anymore. It is basically the same as in the Government's proposal, except that the Moderates have got through the major reductions in efforts for forestry and the Swedish Forest Board. This is actually what has happened. The Swedish democrats have finally negotiated and passed a budget and are jumping even. But Staffan Eklöf's proposal does not exist. I think we need to talk about that. And since Staffan Eklöf does not talk about it, I will do it every time I get the opportunity. In fact, there are no suggestions. The Swedish democrats are trying to show that they are going to invest in agriculture. They have settled with the Moderates, which are a conservative, liberal market party that believes that the market should take all the consequences. It is the Moderates who govern; we see that in this area of the budget. There is no doubt about this. I think Staffan Eklöf will read what his party chairman has written for agreement.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-1074	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking, Isak From! I was very clear in my speech that these efforts are out of the question now, but that they are relevant for the future. This is therefore a basis for the elections. It will be a basis for a normal budget negotiation, where there are quite different possibilities to agree on even small budget lines. Under pressure of time, you have to fix the situation and settle the big budget lines, and many of these lines are quite small – that goes without saying. But I'm very happy about the agreement we have between M, SD and KD. It improves welfare on many points. One thing that I find interesting is, for example, that we are now really doing what the Social Democrats have always talked about. We provide funds to eliminate the shared tours in elderly care and home care. I am proud of this. We also make other welfare efforts, not least in relation to the working environment and in many other areas. It is therefore a very good agreement, but it cannot be compared to sitting down calmly and negotiating a budget for a few months. This should be understood by everyone, I think.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-1077	Madam President, I would like Staffan Eklöf's party colleagues will certainly raise Sweden's priorities in the other budget areas, where their proposals have been given greater support. In this area, however, the proposals of the Swedish democrats have not actually been heard at all. Instead of a larger investment of 1.2 billion, the result has been a minus of 400 million. So the proposals made by the Moderates have been bought directly from, and all their own proposals have been put aside. They don't exist. We will, of course, bring this forward every time the Swedish Democrats want to emphasise that they are investing in this area. No, you don't, because you've actually agreed exactly the opposite.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-1079	Madam President, I would like Wait and see, you can just say. The fact that we have succeeded in achieving what we have achieved between these three parties, in addition to the climate in this country, is absolutely fantastic. It ensures that the agreements we can make after the elections will be absolutely brilliant. I am full of confidence that we will find many common denominators to solve all the problems that exist in Sweden today, which the current government has partly been involved in creating.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-1081	Madam President, I would like Today, in this House, we are debating Category 23 Areella industries, rural areas and food. I would first of all like to support the committee's proposal. Swedish agriculture is a world leader in many ways, including animal welfare, with very low antibiotic use – in fact best in the EU. Agriculture is climate-smart, and our Swedish farmers possess enormous knowledge. I would like to thank all those of you who are currently listening to this broadcast and who are working in the green industry. Thank you for doing this! In my home municipality of Ödeshög there is a farmer who has a large pickup, and on it it says: No farmers no food. These are fine words and cannot be emphasized enough. Madam President, I would like During the autumn we have seen a cost explosion. The prices of inputs such as electricity, diesel, heavy feed and manure have skyrocketed. There is great concern among Sweden's farmers right now. According to the survey, Sweden's farmers' confidence in the future is seriously decreasing. Everything boils down to the fact that profitability is too bad. There are no reserves for farmers to take out, but the increased sales prices for milk, meat and cereals that farmers have recently received are eaten up directly by these enormous costs. Several farmers have said that they simply can't do anything but leave the arable land set aside instead of being sown in spring. Madam President, I would like Perhaps someone in this House is thinking: Is he going to talk about this with profitability again? Yes, actually, I will! Indeed, we adopted here in this House in June 2017 – a number of you were there then – a strategy that we called the Food Strategy. Does anyone remember it? It stressed that food production and the country's food readiness would increase and that the profitability of Swedish agriculture would be strengthened. We felt that we were in and thought was very good. Those were pretty words, that's all. But what have they meant? What is the sum of the strategy? I say just like my friend John Widegren: When you talk to farmers around Sweden they say that they have not noticed anything at all. Those of you who listened to the government declaration a few weeks ago could note that this famous strategy was not even mentioned. It seems so important. The fact is that food production and the country's food readiness have not increased. It's still under 50%. It's very serious. Nevertheless, I am really glad that there are so many of us here who are taking up the situation with our food readiness. When I started here in Parliament a few years ago, there were not many of us who did. In fact, there were more people who said: But Magnus, don't pull that food-ready thing – we have the EU! It is, as we say in Destiny High. That's what they thought. But I and we Christian Democrats do not believe that. It's not gonna be okay. Here we must have a policy that takes this very seriously. What would happen in a crisis or a war situation? I think it was Mr Bäckström who spoke about the situation in the outside world. What is happening around our neighbourhood is more serious now than for a long time. It must be taken very seriously. We are certainly doing this now. But we still haven't seen any of the things we've been talking about. The profitability of Swedish agriculture would be strengthened. What happened to it? In fact, it has weakened further. I call for the one-party government that exists right now to think that the food strategy, which was adopted here almost five years ago, will become a reality for Sweden's farmers.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-1092	Madam President, I would like I thank Magnus Oscarsson for the opportunity to take a line. We've been in Parliament for about the same time. We have also followed how conditions have changed, both in terms of security policy and in the green industries. I know that Magnus Oscarsson has a very strong commitment and know-how, not least when it comes to farming. The Christian Democrats' party leader Ebba Busch has clearly profiled himself for Swedish countryside and agriculture during the autumn and that is where the force is politically in order for something to happen. You have very well known the conditions for Swedish agriculture after the summer. I would therefore like to ask, firstly, why the Christian Democrats themselves did not submit any proposal for more money for the rural programme for 2022, which will begin in a few weeks' time, and, secondly, why you did not give this priority in the negotiations with the Swedish Democrats and the Moderates. What we have heard in this debate has been obvious – we want to find conditions that facilitate Swedish agriculture. It should not have been so difficult to give priority to this. If there is a lack of time in the negotiations that has made it impossible to land in an agreement on more money for the rural programme, then that may be the case. But it does say something about your ability to deal with crises in future government work. We in the Center Party have budgeted an extra 1 billion for the rural development programme in 2022. Why didn't the Christian Democrats do that, and why didn't they get to it in a deal with the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats?
i-e347e5b376859e8d-1096	Madam President, I would like I thank Daniel Bäckström for the question. The honourable Member has asked this question in principle to all these parties and will receive the same answers as the others have given him. A negotiation is a negotiation. Member Bäckström, who has negotiated with the current government, may also know that things are not always going exactly as the parties want. We are parties that are discussing and trying to get to this as well as possible. If there is one thing that we know is a very important change and that the whole of the countryside really wants is a reduction in taxes on fuel. There are some things that we think are important. All these three parties have seen that lowering fuel tax is an important issue. It's supposed to be for everyone. Maybe not everyone can have an electric car. Maybe you can't have just one car and you need two cars. You have practice and other things to run to. You give the kids a ride. Then fuel costs are very problematic. I have met younger people who have lived in the countryside and who have said: we cannot stay. We're forced to move into the city because we have jobs there. We really want nothing more than to live in the countryside, but because it is so high fuel taxes and so expensive to refuel at the pump we have chosen to move to the city. That is something we have listened to. We understand that it is not possible to have it this way. My question to Mrs Bäckström is: what do you think about reducing fuel tax? Is that a matter for the Center Party?
i-e347e5b376859e8d-1100	Madam President, I would like Was it then a negotiation within the Christian Democrats where you did not manage to raise more money for the rural programme for 2022? I really don't understand why you haven't put money into your own party movement. It is now, in the face of 2022, that the crisis is at its worst. Magnus Oscarsson refers to a negotiation as a negotiation. But the Christian Democrats are negotiating with two parties that say exactly the same thing and are equally anxious that there should be investments in Swedish agriculture. Nevertheless, you are not able to make a single crown for the rural programme in 2022. Of course, diesel tax cuts have an effect. This is about 250 million litres of diesel per year for Swedish agriculture. The reduction might give 80 to 125 million dollars a year. But most of your tax cuts will benefit those living in metropolitan areas. That's where most people live. What effect they have on Swedish agriculture remains to be seen.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-1103	Madam President, I would like I thank Mr Bäckström for his answer to my question and for his reasoning in this House. That is exactly the case – we have spent a lot more money on reducing fuel tax. We think it's very important. That, of course, will also benefit farmers. We Christian Democrats have now called both the Board of Agriculture and the LRF to our committee to hear and hear their questions. There is an important discussion about the crisis package. We'd like to hear more about that. We want several parties to help each other and do this together. The question is, as I said, what can we do together? We believe it is important that we together make a difference to farmers.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-1105	Madam President, I would like Perhaps we should be a little happy though that the Moderates were involved in steering up all the nonsense – all the proposals put forward by the Christian Democrats do not become reality. In fact, the Christian Democrats in their budget motion are cutting back more on forestry efforts. You cut more on the funding to the Swedish Forest Board. Then the question is: What was it that one was going to remove but that the Moderates did not want to remove? The Swedish Democrats wanted to raise but did not get it through. Is this a question of action against spruce bark drills, tusks and other forest damage? Is it research? Are these forestry efforts? What efforts in this area would the Christian Democrats have wanted to take away if they had the power to decide for themselves? Now they did not get it, but it was a moderate proposal right through. But of course we're wondering a little bit. The Christian Democrats stand in the pulpit time and time again and want to portray themselves as a rural party. At the same time, in principle, no necessary efforts are made. The efforts made are to reduce fuel taxes, where perhaps 80 per cent of this reduction goes to metropolitan areas, because that is where you commute the most. In my region we have some long commuters who naturally need a better deduction. But the tax cut that the Christian Democrats are involved in driving through benefits the urban commutes.
i-5ymc4fVT7QTTbCLfuSWbJr	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Isak From, for a great question! If the honourable Member says that only urban residents receive the reduced fuel tax, I wonder how many people in their own constituency meet who say: I am happy for every penny that is being lowered. When discussing the issue of fuel tax is a major issue. It cannot have escaped the honourable Member that, even in the part where the honourable Member lives, many travel long distances, and the prices of fuel are now very much higher than before. In any case, I meet people like that who say: How good that you take the issue and want to do something. It is very important for us as a family that someone should get to grips with the issue and want to reduce fuel tax. I believe and know that for many it is not a small banal question, but it is important to be able to stay. It is exactly as I told Mr Bäckström before. I was talking about that family where they say, "I'm moving." You can't live here anymore. I'm moving into town. If that person previously lived in a smaller municipality, it has lost a resident. For us, this is not a small question. We think it is important to pick up those questions and make a difference for people who live and work in rural areas. We can hope that there will be even more for the next year. Perhaps even the honourable Member gets his hearing to take part in such reductions forward.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-1113	Madam President, I would like From Ödeshög you can easily move to Västerbotten. There we have the lowest unemployment in all of Sweden. We need all the labour we can get, because we stand for the big green industrial transition that is the future in Sweden. I think that's where to look rather than in the rear-view mirror. In Västerbotten, we are also very satisfied and protect local and regional self-government in particular. It will be very strange that KD paints itself as a rural party when it wants to scrap it and centralise health care to Stockholm, as that would be some role model. You have to think of both once and twice before looking at the Christian Democrats as a rural party. If we are not to pull in any other areas, we can say that when the Christian Democrats decide for themselves, it is negative items in the budget area of economics.
i-NnR5iR57EP866FXusGUKF2	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Isak From, for your reasoning! I was going to land more in what we were talking about, category 23 and the forest, which the honourable Member was on before. It's just like we were in a little bit. Member John Widegren also spoke about this before. We don't want to see the state taking over more and more private forest if you don't want it, of course. We don't see that the state is the great owner. We have recently received reports saying that more than half of the state forest that exists is not being managed. The state is not the optimal, perfect owner of forest. It is the landowner who manages his forest best. We Christian Democrats want to ensure that that ownership remains for those owners.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-1119	Madam President, I would like Only a few weeks ago, we visited the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture to talk about the budget. They were very concerned about the budget presented by the Christian Democrats together with the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats. It can affect the Swedish Forest Board's finances very strongly. One of the questions I asked the Swedish Forest Agency was about something that is happening in Swedish forestry. We have enormous problems with regrowth. A very recent report from Västerbotten and Norrbotten shows that 25 percent of the young forests are affected not only by the turgeon fungus, as Isak From talks about, but also by a dozen other diseases. This means that you do not expect to be able to drive up forests in the same way as you have done before. This will require huge efforts from forestry and from the Swedish Forest Agency in the form of climate adaptation of forestry. A huge effort will also be needed to have a dialogue with forest owners and to see how forestry can be changed and adapted to climate change in the future so that it is not affected in this way. The money invested in this area by the former Red-Green Government has been completely wiped out by the Christian Democrats. There is no longer money available for advice and initiatives. As Isak From mentioned, the Christian Democrats were even worse. It was almost double in the cutbacks in the woods. Why?
i-2PgqhDgLFP2hEEwvmYudnm	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Maria Gardfjell, for your question! We have a different view of the forest and how it should be managed. It is very clear when we hear debates with the Member and the Green Party and, to some extent, when representatives of the Government Party are speaking against how we view forest land and property rights. To your question, however, the answer is that there is still money. It's not like everything's gone. There's money. The Forest Board has a lot of money in its own budget. Of course, that can be controlled. I also noticed that when we had the hearing there were others who were also in. It was, for example, the LRF Forest owners and the Forest industries. The interesting thing was to listen to them. They were not concerned about the budget that we came to adopt. In fact, it is seen that it is nevertheless very positive that, for example, property rights are highlighted. It was pointed out that it might be good. Some people find it uneasy, but some find it positive. I can see that it is positive. In fact, we have a different view of ownership. We have a different view, for example, of freedom under responsibility, which we talked about before. These are really important questions. Nevertheless, it is so positive that we are now taking this. Let's say we let landowners manage their own forests. Thus, the State should not claim land in the way the government had intended.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-1131	Madam President, I would like Ownership is strong. It's protected by the Constitution. At the same time, we want to strengthen ownership by making it easier for individual forest owners to get paid when they are not allowed to harvest forests. They want to comply with the legislation. They want to follow the environmental code. They want to comply with EU law. The Christian Democrats are cutting money to individual forest owners. But they also cut their budget and propose a deterioration in the bioeconomy strategy, that is, what will make us use forests better for climate change. For example, the Christian Democrats are proposing a total cut in investment in wooden building.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-1133	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Maria Gardfjell, for our reasoning here! That is exactly the case: we have a different view of ownership. Let's just say, that's the way it is. I don't know how many people live in the north of Sweden who have contacted me. They say: Magnus, we are very worried about the current trend. Maybe we don't want to sell our land. We want to keep it! But with the Forest Investigation's answer, this is not clear. We know the investigation is talking about 500,000 hectares of forest. So we are talking about 7 000 landowners and their forests which, according to the proposal, you can take, buy, change or in any way add to the state. That's how you think. And I mean the state isn't the best owner of the forest. On the contrary, it is the private owner who manages his forest best. That is why it is so important to keep it as it is.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-1136	Madam President, I would like We have now been able to listen to the draft budgets of the various parties on the issues relating to agriculture and food. The fact that opinions differ may not surprise so many, but there is actually a passage in the report where we agree. This concerns the performance report that the government made for 2020. This is not just a question of any kind; it is a follow-up that is laid down both in the form of government and in the Budget Act. In the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture, we have made it a tradition to raise this issue when we go through the various areas of expenditure. The idea, and the aim of the Budget Act, is for the committees to be given answers to questions about the results of government budgetary efforts and whether the laws seem to work properly. In the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture there is a special working group working on this. Together with the officials of the committee and also in dialogue with the Government Office, we have found a pattern of how we can get this out. We have found good tools for supporting our own development and bringing the parties' work forward. You have heard many people highlight the food strategy. This year we have looked at the specific strategic area of a competitive and sustainable food chain. I'll take up some of the impact that we find. The degree of self-sufficiency is good in the case of a raw material, and it is cereals. We're even exporting that. In practice, however, we are also consuming what is produced in the case of milk, eggs and carrots. You know, that famous carrot shake! But now we basically eat what is produced. Sweden, together with Norway and Iceland, has the lowest sales of antibiotics to animals. Despite the pandemic, we have had a good control of facilities that work with food production and also with drinking water at the highest risk. The number of food fish farms has decreased by 42% in five years. It also, of course, signals what policy should look at. What are the obstacles? And what kind of development is there? It is also gratifying that the number of qualified applicants and full-year students to the agricultural university programmes has increased. As you can hear, this spans many areas. Through the dialogues we have with the Government Office, we can have a better compliance where we look at objectives and budgetary efforts but also at results. This means that we can also get better analyses. On the other hand, we do not have a broader overall view of the work. Because it is not uncommon that if you take action in one area of expenditure, there will be complications elsewhere in the chain. This was something that became very clear when earlier this year, together with the parliamentary research unit, we looked at a report on the vulnerability of agriculture. In addition to the responsibilities that exist within our own committee, it emerged that there were many aspects to the defence and the responsibilities of the defence committee. Issues relating to the conversion of arable land and water are also dealt with by the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs. Many have lifted mobile connection and broadband and the importance of it, and this concerns the Transport Committee. The importance of a holistic approach cannot therefore be stressed enough, and it is something that we believe that both the parliament and the government should take more careful account of. Finally, Madam President, I would like to extend my warm thanks to all the members of the evaluation group. A special thanks to Eva Forsman, who has assisted us from the official side and the office! We hope for good cooperation next year too, because we have many exciting new projects to come.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-1149	Madam President, I would like Staffan Eklöf has already spoken about SD's policy on Category 23 expenditure. I'll just add the concern we have for the forest. Sweden's forestry policy is now more unclear than it has been for a long time. That is not good, because forestry is the most long-term industry we have. You need to have long-term and well-known conditions so that you know what you have to move around with. The policy is unclear both because of Swedish processes that are ongoing and because of EU processes. The EU's proposal for a new forestry strategy has been criticised by almost all European forest countries. The government did not sign two repeated – not to say provoked – letters to the European Commission from around ten forest countries including Finland earlier this year. But since the autumn, the government has said that it supports most of what was written in the letters. Our new Prime Minister, too, has, as you know, stressed in his declaration of government that forests should not be ruled by the EU. The European Commission also proposes, in what is called LULUCF, that Swedish forestry should reduce much more than that of other countries in order to store more coal in the short term. In that case, however, it will be at the price of the lack of investment and at the price of the right of foresters to decide for themselves their own forest management and fellings. The EU's ambitions for a taxonomy for sustainable investment are also on a collision course with Sweden's fundamental interests. Madam President, I would like Here at home in Sweden, the Forest investigation resulted in a long negotiation that according to the media was conducted between the Environmental Party and the Center Party. I hope that the Social Democrats will also be involved. The result was, in any case, a bill that the Riksdag has not yet voted on. During the previous debate today on regional development, it was clear that the Environmental Party interprets the agreement on the Forest investigation differently from the Center Party, especially regarding a hugely protected area near the mountains that was included in the Forest investigation but which is not actually included in the bill. I would also like to mention that in the area near the mountains mentioned, there are already 62% of Sweden's formally protected coniferous forests. That should not be what needs to be protected the most. Madam President, I would like We will debate forest protection much more next week. However, we can already see today that there are many processes in progress on forestry. We hope that they can be resolved so that our forest owners can continue to carry out profitable forestry with good environmental considerations without European governance.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-1156	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking the parliamentary staff of the Committee on Taxation for the past year. I would also like to thank the staff of the entire Parliament for a warm welcome back in the Chamber and to the mission. Madam President, I would like In his government declaration, Prime Minister Magdalena Andersson made it clear that we Social Democrats are prepared to turn every stone around in order to reduce segregation and combat the ruthless crime that today threatens the whole community. I will explain in this debate on Category 3 how the Swedish Tax Agency, the Swedish Customs Agency and the Kronofogden have central roles in the work against organised crime. But first let me explain the position of the Social Democrats on the budget for Category 3. Since the Riksdag has supported the proposals of the Moderates, the Swedish Democrats and the KD concerning some other expenditure frameworks than those included in the Government's budget bill, the Social Democrats will not participate in the decision under paragraph 1 on appropriations under Category 3, i.e. abstain. Instead, we refer to our specific opinion. Otherwise, I support the committee's report on paragraphs 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Tax Agency, the Swedish Customs Agency and the Swedish Kronofogden are authorities that have central roles in society. I would also like to thank the staff of the authorities, who are doing an excellent job. Through their respective activities, the state secures revenue, charges customs duties and stops illegal entry into Sweden and manages debt recovery. These three authorities participated in the meetings of the Committee on Taxation on various occasions during the autumn and gave us Members a valuable account of their important activities. The Swedish Tax Agency is tasked with ensuring the financing of the public sector, contributing to a well-functioning society and carrying out its tasks in a way that is legally secure, cost-effective and easy for both the public and business, as well as combating crime. This is why the agency's active work to detect, investigate and correct errors in population records is crucial, as errors in population records create problems for the whole of society and also form the basis for many other authorities' decisions. The Tax Agency is one of the authorities that have the highest public confidence, which is important and good. It is also important that taxes go to the welfare for which they are intended. For us Social Democrats, taxes in themselves are not an objective but rather a strong tool for redistribution, which can thereby contribute to a more equal and equal society. Madam President, I would like The Customs Office shall determine and levy duties, taxes and charges. The traffic to and from Sweden is monitored and controlled. It is central that the Finnish Customs can stop the introduction of drugs, illegal weapons and explosives and other things that have major negative consequences for our society. The social benefits of the Swedish Customs' drug and doping seizures have increased compared to the previous year and now amount to SEK 3.2 billion, which is quite a lot of money. During Customs' visit to the committee, the cooperation between customs, police and security services to prevent the export of stolen goods was described. It is important that Customs can strengthen law enforcement and control activities. The Swedish Customs Agency has previously received increased funding, and in our budget option there was a reinforcement of SEK 70 million. After three months of negotiation, however, the Moderates, the Swedish Democrats and the KD were eventually able to agree on an increased grant of SEK 100 million for the Swedish Customs Agency. In principle, we have nothing against an increased allocation to the Customs Agency, but such proposals should be prepared and included in a well-thought-out budget where the appropriations are included in a whole, something that the blue-brown parties do not seem to care about. Madam President, I would like The enforcement officer is tasked with helping the person who has not been paid and giving advice and support to the person who will pay. Together with the Swedish Tax Agency and the Swedish Customs Authority, the Swedish Kronofogden will contribute to ensuring the financing of public activities, contribute to a well-functioning society for citizens and business and combat crime. During the past year, the Swedish Enforcement Authority has, among other things, made possible the repayment of a false wage guarantee, made notifications of incorrect public records to the Swedish Tax Agency and prevented the beginning of debt restructuring to persons who should not be covered by this. In a report on the common situation of organised crime, it is estimated that the most serious threats to the common are attacks on payment systems, evasion of taxes and charges, and drug crime and the serious violence that follows in its wake. In the fight against crime, authorities need to continuously pay attention to risks and identify effective countermeasures, as criminals find new and more ways to act and finance their activities. The Swedish Tax Agency, the Swedish Customs Agency and the Kronofogden have participated in and will continue to participate in various actions against organised crime. Finally, Madam President, we Social Democrats promise to turn every stone around to break organised crime and ensure that taxes go to the welfare for which they are intended.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-1168	Madam President, I would like I wasn't really going to ask for a line. My line will therefore be very short, without any further arguments. However, I heard Eva-Lena Jansson say that our budget was not a well-thought-out whole because we are adding more money to the Customs Agency. In reality, we add more money to the Swedish Customs Agency, for example because the Swedish Customs Agency has wanted more money than the government has given us. I therefore simply wonder what Eva-Lena Jansson thinks is wrong with the Swedish Customs Agency's request, because the Government has not allocated the resources that the Swedish Customs Agency has said it needs to carry out its activities. What is it in the Tullverket assessment that Eva-Lena Jansson does not share?
i-e347e5b376859e8d-1170	Madam President, I would like I do not think Niklas Wykman listened to my speech. I tried to explain that it was a whole in the budget process. If Niklas Wykman didn't understand what I said then I don't really know if my answer here can add anything more.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-1171	Madam President, I would like I am not entirely sure whether it was Olof Palme who said that reality is the worst enemy of socialism. It may also have been someone else. It was definitely a social democrat, Ines Uusmann, who said that the internet is a fly that will blow past. Unfortunately for the Social Democrats, the Internet has not been blown away. It's a fly that stays on the community body, to express itself mildly. This means that everyone has the opportunity – even if there may not be an aggravation – to go back and listen to Eva-Lena Jansson's speech. It is also written down, for it seemed that it was read inside. I therefore believe that it is excellent for people to check that Eva-Lena Jansson said that it was not a working whole. The Customs Department has wanted more money. We've added more money to the Customs Department. The government has not provided the resources requested by the Finnish Customs. If it is an ill-considered whole to give more money to the Finnish Customs, Eva-Lena Jansson may try to explain it in her final line.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-1173	Madam President, I would like Niklas Wykman has not explained that in his own budget option he allocated, I think, SEK 90 million instead of SEK 100 million. It is also important to remember, for example, that former Prime Minister Fredrik Reinfeldt said that the industry was It wasn't. My speech, like the budget, can be read in full. It's good that everyone can follow it up and see what's in lyrics and numbers tables.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-1175	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved under paragraph 1. Those who listen may wonder what this means. This simply means that we should approve the well-thought-out whole, which is the state budget of Sweden for next year and which is the result of a compromise between Moderates, Christian Democrats and Swedish Democrats. In fact, it is so good that there does not even seem to be any objections from the Prime Minister, who thinks that it is a good budget to rule the country with. Perhaps this budget is, after all, not so bad. In substance, the previous speaker, Eva-Lena Jansson, explained what the discussion here today is about. It is about our funding for three important and central authorities, each in its own way – and sometimes together – making important efforts to make our country work. The Swedish Tax Agency must ensure that there is money to be spent on welfare, police, defence and other common matters. The enforcement authority should ensure that we maintain a functioning payment system, you could almost say. Although this is the main responsibility of the Riksbank, it is a matter of ensuring that those who do work can also be paid for the job they have done. The Swedish Customs Agency must ensure that Sweden has a functioning border trade and that it does not enter, for example, drugs and weapons in the country. We think that the Swedish Customs should make sure that there is no flow of stolen goods out of the country. We're talking tonight about central social functions. What is really at the heart of the conflict – which is perhaps not such a dramatic conflict, Madam President, because I do not really think anyone is against these authorities working and being well-funded – is about the Social Democrats and the Green Party wanting to reduce 100 million SEK on customs's activities compared to the proposal that now becomes Sweden's state budget. Most people find it hard to understand that they want to cut back on customs activities compared to the proposal we have put forward. People are aware of the problem – that drugs and weapons flow into our country while stolen goods flow out. People are also aware that exports are very important for Sweden. For that matter, it is also imports; Sweden would be a rather boring country to live in if we did not import goods, products and services from other countries. In both cases, customs plays a crucial role, and I am pleased that, together with Christian Democrats and Swedish Democrats, we have agreed to strengthen the important work of customs. Madam President, I would like Around our country, people make amazing contributions every day. We have had a few days of strong cold in much of our country. We've had people who've been out sanding and salting. We've had people who've been in the hospitals and patched us up when we've fallen and hit us. We simply have people who work every day and make great efforts to make Sweden work and to make it a safe and good country to live in. These people should, of course, expect a fair wage for their efforts. This is an important part of Moderate politics. At one time it was also an important part of the Social Democrats' policy that it would pay off working and doing the right thing and that it was always better to work than to live on benefits. But it is not only the value of labour that is important for all the people who are working in our hospitals and in our schools or pluming through snow and below zero degrees from place to place in the care of the elderly to ensure that our elderly have a good existence. They should also be able to expect our society to function in a good and safe way. Unfortunately, the secure society has many enemies. Organised crime, petty thieves, perpetrators of violence, fraudsters, fraudsters – there are many people who in various advanced ways and in different organised ways try to ruin life and make everyday life miserable for the people who work and work hard every day. Today we are discussing Kronofogden, the Swedish Tax Agency and customs. These are three agencies that are on the side of ordinary people and that are supposed to make sure that their lives and everyday lives are good and that they can focus on doing their job, taking care of their family and doing what they think makes life fun and worth living. These authorities will then fix difficult and complex common things, such as that payments work, that the border trade works and that our streets and squares are not filled with drugs and weapons but are safe places to be, live and operate. It is good that there is, in essence, a great unity and a great support for these authorities. I know that most people in here – or perhaps all of them – have great respect and admiration for the important work being done in these authorities. A lot of things can get better. Our power and focus is on making sure to stop the theft leagues. People who work and work hard deserve to keep their lawn mowers, not to have their gardeners stolen and not get their vehicles dropped on diesel. About half of all burglaries in homes in Sweden are committed by foreign theft leagues. More than 90 percent of the thefts of boat engines, gardening machines and other things are committed by international theft leagues. It is therefore very important that customs should be given increased powers, increased opportunities and an extended mandate to carry out checks on exports of goods from Sweden. Today there are no such random checks, and as a result, international theft leagues have called Sweden a smorgasbord – it is good to come here, take what you want and then easily leave our country. That, of course, should not be the case. The police play an important role here. Customs also plays an important role here, and that is the main reason why we are adding more money to customs in our budget. People who work and work hard should be able to feel confident that their gadgets are not the subject of an elaborate and serious international criminal activity. I would like to reiterate my support so that it is not missed. We are now doing something that is good; we are strengthening an authority that is important for Sweden. I hereby fully support the common budget and the framework that exists, and I call for the committee's proposal to be approved under paragraph 1.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-1194	Madam President, I would like Today, then, we are going to debate Category 3 and the conditions we are going to give to the authorities under it: the Swedish Tax Agency, the Swedish Customs Agency and the Swedish Kronofogdemyndigheten. I would like to begin by saying that we have unfortunately seen for a long time that the development of society has gone in the wrong direction here in Sweden. True, many have improved materially, but we have also seen how quickly insecurity and crime have spread throughout the country. It is now not only out in the so-called exclusion areas that organised crime is involved, but it is creeping increasingly close to ordinary people's everyday lives in streets, squares, schools and workplaces. Hardly a day goes by without reading in the newspapers about executions, bombings and blue-light personnel who fall victim to the criminal gangs' quest for status and violent capital. We also read daily about rapes, harassments and children robbed on jackets and mobile phones by their peers. These robberies sometimes also have elements of humiliation. At the end of October, Sweden was given the unmerciful title, Europe's most dangerous country, by the German newspaper Bild. Moreover, the police density in Sweden is among the lowest in Europe. This will be a dangerous combination. Madam President, I would like After the government had presented its budget bill, the Swedish Democrats, together with the Moderates and Christian Democrats, managed to find a common path with a budget reservation that won the majority in the comma. In this we reprioritize SEK 20 billion. Of these 20 billion, over 11⁄2 billion next year will help strengthen the judiciary. In Category 3, we spend SEK 100 million more on the Swedish Customs Agency than the government intended to do in its budget. As far as the Swedish Democrats' own budget and expenditure movement is concerned, of course, we are behind the policy that we are presenting there. However, as we three parties managed to reach a consensus, I would like to support paragraph 1 of the committee's proposal in the report. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats had a major investment in the Swedish Tax Agency in our own field of expenditure motion. They are still drawn with old computer systems from the 90s, which are in great need of exchange and renewal. In particular, the Authority has difficulties in finding staff with the skills needed to maintain the operation and safety of such old systems. Substantial efforts will be needed to replace and modernise these. The IRS has several important and law enforcement functions. An important task is to manage the population records and keep track of who lives in Sweden. The IRS estimates that approximately 200 000 people are wrongly registered. True, in many cases it is due to pure mistakes. Unfortunately, however, the inaccuracies are also willful, often with the aim of getting more support out of our welfare system or living in a shadow society where people are at risk of being exploited for undeclared work or other crime. We also see that there is a completely open trade in population register addresses. People are offered to register at a certain address against payment. We have also read about the known examples of the Minister of Defence in Iraq or an official in the former Afghan government who were both registered in Sweden and lifted compensation from the welfare system. We have been able to read about people with multiple identities, which can be particularly practical if you are here to commit crimes or maximise grant payments. Having control over who lives and who does not live in the country should be in the interests of each nation. In the Swedish Democrats' own budget movement, we had allocated SEK 500 million to a national census. It is time to get started with such work. Madam President, I would like As far as the Enforcement Authority is concerned, they have the task of working to ensure that everyone pays what they are supposed to and no one becomes over-indebted. But they also have an important role to play in the fight against crime. When they work with other authorities, we have seen successful cooperation, not just against financial crime. They have also been able to measure, together with the police, the assets of people who have no such assets on paper. It is an effective way of reducing the incentives for criminals to wear exclusive clothing and have expensive accessories or cars, thereby reducing the attractiveness it may have to attract new, younger people into crime and gang recruitment. Another problem that the Swedish Democrats, together with the other opposition parties, have highlighted is the limited possibilities for customs to stop outgoing suspected stolen goods. There have been limited powers to detain it and have been nice to let it go if the police have not been able to get to the terminal before the ferry has thrown off. Last autumn, however, the Swedish Customs finally gained increased powers to intervene in cases of suspected crime such as the export of stolen goods. That is a step in the right direction. However, according to Customs themselves, this possibility has relatively little effect on the traffic of stolen goods, since it was neither extended to search for stolen goods nor more resources to do so. We have learned from the Swedish Customs that only 2% of the control time is spent on controlling outgoing goods. Rurals in southern Sweden have often paid the price for, among other things, stolen boat engines, quadricycles, lawn mowers, chainsaws and horse accessories. In every budget motion, the Swedish Democrats have pointed out the need for more resources for the authority responsible for guarding Sweden's borders. Now, in our joint draft budget, we are giving the Customs Department SEK 100 million more than the government was willing to give them. In this way, they will receive a welcome contribution to strengthen the border and train and hire more, in order to continue their efforts of 500 more customs officials by 2024. They can increase their presence at the border in order to prevent the influx of weapons, drugs and other illegal goods, while at the same time acting more effectively against the export of stolen goods from Sweden. Madam President, I would like November 24 was a historic day in many ways. It was not just the day when the Riksdag decided that the judiciary had to receive more support to slow down the social development that has been going on for a long time. It was also the day when the Swedish Democrats had to show that we really are a party that can be negotiated with, that is constructive and solution-oriented and that puts security in Sweden first. We hope, of course, that in the future more and deeper cooperation will be found in the blue-yellow bloc. Finally, I support paragraph 1 of the committee's proposal in the report.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-1211	Madam President, I would like I was a little curious about Eric Westroth's description in the speech on how to agree 100 million to the Customs Agency. In addition to the 70 million that the government had already proposed, it chose to use the money that would actually be set aside for some sort of census that the Tax Agency would carry out. 500 million would be spent on it. Eric Westroth said it was very important. At the same time, however, he surrenders the 500 million in favour of 100 million to the Customs Department. I would like to ask Eric Westroth: how did you intend that census to take place? Would 2022 be a starting shot, or would you expect it to continue?
i-Xb42pEYD7u1ErhnafgU6Ff	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question, Eva-Lena Jansson! It is, of course, long-term work. That is not something that can be done immediately. Now we had added 500 million to it in our budget motion. We had rather short negotiating time to reach the joint budget reserve. That's where all the posts go together. Then you have to give and deal with the negotiation. We had in our own budget called for 90 million to the Customs Agency, and it was 100 million to the Customs Agency. We are delighted that they are now receiving an increase in funds. We will certainly deepen and arrive at a good solution also in terms of censuses and censuses.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-1216	Madam President, I would like I understand that the 500 million for the census was not so important. Nor could Eric Westroth describe the method to be used. So it was sold away; to introduce a funkis tax they chose the cooperation with the Moderates and Christian Democrats. Is that correct?
i-e347e5b376859e8d-1218	Madam President, I would like In a short-term negotiation, it is of course difficult to get through all the way. We are very happy about the 100 million to Customs. I think the Tullverket is happy about it too. I noticed that Eva-Lena Jansson had nothing against an addition to the Customs Agency either. At the beginning of the summer, we put forward a proposal for a committee initiative to strengthen the Customs Agency after they had acquired their extended powers but had not received any additional mandate or money for it. We can only say that the Social Democrats, Eva-Lena Jansson's own party, voted against it. They also did not return to their own budget with additional contributions to the Finnish Customs.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-1220	Madam President, I would like The last two years, just over, have been a challenge for everyone. Our top priority has been to find ways forward. Here, too, in this House, we have worked together to achieve it – to save lives, to save businesses and to save jobs. Unfortunately, the spread of infection requires further recommendations and restrictions. As we now discuss area 3 on cats, customs and executions, I will stick to talking about the Swedish Tax Agency and Kronofogden. My colleague in the Tax Committee, Helena Vilhelmsson, will talk about Customs and the Customs Agency. The operations at the Swedish Kronofogdemyndigheten and above all the Swedish Tax Agency have of course been affected during the pandemic management that has been and is still ongoing. At the same time, I think it is extremely important that, for the future, we focus on the lessons we can draw from pandemic management from a tax perspective. Madam President, I would like There is of course a lot to say, but for time winning I will just raise a few questions this evening. Let me begin by commending the Swedish Tax Agency for its actions during the pandemic. There has been a great deal of exemplary action to make it easier for companies to cope with the financial crisis that has arisen, although this has not happened without shortcomings. On 26 March 2020, the Swedish Tax Agency published an important position regarding the liability of the person who has been granted a deferral of payment of tax under the Temporary Act. My hope is that we can learn lessons from the temporary changes that pandemic management has resulted in. I would like to highlight the issue of representative responsibility here in particular. During the Corona crisis, the problems with the current regulatory framework have become apparent as business owners and board members risk becoming personally responsible in the event of financial difficulties. Madam President, I would like It is extremely important that serious companies do not choose to close down in order to avoid the risk of representative responsibility, and this cannot only apply during the Corona crisis. Companies should of course do the right thing, but in the situation that has been, more and more people have understood that even the most careful and serious companies may find it difficult to monitor taxes and the ability to pay in certain situations. We know that many companies have had their noses just above the surface of the water during the pandemic. Madam President, I would like It has been a long time since the presentation of the investigation into the review of tax liability. In March next year it has been two years. The Swedish Tax Agency saw the possibility of applying a more generous interpretation within the framework of existing legislation, i.e. without the need to involve us in the Riksdag. This overall ensures that we should be able to get new legislation in place soon. The ball is with the government, and delivery is required. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Kronofogden's own analyses show that the number of people with debts at Kronofogden has not increased significantly despite recession and historically high unemployment. This is contrary to the initial forecasts that came when the pandemic struck. They painted an extremely dark picture that was similar to developments after the 1990s crisis. Madam President, I would like This is what it looks like at the total level. The pandemic has mainly affected people with small economic margins, many of whom already had debts with Kronofogden. The clearest sign is that the total amount of debt in the agency continues to grow, and quickly. This is, of course, a very worrying development which must be taken seriously in combination with the high increase in debt among young people. In 2020, the number of young people applying for debt adjustment more than doubled, according to statistics from the Swedish Enforcement Authority, and this creates major challenges. Madam President, I would like In conclusion, I note that the activities that have been put under way during this debate – the Swedish Tax Agency, the Swedish Customs Agency and the Swedish Kronofogdemyndigheten – carry out their mission very well overall, and that is to be said. I would like to express my support for the Special Opinion of the Center Party.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-1232	Madam President, I would like We are discussing three central authorities in the Swedish state administration tonight. It concerns the Swedish Tax Agency, the Swedish Customs Agency and the Swedish Kronofogdemyndigheten. In particular, the Tax Agency ensures that the taxes imposed by politicians in parliament, regions and municipalities are collected. It is also an authority that has important crime prevention and law enforcement functions. Customs controls the flow of goods into and out of Sweden. It contributes to a secure society and ensures competitively neutral and efficient trade. The latter is not least important for Sweden, which is a small and trade-dependent country. The Swedish Enforcement Authority works to maintain good willingness to pay in society. It is important for all forms of enterprise and for maintaining trust between people at a high level. In addition, the Authority's work on debt restructuring for over-indebted people is very important from a social point of view. Madam President, I would like Sweden has a major problem with foreign theft leagues that come here, commit crimes and then remove the stolen goods from the country. In the debate, Sweden, as we heard earlier, has been called a smorgasbord for international theft leagues. Every year hundreds of thousands of thefts take place, and thieves have been able to bring goods out of the country for several billions. One reason why Sweden is seen as a sandwich table for thieves is the low detection risk. Of the approximately 25 000 border controls carried out by the Customs Service each year, a small part of the checks on shipments are carried out out out of the country. In 2019 only 350 such checks were carried out. 350 exit checks are not even one a day. Seen in relation to all transports out of Sweden, this figure becomes incredibly small. For example, those who have had their boat engine stolen must have a fabulous luck for the thief to get caught in one of the 350 controls. In the autumn of 2018, the Christian Democrats together with the Moderates saw to strengthen the Customs Agency's budget. In connection with this, the Riksdag also decided that the Customs Agency would be given greater powers to counteract the export of stolen goods. We wanted customs to become a border protection authority that not only does the important work of controlling imports into the country but also has greater possibilities to control exports of goods from Sweden. Unfortunately, the government messed up this important work. It was almost two and a half years since the Parliament sent a notice to the Government that new legislation was needed to the Government's submission of this new legislation. What is even worse is that the legislation that the government then put forward was a big blow in the air. The Customs Agency was given the authority to intervene against persons and stolen goods, but it will only do so in connection with regular checks, that is to say one of the 350 checks carried out each year. It is clear that customs still needs both greater resources and greater powers. In our budget, we therefore made sure to strengthen the Customs Agency further compared with the government's draft budget. As a result, the Swedish Customs Agency is now being strengthened by SEK 100 million. This is money that will help strengthen border protection. But we also see that the Swedish Customs Agency needs long-term conditions in its important work. That is why we are also pointing out a direction for the agency in the future. 150 million will be added in 2023, and 200 million will be added in 2024. In total, therefore, customs is strengthened by SEK 450 million due to the fact that our draft budget won the approval of Parliament. Madam President, I would like Before I finish, I would like to devote a little time to the important tasks of the Swedish Enforcement Authority. It is about the work against over-indebtedness, which we Christian Democrats think needs to be strengthened. Not least, families with children must be given priority. The children of parents who are so indebted that they risk not being able to pay their bills are particularly vulnerable. Last year 449 children were affected by evicted evictions from the dwelling. When the Christian Democrats were in government, priority was given to reducing evictions by families with children. This work produced positive results. For several years, the number of children affected by eviction decreased. When we changed government, the number of children affected by eviction began to increase again. Once again, efforts are needed to turn developments in the right direction. The Christian Democrats will continue to work to reduce evictions of families with children. Madam President, I would like The framework decision we took two weeks ago meant that we started work on turning developments in Sweden in the right direction. Today, we are taking another step through the addition of new and important resources to the Customs Agency. I am pleased to support the committee's proposal under paragraph 1.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-1246	Madam President, I would like One of the gods of the Romans was called Janus. He was depicted with a face looking back in time and a face looking forward. It is quite natural that we have named January after this god. Then we are in a time when we look back at what has been but also look forward to what is to come. The Tax Committee deals with Category 3 and the appropriations for the Swedish Tax Agency, the Swedish Customs Agency and the Swedish Kronofogdemyndigheten. The Parliament has supported a draft budget other than ours, and we in the Green Party have chosen not to participate in the decision on appropriations for Category 3. On the other hand, I support the committee's proposal under paragraphs 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6. The authorities I listed have a great deal of confidence among citizens and businesses. High trust is a key to the Authority's success in its mission. Precisely ensuring the financing of our common welfare and making it easier for individuals and businesses to do their own thing, the authorities have managed well back in time. It is also incredibly important that the authorities make it forward. Effective tax collection is a cornerstone of our welfare society, and it is actually a Swedish parade branch. These three authorities are also important actors in the fight against crime, individually but also in cooperation with other authorities. In their efforts to prevent and combat crime, the authorities show good results. One example that has already been raised here is international crime, which is a task for both the Swedish Tax Agency and the Swedish Customs Agency. The undermining of financial opportunities for crime is a very important task for the responsible authorities, and it is something that works preventively for the law enforcement authorities that come further down the chain of events. However, this cooperation also needs to continue to be developed. It is also gratifying to note that these authorities deliver well towards their goals. The very fact that they have great confidence and deliver well is important for our democracy. It is also gratifying that they succeed well, or are about to succeed, in their work to modernise and streamline their operations through digitalisation. It is a positive development which, however, needs to continue at all times in order to be at the forefront of digital development for the benefit of citizens, businesses and the whole government system. We should remember that our three authorities have succeeded this well in the current circumstances, with the pandemic that has hit us all in different ways. The Moderates, Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats have allocated another SEK 100 million to the Swedish Customs Agency in their draft budget. As a matter of principle, we do not mind an increase in appropriations for the Customs Agency, but we feel that it should have been prepared and included in a well-thought-out budget, which includes the appropriations as a whole. We feel that we now have a budget with a number of changes that hacked a government budget. A budget should be a whole in which the appropriations are linked. The Moderates are happy to talk about being responsible with taxpayers' money. But we feel that in this way it has not been fully thought out. If you may say so, Madam President, perhaps it is a somewhat sloppy budget, not least because the right-wing budget jeopardises Sweden's transition contribution from the EU. By removing important investments in sustainability and housing from the budget bill, it is now uncertain how Sweden will be entitled to the conversion grant of more than SEK 30 billion. Here we can talk about responsible management of taxpayers' money. Well, Madam President, I would like to thank all my colleagues in the committee for their good work. In particular, I would like to thank our President very much for his excellent work this autumn. Finally, Madam President, I would like to wish you, your colleagues and all the members of the Committee on Taxation a really good Christmas. I also wish you a very well-deserved leave and a happy new year.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-1256	Madam President, I would like It feels very big to be here in the Parliament's pulpit for the first time. I support the committee's proposal under paragraphs 2 to 6 of the report. The objective of Category 3 Taxation, Customs and Enforcement is to ensure the financing of the public sector and contribute to a well-functioning society for citizens and businesses. Madam President, I would like It sounds a little dry. Some people might even say it sounds boring. But I would like to say that it is not. It is through this area of expenditure and our authorities the Swedish Tax Agency, the Swedish Customs Agency and the Swedish Enforcement Authority that we ensure and enable the financing of our common Swedish welfare society, a society that we Social Democrats want to be both fair and equal. Madam President, I would like I not only serve as a member of Parliament for a period of time; I am also a municipal politician at home in Bollnäs, Gävleborg County. In that role, I see very clearly every day how important the tax-funded business is. It's about the school, the care and the care. These are the cornerstones of the welfare society, but they are also all other major, important municipal commitments. As a municipal politician, I also see the need for more resources for these activities to increase equivalence in schools and to employ more people in the care of the elderly, both to provide our elderly with the best and most secure care and for better working conditions for the employees. I see the need for shorter care queues and roads and railways that also work outside the big cities. I think I am far from being the only municipal politician, or indeed the citizen, who sees these needs, and although it is not in this debate that we are dealing with the actual allocation to these areas, it is worth mentioning. All of this is part of our welfare society. Instead of each of us financing schools, health care and care ourselves, we all contribute in solidarity through our tax to finance welfare and social investment. It contributes to a more equal society. Madam President, I would like Therefore, the Swedish Tax Agency's work against tax evasion and tax evasion is of great importance. Tax evasion creates unfair competition against companies that do their own thing and unequal conditions for citizens. It also undermines the trust and legitimacy of the tax system and our authorities. It is about trust in our common society. The tax that is withheld from society is needed at school, in health care and in care, not least at home in Bollnäs but certainly in many parts of our country. Combating tax evasion and tax evasion is an ongoing priority for us Social Democrats. It is therefore important that the Swedish Tax Agency has strengthened the criminal investigation activities. The reinforcement of resources provided to the Office for the Exchange of Information with other countries is an important part of this. At the same time, the importance and importance of cooperation between authorities should indeed be highlighted and underlined. Madam President, I would like The fact that the Swedish Tax Agency has high results in confidence surveys is very gratifying. Confidence in the authority is crucial for them to carry out their community mission. To conclude, Madam President, I believe that this brief speech has given me an account of the importance of this area of expenditure. It lays the foundations for the financing of our welfare society, order and order at our borders and for payments to come into our common.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-1267	Madam President, I would like In this speech, I will concentrate on customs activities. Customs has, as we know, two main tasks: firstly, the collection of duties, taxes and other charges, and, secondly, the pure law enforcement, where illegal imports of alcohol, drugs and weapons are to be prosecuted. The extent of alcohol smuggling, for example, makes it come to light. We're talking about a million-dollar deal, and it's hardly a matter of private use. Some of the biggest losers are our young people, who today are much easier than ever before to get their hands on alcohol. It is clear to everyone in this House that the Customs Service needs tools to strengthen its efforts to protect our borders and combat crime, both in terms of increased funding and in terms of increased legislative powers. Madam President, I would like In June, the Riksdag decided to give customs increased powers to detain suspected and suspected stolen goods and to start an investigation even if the police did not get there, read: when it is feared that stolen goods will leave the country. The Riksdag also decided that an extended assignment to the Customs Agency was needed to control the export of goods as well as the import of goods. The Center Party believes that the Customs Agency should be given an obligation and not just an opportunity to intervene when the authority fears that stolen goods are about to leave the country. The public has legitimate expectations that uniformed officials of a law enforcement authority will be able to intervene in the service if a crime is detected, and crime can be detected if checks are carried out both on entry into and exit from Sweden. Such an announcement was adopted by the Parliament in June. During 2021, the Government has set up an investigation that will review, among other things, the rules governing the Customs Authority's powers to carry out checks and work law enforcement. The investigator shall propose a new coherent constitutional regulation for the Customs Authority's powers and mandate. The aim is to make legislation more uniform, which is a good thing. Today it is somewhat fragmented, since customs are under the Ministry of Finance while law enforcement is under the Ministry of Justice. Finally, in June, the Riksdag also made a decision to announce that the export of stolen goods is to constitute an independent crime under the Smuggling Act. Madam President, I would like Let me make a little digression. In June, the then Minister of Finance, Magdalena Andersson, said in a radio interview.If I thought it was an effective method[to do control of outgoing goods], then we would of course have done it a long time ago. But the assessment is that working in an intelligence-based and modern way is very much more effective than standing and looking for a needle in a haystack. ..................................................... Search for a needle in a haystack. Is that how Magdalena Andersson thinks, or thought, that customs works? If that is the case, I have a few greetings for her and for all intents and purposes also for Mikael Damberg now: There is a four-wheeler stolen every other day in Sweden. For two years there have been at least 576 registered and missing quadricycles, according to Alarm service. What's the cost of this? Let us estimate between 50 000 and 150 000 SEK for a four-wheeler. If we multiply it by 576, it may even be worth looking for a needle in a haystack. The second message is that if a intelligence-based and modern way is for police and customs to work more together, it is a fact that the police rarely or never prioritise to come out and start questioning or secure evidence when a report of theft of a quadricycle is made. We are dealing with this through a number of measures which do not fit under customs or the Committee on Taxation, such as more police officers, the abolition of the amount of rebates and penalties, because the police give priority to the value of the penalty. However, all of this is based on the fact that the police actually go out and start questioning and secure evidence. Madam President, I would like I'm doing another diversion, because sometimes there are obviously resources in the police. Some time ago a wolf was killed during the domestic attack according to the so-called emergency protection clause. Judging by the surprise when the police came out to sheep's pasture, in the middle of the night, to secure evidence that it was not an illegally killed wolf, this despite the fact that the sentence for gross theft is no more than six years and the sentence for gross hunting crime no more than four years. Instead, we are called upon as victims – we who have had quadricycles stolen; I belong to them – to start neighbourly cooperation against crime, lock the quad wheel properly, use DNA marking and gps-pucks, whatever it is, and nixa our vehicle so that it cannot be traced through advertising offers. Just get me wrong: these are great things all of them. But if we do ours, without police support, all other authorities will also do their part, including customs, if that means looking for a needle in a haystack. Madam President, I would like Another example of organised crime that has increased is dog smuggling. Illegal imports of puppies have increased sharply in recent years, not least during the pandemic. The Government has previously presented a proposal for a new Animal Health Act. The idea was to adapt the legislation to the free movement of the EU, which means that the Customs Agency would not be allowed to search cars at the borders of the country. However, this bill risks leaving the door for dog smugglers wide open. The government must ensure a stop to smuggle in puppies to Sweden, something that often takes place in despicable forms. Pending such changes, the Center Party is putting money into the budget to step up work against animal smuggling. Madam President, I would like By way of conclusion, I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 4.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-1285	Madam President, I would like It is not my intention to extend the debate, but I was a little surprised by Helena Vilhelmsson's speech. For it sounded like she was thinking that customs would do the police's work, and that surely cannot be the intention. It is the police who will prosecute and solve crimes, if I have understood correctly. I was going to ask Helena Vilhelmsson how she views this issue, because if I understood her correctly, it was so that the police are not doing their job, so instead customs should be the ones who take care of the criminals. Was that the case, or did I get it wrong?
i-e347e5b376859e8d-1287	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question and for the opportunity to clarify. The problem has been, as is well known, that customs has had little or no opportunity to detain the vehicle when for some reason – tips or other – you suspect that there will be a car containing stolen goods, ranging from chainsaws to larger tools and larger vehicles. Today, only the police are allowed to start an investigation, and customs have not even had the opportunity to retain either cars or goods. That change has been made, so now you get it. That's great. However, the problem is, as we did in fact make a statement about this summer, that customs has not been given a targeted task to do so. The budget has not so far been increased to do so, and we need to change that.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-1290	Madam President, I would like When the Finnish Customs were visiting the meeting of the Tax Committee and describing the ongoing activities, it was clear that there was increased cooperation between different law enforcement authorities. Above all, it was clear that intelligence activities have intensified to tackle organised crime, where the export of stolen goods is part of it, and with the important role of the police in it. So I would just like to emphasise that customs can never become a new police officer. Customs has its task, and the police have their job. On that I think we are actually quite in agreement.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-1292	Madam President, I would like In this respect, we are in complete agreement, Eva-Lena Jansson and I. In fact, the police were in the Committee on Justice today, and the question was asked about this. The police said they don't have the resources. They say you need more resources if you are to work with customs on this. It is clear, then, that this is a question of resources, and we are all reasonably satisfied because customs have been given more resources to do so. But of course it is the police who prosecute crimes.
i-e347e5b376859e8d-1294	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to emphasise that we in the Liberals are behind our own budgetary motion. We are therefore not taking part in the decision in paragraph 1 but are referring to our specific opinion. However, I should like to congratulate the President by calling for reservation 6 in paragraph 3. Madam President, I would like At a time when deadly gun violence in Sweden is peaking the statistics for the whole of Europe, it is clear that Sweden needs a new political direction. It is, of course, gratifying that the new government has expressed its willingness to turn every stone, but we all know that more than fine words are needed to address the major problems and challenges facing our society. Madam President, I would like We Liberals will always be clear about our priorities. Solving the freedom that people experience in their everyday lives, every day, is at the top of the order of priority. The issue of security is perhaps one of the greatest issues of freedom that we Liberals will never stop fighting for. Over a thousand weapons are smuggled across Swedish borders annually. It's weapons that end up in the hands of gang criminals and are used for the practice of violence and threats-- as we know not infrequently with fatal outcome. More than a hundred tons of drugs are smuggled to Sweden every year. It is the one who breeds the criminal multimillion-dollar industry that makes the machinery tick around in the hidden society. Madam President, I would like Gang crime must be fought on all fronts. Against an international crime that knows no borders, the control of what is brought into and out of the country must really work. It's as simple as that – and that's how hard it is. However, it does not stop there, Madam President. The addition of resources to the budget is a necessary first step, and we Liberals are very happy about that. However, more is needed. Today, the Customs Service does not have full access to the tools needed to act as effectively as possible against organised smuggling, which in turn fattens organised crime. Strong reforms are now required. Not only do more employees need to be employed at the Customs Office, but customs also needs to have more powerful tools against organised crime. As I said, Madam President, in paragraph 3 of this report I call for the approval of reservation 6.
