i-f2999c5907a82396-4	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the vote in favour of reservation 1, the Christian Democrats' reservation in the report. We're in one of the vaccine's Advent times. We see a light there somewhere, but at the same time we are in the middle of trying to deal with a residual crisis that partly refuses to let go of its grip on society. We see it in the care with hospitalizations and with severely ill ones. We see a health care professional who is working hard and desperately in need of relief and being able to see that it is turning around. We also see it in parts of the economy. It is companies that are still under very strong pressure and are partially shut down under existing restrictions and recommendations. They have continued to worry in the crisis. We see the risk of bankruptcy, and we see continued risk of redundancies and notice so that staff cannot remain in their beloved workplaces. We must continue to act decisively. This is particularly true when it comes to long-term unemployment, where, after a certain period of time, unemployment is at risk of disappearing into long-term exclusion from the labour market and the work community. It can also lead to health and social problems, as we know from the experience of previous crises. The government has made proposals to extend part of the business support. That's very good. We Christian Democrats demanded this from the government last winter, once again having tabled a short-term and rather tedious proposal for a single month's extension. At the time, we thought it was time to extend aid until the summer, and we pushed forward a committee initiative that looked like a majority. The government then announced that the aid would be extended until the summer. It's very good, and it gives long-termness. It also provides a certain long-term perspective for the authorities responsible for managing aid, which have had obvious problems doing so well. It also gives hard-working entrepreneurs a little longer time horizon when it comes to support measures. But, Mr President, the management of the government has become increasingly twitchy, where reinforcements and extensions have been made in the short term. It has also become complicated. The authorities have not been able to do this, and the government has failed in its governance by the authorities in terms of being able to get the subsidies out in a good way. This is still a reason to change and do better. There are also particular reasons for reviewing the operation of the aid for those sectors with particular problems. Then I am thinking of hotels, restaurants and other industries with very close contact with customers, which are particularly affected by the restrictions and recommendations issued by the authorities. We have been able to hear the Swedish Agency for Growth say that lay-off support is not very well designed for these industries. It is also something that I and the Christian Democrats have been pointing out for a year. This applies, for example, to the need to reduce labour costs in order to benefit from the lay-off aid for permanent workers. This has particularly affected these industries, which have many employees with fixed-term contracts, probationary contracts and substitute jobs. This is not just the case in these sectors, but there is a lot here. The Institute of Economics pointed out in March last year that this support did not work very well for employees in these sectors. The government's answer was then that it is important that we get a system in place quickly, that it is better that it comes into place quickly than that it becomes right and that kind of argument. It has now been over a year, and the government has staunchly stuck to this. It has thus provided the temporary staff with far less protection during the pandemic than the permanent staff. When you try to keep your business going in these industries, you can't have these people laid off at the same time. This also leads to an hourly increase in labour costs in these sectors, which has created concerns and problems when turnover has fallen sharply. This has been pointed out many times by Parliament, but the government has not solved the problem. Mr President, I would like to It needs to be solved. We need to find a system in which these industries have better opportunities and where support is becoming more and better adapted to them than it has been so far. Otherwise, there is the risk of further aggravating the problems of unemployment, which can easily get stuck after a crisis. Mr President, I would like to I welcome some other things that the government does or proposes and that the Riksdag supports in this bill. A special event support, which has been pushed forward from Parliament's side, is good. It is good that it is now being proposed. Additional support for culture and sport is also good, and it is good to invest in summer holiday activities for children. At the same time, it remains the case that the government has not responded to the Riksdag's announcement to arrive with support for the broad civil society. Only some sectors of civil society still receive support: culture, sport and some other organisations in yet another bill put forward by the government. But support is also needed that reaches broad reach – reaching out to all the organisations that we so badly need. We need their power, warmth and commitment after the crisis. There the government has something more to answer against because the Riksdag has requested this. We are seeing more and more signals that there are and will be lingering worries after the pandemic. It is people who have been around for a long time in loneliness and isolation and children who have not had access to their normal protection factors, such as participation in association life, in the same way as before. They have lived a greater time in contexts that do not work so well and where you have simply been more vulnerable. That's why summer vacation activities are good, but long-term thinking is also needed. How can politics help more children to return and reconnect with the recreational activities that may have been lost? It is so easy that, at a certain age, you fall out of association life, sport and the ability to move around and thus also create the conditions for better health both physically and mentally. It is easy not to come back. Here, I mean, we need to get a better alert. We need to have better proposals on how to support civil society and ensure that more children now have these opportunities in the long term. The same applies to the work to ensure that those who have been isolated and alone for a long time have a better chance of regaining contact with the surrounding society than before. There are warning signs here. There are things to mention here. Some are done in this bill, but far more is needed, Mr President.
i-f2999c5907a82396-21	Mr President, I would like to I think the previous speaker expressed it very well: an advent period for vaccination. It threw me back many years to many Sundays in church. And it is certainly right: we all see the light in the tunnel. We see more and more people around us getting vaccines and finally breaking their physical isolation. At the same time, we are in a very serious situation. The spread of infection is increasing again in several parts of the country, while the health care staff are under great strain after over a year of care for covid-19 patients. The situation is serious. It is still a question of saving human lives. I have said this many times in the speaker's chair now, but I would like to emphasise once again: we must hold on. We have to hold on. We have to work at home if we can, stay home if we have symptoms and keep our distance. That's what saves human lives. I know it's hard, but we do it together and we do it because we know it matters. Even the economic situation is of course serious, not least for all employees who are worried about their future livelihoods and for those entrepreneurs who are struggling to get the business going – and, of course, for those who have already lost their job. The effects of the pandemic are visible throughout society, including in addition to the disease itself and its direct consequences – the elderly who have suffered from the lack of social and physical contact, children who have almost forgotten how a grandmother hug feels, young people who have been forced to sit at home in the middle of their high school time in front of a screen instead of hanging out with friends during the lunch break. We see the effects of the loss of knowledge and the fact that care has otherwise had to stand back all this time. Many young people have missed out on their opportunities for internships and summer jobs. Many people are now going to find themselves in a labour market where it will be difficult to get that first job. Last Thursday, the government handed over the Spring Bill to us in the Riksdag with three clear focus: jobs, jobs and jobs. It's important, because it's only when everyone who can work also works that we can lay the foundation for our common welfare. The fact that unemployment is now rising during a crisis is almost inevitable, but we see that there are special groups that are particularly hard hit. This applies, for example, to our young people. This is why the government has now put forward major efforts to secure young people's confidence in the future with 15 000 new summer jobs, more training places and also resources for schooling for those who have fallen behind. Today, we are spending money on free and disease-proof holiday activities. It should not be a class issue to be able to bring a nice summer memory from summer holidays. Mr President, I would like to Since the pandemic hit Sweden, we have put forward historically great measures to save lives, jobs and welfare. Here today, work continues on the report by the Committee on Finance on the sixth supplementary amending budget for this year, with measures of just over 20 billion to continue to alleviate the damage caused by the pandemic. Primarily, the coronapandemy is a matter of life and health. The single most important measure to eradicate the infection is a rapid and effective vaccination. It not only saves lives; it is also the most effective measure to get the economy back on track. The government's message has been clear since day one: money must not, should not and will not stand in the way of limiting the spread of infection. Money should not stand in the way of Sweden entering into new vaccine agreements to secure vaccines not only this year but also the coming years. It is likely to be necessary. In the future, we may all need to renew vaccination regularly, perhaps every year. That is why we are deciding today to raise the public health authority's loan framework for emergency investments by 10 billion. As this issue must be dealt with urgently, it is on the initiative of the Committee on Finance. It is big money, and the preparation has had to be very fast. I would like to thank all parties for their good cooperation in this way to enable Sweden, with today's decision, to conclude these new agreements. This budget also provides resources for the EU-wide work on vaccination passports. The Swedish Public Health Agency receives an additional 60 million to work with information efforts to groups where the tendency to vaccinate is low. It is necessary; we have seen this not least in the newspapers in the last few days. In our budget, we spend money on health care in order to manage delayed care and covid care. With today's decision, the Public Health Agency will have increased funding to support the regions in this important work, as well as in vaccination and transport. The county administrative boards and the municipal sector also receive new additions for their supervision work with the new Restaurant Act. We are also extending state aid for ambulance air transport so that there is access to ambulance flights for covid patients around the clock throughout the country. In order to reduce the spread of infection to and from work, we now decide that the tax exemption for employees whose employers organise free parking at the workplace is reintroduced. We also reintroduce tax and tax exemptions for gifts so that employers can support local businesses by giving tax-free gifts to their employees. Mr President, I would like to In order to reduce the spread of infection, we also extend several of the subsidies to individuals. This concerns the abolition of the requirement for medical certificates, the continued abolition of the withdrawal of the carer's allowance, the reimbursement of risk groups and compensation to companies for non-normal costs of sick pay. The aid is extended until 30 June but is also linked to the national vaccination target. If it is not fulfilled on 30 June, which is very much in favour of today, the allowances will be further extended. We also increase the grant to Försäkringskassan as a result of the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare's assessment that covid-19 represents a special risk for pregnant women, which probably means that more people are entitled to pregnancy benefit when there are risks in the working environment. Mr President, I would like to The pandemic is not just a health crisis. The economic impact on society is considerable. Since the pandemic struck, we have taken crisis measures for 420 billion and have spent nearly 1 000 billion in credits and guarantees. Never before have taxpayers saved so many jobs in the private sector. Support for short-term lay-offs has enabled hundreds of thousands of employees to reduce working hours and avoid the risk of losing their jobs, while at the same time maintaining important labour force. We are now continuing to extend the business support that is so important to overcome the economic crisis. The conversion aid and the turnover aid to individual traders and trading companies will be extended until June and the increased conversion aid for particularly affected companies will now be extended to April 2021. We are also expanding companies' possibilities for deferment by introducing more accounting periods, extending the grace period and reducing the deferral fee. Mr President, I would like to We know that not all the support worked perfectly during this crisis. There are many lessons to be learned, including in terms of society's ability to provide financial support in future crises. There has also been a need for major changes in aid over time. At the same time, aid has been a crucial factor in the survival of many activities in these circumstances. Mr President, I would like to The general emergency measures we have presented are designed so that the more affected you are, the more support you are entitled to. Culture and sport, however, are sectors that have been particularly affected for various reasons, and that is why, since last year, we have been raising nearly 13 billion in crisis aid to culture and sport. Here today we are deciding on a number of new support for culture. We contribute money to regional cultural activities, to certain performing arts institutions, to museums and to film support. We are also putting EUR 3 billion into a new support for events that we have already agreed on in the Committee on Finance. The Parliament wants the event support to apply to events from 1 June. I know that it is easier to say than to implement and that it is much more complicated to develop a complete regulatory framework and get it approved by the European Commission and manageable for authorities. I hope, however, that this can come into place and be as good as possible. At least I know that the government is working to make this both good and accurate and that the government is also working to get this in place as soon as possible. With today's decision, we are shooting at the money and also reminding us of Parliament's earlier announcement. Mr President, I would like to We are in a very serious situation, but the Swedish economy also shows resilience. We have a well-trained population and, despite extensive crisis measures, we still have strong public finances. It's because we equipped ourselves in the good times. We have invested heavily in the knowledge boost, we have the lowest public debt since 1977 and we still have, despite the deepest economic downturn since the Second World War, more in work than when Stefan Löfven took over the prime minister's position. Now we continue to use our common economic strength to get through and out of the pandemic and build society stronger. I support the proposal in the report and reject the reservation.
i-f2999c5907a82396-45	Mr President, I would like to I note that spring brings great differences in our amazing country. I, who is from Norrland, return home after parliamentary work and ski and enjoy the spring sun. Colleagues from southern Sweden go home and mow the lawn. It's so different in our country. Just as different are the realities of this pandemic, with just as great differences as spring. There are people who live life just as if nothing has happened and who are out enjoying the spring sun and fantastic weather. There are also people in our hospitals — more than for a very long time — fighting for their lives. So different is the reality for different people this spring – more different than it usually is. I am thinking in particular of all those who work in the Swedish health care system who not only have it tough right now but have had it tough since this crisis broke out. You struggle on, work long shifts and see a lot of suffering in everyday life. It's hard on them. We also have all those who take care of our elderly in the care of the elderly where the infection before hit very hard. So different are the realities, so sometimes it can be difficult to imagine that we are in the midst of a crisis. I thought about it on my way to the Parliament House here in the morning. It was quiet, peaceful, sunny and a wonderful air to breathe. At the same time, people are fighting for their lives. There's a huge difference between those realities. It is also a call to all of us. I say, as previous speakers have said, that we must continue to hold on and endure. We know what helps, that is, that we deny much of what we like. We don't want to hang out with people we like. We deny much of what is joy in a person's life to make sure that fewer people are affected by the terrible disease created by this virus. This is our wish and exhortation to everyone out there: Keep fighting! And take the vaccine when the vaccine is offered, because it also helps to suppress the infection. Mr President, I would like to The extraordinary amending budget that is on Parliament's table today, I think, shows much of the work that the Moderates have been involved in during this pandemic. I note that from the first day we have worked as much as we can to save jobs and businesses and to secure resources for health care, the fight against infectious diseases and the care of the elderly. We have made arrangements with all the parties of Parliament in different constellations to actually achieve this very thing. When I see this extraordinary amending budget, I can see clear traces of moderate colleagues who have done a great deal of work, such as Niklas Wykman, who has been most involved in ensuring that we get tax exemption for gifts and free parking for health and care workers and an exemption from being taxed for the food that has been given by businesses and individuals through the crisis. Today, we also extend the possibility of staying at home if you are at risk so that you do not have to go to work and expose yourself to the risk involved. This is largely made possible by the work that my moderate colleagues Camilla Waltersson Grönvall and Maria Malmer Stenergard have done. These are clear examples of responsibility in this crisis. We also extend conversion aid to companies, and we extend turnover support to individual traders, partnerships and limited companies – important parts to save Swedish jobs and Swedish companies. Much of that work has been done under the leadership of my moderate colleague in the Finance Committee Elisabeth Svantesson. We are doing everything we can to save jobs and businesses and ensure that we get through this crisis safely. Let's continue that work. Tomorrow, it will be decided in the Committee on Finance whether we are changing and improving conversion aid. Many of the companies most affected by the pandemic are companies such as restaurants and other services and thus companies where people meet, and the employees of those companies have been most affected by the restrictions that exist to reduce the infection. The current combination of aid does not work very well for these companies. Now there is a new proposal to be able to give serious support to these companies. It is a proposal made by the Moderates, and I know that other parties in different parts have tried to come up with similar proposals to achieve just that. I hope that tomorrow we can be as many parties as possible, preferably a majority, who can vote through the proposal and ensure that the companies most affected by this pandemic can actually survive. Then we will save jobs, businesses and future tax revenues that will be needed. They will be needed to restore the financial withdrawals we have made to deal with this pandemic. That is my great hope in this. Today we are also deciding on an event support for culture, sport and civil society. This enables us to save Vätternrundan, Sweden Rock, theatres, youth cups, musicals and festivals – important parts of the Swedish people's soul. They mean hope, faith in the future, joy and fellowship where people can meet and do things together. You can't do much of it during this pandemic. But believe me, all of this we want to keep after the pandemic. Not everyone likes everything, but most of us actually like some of these important parts of Swedish culture, sports and civil society. We care about all that in different ways. Today we have the opportunity to save it with this emergency aid. We Moderates sat down with the actors in culture and sport and produced this support. We started work at Christmas and worked on it during the spring. Now we have come so far that today we are spending $3 billion to make this a reality. I want to get out of here again – I have done so before – a big thank you to Petra Kauraisa, who was in fact the one who collected large parts of culture and sport and made it possible for us to have talks and actually get this support in place. Many thanks also to colleagues in the Finance Committee: Ulla Andersson from the Left Party and Jakob Forssmed from the Christian Democrats who also contributed and made new proposals and improved the proposal presented by the Moderates. Many thanks to you! Many thanks also to the Swedish Democrats who initially supported this proposal and made us have a majority in the Committee on Finance. I would also like to say that I was very pleased when the January parties joined the day before the decision. This, Mr President, led us to a united parliament that agreed to save these parts of Swedish culture and sport. It makes this much stronger. Mr President, I would like to The signal from the Swedish parliament to the government is clear. Parliament wants this support in place on 1 June. Many cultural and sporting events take place at the time. If the government does not have time to get the details out, it can certainly be, as previous speakers have said – part of the support can be made retroactively. We want to save these parts and Swedish cultural and sports life. To conclude, I would like to touch briefly on the proposal made by the Government to Parliament, more specifically the Committee on Finance, at the end of last week. Previous speakers have also spoken about this. It is about SEK 10 billion to be able to buy the vaccines. That is, of course, a necessary decision to take, Mr President. But let me say that the government is sloppy when it is not presented in other ways and with other preparations, but you go to Parliament and say: Can you postpone this matter and make a quick decision? In order for the listener to understand how much SEK 10 billion is, I will tell you that normally, in a regular autumn budget, half the scope for new reforms is. That proposal throws the government in, straight in from the side and without much preparation, with a few days' advance and asks the Riksdag to make a decision on it. Of course we will. I don't think there's a party against it. But it's sloppy done by the government. You have to do your job better, Mr President. On behalf of the Moderates, I would therefore like to support the proposal contained in the report. It gives us more power to save jobs and companies and to secure important parts of Swedish culture, sport and civil society. It also gives us the opportunity to buy vaccines and continue to fight this virus.
i-f2999c5907a82396-69	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report that is on the table. Yesterday I received an email from the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise. They began by writing that the coronapendem is the most serious crisis in peacetime since the depression of the 1930s. It's a breathtaking thought. If there is one thing we have learned about this pandemic, it is that it strikes very different, against people and against companies. One group has it tougher than many others. They're working nonstop to defend us against Corona's attacks. I'm thinking of the personnel in the country's IVA departments. The pressure on the sites is today higher than it was during the peak in January. There is a lack of intensive care facilities, a lack of staff and a lack of equipment. At the same time, we get alarm reports that the staff are crying out of exhaustion. Soon they won't be able to do it anymore. Such working conditions had never been accepted before the Corona, but now there seems to be no solution to this acute problem. We owe a great deal of gratitude to our health care professional, who, despite exhaustion, continues to fight for the survival of as many of us as possible. This is why the Committee on Finance today proposes that the Swedish Parliament should increase the Swedish Public Health Agency's vaccine purchase budget with breathtaking SEK 10 billion. Not getting sick is the safest way to relieve our health care provider. It is also the safest way to ensure that we can open up society and enable companies and all employees to get turnovers going at the same level as before the coronapandemy attacked us. Much in this amending budget is what the Swedish Democrats have been asking for for a long time. It is good that we can decide on these measures today, but it is worrying that the opposition constantly needs to press the government to take further support measures. Since the outbreak of the pandemic, there have been many tours of the deferral costs for companies for deferred tax payments. Last year we managed to bring it down, and even before the February increase, the Swedish Democrats pointed out that the government needed to adjust it down again. It is therefore a good thing that in this amending budget we are seeing a downward revision of credit costs to the same level as before February this year. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Democrats have submitted a special opinion in connection with the amending budget that we are debating today. Tax deferrals are used by companies that during the current pandemic are in short supply of cash but hopefully will come out of the crisis and then work for a return to the turnovers that existed before the pandemic. We have also previously asked for a solution for companies so that they can amortise the tax debt over a certain period of time while turnover reaches the normal level. Otherwise, if companies do not get their turnover up and running fast enough, there is a risk of bankruptcy once the grace period has expired. That would be unfortunate for many reasons. Moreover, there is a significant increase in the risk that the State will not receive the tax at all. The Swedish Democrats have also asked for an extension of business support until June. It is therefore good to see that precisely this is proposed in the amending budget. There is currently an extension of turnover aid to individual traders, and an extension of conversion aid. Subsidiary companies and limited partnerships also receive extended support until June. One support is new in the amending budget: event support. It was a long way off, but on 23 March the Riksdag voted that the government should urgently return to the Riksdag with a proposal for guarantee support. The amount set aside was SEK 3 1⁄2 billion, and the support would apply to events scheduled from June to December this year. It is therefore somewhat strange that the government in this amending budget has reduced the aid to 3 billion and proposes that the compensation should apply from the month of July. I think the proposal shows that some people either do not understand how companies work or do not care. Both the Social Democrats and the Green Party were opposed to the support when the committee initiative was presented. One of their arguments against the support is that politicians bear a great responsibility not to signal that organizers should start planning for major events that can increase the spread of infection. I don't know whether to laugh or cry, but do the government parties really believe that it is now, in the spring of 2021, that organizers of major events start planning for this year's summer and autumn? You don't even have to be an entrepreneur to understand the planning. It is enough to happen to read the evening press in connection with the annual Melodifestival period. Christer Björkman, the entire Swedish people's Melodifestival general, is asked each year when to start planning for next year. Every year he replies that he begins that work the day after the finals. He's not the only one. Major events are planned for a long time, sometimes several years. The event itself is the culmination of a long time's work. I find it hard to understand how these organizers could have understood last year that the coronapandemy would still hold us hostage in the summer of 2021. Mr President, I would like to Both in this House and in the media, we sometimes hear attacks on business support. Often critics refer to the fact that it is what they call our tax money that goes to supporting private companies. It is important to recall that both companies and everyone employed by any company pays tax. It is our common economy that will take us together out of the pandemic. Last week, Entrepreneurs published a report showing that in 189 of the country's 290 municipalities, small businesses and their employees account for the largest share of municipal tax revenues. At the same time, small businesses have often been hardest hit by the pandemic. It is therefore important that these companies continue to receive support so that we can restart Sweden once we have defeated the pandemic.
i-f2999c5907a82396-82	Mr President, I would like to I cannot help but start with a comment on Edward Riedl's skiing. When I left Örnsköldsvik last night, an hour's drive from Edward's hometown Umeå, there was a risk of grass fires. There are only two possible conclusions. Either there is a very clear and definitive climate limit at the height of Nordmaling, or at least there is no great risk that there will be a special hangover when Edward Riedl goes into the ski trail. I tip that there is no snow in southern Umeå either. The one about it. Mr President, I would like to It's been a while since I last stood in this pulpit. As a result of six months' parental leave, my last chamber debate was the one when we presented last year's autumn budget, that is, the current state budget. It is fascinating to reflect back on the tone of that debate and the hopes and fears that existed. Last autumn there was a clear hope that the worst was behind us and that we slowly but surely went towards a new spring, although it was a winter that was expected in terms of climate. However, there were also clear concerns that further waves of the coronapandemine were on the way. There was also an awareness that in autumn and winter we needed to be prepared for further clean crisis policy. Unfortunately, it was the fears and not the hopes that became what came to be. The last few months have meant very tough times for Sweden and the whole world. Of course, with the vaccination that is now going on in full in both Sweden and the world, we can now unite in a new hope that it will save us from further very tough and difficult times. But when we move towards this point, in the words of Jakob Forssmed, an advent of the vaccine, we need to continue to be prepared for tough times. Who knows what this terrible virus is carrying in the future? We need counseling room. After a year of pure crisis policy and extremely expansive economic policy, we can still state that Sweden has good opportunities to address future challenges and times of crisis management. We still have stable public finances, and we have relatively low debt pressures. We are therefore in a position to continue for some time with the crisis policy that has marked the last year, which would be necessary. This security is good, I believe, for all sectors of society. It is good for our companies, households and, of course, us in power in parliament and government. We can feel that, if the situation so requires, we will also be able to act decisively in the future. Since I have been gone for a while, I am sorry that I have lost track of how many additional amending budgets have been presented since the Corona arrived. I think my Swedish-democratic colleague signaled twelve. At least there's a lot of them. The fact that many have preceded today's extraordinary amending budget does not remove the fact that there are very important measures in the document on which we are going to decide today. Late in the process came a request from the Public Health Agency for an additional 10 billion in an extended loan framework to participate in vaccine procurement. This is, of course, the kind of policy we are going to pursue, and it is, of course, an issue in which we in Parliament must take the fastest possible path in order to facilitate this work. It is good that we could very quickly get it into this product too. In addition, major efforts are being made in a wide range of important areas of society. The largest single hump in this supplementary amending budget is the extension of various business support. We are also introducing new business subsidies. I am thinking, above all, of the support for events for which we are now spending money. I hope that the work on getting the practicalities in place will go as quickly as possible. Even the pure extensions of conversion and turnover support for individual companies are important in a situation where we see that many industries and companies continue to face difficulties after a year of pandemic. Important investments are also being made in culture and sport. An often described and recounted quote by Winston Churchill suggests that the then Prime Minister stopped the downsizing of cultural policy during a burning second world war with the words: What are we to defend if we cut back on our cultural institutions? As usual in the case of Churchill quotes, it is wise not to investigate too much whether he has actually said this. Nevertheless, there is an important wisdom in this. The Sweden that we all love should be left in as many parts as possible when after the pandemic we can blow the danger over. Important cultural institutions, civil society, sports and community life must continue to function both now during a burning crisis and later when we can return to some kind of normality as we can go back to festivals, run marathons and do what together with other important things in many ways makes life worth living. It is therefore right now to add additional funds to culture and sport. Then important actors, institutions and activities can continue and survive to the world This is an ongoing work. There are few signs that this would be the last emergency package that we get in place. It is important to monitor both the development needs of business support and the development of culture, civil society and sport. We must not least follow the activities of our municipalities and regions. It is they who represent the most important welfare functions that will continue to work, no matter how long the Corona crisis may be. This important work must therefore continue. There will be a high pressure both in Parliament and in the government so that we can pilot Sweden through this tough pandemic in every way. Today we are taking an important step in a number of areas. But, as I said, there is no reason to believe that this is the last thing we do to combat all the effects of the coronapndemin. Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Now the work continues.
i-f2999c5907a82396-98	Mr President, I would like to During the last parliamentary term, the Left Party negotiated the budget with the government. We negotiated free glasses for children, increased maintenance support, free dental care for young people up to 23 years of age and summer holiday support paid to municipalities that invested in developing free summer holiday activities. These are some of the reforms for children and young people that the Left Party got through. Some of our reforms remain, while others are abolished by the new governance. One reform that has been abolished is summer holiday aid. It ended in summer 2019. In the summer of 2018, approximately 76,000 children participated in an activity that was financed in full or in part through the state grant for holiday activities. In 2020, most municipalities reduced their summer holiday activities. Of the 229 municipalities that responded to a survey, 169 reported that the lack of support led to fewer activities. 17 municipalities organised nothing at all last year. In the municipalities that organised activities, several activities were subject to a fee, as in Sorsele, where the municipality introduced a fee of SEK 500 for the swimming school. During the Coronasummer 2020 there were municipalities that could not arrange holiday activities without the state support. This year, the municipalities can again organise activities for children and young people, as this report provides funding for praise activities. It is a welcome addition for our municipalities and not least for our children and young people. It is also a good thing that the remuneration of risk groups is now being extended without any gap. The gap that occurred at the turn of the year created major problems for the risk groups. Here, therefore, is my appeal to the government: do not let it be a gap again that forces people to work with covidsickness even though they themselves belong to the risk groups! Although we hope, of course, that everyone is vaccinated and that risks will decrease in the future, an extension to 30 June is relatively short, and any further extension must be made before the summer. In this supplementary amending budget, Parliament also decides to extend the public health authority's possibility to borrow in order to participate in the EU's vaccine procurement for 2022 and 2023. That's good. We need safe vaccines for years to come. However, the EU must work to reduce the cost of the vaccine. We have been able to see how countries in the EU have relied on the cheapest vaccine and have only bought it, which has affected other Member States when that vaccine has been paused. The price plays a role in the availability of vaccines, both within and outside the EU. Both Sweden and the EU should say yes to the petitions made that countries and companies should be able to move away from intellectual property rights temporarily in order to import or manufacture vaccines, medicines and tests for covid-19 during the pandemic. It is far too slow to obtain vaccines, and it is the rich countries, such as Sweden, that have the opportunity to buy the expensive vaccine. The EU should do and can do more to push prices and make it easier for poorer countries to obtain vaccines. In this context, it is also worth mentioning that the EU, Sweden and other countries have contributed to the funding of research on vaccines and covid-19. This funding should also be reflected in pricing. Mr President, I would like to There are many good proposals in this report: extended support for risk groups and individual companies, additional support for culture and sport in the form of, among other things, new event support, child and young people's praise activities, continued efforts on vaccination against covid-19 and measures to combat further proliferation. Some of the proposals have also been pushed by the Left Party to bring forward. Hopefully, cultural and sports events support can make it easier for associations and companies who want to be able to plan for events to do so. With a certain degree of certainty in being able to get support for a larger part of the costs if the arrangement is cancelled, more people will dare to arrange. If the vaccinations succeed and we can begin to gather again this summer or this autumn, it is important that we also have arrangements to gather on and around. Associations, theatres, orchestras and other organizers need to get started in order for it to remain. The Government has acted quickly on behalf of the Riksdag to propose the form of support, which is positive. Mr President, I would like to Aid to enterprises is not comprehensive. A lot of entrepreneurs end up between the chairs and do not fit into the regulations. While some go bankrupt, others can receive state aid and then make dividends. While Sandvik and Volvo are making dividends, despite receiving state support, it is tearing down the underpaid and understaffed health workers. Nowadays, I don't even think they'll get any applause as a thank you. Volvo has laid off thousands of employees and received over 1 billion in crisis support from the state. Yet this year the company pays out 118 million in bonuses to its management. No party other than the Left Party wants to change the rules to prevent these dividends. Should Volvo's management not be satisfied with applause? Do they really need multimillion-dollar bonuses too? There are many million bonuses that we have all been involved in paying, the pensioner as well as the teacher and assistant nurse. Taxpayers – hard-working people, sick people and pensioners – are allowed to play a full part in saving jobs and businesses in the crisis. The management of the rescued companies thanks for the money and celebrates with some bonuses, although it was the taxpayer, not the management, who saved the company. It stings in the eyes, but no party but the Left Party wants to do something about it. On the Left side, we would also like to emphasise, as we do in our special opinion, that we want a more balanced response to the economic crisis. It is not sustainable to provide support to the business community of hundreds of billions of SEK, while there is a great lack of resources in, for example, elderly care and healthcare. Many households have been hit hard by the crisis in the wake of increased unemployment and the possible disappearance of extra jobs. The Left Party has made and will make a series of proposals aimed at strengthening the economy of households, strengthening welfare and pushing down unemployment. Although I said earlier that health professionals do not even receive applause as a thank-you, in this report they still receive tax-free free parking and do not need to tax gifts. Compared to Volvo's CEO's 21 million bonus paid by taxpayers, it is of course small crumbs, but it is always something not to have to estimate for the modest gifts you receive as a thank you for your work, gifts that are to some extent to support the local business community, as Åsa Westlund pointed out in her speech. Mr President, I would like to The Coronapendem touches all of us. Some of us are lucky and do not know anyone who has died or been given long-term covid. Others of us have lost loved ones. But we are all affected in different ways. Over a year of restrictions on where we can go and who we can meet is killing people and society. It can be seen from people's anger against the nurse who has Astra in his syringe. It can be seen on the tone of social media. It can be seen in so many different ways. It is my hope that we will soon overcome the pandemic and that life can return to normal or at least something like that when normal. Some of the proposals in this report are steps in the right direction. I therefore support the proposal in the report.
i-f2999c5907a82396-113	Mr President, I would like to The Coronapendem and the Corona crisis swept over Sweden about a year ago and still characterize our everyday life in a more or less clear way. For some people, it means working at home, sitting in front of a computer and having meetings in Zoom instead of meeting your colleagues at work. For some, it has meant having more time to spend with the family and the garden. For others, the effect is much more important. Anyone who works in an intensive care department in Sweden has it very tough and has had it for a very long time. It's tough going to work. For 13 to 14 months, this has marked one's working life. Some in their vicinity have had a loved one who has been affected and died. Mr President, I would like to On the political side, the most important thing must be to do what is necessary to ensure health and life, but also jobs and entrepreneurs. The amending budget that is now at Parliament's table is precisely about that. It is about us making a variety of efforts to ensure that Sweden's entrepreneurs can keep their life's work and thus retain their employees. It's about work, but it's also about flesh and blood. It is people who see that what they have created with their bare hands now risks going up in smoke because a virus spread around our planet. An important part of this is, of course, about the vaccine. You have to be brutally honest and honest in this House. The EU's management and strategy of the vaccine has been a failure. During the pandemic, it has been clear that the US strategy both in terms of health care and in the management of corona has been much worse than the one we have had in Sweden. But the United States now vaccinates 3 million people every day. In the UK, which has now unfortunately left the EU, it has chosen to do this on its own, and it is much further ahead than in Sweden and in the rest of Europe. It cannot be described in any other way than as a failure. What we can do from a Swedish horizon is do what we can to ensure that more people can vaccinate themselves. What we are deciding on in the budget today is part of this that is very important. But must be frank and say that the European Union's handling of this has been a failure. The disappointment of all of us is very great over this. Mr President, I would like to We are now extending with the supplementary amending budget a range of support available to Swedish entrepreneurs and to Swedish jobs. It is a question of extending the possibility of postponing taxes. It is about different types of conversion and turnover aid and a variety of reforms that are basically about ensuring that as many people as possible have a job to go to. As few people as possible should have to be thrown out into uncertainty and unemployment, and as many people as possible should retain the community of the workplace and the security and joy of having a job to go to. This budget also includes support for the sports and cultural sector, which is a very important part of Swedish society. It now has the opportunity to carry out a range of activities that could not otherwise have been carried out with the support of events. It also includes support that is about children and young people being able to do holiday activities. It can be combined with the fact that during weekends, evenings and holidays they can go to school more to catch up on the tremendous knowledge they have now suffered. We see the emergence of a corona generation in Swedish school. It is not the same to sit in front of a screen at home as to meet your teacher in the classroom. The consequences of this can be very great when children and young people do not learn to read, write and count well enough. We see a corona generation that is in danger of falling behind and not having sufficient knowledge. It is an important task for politics to ensure that all children receive the education they are entitled to and that all children learn enough. Mr President, I would like to Swedish politics has taken responsibility, and the Liberals have taken responsibility during the crisis. We see our role as pushing for reforms in the field of education and justice and, above all, ensuring that, during the crisis, health care has its place and that we can secure jobs at a very difficult time. Of course, there are some things that could have been done better. Much of this has happened for a very short time on the horizon that we need to get reforms in place under time constraints. It is clear that there are individual reforms that could have been better pursued. But the overall picture from most assessors is that during the Corona crisis economic policy has been quite good. It has been about investing up to SEK 400 billion in ensuring that welfare is expanded, that health care receives its own, that the school receives sufficient money and that elderly care receives sufficient money. It is also a question of ensuring that there are reforms that enable companies to survive and retain their employees. We make sure that as many people as possible have a job to go to. There are parts of this that could have been done better. But much of it has been done in a very good way. Much of this has also been done in a broad collaboration in Swedish politics where all parties have shown themselves from their best side and in a constructive spirit helped to improve. There, the political game has been less important, and taking responsibility for Sweden has been more important. We welcome this from the Liberals. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I would like to support the committee's proposal in the report. I see it as part of the solid work that we must continue to do to ensure that Swedish jobs are secured in the future.
i-f2999c5907a82396-125	Mr President, I would like to When you go through the supplementary amending budget that we are debating here today, you get a picture of all the efforts that are currently being made in Sweden. It is about all the people who adapt their lives and, above all, all the activities that have changed and are doing what is needed right now. It is everything from school and of course care and care to cultural activities, associations and leisure activities. Everyone has made an effort to reset and adapt the business and reach out as well as possible right now. I would also like to remind you of all those at risk who have had to make major adjustments to their lives and what has been done by the authorities to enable those at risk to take the measures they need. Anyone who feels the slightest symptom should be able to stay at home without hesitation: Should I? Can I lose my income on it? These are practical matters such as the fact that sick leave does not require a medical certificate. Many of these measures to make this possible economically are being extended today. It is a good and important reminder of how much effort is being made to manage the pandemic in the best way. We're in the middle of it. The spread of infection is high. The pressure on IVA around the country is very high. There's a lot of care that can't be done at this point. We need to bring that forward. In order to increase clarity, we are telling in this budget that many subsidies will be linked to the vaccination target. We say that as long as we are still vaccinating the population, there will be reason to provide support. There will be some clarity in the future. We will have to have a discussion later when we try to assess what society will look like when we have achieved the goal of vaccination. We need to live with the fact that we haven't conjured away this terrible virus. We have a summer ahead of us. It will present new challenges. It is extremely important for children and young people in particular. They've had to make sacrifices. We receive signals that they are moving less, partly because many activities have not been able to be carried out. It is important that we and society are there so that children and young people get meaningful activities during the holidays. Those who are big enough will have the opportunity to apply and get a summer vacation job. We know how extremely important it is in young people's lives to test working life early. It will be more difficult to get it on the private market this year. Therefore, it is relevant and important that the public is there to offer summer vacation jobs. It is also important that those who have had digital education where this has affected their results have the opportunity to retrieve what they have missed during the holidays. These are further adjustments that we will make during the summer. One big question for a lot of people right now is how to think ahead. What types of events, opportunities to meet, concerts or for that matter party events can we plan in the future? We do not yet have the full answer to that question. There is a lot of regional dialogue between event organisers and regional protection of infection, and this is important, because not all types of events will be able to take place. It is therefore relevant that we also go in with support to make the events infectious. This may mean that the events need to be more expensive, and then there is support that can be sought to make them infectious. But some events will be cancelled. Therefore, an insurance solution is now being introduced for them. It is important that we now start to think about, yearn for and hope for the society that we can return to, where we meet again, crowd again and enjoy culture and performances again. There the communities gather again for services, funerals, and baptisms. These are important parts of everyone's life. We shall long for it and dare to plan for it. We need to do it in a conversation. The economy needs the public to take responsibility for quite a large part of it. We do so to some extent with this budget. It is part of the budget that stands out. It is an emergency solution as the Riksdag does. I think this is proof of how we have been able to gather together and have a very close cooperation between the government and the Riksdag and how the parties in the Riksdag have been able to cooperate. About two weeks ago, a message came from the EU about new procurements and new possibilities to buy vaccines. Then it was important to respond quickly in order to be able to participate. That is why we are taking an exceptional measure in this budget and increasing the public health authority's ability to conclude new contracts with as much as 10 billion. In normal parliamentary work, it would have been unthinkable to take such a large measure quickly. It would have been prepared for a long time in an ordinary world. But now we're not in an ordinary world. We are in a world where we must be able to act quickly because the possibility of buying in large quantities of vaccines is the most important thing now, as is the possibility of ensuring that many are vaccinated. That is why I am proud and pleased that our parliamentary system has such agility and can act so quickly that we can already tell the Public Health Authority today that they can participate in European cooperation and buy large quantities of vaccines. Now our hope is that we get large amounts of vaccines, that we get them into the population and that many accept the shot. That's what's our key to freedom. With this, I would like to call for the committee's proposal to be approved.
i-f2999c5907a82396-141	Before the debate begins, I would like to inform you that many speakers have signed up for this debate and for most of the other debates today. The debates will therefore last longer than previously announced. It is therefore not certain that all matters will have time to be debated before 23 p.m. The debates that remain at 23 p.m. are last placed on tomorrow's working plenum. I would ask all the speakers to take this into account during the debate. I would also like to remind you that the President and the group leaders agree to recommend mouth protection in this House and the chamber foyer when distance cannot be kept. Anyone who speaks in this Chamber does not need to wear a mask. Mouth protection provided by the Riksdag administration must be worn with the blue side outwards. When you take off your mouthguard to speak in the speaker's chair, throw it directly into the trash bin next to the speaker's chair. The mouthguard shall not be placed on a table, a speaker's chair or a chair, but shall be placed directly in a trash basket intended for oral protection. When you are finished, put on a new mouthguard, which you will find at the speaker's seat. Use hand disinfection both before and after talking. In each bench there are plastic bags if you need to take off a mouthguard where you sit. Do not leave used masks at your place in the chamber, and otherwise follow the instructions that apply and that are on each bench.
i-f2999c5907a82396-145	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the clear instructions on how to handle security here! I can admit that I immediately had to redo and do the right thing. Today we are debating the government's letter International Defence Cooperation. I think it is a good thing that the Parliament is presented by the Minister for Defence and the Government of the various collaborations in which we as a country operate and participate. The Moderates have been the driving force for us to receive this letter, not least Hans Wallmark, who is taking part in this debate. I myself have welcomed us to have it. I think it is good that we have a general knowledge of what the reality is and what we are actually involved in in cooperation. There's nothing to hide, and there's nothing to be ashamed of. What we have here is a description of a web of different collaborations. These are collaborations with the Nordic countries, with the EU, with the UK, with the USA and with NATO. They go in a slightly different direction and have a slightly different focus. It is about materials, exercises and exchanging information and knowledge with each other. These are the benefits of all those involved in cooperation. This creates opportunities for Sweden to be able to get help in the future if necessary, but we do so on the basis that we will be able to decide how we need help in the future. I assume that Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist will describe the various cooperations more closely. They are, of course, in their details more defence policy than security policy, which otherwise is what I mostly deal with in the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Nevertheless, I would like to emphasise that it is a good thing that it is a diversity and that we do not put it all on one card. The realistic thing is that if the worst happens it will not only affect Sweden but also a wide range of countries around us. It also probably means that we cannot completely fend for ourselves without the help of others and that others are likely to need our help. Then it is good to have these collaborations. But it is also realistic not to know exactly how things turn out in the possible distant future. Then you should not commit yourself exactly to how the Swedish aid and the Swedish collaborations should be used. We know what's been but not what's coming. We should be well prepared and flexible when – possibly, at worst – the worst happens. At the same time, there is a value in the mosaic of security policy arrangements that exist in our part of the world. The different countries in the Nordic countries and around the Baltic Sea play different roles. We have different historical backgrounds to our safety policy choices and arrangements. Some are in NATO, some are not. Sweden and Finland are not. This is a situation that is a fragile plant and one should be careful to change the conditions for it. We know what we have today, but we know very little about what we can get tomorrow. That is why I find it worrying that a majority in Parliament in December, in a short time and without any further preparation, pushed through a so-called NATO option. Unfortunately, the Moderates, the Centers, the Liberals, the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats through this action have created far more questions about Swedish security policy than solutions. The ambiguities that those parties have contributed to creating do not serve Swedish security. Lack of clarity is never good for safety. The Swedish Government's line is solid. It has declared this – the Minister for Defence and the Minister for Foreign Affairs did so recently in an article in Dagens Nyheter. And I think it's wise that it does. The security policy line serves both Sweden and our neighbourhood best. As I said, Mr President, we should be careful to change the conditions for the fragile plant that the safety mosaic in our region is. With that, Mr President, I would like to support the committee's proposal in the report, except in paragraph 4, in which I request the approval of the Social Democrats, the Environment Party and the Left.
i-f2999c5907a82396-155	Mr President, I would like to On the table of Parliament is now for debate and decision a letter from the government, entitled International Defence Cooperation. It is estimated that the Red-Green Government is making itself known in this way in the area of security policy. The Moderates have pushed for that to happen, and it has now been forced forward. Perhaps that is a conclusion the ruling Social Democrats and the Green Party would draw. When the Moderates make demands, the crumbukten and the attempts to avoid only unnecessary and laborious detours are. We demanded that the Defence Committee be called back as a precondition for reaching a defence decision. It was a re-arranged defense preparation and a defense decision. We requested a Gui Minhai Commission, and despite initial active opposition from S and MP, all eight parties of the Riksdag were finally able to support an independent review of the cases of Gui Minhai and Dawit Isaak. We called for a letter on international defence cooperation. And, Mr President, here it is. Now we are saying very clearly that the government should call all eight parties of the Riksdag into consultation on the security policy line. The situation has changed on an important point, as an overwhelming majority of the members of the Riksdag through five parties now stand behind a so-called Swedish NATO option. S, V and MP reserve. M, C, KD, L and SD are in favour. Does anyone ring a bell? Yes, the government side is against a NATO option, clearly and clearly since the Parliament endorsed such a proposal. But we have parliamentary democracy in Sweden. A government must relate to the country's main political assembly in the form of its parliament. The red-green base is also shrinking. In a separate opinion, the Left Party states that they certainly do not want a clarified security policy line but that they do not support the government's security policy line because they are critical of the government's approach to NATO, among other things. Mr President, I would like to I can quote directly from the report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs: In the political discussion that has arisen following the announcement by the Riksdag to the government that Sweden should pronounce a NATO option in its security policy line, the government argues that a cross caste should be avoided in security policy. The government must then ensure broad support for Sweden's security policy on the basis of the Riksdag's announcement, thereby clarifying an established Swedish security policy line. At present, it has weak support and appears to contain both sharp caste and great uncertainties. ..................................................... Mr President, I would like to Let me not only dwell on form but also on substance. In addition to the fact that five parties are behind the idea of a Swedish NATO option, the Moderates and other parties are also pushing the idea of a Swedish NATO membership. Only in this way can Sweden's safety really be secured. Here, too, the government parties are frantic. We would like to see enhanced cooperation with NATO, but for partisan reasons the Social Democrats cannot be able to open up to membership, even though this is precisely the obvious defence and security position of social democrats in Norway, Denmark, Germany, the United Kingdom, Spain and several countries. Essential is also never to hesitate, never to waver. In accordance with the Helsinki Act of 1975, each country has the right to make its own safety policy choices on our continent – itself, of its own accord. And here you Social Democrats have shuddered. The chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee, the sympathetic Kenneth G Forslund, has himself written at the debate place in the Gothenburg-Post together with two Social Democratic colleagues: A Swedish entry into NATO also risks increasing uncertainty and damaging stability in our neighbourhood. Russia will perceive Swedish membership as a provocation. ..................................................... Mr President, I would like to In recent years, the international situation has become increasingly uncertain, both in Sweden's immediate vicinity and globally. This is something that has also been emphasised in the near future by authorities such as Must, FRA and Säpo. These are traditional military threats, such as the Russian armament and the country's increasingly aggressive policy against its neighbours. Now in real time, the drama is being followed with a powerful military march on the borders of Ukraine. These exist at the same time as hybrid threats such as cyber attacks, misinformation and espionage are increasing. It's about a whole palette of threats. The change in the world around us requires us in Sweden to review the options available to strengthen our security. If the world changes for the worse, it is not good enough, as the government does, to think reflexively that formulations about military alliance freedom solves Sweden's security challenges. It is not a matter of believing, hoping or wishing, but of knowing. The Social Democrats are against Swedish membership, yet they expect NATO to come to our aid. The whole of Swedish defence planning is based on this. The Secretary of Defense himself said in the Riksdag, speaking of the placement of new regiments, when the defense decision was made last year: It is clear that this is linked to a support from the West side. It's nothing to hymn about, isn't it? To express oneself from the Social Democratic side in terms of the fact that membership would have negative consequences for our position in the world and, at the same time, build its entire defence planning on aid from the NATO countries bordering on hypocrisy. Because of Sweden's close and deepened cooperation with NATO and the USA, in which the Social Democrats have been driving, Russia already sees Sweden more or less as a member of NATO – however, without having any common defence guarantees with the NATO countries. Mr President, I would like to The Government's letter lists defence cooperation with the rest of the Nordic countries within the framework of Nordefco. It is also about the Nordic and Baltic countries. It is about the European Intervention Initiative, also known as the EI2, with France. It is about Joint Expeditionary Force, JEF, with the United Kingdom and Framework Nation Concept with Germany and a trilateral agreement between Sweden, Finland and the United States. All this is good. All of this we welcome Moderates. In some of these projects we have been driving recurring questions to a Minister of Defence who has not wanted to answer about when and how Sweden could become part of EI2 or JEF but instead has slipped away until it has been presented as a fact. But – and this is an important one – it's about complements. All these important and valuable international defence cooperation can never replace the heavy value of full NATO membership in the form of collective guarantees and joint defence planning. It can never be as much as the Social Democrats hope, believe, wish and want it. Mr President, I would like to The letter also deals with the so-called European Peace Facility. There is no reason to criticise the fact that it has been opened up to this. But there's so much going on in the dark. This new instrument will have a budget of EUR 5 billion for the period 2021-2027 and will be financed through annual contributions from Member States. The purpose of the Facility is to enable the EU to complement its common security and defence policy missions and operations in host countries for the first time with what is described as a ‘aid measure', including through the provision of military and defence-related equipment, infrastructure and assistance, at the request of third countries or regional and international organisations. Thus, Sweden can directly or indirectly contribute to supplying war material to warring parties in armed conflicts, thus not only enabling exports but also financing them. Basically, this is an approach that is partly in contrast to the current legislation in Sweden that enables Swedish arms exports. It is notable that S and MP have now supported this facility without major and broader public debate. Mr President, I would like to No – we have nothing against rapprochement with NATO. After all, we are seeking membership. No – we have nothing against a sharper Europe. Yes – we want the Swedish people to know about the steps taken. I therefore call for the reservation to be rejected by S, V and MP, who do not want to see clarification of Sweden's security policy line, and for reservation 7, where four parties wish to see a Swedish NATO membership.
i-f2999c5907a82396-177	Mr President, I would like to Hans Wallmark is a text drinker of rank, but here he chooses to be a little selective when he renders what he has read in the Gothenburg-Post. For example, he does not give the final line in the said debate, in which I, together with Niklas Karlsson and Gunilla Carlsson, state that Sweden's possible NATO membership is not decided in Moscow, in Brussels or anywhere else. It is decided in Sweden, here in the Swedish Parliament, i.e. in Stockholm. The fact that in our first article we stated that possible Swedish membership of NATO in Russia would be seen as a provocation is not an argument against membership but a statement of a reality that cannot be ignored. Of course that is how it will be perceived in Russia. Of course, you have to include this in your calculations, but this is where we make the decisions. Hans Wallmark also makes a number of different moderate initiatives. When he describes a Socialist resistance, as well as opposition from the government, to these initiatives, it should be remembered that, for example, the initiative of a Gui Minhai Commission landed in a unanimous decision in committee and in this House about a Commission, with an announcement to the government to examine both the fates and handling of Minhais Gui and Dawit Isaak. It's a mission that looks significantly different from what the Moderates initially proposed. You should remember that. My question to Hans Wallmark is nevertheless: What practical changes actually create a Swedish NATO option?
i-f2999c5907a82396-181	Mr President, I would like to Let us note that Kenneth G Forslund is a really good companion. As he was the first speaker, I did not have the opportunity to ask for a reply to his speech. But now that he's taking a line on me, I have the opportunity to pick up a few threads from his speech. Let me first answer his question: I believe that the important thing about a Swedish NATO option, which the satisfactory majority of the Swedish Parliament is now behind, is that it is a signal of our own ability to act. It's a signal inwards, and it's a signal outwards. Mr President, I would like to I think it is excellent that Kenneth G Forslund, together with colleagues in his reply in the Gothenburg-Post, makes it clear that it is the right of every country to make safety policy choices. It came after Pål Jonson and I had written an answer to the first article by Kenneth G Forslund and others. Mr President, I would like to The last minute I was going to use to raise two issues from Kenneth G. Forslund's own speech. Firstly, Kenneth G. Forslund elegantly describes the security policy mosaic and that one should not commit to it. Then, Mr President, I do not understand why the Social Democrats with their beaks and claws are opposed to the idea of a NATO option. An option is only a signal of that possibility. That's getting another tool. It's not tying up, it's signaling inwards and outwards that it's up to us to decide what tools we should have. Secondly, Kenneth G. Forslund says that we should take help from others. What others? What kind of guarantees are there? There are hopes that other countries, possibly NATO countries, will stand up. You're basing all your policies on believing, hoping, wanting and wishing... but you can never know if you can get help from others.
i-f2999c5907a82396-186	Mr President, I would like to The NATO option is taken and inspired from Finland. The NATO option here is to confirm what is called NATO's open door policy, that is, what NATO itself has in its statutes that countries in Europe have the opportunity to apply for membership. Then there are a number of criteria for membership, both military and in terms of popular support. The NATO option in Finland is that it is recognised that this policy exists in NATO. It also exists without a NATO option. It should also be available for Sweden. We are a European country, and if we decide to go this way, we probably also have a majority in favour of it in the population. It is definitely the case that Sweden and Finland meet the military standards. The question is therefore still: what practical changes are actually creating a Swedish NATO option? I feel like you're breaking an open door. What it aims for in Finland and which was important in Finland about 25 years ago, namely to mark against Russia, is not a situation that Sweden has. What practical benefits does this make? It must of course be significant if it is to be worth what is negative about it: that it creates uncertainty about where Sweden is going. While there is a majority in favour of the NATO option, there is no majority in favour of NATO membership that Hans Wallmark wants but which Björn Söder and the Swedish Democrats do not want, as they say in the same breath.
i-f2999c5907a82396-190	Mr President, I would like to It is quite correct, as Kenneth G. Forslund says, that the Social Democrats' opposition to a Swedish NATO membership has the support of the Swedish Democrats. There is the political grouping of SD, S, MP and V. That is quite correct. Mr President, I would like to Kenneth G Forslund says that the Moderates, the Center Party, the Christian Democrats, the Swedish Democrats and the Liberals strike an open door by referring to and being inspired by the Finnish NATO option. But at the same time, Mr President, the Social Democrats are doing everything to ensure that the door is closed. If it is not a major step to take, why not accept the idea of an option supported by a majority of the Swedish Parliament? Kenneth G. Forslund says it creates uncertainty. But how has this created uncertainty in Finland? In fact, what the Social Democrats are now doing is undermining and undermining the Finnish position. It is exactly as it is said: the majority of Finnish parties are today opposed to Finnish NATO membership. This has been the case since 25 years ago, but it has been indicated that this tool is in the toolbox. Then it is also reasonable that, as we deepen our own cooperation with Finland, we have as similar structures and rules as possible. That is a reasonable basis for the NATO option, and I think that is also why the Swedish Democrats have joined this, even though they are on the side of the Social Democrats in being against Swedish NATO membership. The fundamental question that the Social Democrats have to answer is: If one says that the Finnish option does not matter so much, why is one at the same time opposed to introducing one in Sweden? That doesn't make any sense. Your security policy is limping. Invite for broad security policy talks with all parliamentary parties.
i-f2999c5907a82396-195	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Democrats agree with the starting point that international defence cooperation is one of the two legs in addition to a strong total defence on which Swedish security policy rests. That is why we take the issues of international defence cooperation very seriously and see that there are great opportunities for development in this area. The importance of this issue cannot be overemphasised in relation to the worrying developments in security policy in Europe. The letter that the government has now presented is basically a good one. Various defence collaborations are addressed and presented. However, there is considerable potential for improvement in several areas. Among these areas, in particular, is an issue in which all parties wishing to increase Swedish defence capacity should be united, namely the need for a clear priority among the cooperations mentioned. This priority needs to be based on the priority states and organisations and on the priority areas for action. It is crucial that priority work is done where you dare to choose what is important and what primarily strengthens Swedish defence capabilities. Strengthening defence capabilities must be the priority. The letter presents a very broad range of collaborations with both states and organisations, and it is gratifying that Sweden has broad collaborations and is a sought-after partner. However, there is a lack of priority that is clear and justified according to the needs of total defence. Within each cooperation, it needs to be identified what is the practical benefit for Sweden. The resources for cooperation are limited by the authorities to carry them out, especially as several of them are in a strong phase of growth. Here a major and important development needs to be made, not least in order to show that the political level dares to be clear about what is ordered from the authorities. Mr President, I would like to Another point I would like to make is more forward-looking and specifically concerns Swedish-Finnish cooperation. This cooperation is of great importance for the development of Sweden's total defence based on the threat picture that exists. Cooperation has developed over the last few years, which is very gratifying. Unfortunately, however, there are no clear objectives for what we want cooperation to develop into. Here the government needs to state clearly that Sweden wants the two states to enter into a defensive defence alliance. Such a defense alliance has the ability to be clearly elevating against military aggression. There are several reasons for this, including the fact that there was then a strategic depth. Both the Finnish and Swedish armed forces are also deeply interoperable, and there are many promising Swedish-Finnish collaborations that have great development potential. Sweden and Finland are also two countries that are very close culturally and share a very long common history. This story is also based on our helping each other in the event of abuse. We believe that it is reasonable to build on this history and clearly show that Sweden attaches so much importance to our solidarity with Finland, not least because today, as in the past, it also benefits Swedish national interests. That is why we want cooperation to develop into a defence alliance. Mr President, I would like to This brings me to the last point, which we, together with a majority of parliamentary parties, advocate, namely that Sweden should clearly declare a NATO option, just as Finland did over 20 years ago. The reasons why a NATO option favours Swedish defence capabilities are several, not least that it favours Swedish-Finnish cooperation and provides an opportunity for further integration in the field of defence policy between countries. Common security policy starting points provide increased opportunities for cooperation. Therefore, a Swedish and a Finnish NATO option is something that promotes enhanced cooperation. The Finnish NATO option has benefited Finland, and it is reasonable to see that a similar NATO option will also benefit Sweden. Especially now in the context of the strengthened security policy, it is reasonable to introduce a NATO option to signal Swedish self-determination and that we will not be guided by other states in our security policy choices. It also gives authorities and authorities in Sweden additional opportunities to prepare for enhanced cooperation with NATO if the security policy situation requires it. It is also an advantage that Sweden and Finland can act similarly in their cooperation with NATO. The Finnish investigation into possible NATO membership of the country clearly pointed to these needs for interaction between Finland and Sweden regarding NATO, as well as the fact that the investigation pointed to the risks of Finland or Sweden joining NATO without the other country joining NATO. Mr President, I would like to As far as the introduction of the NATO option is concerned, the government is acting strangely. While it is now being written to the Constitutional Committee that the question of Parliament's motion for a NATO option is not finished, the media and public debate are taking place and killing the issue. It is therefore not intended to respect decisions made by the majority here in Parliament. The government creates a great lack of clarity about Swedish security policy. It is also for this reason that we will now make a new announcement to the government to clarify security policy. What does the government want with defence cooperation with, for example, the EU and NATO? It is not clear here. In the EU section, the government limits the scope of Sweden's solidarity policy by linking it to EU membership. This gives the impression, as the committee writes, of excluding our Nordic neighbours who are not members of the EU. This, of course, increases uncertainty about Swedish security policy. It can be said that the line advocated by the government has very little support in this House – only one third. We therefore believe that it would be a good time to invite all of Parliament's parties to wide-ranging talks in order to ensure broad support for Sweden's security policy and thus also clarify an established Swedish security policy line. Mr President, I would like to It is the development of security policy that should guide the direction of defence policy cooperation, not wishful thinking or unwillingness to see the negative developments that are now taking place. Strengthening Swedish security must be the overall goal. The way things are now, it's a matter of urgency. Finally, I would like to support the proposal in the committee's report, except under paragraphs 1 and 9. In this regard, I would ask you to accept reservation 1. For time winning, I would like to inform you that we are, of course, in favour of both of our reservations, but we choose to apply for consent to reservation 1 only.
i-f2999c5907a82396-209	Mr President, I would like to Björn Söder represents a party which, like the Social Democrats, as Hans Wallmark points out, is against a Swedish NATO membership. But why does a party that is against a Swedish NATO membership need a NATO option? What practical changes does Björn Söder think that a Swedish NATO option creates?
i-f2999c5907a82396-210	Mr President, I would like to After careful consideration and analysis, we have come to the conclusion that Swedish membership of NATO would not be beneficial either for stability in our neighbourhood or for Swedish security policy. The practical usefulness of a NATO option is, among other things, to ensure a allocation of resources to the Armed Forces, since it is necessary to meet a certain minimum requirement to join NATO. Then we make it impossible in future to use the Swedish Armed Forces in the same way as they did before, namely as a cash cow that you can take money from to fund other reforms in society. Then there is the question of harmonising the Swedish approach to security policy with Finland's view. This is a step in the direction we wish to take, namely the creation of a defensive defence alliance with Finland. Like Hans Wallmark, a similar approach and similar structures promote closer cooperation. Then an option sends an important signal to the outside world that we have this tool in the toolbox to be able to apply for membership in the future. We don't know what the future holds. It may well be that if X years come, we will make an analysis showing that the situation for Sweden is such that an application for membership would be beneficial for Swedish security policy. Then there is also that possibility.
i-HyDzAuH9UQ7rMNnkzmmTcz	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Björn Söder, for the answers! The level of funding for defence is an important issue for the Swedish Democrats. I can certainly admit that. But what is in the NATO option that prevents future Parliaments from deviating financially from the 2% target, to which I assume Björn Söder refers? Björn Söder points to harmonisation with Finland. When has Finland indicated that we have problems with the harmony between us in our defence cooperation and that we would need a Swedish NATO option to make the cooperation between Sweden and Finland work better? My picture is that the cooperation works very well and is very much appreciated. It also deepens very much, which we have decided on here in the Swedish parliament and all parties are behind – a wise policy. That was the idea of the future. What future? How close or far away in the future? It is precisely this, Mr President, which creates uncertainty as to where Sweden is going, and uncertainty is bad for safety.
i-f2999c5907a82396-217	Mr President, I would like to I would say that it is the Social Democrats who create this uncertainty by not following the line adopted by the majority in this House, namely the introduction of the NATO option. As the report in Finland on NATO membership points out, it is important that there is cooperation between Sweden and Finland regarding possible membership of NATO in the future. Of course, it is also true that if we have a harmonisation of our views, then it facilitates cooperation. We're not there now. Similarly, we are not there now to create a defensive defence alliance, because the government has not been clear on how to develop Swedish-Finnish cooperation if you want to go in this direction either. We want to. Although there is no obstacle today that we do not have a NATO option and there may not be any obstacle in the future, it is clearly helpful if we have a common understanding of things. It is certainly the case that Parliament could decide in the future to reduce the funding for the Armed Forces despite the NATO option. But then I see it as another betrayal. Not only do they not provide sufficient funds for the defence capabilities to which the Swedish people are entitled, but they also fail to make a promise if they have the NATO option. I see it as a little bit of a guarantor, because if we are to be able to apply for membership, we have a minimum level we have to live up to. Not many of the NATO countries are doing so today. They have started to go that way, but in the past they have not delivered according to what they should. But I still see it as a guarantee that we will receive the funds that the Armed Forces will have to guarantee our security, and I think it is positive to have the NATO option. It is the Social Democrats who create uncertainty about Swedish defence capabilities, because at the same time as stepping up cooperation with NATO, they say no to such a thing. I can understand why you do not want to go all the way and become a member of NATO. Neither do we. But you are not really saying what you want in relation to NATO.
i-f2999c5907a82396-223	Mr President, I would like to The security policy environment in our immediate region, in the Baltic Sea region and in the Arctic has deteriorated significantly. Russia's actions clearly show that they do not respect the agreements made or the European security regime. Russia has clearly shown that it does not hesitate to seek to change borders in our Europe by military means. It is equally clear that the Kremlin does not respect the security policy choices and cooperation of free states. We have seen this on our continent before. We know that the Kremlin dreams of ancient times and by all means wants to destabilise democracies and push forward its sphere of interest regardless of the state's security policy stance. International defence cooperation enhances our defence military capabilities, and interoperability serves an important security policy objective. Cooperation strengthens Sweden's national security. Alone is not strong. Through the international defence cooperation that the government reports in the letter, we signal to our friends and like-minded people that we want to build security together in action and not just in words. We are expressing unilateral solidarity, but so far we have not been prepared to provide security guarantees for that solidarity. That's what our friends and even possible attackers see. We are helping to raise the conflict-resisting threshold, but unfortunately not fully. For the Center Party, it is important that Sweden's actions in the event of a crisis or war are predictable. There should be no doubt that in Sweden we act for the security of our and our democratic neighbours whenever it is threatened by other countries. We want to work together to strengthen the democratic values that unite us. No one should doubt where we stand and what we do. We stand up for a clear, guaranteed, solidarity-based security policy. Mr President, I would like to I am in favour of reservation 3 in paragraph 3, although I naturally support all our reservations. Mr President, I would like to The EU is Sweden's most important foreign and security policy arena, and NATO is the central player for EU territorial security through the collective security guarantees. NATO is the central forum for security policy dialogue, now not only with the US and Canada – the transatlantic link – but also with the UK. For Sweden as a small country in northern Europe and the EU with a clearly deteriorating security policy environment, it is important to shape a clear and predictable security policy. The Swedish Parliament, like the Swedish Defence Committee and the Government, concluded that an attack on Sweden cannot be ruled out. Here NATO is undoubtedly the decisive conflict-responsive actor. An ever closer military cooperation between Sweden and Finland is important and has our full support, and closer cooperation bilaterally in the Nordic countries and with the UK and others we welcome. However, only NATO can give us security guarantees. We see it as a natural step for Sweden to confirm our solidarity policy in action and make it clear to our close partners, as stated in the letter, that we do not hesitate if anyone is attacked militarily. Our partners, like us, want to see action and not freedom of action or doubt whether the worst would happen. The latter approach creates uncertainty. That teaches us the story, too. Mr President, I would like to When the Center Party says that we want Sweden to apply for membership of NATO, it is obviously a national position it is about, but we would like it to happen together with Finland. Of course, we do not want to give any country a veto over such a central security policy decision. In the same way, it is of course Finland that decides its security policy positions. It is important to be clear about this. It is also important that we have a lively debate on NATO membership in Sweden. Closer military cooperation cannot and must not assume that Swedish NATO membership is out of the question. It is an attitude that today lacks support in the Swedish Parliament. It is an attitude that lacks support in the Finnish Parliament. Finland has, after all, since the VSB Pact ended, taken the step and expressed a so-called NATO option and thus signalled to Russia that it chooses for itself in Finland and sees NATO as an opportunity. It is an opening that a majority in the Swedish Parliament has now also pronounced. It is not the same as applying for membership, but it is, like Finland, to pronounce the possibility of applying for membership. But even that possibility does not seem to the authors of the Gothenburg-Post and Dagens Nyheter to be able to see before them. When I read the articles by the chairman of the committee and others, I see that they refer to Russia, as has been said earlier, seeing membership as a provocation. The articles may be appreciated by the Kremlin; we have been able to take note of this, among other things, at Lavrov's press conference with Ann Linde. They see that they have succeeded with their impact and hope that Sweden will lower its credibility in order for Finland to apply for membership. Finland's NATO option is thus devalued in practice by the Swedish Government. Russia has accepted that Finland reserves the right to decide for itself – the same right that Ukraine and Georgia want and that our Baltic neighbours sought after the occupation ceased. Sweden should decide our own way, and the government should listen more to the Riksdag than to the Kremlin and Lavrov. Sweden should not allow a Russian sphere of interest to develop – not even a sphere of interest light, for example five three plus one, as we are talking about. Madam President, I would like In December last year, the Parliament decided to call on the government, like Finland, to issue a NATO option in Sweden's security policy. I and the Center Party expected the government to heed this position and invite them to talk in order to seek a broad consensus on Sweden's security policy line. We expected this to happen in connection with the government's foreign policy declaration, but not so. On the contrary, the government was completely toneless and reiterated the security policy line which today is only supported by the Social Democrats and the Green Party. The government claims that the doctrine of security policy is clear and predictable. Where a responsible government would have secured broad support, the government has now instead lost support for its security policy stance. This is serious and contributes to increasing uncertainty and ambiguity. In addition, the government can set a precedent for another government to formulate its own security policy without regard to the majority of the parliament and without seeking broad support. This violates the way we historically handled similar situations and does not help to make Swedish security policy predictable and clear to either our friends or potential attackers. It is against this background, Madam President, that the Center Party has demanded and today has the support of Parliament to announce to the government that the security policy line needs to be clarified. It is our hope that the government will now listen. This can be done in different ways, but most recently when the government is shaping a new national security strategy. The Center Party assumes that the government has at the latest listened to the Riksdag. With this, I support the committee's proposal and the rejection of reservation 4 in paragraph 4, Madam President.
i-f2999c5907a82396-242	Madam President, I would like Kerstin Lundgren also chooses to read a little selectively from the debate articles that have been published. I would therefore like to begin by emphasising that in our final line we are clear that decisions on Swedish membership of NATO or not are taken in Sweden, in the Riksdag here in Stockholm – not in Washington, Brussels or Moscow. My question to Kerstin Lundgren is: Do Kerstin Lundgren and the Center Party believe that a Swedish membership of NATO would not lead to any reactions, changes or position movements in Russia? We mean by what we write that one must be open and honest and state that one must expect Russia to change its behaviour and draw consequences from membership. This is a statement, not an argument. But how does the Center Party view this? Will Russia not change at all with a Swedish NATO membership?
i-f2999c5907a82396-244	Madam President, I would like It is nevertheless interesting that it is in the final line that the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs is clear that it is Sweden that should decide on Swedish security policy and on NATO membership or not. That is not where it started, but a clarification in that part is welcome. However, one can think, Madam President, about why it has to be done and why the Social Democrats and the Green Party are so very cautious and afraid of how Russia will react. Do the government and Kenneth G Forslund believe that Lavrov neither hears nor sees what Sweden does? It's kind of like when we talk about child rearing, Madam President – it's not what you say, it's what you do being read by. If you read the letter from the government about our cooperation that is now on the table of the Riksdag, you can see the steps we have taken. This is, of course, already committed by Russia. We are not non-aligned today; we are in a political alliance, the European Union. It is disliked by Russia, but we are members. And we are expressing a policy of solidarity. The only thing I could imagine, as Russia is considering, is why we do not want security guarantees. We still hope – or do the Social Democrats possibly not? – that the NATO countries should stand up and help in the event of the worst happening and we would be the subject of an attack. There is no military cooperation with Russia. They're the threat we have in our immediate environment.
i-f2999c5907a82396-248	Madam President, I would like After all, we live in a region where, unfortunately, tensions have increased over the last ten years. My aim and that of the Social Democrats is to try to reduce tensions. This does not seem possible in the near future, and that is why we are upgrading our defenses. But we also point out that what we do has consequences. If we can do things that have the consequence that tensions are increasing further, are they wise to do or not? We need to think about this. But it is clear that it depends on whether or not you think they increase the tension. I think it is a problem that the Center Party and other parties advocating NATO membership make it very simple and problem-free – that we join a comrade club and end up in happy friends' teams. But it also has consequences. Or doesn't the Center Party see it that way? Will Russia change nothing in its behaviour and structures when it joins? I do not mean that this is an argument against membership, but I think you have to be honest and say that is the case when you think that is the case. But doesn't the Center Party think that's the case? I did not, as I understood it, get an answer to that question in the previous reply by Kerstin Lundgren.
i-f2999c5907a82396-252	Madam President, I would like The tension has increased, and this is due to Russia's actions. Russia is today a threat to several of our neighbours. They are at the borders of Ukraine, and we do not know what is happening now that Putin is speaking in the Duma. Russia is an active threat to our environment. That is why, together, we have strengthened our military defence and are building up total defence. That is also why we work very closely together. Madam President, I would have asked the question, but it is, of course, too late now. The question is: What do the Social Democrats want their freedom of action for? Do the Social Democrats, if Russia were to attack some of our neighbours, want the freedom to say no, we stay at home – we do nothing? We must be clear that we will be there. It is then a security guarantee that is clear to our neighbours, and we in the Center Party believe that Russia is counting on us to give, even if we darken by saying that we do not want to be members of NATO and do not want or give security guarantees. This contributes to uncertainty among our neighbours, but it certainly does not contribute to uncertainty in Russia. They have already counted us as NATO players.
i-f2999c5907a82396-255	Madam President, I would like During Peter Hultqvist's time as Minister of Defence, Sweden has started several military collaborations with other states. These collaborations can usually be initiated by the government itself and only need to inform the Riksdag about. Several of these collaborations have been somewhat unclear in their form, but above all in their demarcation and in relation to other military collaborations. Therefore, the Left Party, the Moderates and other parties have highlighted that the Riksdag needs a letter about Sweden's defence cooperation. It was during Parliament's threat of an announcement that the Minister of Defence changed his mind and announced that a letter would come, and it has proved to be a wise decision. I would therefore like to begin by welcoming the letter from the government, both its form and its clear content. Through the letter, the government has made clear what different defence collaborations mean and what is the government's view. The letter has also made clear what distinguishes other parties from the government in their respective accompanying movements. The Left Party's follow-up motion is in principle almost as long and detailed as the government's letter and takes up our view of international defence cooperation. Madam President, I would like During Peter Hultqvist's time as Minister of Defence, military cooperation has started on a continuous basis without any major political debate. All these collaborations are with fully functioning democracies, but often the collaborations have been with former colonial powers and current nuclear states. However, it is not only bilaterally with other countries that Hultqvist has initiated several military cooperations. Even within NATO, but above all within the EU, military approaches have moved quickly. This is an alarming development which risks making Sweden appear to be an unofficial member of the NATO nuclear alliance. Madam President, I would like Which way should Sweden then take? Yes, the Left Party notes that the freedom of alliance has served us and our environment well. The military freedom of alliance has contributed to the fact that generation after generation in Sweden has been able to live in peace. The freedom of military alliances has also given us a freedom of foreign policy that has enabled Sweden to play an important international role in peace and disarmament when there has been a political will for it. However, Sweden has slowly but surely increasingly departed from a traditional and successful security policy based on military alliance freedom, disarmament, peaceful solutions to conflicts, strong support for the UN and solidarity with the Third World. Since we became members of the European Union, the European Union, Swedish military alliance freedom has been increasingly eroded. Today, we are contributing to the militarisation of the European Union. Our cooperation with NATO has been strengthened, and there are often questions about the international military operations in which we participate. The government's inability to vote in favour of the UN Convention on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons is an example of this development. The Left Party is against this development. We believe that an independent and military non-aligned foreign policy is crucial for Sweden's freedom of action in the future as well. We want Sweden to focus its international security policy on peaceful solutions and on preventing crises rather than advocating military solutions. The starting point for Sweden's defence and security policy is to protect our country's security. It requires a modern defence force capable of meeting the various threats that our country may face but also the opportunity to be a peacekeeping force in other parts of the world. This requires Sweden to have credible military alliance freedom. In a feminist foreign and security policy, women's rights must be given priority. The role of women in security building and conflict is of particular interest, as these issues are all too rarely on the international security agenda. The Left Party wants a broad international interest in disarmament, conflict prevention and an international ban on nuclear weapons. This calls for a strong UN, a restored respect for international law and a reduction in arms trafficking. A safe and secure world requires cooperation with other countries in our neighbourhood. Crisises and conflicts do not stop at national borders. Meeting the threats we face requires good cooperation with our neighbours, especially with our closest Nordic neighbours, but also with the countries around the Baltic Sea. International cooperation must always be based on Sweden making independent decisions, but that we have close contact and in some cases plan and practice together with other countries. The Left Party sees opportunities to deepen cooperation with our Nordic neighbours, especially Finland, in a number of areas of total defence policy. Today, the biggest threats to Sweden and our population are the civilian threats. Climate change leads to natural disasters such as fires, droughts and floods, and to virus outbreaks and antibiotic resistance that are affecting us right now. Rapid digitalisation in society requires a high level of cybersecurity. Swedish defence and security policy must aim to build long-term security in our neighbourhood and in our surrounding world and face all the threats we face. It requires that the concept of security be broadened and includes more areas than the military and that our actions involve the whole of society from a total defence perspective. Madam President, I would like Åland has had a special position in terms of military presence for 100 years. With the background in the so-called Ålandsservitut from 1921, Åland has been demilitarised. Sweden should stand up for a demilitarised and neutralized Åland, and we should be clear to our surrounding world that increased military cooperation between Sweden and Finland does not mean any departure from this. The Government does not mention in the letter that Åland is a demilitarised zone. The Left Party believes that it is important to make it clear, not least to our surrounding world, that close Swedish-Finnish cooperation also means the maintenance of Åland as a demilitarised zone. The committee's reply that it is assumed that the government complies with international conventions shows precisely the point made by the Left Party that it must be stated that it is actually a reality. The government should therefore make it clear that Swedish-Finnish military cooperation also means maintaining Åland as a demilitarised zone without a military presence. Madam President, I would like When you listen to this debate you get the feeling that you are in a NATO debate, but it is a debate on international defence cooperation. It is only on the penultimate page of this letter that we find NATO. That is why I think it is important to remind the committee that we should debate the entire security policy and all our military defence cooperation, not just the NATO issue. With this, I am in favour of reservation 6, which deals with the EU's defence policy and increased militarisation.
i-f2999c5907a82396-273	Madam President, I would like Today, the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence is debating the report on international cooperation. First of all, I would like to support Amendment No 7 in paragraph 6, which deals with membership of NATO. What is perhaps at the forefront of this debate is that the committee is proposing an announcement to the government on the basis of a motion for a resolution that the government should clarify its security policy line. This is a good opportunity for the Minister for Defence, for example, to do so. It would be reasonable for the government to signal a willingness to listen to a majority in Parliament. As a representative has pointed out, only one third is behind the government's line, and it should be so obvious that the government makes it clear that it wants the NATO option that Finland has had for over 20 years. When we discuss these issues, I think it is important to start by seeing that we have a stronger security policy situation and that Russia has lowered the threshold for the use of military means of power. They entered Georgia in 2008. In 2014, Crimea was illegally taken, and since that day war is taking place in eastern Ukraine. 13 200 have been killed in this war, including 3,375 civilians. Exactly two years ago we were with the Defence Committee under Björn von Sydow's leadership in Ukraine. We visited a military hospital, among other things, and it was very shocking to meet these soldiers. One had been hit by a sniper and got a good piece of the leg shot off. Another had stepped on a mine and had the whole leg blown off. This is happening in Europe. It is closer to the capital of Ukraine than it is to Brussels. It is important to see that this is a reality right now. While we're talking, there's a war going on. It is also important to recall that we are receiving worrying signals from the Ukrainian border. There are about 85 000 soldiers. We don't know where this is going to end. Does this mean that Putin and the Kremlin want to intervene militarily in Ukraine? We don't know that. Some have speculated that there may be a military attack because there are elections in the autumn and Putin wants to strengthen its popularity figures. Does he think of his legacy and want to make Ukraine part of a larger and more powerful Russia? Or does he have paranoia and think that everyone wants to make Russia weaker and if Ukraine enters the EU and NATO it is a huge threat to Russia that must be prevented at all costs? We do not know, but it is a reality that these factors exist and can reinforce each other. Back to today's discussion and the NATO option. As we all know, it is an important part of Finland's safety policy toolbox. Russia and the rest of the world are being signalled that they have an option to join NATO. Sweden has increased its defence cooperation with Finland, and it supports the Christian Democrats. It would therefore be reasonable for Sweden to have the same line as regards the NATO option and for us to declare that it is part of our toolbox. It's hard to make ends meet. The Minister of Defence will certainly also today declare the importance of cooperation with NATO, how we increase that cooperation in various ways and how important it is to cooperate closely with the United States, but that the NATO option is harmful. This is hard to understand. The Minister for Defence is now given a chance to make this clear if it is not reasonable to listen to the majority in parliament that wants this NATO option. I have just asked for approval of the reservation on NATO membership. We can learn from the situation in Ukraine. NATO is unlikely to be able to help Ukraine if there is a military attack. The question is whether Sweden is more likely to be attacked. This is not a threat we are seeing today, but the Committee on Defence has said that a military attack on Sweden cannot be ruled out. What is the difference for Sweden? It is much better for a society to be able to prepare with its friends in peace than to have to improvise if the worst happens. The difference is that as a member of NATO, security guarantees and joint defence planning are available and can be planned and helped in a different way. There is an infinite difference between the situation we have today. A few years ago an investigation was conducted by Krister Bringéus. He stated that a Swedish NATO membership would increase predictability and security for both Sweden and our neighbours, because we build security together. The defence committee has pointed out that if something happens in the Baltic countries, Sweden will be affected from day one. We cannot be neutral or stand outside, but we have an obligation to do so. Every time I visit a Baltic country, I hear clearly that Swedish membership would be a great help for common security. The government should listen to this. Firstly, it concerns the NATO option, but also NATO membership. We are close to allies today, have a partnership and are a gold member, but it is time to upgrade it to full membership so that we can get information, full defence cooperation and joint defence planning. This would increase the security of both the Swedish people and our surrounding world. It is time for the government to invite all parties in parliament to talks to discuss the security policy line so that it becomes clear and is supported by far more than the third that is currently behind the government's line.
i-f2999c5907a82396-291	Madam President, I would like Thank you to all of you who participate for a pleasant and exciting debate so far! I sat in my seat in the chamber thinking about a locker that's at my mother's house. It's a black cabinet with a lot of ornaments, and the legs look like pedestals. The cabinet is quite large, and when I was a kid, an Easter egg or a Christmas present could be hidden there. In the family, they call it the black cabinet. It is said that that cabinet was taken by a family member at some point during the Thirty Years' War somewhere for Hungary. That's how detailed we've been told to us in the genealogy. But you should never check it out, because then you might be disappointed in the answer. I was thinking about the black cabinet, because it reminds me of which continent we live on and what it has been like here before and how Europe has been torn apart by war decade after decade. Almost until today it has been so, and now it is again. Madam President, I would like It's breathtaking to think about history. There are those in the political debate who think back to the history of nostalgia and think that if we build Sweden's own defence strongly, we can resist any threat. Others think back to the thirty-year war and other things with nostalgia and think about which black cabinets and other things we brought home. Madam President, I would like For a liberal and for me it is a question of not seeing the world that way. I am thinking back to history with respect for all the tragic fates that have taken place and with a great deal of fear that we know that history can very well be repeated, perhaps not in the form of the thirty-year war but in the form of armed conflict and war on our continent as well. Looking back on history, I can say that it is better to cooperate with others, that it is better to build security with others and that it is better to try to secure peace together with other countries that share a common view of democracy and human rights, which it is really about defending, than to try to stand alone. Madam President, I would like The world is not what it has been. The threats are more complex. It is more difficult to read the political map tomorrow than it was yesterday. It is also the case that Sweden cannot be alone in the future. We cannot be alone today, but we need to have deep cooperation with others who believe in democracy. Madam President, I would like Today, Russia is the biggest security policy threat to Sweden. We cannot get away from this. That's how it is. Russia is an active threat here and now to us, to our fellow citizens in other countries, to other democracies and to other EU countries. It is Russia that is driving Europe up and up. Russia is the driving force behind uncertainty in our neighbourhood. It must be part of our security policy to take this threat seriously. Madam President, I would like The Left is absolutely right that much of the debate here today is about international defence cooperation widely, and the Liberals stand up to build international defence cooperation broadly. However, the debate here today has come to be about the NATO option and Sweden's security policy line. I thought it was interesting to listen to the arguments of the Swedish Democrats and the Social Democrats in the previous speakers, where it was very clear to those who listened that the issue of NATO option is not about whether you are for or against NATO. It's about whether you think we should have a door that's open. The Swedish Democrats are against NATO membership, and the Social Democrats are against NATO membership. There they are, completely united. There is a dividing line in this. Finnish politics shows this. You can be against NATO membership or at least not for and at the same time be in favour of an option because you think it is good to keep doors open and it is good that we show to the outside world and to our relatives that we are prepared to stop if necessary. Madam President, I would like I can see that this is sad to see. It is clear that what the Kremlin wants most is a divided Sweden and divided democracies. They want to see divisions between us and our friends in other countries, and they want to see divisions between us in this House. It is clear that the best thing not to create uncertainty and division but instead to create stability would be if the Social Democrats and the government fully respected the majority of the parliament, supported the NATO option, updated their security policy line, got rid of the ambiguity and showed Russia and others that democracy is stable, that we stand behind each other, that we listen to the democratic majority and that we can count on it. There is a myth, Madam President, that Sweden would be non-aligned. That is not true, and it has been said earlier here in the speaker's chair today and many times before that. With our participation in the European Union and that cooperation, we are not non-aligned. I must say that I also do not think that we should be non-aligned in the sense that it is clear that we must be able to offer guarantees to others if we are to expect guarantees from others ourselves. If, together, we have established that a military attack on Sweden cannot be ruled out, it seems unwise to exclude helping and standing up on others and, in addition, to keep the door closed for help from others by opposing a NATO option. Madam President, I would like The Social Democrats stood here earlier today in a different line-up – I think it was with the Center Party – and said that we should not let Washington, Brussels or Moscow decide our line of defence policy. I couldn't agree more. It should be a national position. Sweden is making this decision. This is also one reason why we may not attach such importance to Russia's becoming agitated. I reacted a little to the fact that the line equated Washington, Brussels and Moscow. Washington and Brussels are our allies. It is clear that we need to take more account of Washington and Brussels, because they are the ones we can count on to come and help us, if we also say that we are going to help them. The will of those who threaten us – Moscow – we absolutely should not take into account. Madam President, I would like The Left Party said one thing that I think they are absolutely right about. They said that Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist has entered into more agreements with NATO countries than any Minister of Defence has previously done. My conclusion to this with regard to the fear of provoking Moscow is that we have probably already done so. What we get from the NATO option is the guarantees, but what concerns the risks we have already done. You can't make peace with Putin. It is a man who does not hesitate to carry out or at least approve acts of explosion and neurotoxin attacks in Europe. It is not one per son that you can talk to over a cup of coffee and hope for a peaceful solution, but it is one person that we must show that we are united, together, as democracies. Madam President, I would like There has already been a call for approval of the things that have to do with NATO. I intend to endorse only reservation 13 in paragraph 11, but of course we support all the things that we have supported in committee. It is about building defence cooperation with the UK stronger after Brexit. There is a joke about Gustaf Skarsgård and Carl Gustaf, if you have seen the TV series Vikings, but I will not draw it now.
i-f2999c5907a82396-308	Madam President, I would like Joar Forssell is thinking back on history. He may think that Sweden has had peace for over 200 years. He then concluded by calling for the Liberals' proposal, supported by the bourgeois, that Sweden should give Britain a unilateral declaration of solidarity. Much good can be said of Britain as a country, but if you think of history, you have to remember that it is a country that has an extensive colonial history, which is today a nuclear state that has even decided to expand its nuclear arsenal. Britain's history, if we look back at it, Joar Forssell, is a history full of war. It is the First World War, the Second World War, the Suez War, the Falkland War and the invasion of Iraq and Afghanistan. In parallel with all that history has run the attempts at Irish independence and, for the last 100 years, whether Northern Ireland should belong to Ireland or Britain – a current and ongoing issue and perhaps even, at worst, a conflict. Based on this historical review: In which of these historical wars and conflicts would Sweden have supported Britain according to the Liberals' unilateral declaration of solidarity with Britain?
i-f2999c5907a82396-311	Madam President, I would like I'm a little surprised that Håkan Svenneling wants to start digging into our history. There is quite a lot of history in the Left Party that can be questioned. If we're going to have a history seminar, of course we can do it for a long time. I think this is about Sweden's security ahead. I am of the opinion that the great threat to Sweden today comes, above all, from Russia. There are of course other actors as well. Britain is not a security policy threat to Sweden. If we are to be historic, the Left Party has sometimes been, or leftist. Madam President, I would like Of course you can criticise the history of a country. And I suppose there is no one in our whole Parliament who is in favour of colonialism or any of the other things that are very serious and which the Left Party raised in the line shift. If history is to be spoken, the Left Party forgets that Britain made an extremely large and important effort to free Europe from Nazi Germany, for example. But it chooses the Left Party to forget about the line shift. I think this is about what we have in front of us. And there we can see that Britain is a country that is very close to Sweden when it comes to human rights and democracy in other countries and when it comes to standing up to oppression and freedom in other parts of the world. Keeping the door closed to NATO and keeping the door closed to Britain, in a situation where there have actually been neurotoxin attacks controlled by the Kremlin in Great Britain, and thus standing on the Russian side in that discussion, is very serious.
i-f2999c5907a82396-316	Madam President, I would like I can begin by stating that Joar Forssell is happy to talk about history. But when there are questions about how, throughout history, a unilateral declaration of solidarity to Britain would have worked, you do not want to talk about that part of history. Then you want to throw in other examples and talk about parties rather than countries. This is an announcement that you want to make about a unilateral declaration, in which you think that Sweden should get something back from Britain that is rather unclear because it is a unilateral declaration. Swedish alliance freedom has throughout history benefited generations of Swedes. That is why we have been in peace. That is why we have been perceived as a peaceful people who have been able to make efforts for peace and disarmament around the world. If we continue along this path, I believe that we will also be able to continue to do so over the next 100 to 200 years. But if we take a different path and believe that it is by cooperating with countries like the UK and giving them a unilateral declaration of solidarity, that we would support them if they end up in a Falkland war or in a Suez war, I do not think it is good for Sweden. The motion refers to Knut the Great's Kingdom in the 1000s, when parts of Sweden were connected with Great Britain. I believe that the Liberals do well to find more in the present-day arguments for their dangerous security policy than to go back as far as the 1000s for their historical argumentation. What is the next step in your NATO construction? That is the question that is being asked today. Will it be an American military base on Gotland? Now you step by step all the time. Historically, it has benefited us to be non-aligned. I think we will gain more from this than going into solidarity declarations or clubs where Erdo中an or former Trump and other not well-chosen people rule.
i-f2999c5907a82396-321	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by pointing out that in my introduction I used history as a deterrent. We can go back much longer than a thousand years to look at decades after decades of war, total misery and extreme human suffering. We have come from this on our continent because we are building defence cooperation and good relations with countries that also believe in democracy and human rights and are very close to us. We shall continue to do so, and we must do that even more with Britain now after Brexit. It is quite natural if we want to continue to have peace on this continent. Then we also need to continue to build partnerships. I have to say that I am a little surprised when the Left Party makes it seem that someone in here would like to go with another country on some general aggression against another country of the world in some invasion war somewhere, or whatever it might be. It's not like that. What we want is for us to build peace together through strong defence cooperation. There is such a myth about NATO that usually comes from the left side that it would mean that we have to stand up for various invasion wars here and there. It's not like that. It is about that if we are subjected to aggression or if one of our relatives is subjected to aggression, we stand up and defend each other. It's a matter of defense. Madam President, I would like I think it is historical revisionism to say that it is because we have remained neutral that we have stayed out of conflict. It has been quite often because we have done a lot of dirty games and have not done very well at all and have not taken a stand when the resistance has been dictatorship.
i-f2999c5907a82396-325	Madam President, I would like Sweden is a small, non-aligned country that needs to cooperate with others to protect people's security, freedom, democracy and human rights now and in the future. In the Green Party, we strive for a world in balance where solidarity and respect for human rights are combined with sustainable development and climate justice. The environmental party emerged from movements for the environment, solidarity, equality and peace. We want to see a policy that puts human security first. Peace is not only the goal but also the way there. Respect for others, mutual benefit and understanding contribute to peace. Trade and cultural exchange promote peace as well as justice between the world's states and disarmament. We believe in the power of international law and the importance of a rule-based world order with an active world community where even small states and people within the state are protected from aggression and oppression. Safeguarding human security requires policies that can respond to a wide range of security threats. Cooperation is needed. The Green Party sees that the threats today are not the same as before and during the Cold War. The global security policy situation is unstable and conflict-filled. Attacks on democracy and freedom of expression, cyber-attacks and the effects of climate change, as well as pandemics and the uncertainties that may arise in the borderland between war and peace are concrete threats that we need to protect ourselves against and that overshadow traditional threats such as military attacks. The geopolitical situation in the outside world appears increasingly uncertain as a result of the arms race and prolonged conflicts. We defend Sweden's military alliance freedom and want to see Sweden as a clear global player for active peace-building and conflict prevention work. Diplomacy is our main line of defense. International cooperation is crucial for world security and to meet the global threats to man and nature. It is important to stand up for the international laws that prevent large states from exploiting those who are weaker. The defence of Sweden begins with the defence of democracy, society and our future livelihoods. Modern society faces the greatest threats ever, through changes in the climate and environment that threaten our survival and threats to democracy and freedom of expression that threaten the stability of our societies from within. Cooperation is the only way to face these threats. Cooperation with democratic states in our neighbourhood is particularly important. Together, we can counter disinformation from states in our vicinity with a lack of democracy, such as Russia, and secure access to renewable energy and knowledge. Our cooperation with the states around the Baltic Sea, the Nordic states and with the EU and the UK is important for these reasons, and this concerns cooperation on both civilian and military preparedness. However, it is our firm belief that Sweden should not be a member of NATO. It is important to make a distinction between cooperating and forming part of a military alliance with common defence obligations. We believe that our freedom of alliance serves us well. Being free from binding military alliances increases our ability to engage in dialogue and act as a peace broker, thereby contributing to detour, not least in our neighbourhood. The Green Party therefore says no to membership, because it would restrict our political freedom of action. We are also seeing worrying developments in Turkey, the NATO country, where human rights are increasingly being ignored. Sweden's security is best built through long-termness and clarity. Sweden should therefore not, as several bourgeois parties want, obtain an option to join NATO. A NATO option sends unclear signals to the outside world and disrupts the stability that Sweden stands for in our geopolitical area – a stability that we believe it is of great importance to maintain in order for us to be a peace builder and broker in the world. It must be clear to the outside world that Sweden is and continues to want to be a military non-aligned state. The Green Party, on the other hand, sees the great importance of cooperating with democratic countries in the world. The knowledge that our modern societies build is spread throughout the world. To meet threats to climate, environment and democracy and to preserve peace, open cooperation within the UN and other international bodies is required – cooperation based on human rights and free economy within nature's framework, sharing skills and free research. The strength of the world's democracy is based on this, and we shall defend it. I support the proposal in the report but also the reservation 4 of the Socialist, Left and Green Party in paragraph 4.
i-f2999c5907a82396-336	Madam President, I would like In fact, I think that the Green Party is a bit of a shrub. After all, we have the letter on international military cooperation, and it has been in government for years. It has started a deeper cooperation in the Nordic countries with Nordefco, and it has joined the French project E2I as a government. They are part of the UK's JEF, which is very important, and they are part of the Framework Nations Concept with Germany. In addition, a trilateral agreement has been established between Sweden, Finland and the United States. None of this is mentioned in the speech by the Green Party, Madam President. It is a bit boring, for this has been the government's policy for many years. I think you should be proud of this, because it's basically very good things. But it is, of course, a bit curious, Madam President, that a party that has emerged from the peace movement is behind all this. It may explain that you do not want to say anything about it. That is why I would like to ask a question concerning something that was not touched at all in the speech, but which is nevertheless quite interesting, Madam President, and that is the peace facility. A party from the peace movement now joins as a government party in aid measures which could be to provide – I quote – liaise and defence-related equipment, infrastructure and assistance, at the request of third countries or regional and international organisations. Madam President, I would like I have nothing against this, but how does a party run from the peace movement justify Sweden being able to supply arms directly or indirectly via the EU to warring countries?
i-f2999c5907a82396-340	Madam President, I would like You start by asking me a question that you then answer yourself, Hans Wallmark. That makes it a little less hard for me on this page, so I will go straight to your question about the European Peace Facility. What makes it possible for the Green Party as a government party to support this is that there is an opportunity to refrain from action which one does not think is appropriate. We shall also be able to review arms export transactions on the basis of the rules we have.
i-f2999c5907a82396-341	Madam President, I would like It is good if my assumption has been confirmed, that is to say that a party from the peace movement, which is in the government, does not want to address what has been done in a government position in terms of deepening military cooperation. This has been done with France in the form of E2I, which I think is good, and with the UK in the form of JEF, which I think is good. It has been done with Germany in the form of Framework Nations Concept, which I think is good, and it has been done in the form of a trilateral cooperation between Sweden, Finland and the United States, which I think is good. It seems, then, that the opposition commends the government in which the Green Party sits more than does the Green Party's own spokesperson in this House. Madam President, I would like The Green Party then replies that efforts can be abandoned. Yeah, that's right. That's the possibility. At the same time, Madam President, I wonder whether the Green Party, as a government-supporting party, believes that a country can, time and again, abstain without prejudice to the image of Sweden as a European cooperation party. It is a significant possibility – or risk, depending on what you think – that one will have to accept that part of the European Peace Facility will be the provision of arms to warring parties. The Swedish armaments legislation assumes that arms should not be supplied to warring countries, i.e. countries in war. Why is it that the Green Party is so careful to defend this idea in Sweden but at the same time, as a government party, opens up this opportunity in the EU?
i-f2999c5907a82396-344	Madam President, I would like The Green Party has its foundation in the peace movement. The peace movement and peace in the world have a long way to go. The security situation around the world, both close and far away, will require military cooperation. The tragedy here is that the situation in the world has developed in such a way that we see ourselves forced to rearrange militarily. What we would like is a situation in which we can disarm militarily, and I suppose that is something that most people want – to reduce the level of conflict and reduce the war in the world. As far as government policy is concerned, it is the policy that we in the Green Party stand for, of course. However, it is important for us to be able to contribute in a way that fits with how we view arms exports, for example. Sweden's contribution will then have to go to other types of operations within the European Peace Facility than just to assist with weapons in armed conflicts.
i-f2999c5907a82396-346	Madam President, I would like I agree with much of Camilla Hansén's speech, and it is about the fact that the Green Party and the Left Party have historically been run from the peace movement. However, if you read the government's letter, there is another picture of the Green Party's defence policy today, on which Mr Wallmark spoke. Many military cooperations have been initiated. It is JEF, E2I, trilateral with the United States and a rapprochement with NATO. There is increased militarisation of the EU and this peace facility, which was up, allowing arms to be exported to parties supported and in conflict. It is called aid, and it is said to be under something called the Peace Facility. I think it's absolutely amazing how you can scare something by choosing what words you put on it. There are also more military exercises; most recently we learned that Norway has invited Cold Response in early 2022 and that it will be the largest Arctic exercise ever on this page, so to speak. We see increased arms exports, especially to dictatorships, such as the United Arab Emirates, where exports have increased only during this term of office from 700 million to 3.3 billion. There is also increased cooperation with the defence industry, especially within the EU. How did this become the policy of the Green Party?
i-f2999c5907a82396-351	Madam President, I would like The fact that this particular debate is very much about military cooperation is a bit in the nature of the matter that we are dealing with. From the Green Party's point of view, it is the peace effort that is important. We do not want to end up in military conflict, but this is part of preparing to avoid it. As far as the European Peace Facility is concerned, Sweden stands for us not to have to export arms to countries in battle. We have to choose other actions, and these are choices that can be made within that order.
i-f2999c5907a82396-354	Madam President, I would like It is good that the Green Party wants to prevent conflicts; I agree with that. I have spent some time reading the Green Party's party programme and comparing it with the letter. On page 33 of the party programme, we do not accept the militarisation of the EU. The letter states that Sweden has contributed to all of the EU's military operations. ..................................................... In the party program, I read that the Environmental Party believes that the lease of Swedish land to NATO and other foreign military forces for war exercises should cease. The letter states that the United States participated in Aurora 17 with a qualified contribution of about 1,000 American soldiers from all defence branches. In the party programme, you can also read that the Green Party's goal is to phase out arms exports. The letter contains a rather long passage on material and research-related collaborations. It states that "A ktivities within the framework of the Memoranda of Understanding with a number of other countries also aim to offer opportunities for enhanced cooperation and exchanges in the field of materials, research and development, as these countries have shown an interest in the acquisition of Swedish defence equipment. ..................................................... I wonder how these two papers are playing with each other. How does the Green Party's party programme fit in with the letter on international defence cooperation?
i-f2999c5907a82396-359	Madam President, I would like I am pleased, Håkan Svenneling, that you are reading the Green Party's party program. Our party program explains what goals we want to see. We want to see disarmament in the world. We do not want to export weapons at all; that is what our party stands for. When we work together with others and make decisions together, we do so with our values in our backs, and we try to get as far as we can with them. I look forward to when the world looks so that the goals of our party program are met and we can check them off and do not have to include them in the next party program.
i-f2999c5907a82396-362	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Camilla Hansén, for your post! I am curious, Madam President, because it is the Social Democrats and the Green Party, the government, which is now alone behind the security policy line that Sweden has. I would like to hear how Camilla Hansén and the Green Party then assess how to develop the security policy line so that you get broad support. Is the Green Party prepared to work for the government to invite talks to build broad support for a security policy line for Sweden? Or is the Green Party interested in setting a precedent for a future government to be able to shape its own security policy in the same way with two parties in a minority in parliament? That's the result. Madam President, I would like I would also like to hear how Camilla Hansén and the Green Party describe the security policy line that is being pursued. What does it really mean, Madam President?
i-f2999c5907a82396-365	Madam President and Kerstin Lundgren! With regard to support for a NATO option and possibly, as some parties want, also to pursue the issue of membership of NATO, it is the government's view that we should not obtain a NATO option. That is the line that the Green Party is also supporting. The government is responsible for foreign policy, and I think it needs to be that we stick to a line that we have been pursuing for a long time. I do not think that this change should take place in this way, but this is the line that we continue to take. As I said in my main speech, the security situation has changed in our neighbourhood for the worse. That is also why we are making the armaments of the defence that are now taking place. There is the Green Party's entrance that it is important to upgrade not only military defence but also to focus on civil defence.
i-f2999c5907a82396-368	Madam President, I would like I could not hear a description of the security policy line that the Green Party believes the government stands for. What is the security policy line? Madam President, I would like The second question was whether the Green Party in the government is prepared to set a precedent for another government – who knows what it looks like – who is in a minority in the parliament to shape their security policy stance completely independently of what the parliament thinks. Is it the Green Party's line, or does the Green Party want to work for the government to invite to seek broader support for Swedish security policy? It would be welcome, Madam President, to receive such a reply.
i-f2999c5907a82396-370	Madam President, I would like As I said, we see that the world around us is changing in a way that is not favourable from the point of view of peace and security. That is why we stand by the security policy line that we should not have a NATO option and that we should equip the defence to face the situation, and then also civil defence. The government's way of conducting security policy and how to anchor it needs the minister to answer.
i-f2999c5907a82396-372	Madam President, I would like We see a deterioration in the security policy situation, and I understand that Camilla Hansén is also aware that we are standing there. What worried me was when Camilla Hansén said in a previous line shift that she hoped we could dismantle eventually. One main part of the Defence Committee, where the Green Party was involved, was, and it has also been emphasised by the Minister for Defence: let us not make this mistake again! Sweden is the third largest country in Europe. We had shrunk our defense force to unrecognizability. We could not defend Sweden's borders. The only thing we could do was help far away, so to speak. What is interesting and which I want to know is: Is not the Green Party behind this? We need a cop. We have problems with internal threats, and we need to have such a basic ability, no matter what it looks like. It is required with Sweden's size and population. Is it not the same, Madam President, also in terms of defence? Isn't what we're now building a minimum? That's what we agreed on. We have said to future generations: Don't repeat Sweden's mistakes! Is it the case that the Green Party does not share that view? Is it that as soon as it looks a little brighter we can pull down? If so, it is an important message.
i-f2999c5907a82396-377	Madam President, I would like Let me get this straight. When I talk about how we want to see disarmament, it's not about now. It is a vision of a more peaceful world. It's not about disarming while you still have needs. What we are discussing today is military cooperation. The defence committee's entrance is something that the Environmental Party has been involved in developing and supporting. However, I would still be surprised if there was a great deal of support for military armaments and shuddering for the sake of the House of Parliament. I think that we are all friends of peace, and that is what we see in a vision for the future. Here and now, today, it is a question of military defence cooperation. They are behind the Green Party, as are the defense committee's conclusions.
i-f2999c5907a82396-380	Madam President, I would like I'd like to use a little parable. If it is widely known on a street that there is a house that is never locked, does it increase the adventure lock or temptation for a burglar to get in there? Could that be? Is it not the same, Madam President, in being able to defend oneself? Has it not been the foundation of our thinking for a long time that having a strong defence increases the risk, I mean the chance, that we never have to use it? It's the basic foundation. If the doors are open, just slide in. Then the adventure stall of a possible assailant increases. That is why we are now looking at our house. That is why we are now ensuring that we can defend ourselves again and look ourselves, our children and the world around us in the eye. We agreed in the Defense Committee that a military attack cannot be ruled out. Then we can't sit with our arms crossed. Then we must ensure that this ability is built up in our generation, but also that we give a contribution to future generations not to make this mistake again. I would like to know whether or not this is a line of reasoning that the Green Party includes. Then I just want to raise the issue of the NATO option. That we are now getting broad talks where we can get somewhere, is that something that the Green Party wants to work for? It is unreasonable to have what is now, that only one third is behind our security policy line. It's unstable about something.
i-f2999c5907a82396-384	Madam President, I would like The parable to the house is exciting. I grew up in the country, and in my youth it wasn't obvious that it was locked all the time. It was probably because of a safe environment where you thought you were safe that way. Yes, I can confirm that we are behind the defense committee's conclusions. It's not a question here and now. We shall have a strong and functional defence. It will still be a little exciting with Mikael Oscarsson's error, if there is a chance or a risk of something happening. I'm thinking that too strong a military armament, wherever it happens in the world-- too much weapons-- carries risks of conflict that wouldn't have to exist. As an overall long-term goal, we therefore want to see a world where you can live safely in all parts of the world. Of course, we need a defence, particularly with a focus on crisis and disaster management, but also on military threats, for a long time. However, it is not worth having more weapons than you think you need from, for example, the defense committee's conclusions.
i-f2999c5907a82396-387	Madam President, I would like It is always fun to take a line on a person who represents one of the government parties. I have a question about government policy and how the Green Party views it. In his speech, Mr Hansén said: we do not want to push out tensions against other countries – probably Russia. Nor do we want to hug arms more than necessary. It is also the Government of Ardalan ShekarabiS) that the Green Party wants a great deal of room for manoeuvre and that it is therefore critical of NATO membership. We are now discussing a NATO option. It's actually a smoothing. Liberals want membership. Nor do we have a majority in favour of this in Sweden, but there is a majority in favour of an option. One could have imagined that we could gather around this middle position for a NATO option in the Swedish parliament, because there are parties who want to join and parties who do not want to join but we agree that we should have a room for manoeuvre. Moving forward with a NATO option is one way for us to create a broad stability in the Swedish parliament. However, my question to Mr Hansén is that the Minister of Defence whom she supports is the Minister of Defence who has made the most new agreements with NATO countries ever. I wonder, on the one hand, whether the honourable Member believes that this conclusion of such agreements with NATO countries risks increasing tensions in the world around us, and, on the other hand, whether it limits Sweden's room for manoeuvre when we conclude agreements with NATO countries, as this government does.
i-f2999c5907a82396-391	Madam President, I would like There comes a speaker after me who is very familiar with the government's policy and the agreements that have been made. Of course, the Green Party does not want to push out tensions in the world. I assume neither of us will. Nevertheless, we stand by the fact that we do not want to approach NATO. We see that we can cooperate with several different democratic countries around the world on defence, but we do not want to enter NATO. That is why we do not want to approach through a NATO option either.
i-f2999c5907a82396-393	Madam President, I would like The first natural question then is whether the Green Party, which is part of the government that has entered into new agreements with NATO countries, does not believe that it is approaching NATO countries and therefore NATO. I believe that Sweden is the country in the world closest to NATO without being a member. I think it is good that we are close to NATO; I think that Sweden should be mediated. We Liberals are behind this, that we should have the door open and have a NATO option. It is also in itself, as I have said before, a way for us to approach the middle and create a broad consensus in the Swedish Parliament. We want membership and other parties do not want membership, but let us agree to keep the door open and thus create breadth and stability and show the outside world that we stand united here in our democracy. In Finland, which we often talk about in this discussion, Deg has made a journey on this issue, i.e. Finland's counterpart to the Green Party here in Sweden. Initially, they were strongly opposed to membership of NATO, but after seeing Russia's aggression against, among others, Ukraine and certainly against others as well, what I know – neurotoxin attacks in other EU countries – they have moved and are now actually open to this. They say that they do not think it is necessary today, but that they are open to it in the future if there is aggression in that direction. There is no one who thinks that we should hug arms, as Mr Hansén said, more than is necessary. But my question remains: is the Green Party behind the government's military approach to NATO countries, so to speak, and does the Green Party believe that it does not have consequences similar to NATO membership?
i-f2999c5907a82396-397	Madam President, I would like The Green Party is in government and stands for the decisions made by the government. The Green Party sees that a wide range of collaborations with several democracies enable us to be safer and more secure and drive values around democracy, peace and diplomatic solutions rather than military. I understand that we do not have military cooperation because we long for a military conflict, but that it is about preventing and, if necessary, making military efforts to bring peace or protect people. A broad range of cooperation is needed, not a NATO option. And yes, the Green Party is part of the government and is behind the government's decision.
i-f2999c5907a82396-399	Madam President, I would like The security policy situation in Sweden's neighbourhood and in Europe has deteriorated over time. Armed attack on Sweden cannot be ruled out. Nor can it be excluded that military force or threats of such might be used against Sweden. Both on Crimea and on the Russian border in eastern Ukraine, a very worrying construction of military units is taking place today. This is a military demonstration of power aimed at creating unrest and provocation resulting in international security policy drama. The situation escalates step by step, and this exercise of power is unacceptable. Russian manoeuvring confirms the image that Moscow is prepared to use military power when it is considered beneficial to its purposes even if it is contrary to international law. We do not accept Russian action and the way in which it tries to dominate the region around Ukraine. Ukraine as a sovereign state shall be respected. The Russian annexation of Crimea will not be more acceptable just because time passes. It is a violation of international law and therefore justifies continued sanctions. Russia has a primary responsibility to defuse military and security policy tensions in Eastern Ukraine and Crimea. Russia bears a clear responsibility for this. The Russian provocations against Ukraine must be brought to an end. Ukraine is in a very crowded position. The country's need for international support is great. Today's situation has a strong impact on Ukrainian society as a whole. And in Russian action there is always an underlying threat of escalation. What is happening in Ukraine today also affects Sweden's and the Nordic countries' security policy situation. Sweden today supports Ukraine in the following ways: This also gives Sweden back directly in experience and knowledge of Russian operations and strategy. Some time ago, I had a bilateral meeting with the Ukrainian Minister of Defence where we confirmed and agreed to continue developing our military cooperation, which has now been going on for about 20 years. In these difficult times, the message must be clear. The territorial integrity of Ukraine must be respected. We distance ourselves from the Russian provocation. Our solidarity with Ukraine is clear and clear. In our neighbourhood we can see reinforcements of both the Russian Baltic Sea Marine and the Northern Marine. These are investments which today enable Russia to operate in the North Atlantic on the basis of a pattern dating back from the Cold War. The exercises and operations may aim to cut supply lines between the US and Europe in a possible conflict, but also to clarify Russian presence in the Arctic region. On the Swedish west coast there has been an increase in activity, and Russian marines operate right up to the UK's territorial water border. The impact area has expanded, providing evidence of increased ambitions and increasing demands on many nations. Sweden's security policy situation is also affected by hybrid threats, cyber attacks, cross-border terrorism and climate change, and all of this has an impact on peace and security. The direction of defence policy must be based on the changing security policy environment, and this is reflected in the last two defence decisions. Sweden will inevitably be affected if a security policy crisis or armed conflict occurs in our neighbourhood. We have given a clear Nordic declaration of solidarity, and we have a clear declaration of solidarity within the EU. The defence cooperation and the security policy cooperation we are building are clearly presented both in the public debate and in the Riksdag. They are based on broad political decisions and have support in defence decisions. I am not speculating on what a possible conflict situation would be like and how different countries would then act, should we unfortunately end up in such a situation – it should be avoided at all costs. However, the interoperability of exercise activities and the currently planned, coordinated planning with NATO, the US, the UK, Norway and Denmark are nevertheless signals that we are looking at various opportunities to build our security network in our part of Europe stronger. Our strategy has two legs. One is enhanced military capability. There we have set aside a considerable amount of money: a 25% increase over the previous defence-oriented period of the budget and a 40% increase up to 2025. We are engaged in extensive defence and security policy cooperation with other states. I am extremely proud that we have reached that point. The basis for this was laid in the Swedish Defence Committee's work on the proposal presented in 2014 and confirmed by the Riksdag in 2015. That is what has been the basis for the government's work on this. Various actors can, of course, describe their individual efforts as crucial. But that is the basis, and that is what has guided the action of the government. This has certainly been necessary in order to build a safer neighbourhood where Sweden is today an active and respected player. The EU is our most important foreign and security policy platform. The starting point is that Europe needs to take greater responsibility for its own security in a way that strengthens both the EU and its Member States. At the same time, cooperation is also about developing work with strategic partners. It includes security policy dialogue, capability development and international crisis management operations. Cooperation in the field of defence can take place in different ways and to varying degrees. Finland, of course, has a special position here and is our deepest cooperation where we also have operational capabilities and operational planning beyond peace-time conditions. However, as the letter says, we also have various forms of agreements, declarations of intent, cooperation programmes and activity lists with the United States, Denmark, Norway, Germany, the United Kingdom and France. The Joint Expeditionary Force is also a very important collaboration. Security policy dialogue is central in this context. Regular meetings, where we can have a security and defence policy dialogue at ministerial level, are a key issue. We also have a well-developed dialogue with all our neighbours around the Baltic Sea and with the USA, the UK and France. Nordefco, JEF, the Northern Group and the European Intervention Initiative are examples of multilateral fora that provide the opportunity for such dialogue, for exchange of experience and for collaboration on strategic communication. Defence cooperation often aims at interoperability, the ability to act together, both internationally and in the neighbourhood. Scenario-based discussions are important. Exercise activities are important, and military capability development is important. We conduct scenario-based discussions with Finland, Norway and Denmark within the framework of Nordefco and the Northern Group. This means that we are jointly preparing to deal with crisis situations. It also raises the level and increases knowledge of the national starting points of different countries. It is then combined with the exercise activities carried out, such as Arctic Challenge Exercise, Cross Border Training, Northern Wind, Baltops, Northern Coasts, Au rora and Cold Response. Joint participation in international efforts is also an important part of defence cooperation. It is an integral part of the solidarity policy on security. These actions take place within the framework of the UN, the EU, NATO, the OSSE and ad hoc coalitions on the basis of mandates in international law. This is extremely important to us. Participation in international efforts also has a direct impact on our bi- and multilateral defence cooperation. We work closely with France, the United Kingdom, the United States and Canada in the context of these efforts. Allowing joint operational action at different levels of conflict is also an objective of cooperation. We have said before that the most far-reaching thing is with Finland. In the total defence bill for 2021 – 2025, we underline the willingness to coordinate operational planning with Norway, Denmark, the United States, the United Kingdom and NATO. The deepening is about creating a truly functioning cooperation with freedom of action in the event of a crisis or conflict. It is a logical consequence of our already close relations but also of the security policy changes that can come quickly. At the same time, cooperation contributes to further stability. They raise the security policy threshold and create the opportunity to deal with rapid and unforeseen developments. An important step in this work is the trilateral declaration of intent to take together an increased responsibility for Nordkalotten that Finland, Sweden and Norway established last autumn at a meeting in Porsangmoen, Norway. Cooperation on materials, research and development is a means of ensuring knowledge, technology and material supply in the bilateral and multilateral format. Materiel cooperation also strengthens the domestic industrial base and contributes to the rational supply of materials throughout the life of the material. Building a security policy architecture that lasts over time is a long-term project. It creates stability and is a very delicate task. Sweden comes from a history that has been about military alliance freedom aimed at neutrality in war. Nowadays it is a question of military alliance freedom. Sweden's security policy line is solid. We're not in any military alliance. Sweden builds security together with others. The joint security policy is the basis of Swedish defence and security policy. This requires an active, broad and responsible foreign and security policy combined with enhanced defence cooperation, especially with Finland, and a credible national defence objective. We have built the international collaborations that have been necessary, and we have done so with the support of the Swedish Parliament. We build interoperability in everyday life, that is, the ability to do something together if necessary. This applies to aircraft as well as marine and army. The operational planning that we have with Finland is not a show bread, but it is a joint planning that can be used in the event that it becomes necessary, if both governments so decide. Since 2014, relations with both Finland and the United States have deepened. The same applies to the relationship with Britain. We wrote a Statement of Intent with the US in 2016. In 2017, Sweden, the United States and Finland wrote a Statement of Intent. This also means that the relationship between Sweden, Finland and the United States has been strengthened. I think that is also an important signal. We are now pleased that the new administration in the United States is strengthening links with Europe. But during the last administration in the United States, we also developed our military cooperation. The commitments that we had agreed with the United States were kept, and they were implemented. The agreements that have been concluded and the contacts that we have made have an important role to play in increasing joint activity. Together with other states and organisations, Sweden is actively contributing in a defence policy context that raises the conflict-resisting threshold. It's really the core of the whole thing. When we build the security network together, train and exchange information and communicate strategically together in our part of Europe and with partners, we raise the threshold for potential antagonists and for a possible conflict situation. In this way, we create more stability that benefits peace in the time in which we live. I believe that Sweden today, with its first increased military capability and, secondly, increased international cooperation, has a realistic strategy without political adventure for how to deal with the situation we have today in our part of Europe.
i-f2999c5907a82396-431	Madam President, I would like Let me first take up where the Minister for Defence began his speech, namely the orientation of the serious and dramatic situation on Ukraine's land, sea and air borders. It is important that we from the Swedish Parliament are clear that there is a complete backing behind the government's line on this issue. There should be no doubt about Swedish solidarity with Ukraine. Madam President, I would like Let me also say that what the government has done and deepened is absolutely right in terms of Nordefco, the Nordic-Baltic cooperation, E2I with France, JEF with the UK, Framework Nation Concept with Germany and the trilateral cooperation between Sweden, Finland and the United States, which the Minister for Defence specifically highlighted. We also have the extremely important exercise activities, from Aurora to Arctic Challenge. However, this letter meets an announcement from the Foreign Affairs Committee and this afternoon, when the decision is made here in Parliament, also from the Riksdag as a whole. Through it, the Riksdag urges the Government, Madam President, to ensure broad support for Sweden's security policy after the announcement, thereby clarifying an established Swedish security policy line. At present, it has weak support and appears to contain both sharp caste and great uncertainties. Madam President, I would like My question to Peter Hultqvist, on behalf of the government, is: how does this announcement of security policy intend to be met?
i-f2999c5907a82396-435	Madam President, I would like First of all, I find it satisfactory that Wallmark should declare its support for the government's line on the Ukraine issue. Let me read out what I said in my speech on the security policy line. I did not say at the time that I quoted directly from the foreign policy declaration, but I did. This is what the Swedish security policy line says. Our military freedom of alliance serves us well and contributes to stability and security in northern Europe. It requires an active, broad and responsible foreign and security policy combined with enhanced defence cooperation, especially with Finland, and a credible national defence capability. We shall contribute to long-term stability and security in our part of Europe. ..................................................... This is what has been said in the last three foreign declarations. There are no sharp castes or uncertainties as to where the government stands. Partnerships in Europe and cooperation with the UN and the OSSE have also been described. There is clarity about the transatlantic link. In addition, we have parliamentary decisions in connection with the total defence bill, in which we have clarified what applies. It is the government that is ultimately responsible for the security policy line. I think that is well known here in Parliament. There are forums for discussions between the Government and the Riksdag. It concerns the composite Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, the Committee on Defence, the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Affairs. We will respond to all announcements in the regular order that is regulated. So we will have to come back to that. The decision to which Mr Wallmark is now referring has not yet been taken.
i-f2999c5907a82396-439	Madam President, I would like No, but in this respect it has been taken by the Committee on Foreign Affairs in the report. There are reasons, Madam President and Minister for Defence, to assume that in just over three hours it will also be the decision of Parliament. The Minister of Defence can, of course, quote from how many letters, declarations and documents the government has produced, but that is not where the political majority in the Swedish Parliament is today. What he has just read, Madam President, is behind about a third of the Swedish parliament, in the form of the Green Party and the Social Democrats. Even the Left Party states that it does not share the line of security policy, even if it does not want to meet the other five parties with regard to the announcement. Madam President, I would like The Secretary of Defense leans against a minority view. It is a rather frail pillar to support. Nevertheless, as a representative of Parliament, I wonder in humility how this will be handled once the decision is made in 3 hours and 15 minutes. The contrast to the Ministry of Defence's reading of an external declaration is the following sentences: At present, it has weak support and appears to contain both sharp caste and great uncertainties. ..................................................... Madam President, I would like The Minister of Defence refers to something that has the support of one third of the Riksdag. I refer to something that has the support of an overwhelming majority.
i-f2999c5907a82396-444	Madam President, I would like Wallmark knows that the government is responsible for the foreign declaration. Wallmark knows that the government is responsible for the security policy line. That's what it looks like. We will respond to the announcements made by Parliament. You do that in regular order. Let us come back to what is stated in these announcements. I didn't promise anything here that you could jump to any conclusions about, but I'm just describing formula. It is important to have formality, because otherwise the Committee on Constitutional Affairs will have to analyse it unnecessarily. Wallmark tends to contribute to this. It was said that this was infirm. Is it reasonable that, for a couple of weeks, in some form of committee management in response to various parliamentary movements, an opinion should be drawn up quickly for which a majority would be drawn up, which would not have been foreseen, and then the whole discussion would start? The defence committee has completed its work as an institution, but it could have been a forum for this whole process. There will certainly be new defence preparations in the future that may be able to deal with issues such as these so that in calm and calm forms you will have to go through this and have the opportunity to penetrate a matter in different ways in dialogue across the board and in depth. Here you arrange some kind of activity where it should be quick. There you can talk about sharp throws, from one to the other. In my opinion, Wallmark himself has been involved in arranging a rather infirm situation. We're the ones who stand firm and don't make a sharp throw. We are also the ones who want things to happen in an orderly manner.
i-f2999c5907a82396-450	Madam President, I would like I, too, welcome the statement by the Minister for Defence and the Government on Ukraine. It is welcome that the government is a clear voice for peace and disarmament in the region. It has broad support in the Swedish parliament, and the Left Party also supports this support. It is good that the Minister for Defence is taking part in today's debate. As mentioned earlier, the Minister has presented a clear-cut letter to Parliament. The Secretary of Defense should be commended for that. What is a little less clear, however, is the cooperation that the government has with the Liberals and the Center Party, the so-called January cooperation. Today, the Secretary of Defense is receiving another announcement against him. This time it is about the government's security policy line. After a motion request from the Center Party, you want it to be clarified. Only in December, the Riksdag announced to the government that Sweden should have a so-called NATO option. This also happened on the initiative of the Center Party. Precisely what a NATO option means, no bourgeois politician has yet succeeded in clarifying. Through the cooperation in January, the Center Party has been given the power to condemn Swedish defence policy. It is about where new regiments will be placed, in violation of both the Swedish Armed Forces and other experts. Instead of taking defence policy into account, regional policy had to govern. Conducting regional policy is not wrong in itself, but the question is whether it is the Swedish Armed Forces that should be used for it. It is obviously creaking in the ranks of the January cooperation. In view of today's debate, it is quite clear that the parties have different security policies. How does the Secretary of Defense view the actions of the Center Party? How does the Secretary of Defense view cooperation with the Center Party?
i-f2999c5907a82396-455	Madam President, I would like I do not know whether this debate was intended to deal with the January agreement and do not even know whether it is a subject. I do not really understand why this issue is being raised in this context. I can only simply say that what is stated in this agreement is what we are trying to deliver on the basis of the negotiations that are taking place. Given that I do not believe that this is a matter for today, I have nothing more to say.
i-f2999c5907a82396-456	Madam President, I would like I have to say, however, that the announcement made today by Parliament, which refers to a previous announcement made by Parliament as late as December, is definitely one of today's dossiers. The Government has decided, through its January cooperation, that it will settle the budget with two other parliamentary parties, which are outside the government. 72 points have been dealt with which concern a number of issues. Then there is the government's room for manoeuvre on points that are not included in the 72 points. In these areas, the government can act. But it is very clear that the budget that the government has put forward and negotiated with two parties is not entirely free from the security policy lines. The question is how long a government can allow the sharpshooting that takes place with precision on the part of the Center Party against the government's security policy line and, as the Minister for Defence himself is, tries to call into question the legitimacy of the government in security policy. I'm worried. I think that the Minister for Defence many times and in many shifts of line is very clear to those who advocate a NATO option and talk about NATO in every debate, as if it were about NATO every day despite the fact that there are other issues on the agenda. It is important to continue with this. But there must be a limit somewhere to what one can allow the Center Party to do. I wonder where that line goes.
i-f2999c5907a82396-459	Madam President, I would like These issues are not dealt with in the framework of the January agreement. The defence agreement is decided by the Riksdag, and it is clear what it contains. It says everyone who has been involved in that decision behind, but not the Left Party, the Moderates, the KD and the SD. This issue is not regulated in this context; it comes into this debate, among other things. I can only say that we are fulfilling the agreement and following the agreements that exist.
i-f2999c5907a82396-461	Madam President, I would like I can only agree with the Minister for Defence – this debate is not covered by the January agreement. It's quite obvious. I can also agree with the defence minister's clear statements on standing up for Ukraine's right to decide its own way and for territorial integrity. It is extremely important that we show that we are clearly behind Ukraine. However, Madam President, I am a little curious about the good description of Russia's actions by the Minister for Defence. This is a course of action that has taken place despite the fact that Sweden with freedom of alliance should reasonably have contributed to creating less tension in our region. Nevertheless, we see that the tension has grown. We have developed a security network with partners in our part of Europe, as the Minister for Defence says. Then, of course, Madam President, I wonder whether that security network and the agreements we have concluded will not affect. Has the Minister of Defence and the Government understood that Russia is equipping and directing its cannons against Sweden as a result? It is, of course, an important picture, given how the discussion is going, as long as we say that we want to open up to a NATO option, Madam President – then Russia would react. But what happens to the action we have today?
i-f2999c5907a82396-465	Madam President, I would like I think I am quite well-oriented about Russia's troop movements, armaments, training activities and actions in different contexts by constantly receiving intelligence reports. The long-term trend that can be seen is to increase military capabilities. It has used military power in Georgia and in Crimea and has had its ongoing conflict in Ukraine. Now there is a large federation-wide exercise where resources can be concentrated very quickly on the border with eastern Ukraine. We also see that there are great opportunities to act in Belarus, where we have had a great deal of concern for a long time. In conclusion, the pattern of development is negative. This shows the importance of working with what we do, both with the security network and with our own national capabilities. I think we need to look at this in a much bigger perspective than it would just be about how it beats Sweden. On the other hand, I must say firmly that it is much better if this region interacts deeply than if each stands for itself. It would never serve as a threshold raising effect. The cooperation we have is therefore necessary. If we make a change in security policy doctrines, it affects Finland strongly, especially in view of Finland's long border with Russia. To devote the power and time to it at this point in time, where we have a fundamental imbalance that we have to overcome, is wrong.
i-f2999c5907a82396-469	Madam President, I would like If we had been in Kiev, I am convinced that the debate would have been about a desire to obtain guarantees of security and a desire to become a member of NATO, even though there are Russian troops standing at the border, or perhaps precisely because of that. They really have a picture where the threat is clear. We don't really have the same situation. Would it not be wise to act now to build guarantees and not just hope, Madam President, in the event of the worst happening? So to the question of the invitation to a conversation. I was listening to an earlier line shift. The Government is, of course, responsible for the security policy line and for interpreting the security policy that Sweden has. But, Madam President, does the government, which is a minority government, not set a precedent for another minority government with a different composition to change on its own? It has not taken the initiative itself to hold a dialogue, even though we in Parliament are urging to invite us to talk and try to seek a broad consensus on this. The government and the minister say we respond in the usual way. But, Madam President, this is setting a precedent that is serious. Invite to call! Ensure that at least the national security strategy, when presented, has a common understanding of this! The government is responsible for a deep dialogue on this, Madam President.
i-f2999c5907a82396-471	Madam President, I would like To build effective collaborations that can also be used in crisis situations is to build relationships, build interoperability, build information pathways through Host Nation Support agreements and ensure that things are prepared. That's what we're doing today. Geographical location that has a direct impact on the security policy situation is very crucial to what is reasonable to do in terms of the basic doctrine of security policy, that is, whether we should abandon our military alliance freedom. It is only naive to think that we will not see the effects on tensions in our part of Europe if Sweden were to seek individually or if we were to create a situation with Finland where there will be great pressure in this context. We are building a practical security network that we have full scope for action and freedom to use if it is so that we see that it is the wisest thing in a crisis situation. But we also have a Nordic declaration of solidarity and an EU declaration of solidarity. What happens in a real crisis is only known when you are in that situation. Each one has to start from his own situation when making such assessments. Then, unfortunately, I can repeat what I said to Wallmark. The invitation from the opposition was made so that, in a rather rapid manner, this was brought forward with the NATO option in a committee management in the Riksdag for a short period of time. That way you put us in a situation where you establish some kind of fact. Then you come and say that you should have a dialogue. If so, it could have been done in a completely different way. We do not think that is a reasonable course of action.
i-f2999c5907a82396-477	Madam President, I would like First of all, let me say that there is a consensus. I listened to the Minister for Defence's speech on the threats we see and the very serious situation we are seeing in Ukraine and the unacceptable shudder that Moscow and Russia stand for when there are so many troops in place at eastern Ukraine on the border with the country. I also sign on to the crowded position in which you are in. I'd like to ask the Secretary of Defense. NATO will not be able to help the non-member Ukraine. Is it so much more likely that you would help non-member Sweden? We agree and have said in the Defence Committee that a military attack on Sweden cannot be ruled out. It's not something we see today. But it is something that can happen in the future. We all see the clear signs of a deteriorating security policy situation in our neighbourhood. Does the Minister of Defence want to put Sweden in a similar security policy situation as Ukraine is in right now?
i-f2999c5907a82396-480	Madam President, I would like What is happening in Ukraine in the event that the conflict goes on, I am not going to speculate on. I think it's wiser to behave that way. There are probably a lot of options about what can happen in both directions. At the same time, it has its price to start a regular war. The Russians must understand that, too. The question was what happens to Sweden in a conflict situation. It is not the case that, should we end up in a crisis in our part of Europe, not everyone is affected. Should anything happen in Sweden, it would have a huge impact on Norway, Denmark, Finland and the Baltic countries and the whole military strategic situation. Naturally, I do not want to develop a speculative argument as to how one or the other might act. But if you listened to my opening statement, I said something about scenario-based discussions that are going on in different contexts and within the framework of the collaborations. It is a question of tackling such issues. Sometimes you have to think about what is reasonable to discuss where and whether it is reasonable to keep speculating on such things in a parliamentary debate in full public or whether such discussions should be conducted elsewhere. If you have the belief that it would only be about Sweden in the event that something happens in the Nordic countries, you are probably quite wrong out there. Then you have to think both once and twice before making the next post. It's happening to all of us. It is probably the case that every Minister of Defence in each country tries to think as much as he can about: how do we get the greatest possible security from our geographical location, tradition, history and resources?
i-f2999c5907a82396-486	Madam President, I would like My point was that at the moment, while we are having this debate and discussion, there is a war going on. It has done so since 2014 in eastern Ukraine. We are currently seeing – as we speak – a very elevated tension situation where approximately 85 000 soldiers are on the Russian side. I noted that NATO will not be able to help the non-member Ukraine. Is the probability so much greater that it would help non-member Sweden? My point, like Krister Bringéus's investigation, is that a Swedish NATO membership would increase predictability and security, and we could have the possibility of joint defence planning. There's a lot of faith and hope here. You have hope here and there. However, it is quite another matter to have the common security guarantees. That is what my question was about. Is it not better to have a common defence plan and be able to prepare with your friends in peace and quiet than to have to improvise in the event of the worst? That's one thing. The Secretary of Defense will be happy to develop his reasoning on this. Then there is the worrying situation that only 116 out of 349 Members are now behind the security policy line. It is also the title of the announcement today that one must clarify one's security policy line. Is it not better and reasonable for the government to now take the impression that there are two thirds who do not support this? Is it not reasonable now to invite talks and ensure that a broad agreement is reached on our security policy line?
i-f2999c5907a82396-492	Madam President, I would like Just because you on your side in hasty circumstances arrange some kind of situation in the committee handling of motions, which puts the Riksdag and the government in a particular situation, will mean that the government will meet you on this point with immediate effect. Moreover, it is not just a NATO option. It is a step-by-step work on your part to change the basic security line, that is to say join NATO. That's what it's all about. We are not so naive as not to realise that this is the process. We have the composite part of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence. We have both the committees and the Foreign Affairs Committee. There are facilities to engage in dialogue sometimes other than these issues. We will eventually reactivate the Defense Committee when it is time for the next defense decision. To begin to change the Swedish security policy line under hasty conditions that you have arranged cannot be seen as acceptable. But we will respond to the announcement in the formal order to take place. You used the word, "Improvise." It's not a question of improvising. Here we are now going into a process of coordinated planning with Norway, Denmark, the United Kingdom, the United States and NATO. It's not an improvisation. We have HNS agreements. We have extensive practice. We have extensive information exchange. We have operational planning with Finland. This isn't about improvising. I almost think you're making it very frivolous. If you haven't built all the things I'm talking about, it's very difficult to do anything in a crisis situation regardless of which organization you're in. It is really a matter of having a sense of what the practical reality looks like.
i-f2999c5907a82396-499	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for your speech, and thank you to all those who have been involved in this debate. I should like to begin by saying that support for the line with regard to Ukraine and solidarity with Ukraine is extremely broad grounded in the Swedish Parliament, including those of us Liberals. I also have a question about NATO, just as many others here have had. After all, the Government has described the process that has been in committee as both hastily and step by step. I may think that the two things contradict each other. The truth is that this is something that has emerged for many years. It is not something that has happened in the committee committee on a single occasion. One can always argue that at an individual meeting decisions were made in a very short time, but here is the truth that it is about a position that has emerged in our Swedish parties for a very long time and with very serious consideration. We Liberals have been in favour of NATO membership for a long time – the longest of all in Sweden. However, the position we are now talking about is a NATO option, which means that there are doors open and greater room for manoeuvre. After all, the Social Democrats have been ideologically and traditionally opposed to NATO membership for a long time. As I see it, the NATO option is a middle position between our two positions. It is a position that a wider breadth of the Swedish parliament could gather around. I would have liked the Social Democrats, who were initially opposed to NATO membership, and the Liberals, who are very strong in favour of NATO membership, to have been able to agree on an option that would create room for manoeuvre. My question is precisely about this: why is it not taking the opportunity that is now available to get broader support in the Swedish Parliament?
i-f2999c5907a82396-505	Madam President, I would like Joar Forssell also knows that it is the government that is ultimately responsible for the security policy line. We have explained this in the foreign declaration, which I have related to here before. We are not a party that has participated in your internal processes with the parties you have worked with on your edge. You're saying there's been some kind of position there. My picture, however, is that this has been done in hasty forms in one committee's management, and then attempts have been made to confront the rest of us with some kind of fact. Then you want to arrange a discussion based on this so-called power position where you think you can maneuver us. That's about what the picture looks like. I stand by my view that this is only a gradual move towards NATO membership. That's my picture of what you're doing. We have no interest in participating in this strategy. However, in the formal sense, we will deal with it with answers to the Riksdag about how to deal with announcements of various kinds. I have repeatedly explained why we do not see NATO membership as the best solution. Building stronger military capabilities in combination with these enhanced collaborations, which cannot be linked to any change in the basic doctrine of security policy, is, as it were, the basic strategy. If you do not do the job we are doing now, you cannot act vigorously together in a real crisis situation. We have a Nordic declaration of solidarity. We have a declaration of solidarity within the framework of the European Union. Sweden has changed its positions in a way where we start from the military freedom of alliance but deepen our cooperation.
i-f2999c5907a82396-510	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I have a couple of objections. The first is that precisely membership of the European Union and what it means in terms of declarations means that we are not non-aligned. We are in alliance with other EU countries. We're there for each other. I would like to thank the Minister for Defence for the many in-depth cooperation. This is something that we think is positive and something that the Government has been pushing. I'm very happy about that. Then I turn to the description of the NATO option. If you criticise it by being against NATO membership, I can turn to that argument. A NATO option is, of course, about keeping doors open and ensuring that there is room for manoeuvre. The Secretary of Defense describes that it has quickly come to light at a couple of meetings. Yes, all our processes in Parliament consist of individual meetings. You can pick out a meeting and describe that what was done there when the club fell went quickly to. I believe that all parties in the Swedish Parliament have been discussing this issue in their own parties for a very long time. Both our parties have experience of being in government and have discussed the issue in that position. What I mean by the fact that this is a decision that has emerged is precisely that it is basically about tough balances that have led to the decision in committee. One cannot isolate committee management and call it hastily when it is a long process that has taken many, many years. I note that the NATO option – not membership but precisely an option – is a central position in Swedish politics. Liberals were the first to be in favour of membership. The Social Democrats have always been against membership. We should be able to agree on a stable middle position that will be clear to the outside world as well.
i-f2999c5907a82396-516	Madam President, I would like We have full freedom to decide to join NATO tomorrow if there is support in Parliament. So we can raise that question at any time. Then I do not think that we should do so, but it is not the case that a NATO option opens up any opportunities that do not already exist today. We can make this decision whenever we want. However, I do not think that is wise. That probably presupposes a referendum. There will be extensive work throughout Swedish society with a fairly divided nation and a fairly divided parliament. A great deal of energy and power will be spent on this. A completely changed security policy doctrine will affect the development of our neighbourhood. It will have a strong impact on Finnish conditions. It sounds as if it were simple, but it is a dramatic and comprehensive decision. I think it is better to concentrate our energies on the practical craft we are now working on, with all our cooperation and the increased military capacity. It is a comprehensive and delicate piece of work, and it is an extremely important thing if we are to be able to interact with others in a possible crisis situation. As I said, we have declarations of solidarity in both the Nordic countries and the EU. As far as the NATO option is concerned, we have not had such a discussion in our party. Joar Forssell says that all parties have had a discussion, but we have not had that kind of discussion. I do not know what it is like in the Left Party or the Green Party, but I would be surprised if there has been such reasoning there. It is probably the case that this came on rather quickly from a parliamentary motion where one happened to find a majority right now. We will see what happens in the future, but in any case we will respond to it in regular order. But it is the government that is ultimately responsible for the security policy and foreign policy line, which is declared in the foreign declaration.
i-f2999c5907a82396-522	Madam President, I would like Let me start by clarifying two things. Firstly, we Moderates support and want to further develop the bilateral and multilateral defence cooperation outlined in the report. They raise the operational capability of the Swedish Armed Forces. It strengthens our security, and that is basically good. However, none of these defence cooperations include binding defence guarantees in which we can safely know that we are getting help and support in the event of crisis and conflict. They cannot therefore replace the value of full Swedish NATO membership. A Swedish NATO membership would increase our war-resisting capacity and contribute to stability and security in the immediate region. Secondly, a debate on Sweden's international defence cooperation cannot be discussed in isolation from Russia's aggressive behaviour towards its neighbours. It has been the single largest driving force when it comes to Sweden's development of stronger international defence cooperation. The Russian military mobilization that we now see along the border with Ukraine is both unacceptable and very threatening, not only for Ukraine but for the entire European security regime, which is also extremely central to Swedish security. But what is now happening in Ukraine is also a reminder of how central transatlantic cooperation and NATO are to Europe's security. So it was no coincidence that the Ukrainian Foreign Minister went to Brussels and first met with the NATO Secretary-General and then met with the EU institutions. The importance of NATO, not only as a military alliance but also as a political alliance, increases after the British have left the EU and American President Joe Biden has entered the White House. It is clear that this will also increase the conditions for a strong political dynamic within NATO. And, Madam President, it also raises the price of standing outside this defence alliance from a political perspective. Unfortunately, we will become second-rank players in European security policy if we are not at the NATO table, where many crucial decisions for the security of Europe and Sweden are both discussed and taken. Madam President, I would like After Brexit, therefore, 80% of total defence expenditure is within NATO but outside the EU. NATO is therefore becoming increasingly important, and the EU is, unfortunately, becoming weaker and less relevant as a military player. We should, of course, now extend the Swedish declaration of solidarity to the United Kingdom and strengthen the bilateral relationship. After all, Britain is our most important defence partner in the neighbourhood. Finland, Madam President, occupies a special position in our international defence cooperation. We Moderates want to further develop cooperation with Finland in all defence sectors, but we also want to strengthen cooperation in civil defence and the work against hybrid threats. If Sweden and Finland were to acquire Jas Gripen E together in the future, this would create new conditions for deepening cooperation between our two countries. We could build a greater redundancy and a better security of supply in our battle plan fleet and a better common air position picture. 120 Gripen in the air is more than 60, regardless of whether they are Swedish or Finnish. Basically, this is all about facilitating defence cooperation if you have systemic equality. If you have the same platforms and systems, it is much easier to find common solutions for logistics, maintenance and training, especially in such a technology-heavy area as in combat aircraft. In the long term, I think a vision should be that Sweden and Finland in one form or another develop a common air defence. The deepening of defence cooperation with Finland also needs to be accompanied by deeper security policy coordination between our countries. Defence and security policy must be linked and go hand in hand. I therefore really think it is good that a majority in this House should decide that Sweden should introduce a NATO option in its security policy line. It strengthens and coordinates our security policy cooperation, but it also ensures that we have equal relations between Sweden and Finland in our relationship with NATO. I noticed that several people asked: What does a Swedish NATO option mean in practice? Yes, it is basically three things: that Sweden clearly states that it maintains the possibility and freedom of action to seek membership of NATO, that Sweden is paying attention to changes in the security environment that can affect such a decision, and that Sweden ensures that there are no practical or technical obstacles that could hinder accession. In my view, this should be completely undramatic. I cannot understand the government's strong opposition to this. It seems almost incomprehensible. It seems that one is caught up in some kind of identity policy when it comes to the military freedom of alliance and the NATO issue. I think that this could be resolved very pragmatically. The arguments put forward by the government against a NATO option are that they want to avoid sharp throws and that they do not want to do anything that undermines military alliance freedom. Madam President, I would like A Swedish NATO option is a marginal shift of the security policy line compared to what the government itself has done in practice over the past four years. Let me take a few examples. Sweden has had a host country agreement with NATO for four years to enable us to receive military support in our territory. Sweden will coordinate its defence planning with NATO and, bilaterally, with the United Kingdom, Denmark, Norway and the United States. Our entire war and basic organisation is based on the fact that we will be supported by NATO countries in the event of an armed attack. The Secretary of Defense has been very clear about where we put regiments so that we can get support from NATO countries. In the light of these radical changes in Swedish security policy in practice, I see a Swedish NATO option as a small step to take. Madam President, I would like Today's new announcement shows that we really need a deep, thorough and unconditional discussion about Sweden's security policy line, including the military alliance freedom, the NATO option and our relationship with NATO. Such a discussion must be based on a serious analysis of our military geography in northern Europe, the realities it entails and the Swedish interests that we have to manage in this. To conclude, Madam President, I support Mr Wallmark's motion. But I also support reservation number 13.
i-f2999c5907a82396-544	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to say that there have not been years of preparation for this option, such as the Government of Ardalan ShekarabiS) before. However, we make a link from the Swedish Democrats. For a long time now, we have been trying to find common ground with regard to the security policy elements in order to be part of a defence association with Finland. That is why it was quite easy for us to say yes to the option. As far as possible, we want parts of the security policy that Finland has. In our opinion, this makes it easier with a defence association with Finland. Otherwise, we want to be militaryly non-aligned, with that exception. And we clearly say no to NATO membership. That's how you're supposed to see our support for this option. We want a very strong defence. We are the only party to put 2% of GDP in 2030, Madam President. I hope that more parties will also want to do this later. We have seen a great and clear strengthening of the Swedish defence in recent years, and that is a good thing. If you decide here in Parliament to apply for membership of NATO, you have to relate quite a lot to Finland. In our opinion, it is not just pressing the button in Parliament and saying: now we are going to join NATO. If there's a majority in Parliament – it's a long way from that today – it's still going to go to a referendum. The Swedish people must have their say. And, if we are part of a defence union with Finland, what if Finland says no and we say yes? These are very difficult questions that I will not go into today, but one must relate to Finland. And if we have operational cooperation with Finland, it also means that we should consider Finland's attitude towards possible NATO membership. Are we going to be in NATO if we want to? It's not safe. We were in London, Madam President, discussing that issue. The answer from the NATO executive there was: yes, you are fulfilling this economically and in terms of democracy and all that. However, we also see in NATO how the security situation in the region is changing. So it is not certain that you can be part of NATO. Making the Baltic Sea a NATO sea can hardly count as strengthening the security of the area. Our view is that this should not be jeopardised. It should be a strong Swedish defence, which we are about to get, and preferably a defence union with Finland. With regard to the uncertainty that has been created around the NATO option, I think that instead of going out into the newspapers and writing their own interpretations, we should talk to us and ask why we are doing this, in relation to what we say, Madam President. Now we have to go back and crank this. I am still standing here today and raising the issue to make it clear what we think and why. If you write in the newspapers you create uncertainty because not all articles relate to our opinion but make interpretations of it, which is unfortunate. There is a lot of talk about how we should invest in and preserve peace. But I have not heard anyone say that we should preserve our freedom, that we have a strong Swedish defence to preserve the freedom to do and think as we want in this country. I think that is a very big and important thing. With regard to the defence cooperation that the government has, I also know that it is sitting in secret discussions on different scenarios, which is a good thing. I understand that the Secretary of Defense and others cannot go in and tell you about these parts. However, it is not the case that there is no very deep cooperation to ensure and manage different scenarios in this paragraph. Once again and in conclusion, we say clearly and firmly no to NATO membership, so that it is completely stated. But we would like to see the government take further steps towards rapprochement with Finland. Operational planning is very good, as are exercises. We practiced at the North Calott even when I was an officer. Those were good exercises. It creates a great deal of understanding for each other, and it also creates a rapprochement so that you trust each other.
i-f2999c5907a82396-557	Madam President, I would like Finally, it is time for a debate on research! The government has put forward a solid proposal for a research proposal. The Moderates see both good and bad proposals in this, and therefore we have written an almost equally solid follow-up motion describing how we from the Moderates would like to see research policy in the future. I would like to begin by saying that, of course, I support all our reservations, but I will only support reservation 2, which deals with research policy and scientific quality. The Government's proposal for a model for how to reward the quality of the research is based on an peer review in accordance with the proposals of the Steering and Resource Investigation. The allocation of funds shall be made through, among other things, so-called profile areas. We see a risk with this extended control system. It could reduce quality rather than increase it and also be very resource-intensive. In addition, the government wants this to be able to start and be introduced at higher education institutions very quickly. Madam President, I would like The Moderates believe that quality and excellence should be rewarded as before, where 20 percent of research funding is redistributed based on the quality indicators citations and external funds. We want the indicators to be transparent, and in order to further improve the quality, we want the Swedish Research Council to be tasked with investigating how the quality indicators can be developed and become even better and more accurate. However, we do not see that detailed management of the research results in increased quality and excellence. What, then, do we see that is positive about the bill? We think it is very good with increased basic funding. This is very important for long-term research. It is also much needed to invest in improved infrastructure and also in staffing conditions in research. However, only 25% goes to basic appropriations. The government then gives a variety of assignments and detailed research programmes, while the free and quality-driven research receives thin and small funding. It is also important that more money should not lead to more of the same or just increased volume but also an increased quality. We also welcome the increase in the grant to the Swedish Research Council. However, we look with some concern at the fact that it is a rather small part that goes to free and research-initiated research. I also heard that one could call it curiosity-based research, a good word that actually explains what it is all about. The Swedish Research Council has requested SEK 500 million per year but receives SEK 80 million per year, so it is not really in parity with what you would have wanted. Madam President, I would like Research and innovation are very important for Sweden and our citizens. Sweden should be the world's leading research and innovation country and also be a prominent knowledge nation. I think everyone can agree with that. However, there has been a debate within the research community on what free research should look like. The freedom of research is already enshrined in both the Constitution and the Higher Education Act. Now it's about the concept of academic freedom that should be written into the Higher Education Act. We have absolutely nothing against that; on the contrary, it is very important. The concern is that the government has had some sweeping formulations about promoting and safeguarding academic freedom through this change of law, and this has led to more anxiety than good when describing how it should be done and what it should say. The debate concerns the wording: a free search for knowledge and the free dissemination of knowledge must always be exercised within the existing legal framework and on the basis of the values involved. ..................................................... No one has missed the fact that it is the word acknowledgment that has been re-debated. Unfortunately, in the research world in Europe and also globally, there are some limitations in research, and that is why we are concerned about this with values. It is believed that this means that the research will be even more controlled. The Moderates share this concern, and that is why we have written a special opinion to clarify our position on the matter. We would like to stress that it is the values of all government employees that are meant and only this one. When it comes to academic freedom, we also want to include what we might think is even more important: that it is not only a matter of internal concern for the higher education institutions, but also external threats. Research and education must be free from undue government, parliament and other governmental bodies. We already see that there is a risk of political governance, for example when you appoint where higher education institutions should be or, for example, appoint universities on a somewhat uncertain basis. What, then, do the Moderates want to prioritise, Madam President? On Monday, a space helicopter flew on Mars; I think you may have seen that. It was the first time in world history that a helicopter flew across a planet other than Earth. This would not have been possible without a long and very sustained research. There are many important research areas that the Moderates want to invest in, and one of them is space research. Space data is needed to improve environmental and climate research, for example in agriculture and forestry, but also in fisheries to avoid currents so that the boat can run with less energy during transport. The Moderates have a bet that we call green fuel support. Here we set aside SEK 100 million per year until 2023. 30 million of these we want to contribute to the Space Board. In our budget exercise for 2021, we contribute SEK 10 million more per year than the Government is investing until 2023. Madam President, I would like Another important area is medical research. This includes everything from important health-promoting research and preventive medicine to highly specialised care. We want to see a national strategy with clear objectives in health-promoting research. Prevention is extremely important. The Moderates also want us to be at the forefront of gene therapies and so-called precision medicine. Previously unrepentant diseases, such as cancer care, we want to be able to see as penitable. We also need to strengthen cooperation between universities and health care in order to make this work better. There must also be better conditions for increasing clinical research. Madam President, I would like No one has been able to miss how the ongoing pandemic has affected us and still affects us globally as well as in Sweden. The government wants to set up a national research programme on viruses and pandemics, which, of course, we think is good. However, the Moderates want to take a further step and want to set up an Institute for Biological Research. Then it is possible to cooperate and have the same goal to develop even more antivirals and even more vaccines. Although there is much research going on, many virologists are concerned because there are many viral diseases. I can tell you that I work extra as a doctor and I'm out vaccinating. The joy I see in the eyes of the patients receiving vaccines is absolutely irresistible. It makes a whole day to see someone so happy. I had a 95-year-old who said, "Now I can start living life again." It's amazing. We've really come a long way with vaccines. It is about a lot of basic research and, of course, also cutting-edge research. There is much more to talk about when it comes to Moderates' research policy and government research policy. I will end with this selection of what we think is important. Of course, all that we are researching now can be useful in the future.
i-f2999c5907a82396-579	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 36. Of course, we support our particular opinion, which we have with the Moderates. Just as Hänel Sandström said, some proposals in the research bill are good, some are less good and some are even bad. Even if you are in opposition, you must be able to highlight what is good. If I am to start in a positive spirit, I can say that what is good is that the government in the bill announces that the requirements for admission to teacher education should be increased. That is a very good thing, and it is something that we have been asking for for a long time. Another good thing is that the share of teacher-led lessons in education will also increase. We have been asking for this since we entered the Riksdag in 2010. I'll line up good things here, but I'll get to the bad later. Another good thing is that it is announced in the bill that a research programme on crime should be launched. I stood here last autumn and said that we must research what has social relevance and plays a major role in our society. There is a demand for research. Now it's in the research bill, and it's great. Then I'll come over to the less good things. Mälardalen University will become a university. In the future, there will only be universities and no colleges at all if this development continues. Today there are more universities than higher education institutions, and it will not be long before there will be no higher education institutions left at all. Then the quality label that the university name means disappears, and then all universities are universities. You might think it's good, and you might think it's bad. We Swedish democrats think that the quality label that the university name means should remain. In addition, Mälardalen University is perhaps the university that has received the most criticism over the years. They may have improved lately – I don't say anything about it – but they received criticism, among other things, after a female teacher student got her tuition fee back because her mathematics course was of too low quality. Now this was a few years ago, and the university may have improved. But Mälardalen University should not become a university, we believe. According to the research proposal, collaboration must be financially rewarded. We don't think so. If collaboration is financially rewarded, different people within academia will collaborate to get money and grants. It will work together for the sake of cooperation, and I am guessing that the proposal will be removed in a few years' time. We will cooperate more than we do today, i.e. various research programmes, universities, surrounding society, but we should not reward collaboration in itself financially. I have to get into the issue of academic freedom, just like Hänel Sandström. A few weeks ago I listened to Studio One – not yesterday's show but a few weeks ago. A government representative beat his chest and said that one stands for academic freedom while the opposition threatens academic freedom, especially SD and any other party. The government already controls research a lot today. It governs through grants, where to give grants, how to give grants, conditions for grants, through regulatory letters and the strategic research areas. We will retain the strategic research areas – they are partly good. But it is a question of governance. The question is how much to control. We want to control less than the government does. For example, we do not want to impose literature lists on teachers in universities. I'll let them do it for themselves. More academic freedom! We must exercise restraint in the government's letter of regulation – even when we are in government or as a basis of government. More academic freedom! The Boards of teachers will become more independent and more based on the higher education institutions themselves. More academic freedom! We should not impose foreign subjects in various courses and courses. More academic freedom! If any teacher at KTH wants a gender perspective on strength in bridge building – knock yourself out, we are so good! But it shouldn't be forced. I don't understand how it can be academic freedom. I'm going back to good things. I'll mix the compote a little bit. Smaller universities will have thematic profile areas, says the research bill. I think that is a good thing, and that is something I have raised in the speaker's chair several times. Smaller universities should not compete with larger universities. They get if they want, but it is not good that they compete in exactly the same research areas as large universities. It is better that they find their own profile areas and can be at the forefront there – perhaps globally. I think that's the way forward. Then I think that smaller universities should cooperate more than today with larger universities. There are administrative gains to be made, synergies and all sorts of things. The money saved can be spent on research or teaching. If I remember correctly, the word quota does not appear in the research bill. I can remember wrong, but I can't remember it standing there. There is quite a lot about detailed gender objectives. I do not think we should have detailed gender objectives, and I certainly do not think we should have quotas. All groups in society – they do not need to be gender-based but can be socio-economic groups or any groups – should have the same conditions to study and the same conditions to achieve success. But the outcome is not for us to control. We can't control it in the long run. It will be social engineering at too high a level, and it will never be good. I wish politicians would learn that at some point. We can't fix everything. If we arrange the same conditions for all the groups, we have come a long way and I think that we have already come a long way. I turn to the question of the quality of research. I was there when we introduced the Bologna model, which means – if I have understood correctly, which I think I have done – that the universities should in principle evaluate themselves. I was sceptical when this was introduced. If we evaluate ourselves in this room, I think we'll get the highest grade... maybe except for me, who's a little more humble, but basically. I believe that external evaluation is needed, and if I have understood correctly, the government has actually taken a first step in this bill and put on the UKÄ to externally evaluate the research. I think that's good. I think we can take more steps in that direction, but this is a good first step. Madam President, I would like I read in SOU 2019:6 that it proposes a review of the state external research funders in order to achieve greater coordination. I think it's running too high. I think the government should take on board what's in this investigation. As far as the research councils are concerned, we have five research councils today. There's too many. I think the government should merge a couple of them. It's too much administration, and it's running too much. It's not rational. That's not good. I shall make one last point, Madam President. I see I've been running over time a little bit. The Government writes in the bill that... research policy should respond to... national societal challenges and societal needs. That is exactly what I said last autumn here in the speaker's chair. I got a little criticism for that. Now it's in the research bill. I think it's excellent – good there! I'm sorry I overwhelmed my time a little.
i-f2999c5907a82396-599	Madam President, I would like Inequality and growing economic gaps are a major social problem. There is a strong link between inequality and a variety of social and health indicators. In unequal societies, class and status are becoming more important, and that affects how we people view each other. More and more economists and institutions have also recently shown that increased inequality has a negative impact on economic growth. Sweden is the country, together with New Zealand, where inequality has increased most in the Western world in recent decades. From being the most equal country in the OECD, we were in the ninth place in 2019. While life expectancy increases for high-income and highly educated people, it decreases for women in typical LO professions. The Left Party agrees with the Government that it is important to invest in research into health gaps, but also notes that research already shows how the gaps in society affect health. We can also note that, despite this knowledge, the gaps continue to increase and the government's policy of favouring the rich with tax deductions, tax cuts and other things that drive the development towards greater inequality. If social research is to be useful, policies must also take on board research results and not make decisions based on decisions that run counter to research. Inequality and inequalities in society affect so much more than just the health aspects. Sweden has much to gain by creating an equal society. But this requires a more equal tax system, strengthened social security and, not least, a policy of full employment – something that gives few or no impressions in government policy and few prints in the research bill. The challenges of the cleavage society are not addressed in one word, but are hidden behind words such as socio-economic segregation and socio-economic challenges. Therefore, the Left Party proposes, among other things, that the proposed research programme on segregation should have the focus on segregation, class and equal conditions. We must dare to talk about class! Madam President, I would like Sweden is a research nation. We are at the forefront, but it is also clear that we are losing towards other countries. Is this a research bill that will change that? No, I don't think so. Are there any of the written sequels that will change that? I don't think so either. Sweden's research policy is something we must continue to work on every day. Just because the Riksdag decides on the research bill is not the decisions we make today cut into stone. We'll keep working. I am proud of the research nation that Sweden is anyway. I am also proud that we have a study funding system and funding system that means that it is not the parents' wallet that determines who can become a researcher. Everyone has the financial opportunity, although we still have a lot to work with to ensure that we have equal and equal participation in higher education and research. The security of daring to invest in research has been put forward in our follow-up motion. The government has allocated the additional research resources decided in the budget proposal for this year. The Left Party fully supports the increased contributions that go to the higher education institutions as basic grants. We also support the focus on more searchable funds for free research, but I note that this part is not very large in the research bill and should be larger. It is a contribution to future budget proposals because I support the efforts made by the government on various programmes and, in some cases, even think they are at a disadvantage. This applies, among other things, to research on covid-19 and pandemics, where very much is to be contained within the 100 million in this report. The sum is the same as the investment in research on covid-19 last year alone. There is a reason to come back to that. I note that racism is not mentioned at all in the research bill, despite the fact that increasing racism and anti-Semitism are one of society's major challenges. The national research programme on racism, which was set up in connection with the previous research bill, does not have a large amount of money to allocate. There is also reason to consider extending the funding for research into racism and discrimination in the coming financial years. Another area where we believe the government is making too little effort is research on animal-free methods. Here the government writes very well, but you don't give any additions to the research. This is despite the fact that we know that animal-free methods are often cheaper, more efficient and safer for humans. Investing in research is therefore not a cost. It's an investment. The 15 million that are searchable is not very far enough for those researchers who want to develop alternative methods. In the Left Party Budget Movement, we doubled the searchable funds. There must be an end to animal suffering in the context of research, and then research methods must be developed. This is where the government gets back homework. Madam President, I would like We agree with the environmental orientation of the research bill. Sweden and the world are facing a climate crisis. Earth supplies us humans with the necessary natural resources, but they are not endless. The Left Party welcomes the strengthening of the national research programme on climate change and particularly welcomes the strengthening of the link between climate change and biodiversity. But even if we agree with the research proposal's focus on the environment, we believe that Sweden must highlight and invest in industrial research, something that is hardly mentioned in the research bill. We need to be better at targeting research funds to develop technologies that are crucial to climate change, not just targeting resources for research on climate change. If society is to be able to change, we also need to research techniques that facilitate this. In a number of areas, there are no strong proposals from the government. There is talk of the government's willingness to work further, that development is ongoing, that investigations are set up, and so on. I very much share the Government's ambitions in terms of creating better working conditions, making research more accessible and reproducible, getting an equal academy and much more. Nevertheless, I would like to highlight a number of proposals from the Left Party, which I believe should be supported by Parliament. One is an investigation of the teaching round to clarify the take-up of innovations so that responsibility for it does not lie solely with individual researchers. One is about the conditions for researchers with disabilities in universities and higher education institutions and measures to increase accessibility. One is about how support and conditions for postdocs can be strengthened and developed. One is about the universities' work to support doctoral students during the pandemic. One is an investigation into how to strengthen patent rights and reduce the imbalance between the parties in court proceedings. One is that the government's proposed research programme on crime should also focus on crime prevention. One is the proposal we have, together with the Christian Democrats, to set up a police research institute. Finally, we also have proposals for gender equality academy, which provides gender equality bonuses to universities – a maximum of 50 per cent of the research funding should go to men who do research – and for the bibliometrics to be investigated from a gender equality perspective. Of course, I support all of our motions, both those I have mentioned and those I have not mentioned, but I choose, in this debate, to only agree to reservation 38, which contains our equality proposals.
i-f2999c5907a82396-626	Madam President, I would like For us Christian Democrats, it is fundamental that both higher education and research and innovation should be permeated with high quality. We therefore support the Government's goal that Sweden should be one of the world's leading research and innovation countries and a prominent knowledge nation. The Government's research proposal will point out the direction and provide the framework for how we will achieve the overall goal. And I will admit, Madam President, that I felt quite positive when I heard the first presentation of the content. The government speaks well of safeguarding free research and providing significant resources. But when I started reading the details, I was a little worried about the flaws I saw. The Christian Democrats have put forward 27 concrete proposals that we believe are important for us to be able to meet the overall research policy objective. Today I would like to describe some of the most important proposals but also the risks that we see with some of the government's proposals. Madam President, I would like Solutions to societal problems and challenges have in the vast majority of cases emerged through creativity and knowledge generated by long-term investment in free research. As I mentioned earlier, the government provides significant resources to both universities and research councils. That's good. In total, the sector will receive between SEK 3.1 and 3.7 billion per year until 2024. But the government's detailed management of resources for state research funders is concerned. Most of the proposed resources are targeted at five cross-cutting areas: climate and environment, health and well-being, digitalisation, skills provision and working life, and democratically strengthened society. I believe, Madam President, that there are many of us who can agree with the government that these areas are urgent. These are societal challenges that we need to address. But the big problem is that the government is not content with identifying the framework. No, you go in with specific initiatives in each overall area. We Christian Democrats are in danger of this kind of detailed management leading to the risk that the search for answers to societal challenges might take place in the wrong place. In the long run, this can counteract Sweden's establishment as a leading knowledge nation. The Christian Democrats therefore believe that the vast majority of research funding should instead consist of support to safeguard free research. Madam President, I would like It is also essential that the research funding process is competitive and that the award is based on high scientific quality. This is guaranteed by the research funding system with the research councils and Vinnova. The Swedish Research Council is the largest of these authorities and has a well-developed and quality assured structure and process to ensure that the assessments of the applications are of high quality and carried out in an objective, impartial and transparent manner. However, there are also a number of authorities that allocate considerable sums of money to research and innovation, even though they do not have research funding as their main mission. These include MSB, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and the Swedish Transport Administration. The aim is for these authorities to finance research and innovation with a view to contributing to knowledge-based public activities. Madam President, I would like The aim is good, but the fact that the authorities do not have research funding as their main task puts state funds at risk of being allocated to research that is not of the highest quality. And it is clear that mediocre or poor research cannot help solve societal problems, no matter how good the purpose of research is. It is true that the Government announces in the bill that there are grounds for reviewing state research funding. It is welcome, but the government does not describe the principles on which the review should be based. From the Christian Democrats' side, we believe that it should be ensured that all state research funding is allocated through a quality process such as the Swedish Research Council. We also believe that the current research resources of these authorities without research funding should be released as the main task in favour of such a review process. Madam President, I would like The provision of secure forms of employment for young researchers is important to enable them to develop into prominent researchers. This, in turn, is central to Swedish competitiveness. But the reality is that temporary and short fixed-term contracts are often piled on each other for several years. The government pays attention to the problem but unfortunately does not present any concrete measures to improve the situation. Government assignments in the form of surveys and follow-ups are not sufficiently capable of action, we believe. We also do not believe in the government's strategy of giving HEIs specific goals to increase the number of assistant lecturers. No, we believe that concrete measures are needed. While we welcome the fact that the government is raising the basic grant, we want part of that grant to be earmarked and used to ensure secure employment conditions for young researchers. It is also important to remove two concrete obstacles in the Higher Education Regulation in order for more people to be employed as assistant lecturers. I would therefore like to support the Christian Democrats' reservation number 31. We want the deadline for applying for a position as assistant lecturer to be extended from five to seven years after the public defence – this in order for more people to have time for merit and be able to be adequately evaluated. It is also important that the Higher Education Ordinance clearly states that a so-called "combined employment" is also available to persons who have a position as assistant lecturer. These changes are also something that, among others, the Young Academy of Sweden is asking for. I would therefore be grateful, Madam President, if Minister Ernkrans could say whether she is willing to work towards introducing such changes to the Higher Education Regulation. To conclude, Madam President, I would like to thank the chairman and other members of the committee for their good cooperation on the clarification of the report on the proposed provision on academic freedom, in particular on the reference made by the government to the constitutional comments on the values. There must be no uncertainty that it is the existing value base for state employees, which in turn is based on the basic requirements of the government form, which is referred to and no other value base. This is important, and we have now ensured that this uncertainty is removed by the mark that we have made jointly in the committee's position.
i-f2999c5907a82396-640	Madam President, I would like At last, we are standing here in the speaker's chair debating the research bill! Since it only happens every four years, this is a bit of a holiday. The way here has, in principle, since the previous research bill came four years ago consisted of a variety of seminars and debates – not least seminars organised by Rifo, the Society Members of Parliament and researchers, for which I would like to do some advertising. It's an amazingly good organization and an important meeting place where we get to meet researchers and learn about things we didn't know about, I was about to say. It's a very good meeting place, which is important to us. For my part, this is the third research proposal that I, as a Member, can take part in. I was amused to look back a little bit on what we said in 2012, when we Social Democrats were in opposition. What did we press for in our accompanying motion? We pushed above all on the conditions for doctoral students and young researchers and gender equality. We referred to numeraries but also how funds are distributed. We pressed for practice-related school research, to strengthen the humsam field and to improve research rankings in basic education. All of this was then taken back to the research bill 2016, which then Minister Helene Hellmark Knutsson presented four years ago. These proposals were included in the bill together with strengthened basic grants of SEK 1.3 billion. We went from 8 000 SEK per student to 12 000 SEK. Six ten-year national research programmes were also set up, integrating education and research, and a lot of other things. Now we are at the third research bill for me, which Minister Matilda Ernkrans will present. There we can read about the red thread. Then it always adds a lot. There is a lot in the bill that is good, but what I want to print a little extra on is of course that the funds for the basic grants are raised once again, now from 12 000 SEK to 17 500 SEK per student. It is very important that we give more funding to the research infrastructure. The fact that we are strengthening research links and that we have an education lift is also very important. I intend to leave it to the Government to go into more detail about what the bill contains. I'm about to float out a little bit. You get that when you're standing here in the speaker's chair. We usually say that if we invest in knowledge and research, we build a strong society, and that's how it is. It's really important. Then it is important that we really acknowledge the curiosity, the desire to learn and take in new knowledge, and that is not just what we do in higher education. That is why I think it is important that all of us who are active in the whole education chain should think about how to affirm the curiosity and desire to learn in preschool, primary school, secondary school and adult education, so that we can really achieve the goal that we all want to achieve, that is, more researchers. It's not just about those who are adults, it has to start very early. We know that two thirds of Europe's growth is derived from research and innovation. Then it is important that we have people who want to work in this sector and who are, as someone said before, excellent researchers. Therefore, my contribution to all of us who work with education is that it is important that we affirm our curiosity. I read a Finnish article the other day, a few years old article from 2017. It has the title: Can you measure how science changes our world? The article was very exciting. Since I'm not a scientist, I'm allowed to interpret it with caution. But I understand the answer to the question as that it is quite easy when it comes to new products and new services, such as pharmaceuticals, gene scissors that received the Nobel Prize, wifi and GPS. For me who lives in Värmland, forest research is extensive. We are now about to arrive at what is called nanocellulose, which will replace a lot of material with something that is more sustainable. I think other countries have come to present things that are built on nanocellulose. Then it's pretty easy to measure how science changes our world. But when it comes to those areas that are a little more difficult, to acquire critical thinking, to understand ethical issues, to have a historical knowledge and to have an ability to see problems from different perspectives, it is immediately a little more difficult to measure how science changes. It is important to have both of these perspectives and that society, academia and industry work together all the time to make it really good. Research is a very fun area. That it concerns all of us, we have seen not least during the pandemic. A solid basic research in collaboration with what I was talking about – academia, business and society – has led to the fact that we have vaccines available in a record short time. Those of us who have had the privilege of visiting Esrange, our space station, can also see how important that research is and how what happens up in space affects us down here on earth. We who have also been up in Tarfala, as the picture on the research bill shows, have also learned a lot about their environmental monitoring system, which checks what is actually happening to our environment. Research is therefore fun and concerns us all. It is important that we learn from history, and then I intend to back down to 1477, when we got the first university in the Nordic region, Uppsala. It took over 400 years before we got a female doctor, Ellen Fries. It took a few more years for us to have a woman who became a professor, Sonja Kovalevsky. And it was not until 1992 that gender equality was included in the Higher Education Act. Today, 2021, every week a man kills a woman. And then there are parties in Parliament, in this House, who do not think it is important that we have a gender equality policy objective in the Higher Education Act. I think it's outrageous-- I just have to say it. We can see throughout history that men and women have not been treated equally. It goes without saying that, from the point of view of politics, we must stress that it is not good enough, that we must do differently. Could there be anything more important to research today than masculinity? No, actually, I don't think so. In conclusion, Madam President, free research for me is as obvious as free and voluntary education. I hope that we will see a great many more skilled researchers taking their place in our academy. I therefore call for the proposal in the report to be approved and for all motions to be rejected.
i-f2999c5907a82396-657	Madam President, I would like Equality policy goal – I sense that it was my party, Gunilla Svantorp, that meant. I have said nothing about a gender equality objective. We can have it, but the important thing is how it looks. I don't know how many times I've said that the outcome can't be controlled, but it's supposed to be gender equality. It should be absolutely the same conditions for each group in society, both gender and others. I do not understand how it can be misinterpreted, but it is for political reasons. We're approaching the election, as I said. I thought I'd bring up something else. I fully understand, Madam President, because if it is not quite Gunilla Svantorp's table and if she is not familiar with the matter. I think it is an important issue, but I did not have time to address it in my speech. It's about the icebreakers Oden, Atle and all their names. They'll be worn out soon, and they won't work much longer. They need to be replaced. So it's a matter of keeping the water beakers up. There is a lot of talk about high-speed trains, which we do not really need and which are not really suitable for Sweden. But it is very important that we keep our waterways open, and climate change will not make it open sea during the winters. I think we can forget that for the next 50 years. If I'm properly informed, every icebreaker like this costs 1 1⁄2 billion, which is big money. Surely we need three such new research vessels. What's the government plan for this? I haven't seen or heard anyone.
i-f2999c5907a82396-664	Madam President, I would like I read before in the reservation that Robert Stenkvist called for approval for:.The Swedish Democrats believe that there should be no quantitative targets for gender equality in the higher education system. If it is not a statement of equality policy, I do not know what it is. Robert Stenkvist said in his speech that we need to research what has social relevance and is being asked for. If there is something that has social relevance and is being demanded today, it is masculinity research, given that men are killing women in this country and other countries day in and day out. There is something about the male norm that needs to be researched, and I really hope that Robert Stenkvist will agree with that. Let me put a counter-question to Robert Stenkvist. If we are going to do research on what is relevant to society, what does Robert Stenkvist mean that it should be, if it is not about men's violence against women as an example that gender research in its masculinity research is concerned with? Robert Stenkvist's question about icebreakers may be better answered by the Government. However, it is part of the important research infrastructure that we are saying in the report that we must invest in.
i-f2999c5907a82396-668	Madam President, I would like There will certainly be research into men's violence against women. It has the highest societal relevance, and I welcome such research. One could also tighten rules and penalties to have a little faster effect, but I have absolutely nothing against such research. As I said in the speaker's chair, I am opposed to detailed gender objectives, but we shall all have the same conditions. That's two different things. It'll be engineering at too high a level. There will be quotas. It is well stated in the form of government that the allocation of posts and appropriations should be done on a meritocratic basis. Then we should follow it and not have detailed gender goals. There are more women than men studying at universities today. It would never occur to me to start quotas for men to the detriment of women. There are more women who apply to the university and who pass the admission tests. Please, study and do something good with the chance! We cannot decide that there should not be more than 55% women at universities and colleges in Sweden. That would be completely wrong. If it's 65%, we have to think about what's wrong. But that is a completely different matter, and then we may have to research what has gone wrong and discuss and debate it. What I'm saying is that we can't set such limits. I repeat so I get dry in my throat: All groups should have the same conditions. That has always been my goal, and I have never had a different opinion from it. This is important. However, not all groups may have the same conditions, for there may be hidden aspects that make some groups less well off.
i-f2999c5907a82396-675	Madam President, I would like It is precisely these hidden aspects and hidden norms that cause women to fall behind in our society. In 2016, the Government gave a mandate to the Swedish Research Council on gender mainstreaming. Since then it has been seen that the level of granting has become more equal. So if you increase your knowledge of the hidden standards something happens. Let me take an example that has nothing to do with research but with gender equality. At my party's congress in 1993 it was decided that the lists should be varied, and in 1994 Sweden got the first equal government. Of course it matters what you do, what you think is important and what you advocate. If it is not important for it to be equal, it will not be equal either. For us, it is very important, and that is why it is included in the research proposal that gender equality must be increased.
i-f2999c5907a82396-679	Madam President, I would like Investment in research and innovation is the key to meeting both the societal challenges we face and in the moment we are re-launching the economy. Research and innovation contribute to jobs and entrepreneurship. They are also keys in a green transition and to develop new medicines or vaccines for better life and health. We have an incredible amount to thank the research for, for example, new technological innovations that reduce climate emissions and rapid development of vaccines during the pandemic. I am convinced that the challenges of the future will be met with new knowledge developed through research and with new technologies and innovations that contribute to the development of society. The majority of research investments in Sweden are private investments. It is important to have with us now that we are debating state research policy. Making it more attractive for international and Swedish companies to invest in Sweden is crucial. It is about attractive research environments as well as good investment climate. The Center Party has pushed forward in the budget negotiations with the government to extend and extend the expert tax and to extend the R & D deduction that exists for companies to dare and want to hire people who work with research and development. It is also important to the whole that research policy makes it more attractive for private companies to invest in Sweden. Madam President, I would like The Research Policy Bill has been negotiated between the Center Party, the Liberals and the Government, and it aims to create attractive research environments. We make large additions of more than SEK 3 billion per year. Basic funding for higher education institutions increases by approximately 1 billion annually. This enables profiling, provides better conditions for strengthening the research links of programmes, increases the possibility of secure employment and strengthens the quality of research. In the higher education landscape Sweden has both large and small universities with strong profile areas that need to be able to develop. Many important efforts are being made to create strong environments, such as excellence centres. Free research funding for research funders can also help to increase quality and create conditions for pioneering discoveries that might not otherwise have been made. There is also considerable investment in research infrastructure. I believe that many in the committee in their discussions with different stakeholders have come across the view that the research infrastructure needs to be strengthened and that it is a key for Sweden to continue to be a strong knowledge nation where companies and people seek to conduct research and development. Madam President, I would like Society faces a number of major challenges. For example, the climate crisis is constantly reminded of ice melting and a warmer climate, a pandemic is currently affecting the whole world and digitalisation is changing our lives. The research policy bill makes major and important investments in societal challenges in five areas. I am not going to go through all the parts, but I am going to pick up a few things that I think are particularly important to emphasise. In terms of health and welfare, efforts are being made in the fields of viruses and pandemics, mental illness, precision medicine, health data and research infrastructure. I would like to take this opportunity to highlight a particular focus on research in primary care. This is the form of healthcare in which the vast majority of healthcare is provided. We see that it is important to enable more clinical and patient-related research that can also be conducted in primary care. We believe that this initiative is an important issue. Another issue in the area of health is the possibility of using health data, which is a key to creating new innovations, medicines and treatments and which we need to use and use in a better way. The assignment to the Swedish Research Council that is the result of the research proposal – partly to have an advisory function and partly to continuously identify uncertainties and obstacles when it comes to the use of health data – I see as an important issue in the future. Madam President, I would like In the field of environment and climate, there are several important elements that need to be highlighted, such as investments in the sea and water and in climate research, but also one that is important for a centre party, namely that research funding for food is doubled in the research bill. It is an important issue in order to be able to contribute to more sustainable food. Madam President, I would like A final part of the research bill I want to link to the discussions that we often have in the Education Committee when it comes to primary and secondary schools, and that is to create better conditions for more practical school research and for teacher education, which has received criticism in a number of different evaluations, through research school initiatives. What was pointed out to a large extent in the evaluations of teacher training that had taken place was that far too few of the staff of the training courses were doctoral students. Doctoral schools create better conditions for more teachers to acquire that competence. In addition, there are important investments in digitalisation as well as democratic and strong societies. Madam President, I would like It is important to point out that it is not only a research proposal but also an innovation proposal with investments in Vinnova and RISE and issues such as strategic innovation areas, where there is a high demand, and test and demo facilities, for example. This is important in order to create conditions for more jobs and more entrepreneurship in Sweden, not least in the situation we are in. There are a number of parts of the research bill that have not been discussed as much, and I would like to point out some such things that are important. There will be a review of legal conditions for the establishment of higher education institutions in Sweden. This is an important prerequisite for us to get internationally established universities to apply to Sweden. A strategy for Swedish participation in the EU Framework Programme will be developed and developed to make us better at taking home EU funding, which is a key to strengthening us as a knowledge nation. Criteria will be developed for university appointments, which is welcome and an issue that the Center Party raised already in connection with the previous research bill. National guidelines linked to open science are also being developed, which is also an important prerequisite when it comes to reducing research fraud, disseminating knowledge to more and contributing to innovation. There is a review of state research funders. There are also changes when it comes to lifelong learning and internationalisation. Madam President, I would like Finally, the research policy proposal has been much debated in connection with an addition that concerns the promotion and protection of academic freedom. It is a good and important mark that is now being drawn up. It is therefore a strengthening of academic freedom. There has been some discussion, and I am pleased that we in committee have been able to clarify in the report that this is about the state values, which apply to all government employees regardless of what is in the bill. It applies as long as the universities are state-owned, as many are. A debate on academic freedom is welcome. I look forward to us continuing to discuss academic freedom and what further things are needed when we have discussed the research bill. There are a number of proposals in the Center Party that we would like to raise in future discussions, because this is an issue that we need to raise on an ongoing basis. Finally, we support the proposal and, therefore, the report, and I would like to support the committee's proposal. I note that the Center Party has gained a great deal of influence in the research policy bill that is now on the table of the Riksdag.
i-f2999c5907a82396-703	Madam President, I would like Liberals are proud to have contributed to the bill. We've agreed on a lot of things, but maybe not everything. The product on Parliament's table, as we have heard, is a cooperation product from the government, the Center Party and the Liberals. Work on the bill has taken place during a period when we have seen the importance of research breakthroughs for human survival. Vaccines against covid-19 have developed record-fast thanks to basic research. While research has brought us closer to the solution to what may be defined as our generation's great trauma, there is still a lack of cure for major diseases. For cancer, the rate of cure is growing, but at the same time the number of cases of disease is increasing. We still do not have medicines or vaccines for the majority of the viruses we know about. The climate crisis is imminent and so on. While we are in the midst of a pandemic knowing that we still have many unsolved research issues, we know that it is in times of crisis in society that it is particularly important to invest in research. I think this is also shown within the framework of the bill. Madam President, I would like Before highlighting any areas in the research bill, I would also like to say a few words about academic freedom. During the autumn and spring, there has been a debate about how academic freedom can best be ensured. In the debate there has been talk of detailed governance from the state in relation to higher education institutions but also in the relationship between higher education institutions and employees. It is good that the debate is being conducted, but it needs to be conducted with some self-awareness. It is not a new debate either. As long as there have been universities, their position with regard to the surrounding society has been re-debated. Not infrequently, academic freedom should be as wide-ranging as it only goes until it clashes with its own perception. That is when the challenge comes in, and that is when it is set at its head. In other words, it is not as simple as we have been able to get in our minds when we have read various editorial pages lately. Liberals support the clarification of the word – the basis of values – which has caused much of this debate. We think it is a good thing that it is clarified in the way it is now being done. As far as we are concerned, we want to see a parliamentary inquiry to bring academic freedom into the constitution. Such an investigation would also make it possible to define more clearly what is academic freedom and how it is best protected. The possibility of such an investigation is being opened up in the bill, and we would like to emphasise that we in the Liberals would like to see such an investigation in the near future. Fearful universities fail their task. The same applies to parliament and government if these government powers do not actively and adequately safeguard academic freedom. Madam President, I would like I would like to highlight a few elements of the bill. Firstly, I would like to highlight initiatives focusing on quality and excellence. We know from experience that high-quality research cannot be stemmed from the earth. It requires a long-standing process. It starts with a good basic education, continues with good conditions for doctoral students, international collaborations, access to the best research infrastructure and so on. We look forward to the new system for allocating research funding according to quality indicators, which will be designed to 2023. We also look forward to and welcome the clarification of the decision-making process for university names in order to strengthen the quality aspect and to ensure that higher education institutions are assessed on an equal basis. We are also proud that the bill allocates funds to so-called excellence centres. This is something that Liberals have often talked about warmly. It is about long-term initiatives in areas where Swedish research is or has the potential to become strong in an international perspective. Madam President, I would like Secondly, I would like to highlight practical research in the public sector. Does the elderly take advantage of technological achievements that can lead to a better life for years? How do students with a neuropsychiatric diagnosis get the best possible education? These are two examples of subjects that are at the heart of so-called practice-related research. Research directly related to different professional areas is central to the quality of those activities. We are pleased that funds are now being allocated both to research schools and to research on elderly care. Madam President, I would like Thirdly, I would like to highlight the educational lift. Humanities research teaches us more about our history, our surroundings and ourselves. But classical educational subjects at higher education institutions have long been stepmotherly treated. The appropriations have been eroded and so on. However important the concept of employability is in the nature of the free academy, it is also necessary to teach about things that cannot be immediately translated into a profitable profession. Society is enriched with a deep and long-term resilience to both simplification and stupidity if we invest in humanistic research. Madam President, I would like Fourthly, I would like to highlight research infrastructure and the ESS facility. Neutron science, or neutron science, is in many ways the science of everyday life. It is essential for new and better computer chips, cosmetics, textiles, food technology and pharmaceuticals. Research and development of this neutron science takes place, among other things, at the ESS facility in Lund. That being said, modern research is becoming increasingly dependent on advanced equipment. It is about large data capacity, cleanroom, advanced telescopes or accelerators. This is the infrastructure of research. During the alliance years, ESS just started in Lund. And we are pleased that within the framework of this proposal funds are being allocated both to research infrastructure and to long-term financing of precisely ESS. Finally, Madam President, it is wonderful that we have the opportunity to highlight both the need for education for a society and the importance of neutron science. The meanings are different, but a society needs both parts in order to develop. With this, I support the proposal in the report as a whole.
i-f2999c5907a82396-721	Madam President, I would like Sweden has a long tradition of being a prominent research nation. We are taking this tradition further today when deciding on the research and innovation policy bill presented by the MP-S government. It is a big and important day for Swedish research, for academia and higher education institutions, but also for the business community, civil society and all those affected when we take a comprehensive approach every four years to the focus of research, the conditions, funding and what innovation and collaboration should look like. I feel happy and genuinely proud of the government proposal Research, freedom, future – knowledge and innovation for Sweden. It is a product, a proposal, that takes responsibility and that meets the needs of the research and research community, but also from society, industry and industry, that meets the challenges we face and that helps to advance research in Sweden. Madam President, I would like The proposal takes several of the long-term initiatives initiated in the previous research bill further. This applies not least to the increased ambition for collaboration, but also to the long – ten-year – national research programmes. They have been successful and taken forward. Some of them will be strengthened, and some are added to this bill. They are based on the major societal challenges that we see. The threat to the climate, the environment and biodiversity is, of course, extremely important here. We have a great deal of knowledge in this area since before, but also very large and embarrassing knowledge gaps. The national research programme on climate has naturally grown to be the largest of these ten-year research programmes. We need to know more about how and when climate change affects us and our societies, how we can switch to some extent to counter climate change with technological solutions, changing lifestyles and reducing consumption. But there are also investments in what we call climate adaptation, i.e. research into what we need to do to meet the consequences of the changed climate. We know that climate change is here. We see effects in the form of drought, fires, floods, strong winds, disasters in the great but also deteriorating conditions for the individual in their agriculture and forestry. Already today we see that people globally need to move because the changed climate makes it impossible to provide or even live in certain places in the world. UNHCR and IOM expect 200 million people to have been forced to flee due to climate change up to the middle of the century – in 2050, in just three decades. This could almost be seen as the beginning of a new era of migration when so many people have to move. How do we face it while maintaining the idea of peace in the world? That's a big question. The threat to our livelihood, here in Sweden and globally, of food and drinking water are other major issues of destiny. A new ten-year programme on the sea and water is being set up to gain more knowledge about it. Biodiversity in our waters is under threat, and species are dying out. Large water reservoirs deep into the soil are emptied in anything but sustainable food production worldwide. Plastics and impurities of non-degradable substances are another threat to our watercourses. Madam President, I would like The health challenge is another part that is addressed in the bill. The pandemic has shown that we have shortcomings in health care, but it also reminds us that we need to live more healthy lives. A return to the way of life from which we come will not be able to cope, and neither will the health insurance system, for example, be able to do so. We need more research on, for example, public health. As far as health care is concerned, there is a great need for knowledge about antibiotic resistance, precision medicine and mental health, but also about specific diagnoses, rare diagnoses and diseases – as well as pandemics, of course. All these parts are included in the bill, with assigned funds. The same applies to primary care. We also need to know more about care injuries. It's something I've been running as a politician myself. It scares me terribly that 1 000 – 2 000 deaths every year are caused by mistakes in health care. A friend of my family, an elderly woman, passed away at Christmas after being hospitalized in a less serious condition. In the infirmary she was infected with covid-19, and she died shortly thereafter. I'm not gonna let that happen. The National Board of Health and Welfare has developed a national action plan on patient safety, which is largely about the need to expand our knowledge. There are funds allocated to the Forte Research Council for preventive measures and public health, which also mentions patient safety and should come in. Another area where the Green Party has been a driving force is alternative methods to animal testing. It has been highlighted earlier here in the debate, and a whole section of the bill has been devoted to it. Animal experiments are expensive, time-consuming and often imprecise, but today we need animal experiments to produce, for example, safe medicines and medicines. However, the same results can be obtained by alternative methods– in computer-generated simulations, through materials similar to human tissue or through organs on chips, for example. There is an EU directive that says we should phase out experimental animals. There is absolutely one ethical aspect in this area, but alternative methods can also reduce both costs and times for research. There is therefore a lot to be gained from this kind of initiative, and we already provide funding through the Swedish Research Council and 3R-center at the Swedish Board of Agriculture for this. In this context, I can also mention that the Swedish Board of Agriculture has now been given a mandate in the regulation letter to map measures to reduce the use of experimental animals. It is quite clear that we need an action plan, with deadlines. Madam President, I would like Are there any flaws in the bill? Yes, in some areas I think we might have come a little further. We are investing heavily in medical research and in innovation, technology and science, but we also need to continue investing in humanities. It is a large area with a lot of students and many researchers, but unfortunately it loses funding. This applies to both targeted initiatives and free research funds. For example, we can see this in that the proportion of rejections in research applications in humanities and art is considerably higher than for other disciplines. Here I would have liked us to have come a little further in the bill, even if we make some investments in, for example, the education lift – which has meritoriously been lifted earlier in the debate – and research schools in the humanities. For the Green Party, the humanities are very important, and we are working on strengthening humanities science and its funding. We also need to do more to secure the employment of university teachers and researchers, as well as to create career paths and creative research environments. Today, we see that universities have an unreasonably large proportion of temporary employment, hourly employment, fixed-term employment and stacked employment. Here we need to make demands on the universities, and we do so in the proposal in the form of HEI-specific goals for career positions and for the recruitment of female professors. However, we have autonomous universities that themselves need to improve on these parts, and in the long run we probably also need to allocate more funds to this area. This is because we are also entering into academic freedom, which has, of course, been debated quite a lot recently – and also earlier here in the debate. If research is to be free, we need the opportunity to develop ideas freely. There is a need for environments with safe researchers and a close link between teaching and research; I think that is also important. In the bill, we raise the basic grants to the higher education institutions, and I hope to see that those funds are used for employment and creative research environments. Academic freedom is also strengthened by a new formulation in the Higher Education Act: It should be stated that acknowledgment of academic freedom should be promoted and protected. It's important and good – and called for, I guess I can also say. Threats and hatreds of scientists must really be curbed. It is a health and safety issue, but also a question of freedom of research and education. We are also seeing a decrease in the fundamental freedoms of countries around us. Democracy is in decline globally. Freedom of expression, including academic freedom, is part of what is restricted at an early stage in dedemocraticism. Here in Sweden, the threat comes with all the clarity from the Swedish Democrats. We see it in the municipalities where the Swedish Democrats are in charge but also in statements and in political proposals here in the Riksdag. Cultural expressions are limited, free journalism is being called into question and support for peoples' education is being cut. As far as higher education and research are concerned, we hear attacks on identified theories and methods in a way that I think clearly violates the principle of arm's length. The government opens the bill for a possible future constitutional change. However, the Swedish Constitution is not properly adapted to protect against governments that want to poke in fundamental rights. The only safe protection is, continue, not to vote for a government that relies on or depends on this type of party. Madam President, I would like Finally, because I have been talking for a little too long: it is a strong research policy bill that Parliament has to decide on today. The government has certainly done its homework, listened to the sector, referred parts in advance, made adjustments where necessary and put forward a research policy proposal for the next few years that has so far been very well addressed. I therefore support the proposal in the report and the government's proposal for research policy.
i-f2999c5907a82396-742	Madam President, I would like I am proud of the Swedish research community and of Swedish research. I am proud of how it contributes to building the strength of our society. Research is a matter for all of us. Research is needed to improve society and our common lives. Research is needed for the new major breakthroughs. The ongoing pandemic is still testing us all hard, but it also clearly demonstrates the importance of new knowledge through research, innovation and cooperation. This is how vaccines and medical technology are created, as well as knowledge about behavioral changes – things that are needed to get us out of this crisis and build society stronger for the future. The need for research and innovation is not unique to this crisis; other major societal challenges will also require new knowledge, and more research and innovation will be central. The question of destiny of our time, the climate threat, is an example of this. New technologies, new breakthroughs and new scientific collaborations are needed in order for us to change society without anyone falling behind. With more knowledge, we can carry out the fair climate transition, increase our competitiveness and strengthen society in the face of future challenges. Investments in research and new knowledge lay the foundation for a strong society and enable important breakthroughs and innovations. It creates jobs from north to south, and it creates prosperity and development. The Swedish Parliament is now debating and will decide on the Government proposal Research, freedom, future – knowledge and innovation for Sweden. I would like to take the opportunity of the government to thank the Center Party and the Liberals for their very good cooperation. This proposal is important to Sweden as a leading knowledge nation. We increase resources for research and innovation by over SEK 3.7 billion per year from 2024 and over a four-year period by SEK 13.6 billion. This is a 10% increase in the level of government research funding to strengthen free research, to meet five broad societal challenges that are in line with the societal challenges identified by the OECD and the EU as well as to protect academic freedom. To meet societal challenges in terms of health and well-being, we make efforts in two crucial areas. On the one hand, we are establishing a new long-term national research programme on viruses and pandemics. We're investing in enhanced lab capacity, primary care and life science. On the one hand, we are making efforts to improve public health, including a new national research programme to combat mental illness. With regard to the societal challenge of climate and the environment, we are making a significant strengthening of the national research programme on climate change, which is now to become the largest national research programme. We are establishing a new long-term national research programme on sea and water. Sweden should take the lead in the field of the environment and climate. The work will be based on research and science, and this is a comprehensive strengthening of Swedish climate and environmental research. When it comes to skills provision and working life, which is the third societal challenge, we strengthen working life research. We propose a change of legislation that clarifies the responsibility of higher education institutions for lifelong learning, and we invest in research schools within health care and school and on an education lift. We advertise a series of measures to improve skills provision and secure conditions within universities and higher education institutions, which are the largest state employer. For the societal challenge of a democratic and stronger society, we are launching – again as with all national long-term research programmes – two new national research programmes that are long-term and ten-year-old in order to reduce crime and segregation and that involve a special effort on safe societies. Finally, for the last societal challenge, digitalisation, we are establishing a new national research programme on how digitalisation affects society. We are also investing in cybersecurity. This is particularly important now that the pandemic is accelerating digitalisation. We also invest in digital technology such as artificial intelligence. Of course, we will take advantage of the opportunities of digitalisation for better welfare, new jobs and enhanced competitiveness, but without people falling behind. In addition to these areas, a number of additional measures are being taken to strengthen research and innovation, including clarification of the collaboration task in the Higher Education Act and major investments in research infrastructure. We announce that Mälardalen University will become Mälardalen University. A new university in Mälardalen with significantly increased research resources is a strategic initiative to strengthen the region's development power and Sweden as the leading research nation. Mälardalen University has a prominent position among the country's higher education institutions. It provides a strong foundation to stand on. It is the university that has the highest number of doctoral students and the highest number of doctoral degrees. There is also a high proportion of external research funding. All these are quality indicators. Investments in research and education are obvious for Sweden's future. Knowledge builds Sweden stronger. Madam President, I would like Unlike in the previous research policy proposals, we are now doing almost the entire level increase already in the first year of the four-year period. It is important to strengthen what is already being done and to bring about new innovations but also to face the effects of the pandemic. Already this year, we are increasing resources by SEK 3.4 billion, an increase nine times greater in the first year than in the previous bill. This rapid increase is important, not least when private investment in research and innovation is at risk of decreasing as a result of the pandemic. The state takes responsibility for maintaining efforts in Swedish research and innovation at a time when society, the economy and the research and innovation system are under particular pressure. Madam President, I would like We protect free research both with resources and through legislative change. Academic freedom is an important foundation for a democratic and strong society. It secures the right to develop and disseminate knowledge in a society. That freedom needs to be protected and defended. We see several examples in the world where the role of universities as an independent and critical force in society and the right of researchers to freely disseminate and seek knowledge are threatened. We see right-wing authoritarian forces attacking research on certain subjects as a way of influencing development in the country. It is extreme forces that deny the facts about our history and how to deal with major challenges, such as the climate threat or the pandemic. This threatens the development of society and, in the long run, the whole of democracy. It's not supposed to be Sweden's road. Free research and the free academy will be strengthened. The Government therefore proposes that we in the Higher Education Act state that academic freedom should be promoted and protected in all activities carried out by higher education institutions – this in order to highlight the importance of the free search for knowledge and the free dissemination of knowledge. It is a strong signal that education and research will be protected. The fact that there are opportunities to freely seek and disseminate knowledge and for researchers to review what is happening in society is of paramount importance to society and to the whole of democracy. Against increasing evidence resistance and disinformation in society and the outside world, there is a clear counter-force: research and science. The bill describes the values already in force for government employees just as other laws already in force are described, such as the Act on Ethics Review of Research and the Act on Responsibility for Good Research Practice and Examination of Unfairness, Cheating, in Research. This is of great importance. The freedom of research and academia is a freedom of responsibility. No one should be able to hide behind free research or a free academy to threaten, hate or behave badly. The foundation of values lies in the basic requirements of the government form: democracy, legality, objectivity, free opinion formation, respect, efficiency and service. That is the values already in force, and I very much hope that no party in Parliament will want to see the abolition of principles such as freedom of opinion or democracy. Madam President, I would like I am very proud of the order that we have in Sweden, where all research is quality reviewed. I am proud of the scientific review that we have in Sweden at our universities and in our research councils. This is what we're supposed to protect. It is not politics that should direct research or assess science. It is the scientific society that should do so on the basis of the scientific method. It is the researchers who formulate their research questions. It is this freedom that should be protected and strengthened by the principle of academic freedom in the Higher Education Act. It takes what we do, and it is important at a time when we see around the world that these freedoms are threatened. It is also reasonable when we have a party in the Swedish parliament as the Swedish Democrats, who repeatedly question the whole field of scientific research. The Government also strengthens free research through increased research resources for universities and higher education institutions throughout the country and a strengthening of funding for the Swedish Research Council. Strongly increased strategic research funding for universities and higher education institutions enables them to plan for the long term, hire researchers with the right skills, fund important equipment such as laboratories, and conduct doctoral studies and other important factors required for high-quality research. We also invest in artistic research, which, like art, represents part of the democratic dialogue by debating, questioning and shaping complex issues. And as an event, it is precisely the artistic research that the Swedish Democrats do not want to fund. Madam President, I would like Finally, we are making a huge investment in Swedish research and innovation with a total of 13.6 billion over four years. This lays the focus for the coming years, it strengthens academic freedom and it meets major societal challenges. It is a policy put forward in the middle of Swedish politics. This means that Sweden can be built stronger. We can face future crises, we can strengthen basic research and we can carry out a climate transition where no one is left behind. It creates new jobs, and it strengthens our well-being.
i-f2999c5907a82396-772	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Minister for his speech. The proposal states about a new quality-based system for the distribution of research grants through profile areas. We Moderates are concerned about that proposal. We are concerned that there will be a fragmentation of research, that you miss this with cluster funds together across universities and that you spend a lot of resources there that you should instead spend on research. We see that this will probably lead to less resource use and a risk of lower quality research. I wonder how the minister sees it. Will we have cutting-edge research with this fragmentation of research funding?
i-f2999c5907a82396-775	Madam President, I would like This is an important way to develop the quality of Swedish research based on the wishes of our higher education institutions and universities. Of course, we will still allocate research funding based on the number of full-year students in the form of a basic resource, but we will also use a part with a quality indicator that will be based on a peer review for the absolute best research. You can then choose to profile the research that universities and higher education institutions consider that they can continue to develop the quality of within their HEI. This is a demand, and I think it will be very good. I'm probably more worried about the Moderates' input into this research policy. After all, you are putting forward your own financing proposal. If it were to be implemented, it would be a massive blow to our colleges and newer universities. That's my question back to the Moderates, isn't it?How do you intend to cope with the skills supply throughout our country when you will pull away the opportunity for higher education and research throughout our country? How are we going to get nurses to Sunderby Hospital, to Falu Hospital or to Kalmar County Hospital when you are not prepared to finance either higher education or research at our higher education institutions and newer universities? That is your funding proposal. I think that one would be much more worried about when one looks at the future and notes that you are now shaping yourself in order to put in place, after the election, depending on how it goes, perhaps the most right-wing conservative government that Sweden has ever seen.
i-f2999c5907a82396-778	I would like to remind the Minister that we are using the President, not yours or yours.
i-f2999c5907a82396-779	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. We have obviously talked to different universities and different principals when we have heard what you think about this proposal. Among other things, Vice-Chancellor Erik Renström from Lund University recently heard from him. It looks with great concern at this and at how to make the proposal work in the working group. Before June 1st, you should tell us how to do it. There is a huge concern that this will lower the quality. It will possibly increase competition within its own university but reduce cooperation between universities across the country. As I said, in the case of clustering, we have tried to see how we can find collaborations so that we can make better use of resources. So there is a great deal of concern. But I'm sure we've talked to different people because the Minister has heard that you're positive. I hear the most negative points. The Minister doesn't have to worry about our distribution system. It will work just fine. I can tell you more about it on another occasion.
i-f2999c5907a82396-782	Madam President, I would like As a matter of fact, the Swedish Research Council has now been tasked with returning, together with the research councils and our higher education institutions and universities, with a basis for the government to design the quality-based profiling. I feel very confident that the research community here will be able to make a wise assessment of how we can continue to develop Swedish research with the highest quality. I think that the Moderates owe the answer to who can be calm and secure in terms of how they view higher education and research throughout the country. Here at Parliament's table, today, in this report, is actually a funding principle from the Moderates, which would mean a massive blow, a huge cut compared to the government, in terms of research funding for our higher education institutions and newer universities. My question remains: how should we take responsibility for the supply of skills? Have you not heard the iva nurses in this pandemic, who need more colleagues in order for us to pass the care? Since Stefan Löfven took office in 2014, this government has taken responsibility for expanding higher education and ensuring that we train more nurses and specialist nurses all over our hand. We know they're needed. They are needed in Norrland, they are needed at Sunderby Hospital, they are needed at Falu hospital and they are needed at Kalmar County Hospital. Where and how will the Moderates take responsibility for ensuring that this competence exists throughout our country so that we can cope with the welfare and business development of our country as a whole? There the Moderates owe the answer. Or you are not, because the answer is here, in your proposals: you cannot do it, because you are not going to finance our higher education institutions and newer universities.
i-f2999c5907a82396-787	Madam President, I would like I would like to both answer questions and ask questions to the Government because we were apostrophated, which I knew we would be. The Government of Ernkrans said that we are attacking entire research fields – research fields in pluralis. Then I must be enlightened. I believe, Madam President, that the Government means this by gender science and that I have said that they should be subject to the same requirements and rules as any other research. I have received many signals that this does not happen. I think that's reasonable. It's in the Higher Education Act. Why should a discipline not comply with the Higher Education Act? Now I say it for the tenth time, Madam President-no, 20th or 30th time: we do not want to close down gender science or research. We do not want to ban anything. That's the thirty-first time I've said it. But they should have the same requirements as any other research. Having said that, the basic principle is that it is for other researchers to assess the research. The Government is quite right about that. But it doesn't seem to work in this area. Maybe there are several areas where it doesn't work well. Then we politicians must at least be able to discuss the problem. But the basic principle is that researchers should assess other research; that is quite right. Then the Government says that we do not want to give funding for artistic research. I mean, the fact resistance thing. A little self-awareness here, Madam President! We have transferred research funds and put them together into a grant, in accordance with the Ostrich investigation directive.
i-f2999c5907a82396-792	Madam President, I would like The difference here is that as a Minister for Research, but also as a Social Democrat, I trust and am proud of Sweden's research society. I trust the Swedish scientific community and that all research is being examined. I trust the scientific community and think it should do the scientific reviews based on its scientific method, where it is the researchers who identify their research issues. I don't think politics should be in charge of research. I don't think it's the Swedish Democrats who should assess which research has societal relevance or whether a research field has enough science or not. The scientific community itself will do so, and so will they. There is a party in this Parliament that attacks entire research fields, that wants to instil and control what is research and what is not research and what is science and what is not science. It's the Swedish Democrats. Yes, the government, the Center Party and the Liberals are here putting forward a strengthening and safeguarding of academic freedom to further press this. The Swedish Democrats, together with the Moderates, are the t party that cannot really put its foot down and say: We are also in favour of this. Instead, you have to have your own small entrance where you question whether all research is really real research and ask if it is scientific. That's a science society question. That's what I think. The Swedish Democrats do not think so. I just want the Swedish Democrats and the honourable Member to respond to what is happening, when it comes to academic freedom, to be able to hide behind this and threaten, hate and behave badly. Is that what you think? Why can't you just stand up for academic freedom and science?
i-f2999c5907a82396-797	Madam President, I would like Threaten and Hate — Where Did It Come From? I don't understand this. This is an election campaign that has started far too soon and in the wrong way. What does this have to do with what we're talking about? If there are any who have been threatened and hated in Swedish politics, it is we. We know what it feels like to have leftists after them throwing tomatoes and stones. Then the Social Democrats were out of their minds. Madam President, I would like The government never replied to this by withdrawing money for artistic research. In fact, we have deducted 10 million that would go through the Swedish Research Council. We did not understand why they should go through the Swedish Research Council. Give them straight to the universities instead! Then there will be more academic freedom. It's the only sum we've made. All other money remains crown for crown. We have transferred the research grant to a joint grant. You can see that in the budget, and that cannot be misunderstood. Not a crown we've pulled away. Of course, the basic principle applies: trust in the research society. I have heard that the Social Democrats are running that quite systematically. They say: We trust the teaching staff, and we trust the scientific community. But it is from the academy that we have received signals that everything is not right. I'm not the one who made it up. It comes from people we've talked to in academia, including researchers. We have to listen to what we hear. You can't just rely blindly on the teaching staff to do all the tasks and the scientific community to do everything and not make any mistakes or mistakes or that there are no abuses.
i-f2999c5907a82396-800	Madam President, I would like First of all, the Swedish Democrats should be way past always acting as some sort of innocent victim. You are a party in the Swedish parliament and have been so for many years. You represent a policy that you share with other right-wing authoritarian and right-wing nationalist ideologies around the world. It cannot be a coincidence that the Swedish Democrats think that one must discuss the scientific aspect of the particular field of research dealing with gender. In exactly the same way, it has also attacked precisely the field of research in Orbán's Hungary where your party friends run. ( FIRST VICE PRESIDENT: Now I want us to talk through the President. ) Excuse me! It is the Member's party friends who rule in Hungary. This is happening in Poland and in other parts of the world. This is also the basis for the clarification of academic freedom. It comes from an investigation where you are worried about these currents in the world and think that Sweden should introduce a principle of academic freedom. That is what we are moving forward with now with strong and broad support. Only the Swedish Democrats, to some extent together with the Moderates, feel that there is a need for clarification as to what the value base is when it is clearly the state value base. Then the question is: What is your problem with the Constitution? Is it democracy, is it freedom of opinion, is it respect? It is the scientific society that is the guarantor of what is scientific. It's the scientific method. It is that the researchers formulate their research questions. It is not politics that should define what is science or not, because then we are on a sloping plane where the Swedish Democrats are already present.
i-f2999c5907a82396-804	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Minister Ernkrans for taking the time to come here today. It is valuable to have a representative from the government in place. I have a question for the Government, which is linked to the Government's proposal to appoint Mälardalen University to a university. First of all, I would like to stress that as a foreigner, of course, I am both proud and happy about the strategic and important research carried out by the university. I am also pleased with the good collaboration with industry and industry that contributes to the region's growth and development, which is also of benefit to Sweden as a whole. However, Madam President, that does not prevent me from being critical of the government's proposal to appoint the university as a university. We do not want a development in that direction. A critical mass of resources – money and infrastructure, but also skills – is needed to create the creative and stimulating environments needed to produce high-quality research. It goes without saying that it takes high-quality research to solve the societal challenges that we have. But our common resources are limited. If we spread them out at several universities, several places, we risk customsing the quality because the resources are not enough for each individual university. Madam President, I would like In a change of line after a debate article in which I described this position, Minister Ernkrans expressed that the Christian Democrats have an elitist and petty view of higher education. I guess I didn't understand what higher education is either. I was genuinely surprised by this because in my world I had only described the basic good conditions that we cherish. I would like to ask the Government to develop the background to that statement.
i-f2999c5907a82396-810	Madam President, I would like It is quite clear and visible in the report that the Christian Democrats see no need for the University of Mälardalen. The Christian Democrats – the honourable Member himself says – do not want a development in that direction. No, it's obvious. Here the Moderates and Christian Democrats, supported by the Swedish Democrats, share active opposition to higher education and research throughout the country. I see that as petty and elitist. I represent a policy in which we see that we can build Sweden stronger as a knowledge nation and research nation by investing in research and education throughout the country. That's how we build development power, and that's how we take advantage of the strong research environments we have. That is how we can create the new jobs, build the new welfare and also see the new breakthroughs. While the Christian Democrat is now in the debate and we are debating what we think in research policy, I would still like to take this opportunity to draw the attention of the Christian Democrats and others to the fact that what I can be concerned about is that the Academy is facing a very large backlash in terms of gender equality, except for what we are facing when it comes to the fact that we will not be able to cope with the supply of skills throughout our country with right-wing conservative policies. The Moderates want to review all gender equality in universities and colleges. Swedish democrats want to ban research fields and remove the goal that we will have more professors who are women. And you in the Christian Democrats do not want us to have the higher education institutions' specific, long-term incentives for all universities to work with gender equality. Where does gender equality go in a right-wing conservative Sweden? That is my question to the Christian Democrats.
i-f2999c5907a82396-814	Madam President, I would like Gender equality is incredibly important. We protect it. We do not, however, want any kind of quota. It is precisely competence that should be the leader in all appointments of various services, including within academia. We want active work, which we also describe in our follow-up movements and reservations, where you work with, for example, so-called unconscious bias. Very effective work has been carried out at the Swedish Research Council in these parts. So I do not agree with the Government's description. Nor do I agree with the Government's description that we would be opposed to higher education. We want to protect the conditions that create the fine environments. A critical mass of resources, infrastructure and competent staff is required. Sweden is a small country. We have limited resources. We cannot disperse resources in several places, Madam President. We believe that higher education institutions and universities complement each other, and the outcome of the operations at Mälardalen University is good. Rather, it reinforces the importance of having higher education institutions that have a tip and focus on certain specific subject areas where they are really good. That's great. Madam President, I would like I heard a Saturday interview with the minister. Now we have the 130 million, and then we can bet on this. ..................................................... I believe that a long-term approach and a sustainable structure are needed over time. I wonder whether the Government has the scientific community with it with regard to the idea of appointing more and more universities to universities, Madam President.
i-f2999c5907a82396-819	Madam President, I would like It is clear that the Christian Democrats do not stand for us to have higher education and research throughout the country – throughout the country. That's the difference. The honourable Member forgot the little bit in his line. The government has made the assessment that during this term of office we can appoint Mälardalen University to a university. The university has the necessary conditions to become a university. We are basing ourselves on the regulatory framework that exists; we need to see whether we have room for that state financial. And we have. We spend 13.6 billion on Swedish research and innovation and another 130 million on Mälardalen University becoming a university. The member also forgets that we also make a strategic research policy assessment that we strengthen Sweden as a research nation through the decision that Mälardalen University will become a university. I feel very safe about this. We are the guarantor of higher education and research throughout the country. It is also we who see that gender equality builds research quality and that gender equality is what attracts other researchers to our country. We must continue to work on gender equality in academia. I wonder whether the honourable Member and the Christian Democrats have heard the courageous women who, during the Metoo and the Academy appeal, spoke about what they have been subjected to. Do you hear the women in the scientific community who are currently working hard to get their research assessed on the same terms as men's? That is not what you describe in the research policy that you are pursuing here.
i-f2999c5907a82396-824	Madam President, I would like The Government's approach is that today's societal challenges should be met with knowledge, education and long-term research and innovation policy, with a view to the future. Turning Mälardalen University into a university is part of this development. So this is a joyous day. Since it was founded, the University has taken its role as a driving social player very seriously, together with both the public sector and the major community-supporting companies. Collaboration with the surrounding community is the university's guiding principle. This means that knowledge from the university's research gives direct value to society and that the programmes are relevant to the needs of the labour market. Mälardalsregionen is the innovation leader in Sweden, and knowledge and technology-intensive companies in both Västmanland and Sörmland are currently taking major steps forward. In Västerås, Northvolt Lab's research facility has been established, and the city's major international companies, such as ABB and Bombardier, have together with Mälardalen University developed a vision of developing some of the areas called Finnslätten from traditional industrial areas to modern urban areas. There, world-leading high-tech companies will be combined with education and development. Madam President, I would like Mälardalen University is Sweden's largest university, in terms of both the number of students and the number of graduate students. Extensive research activities have been built up thanks to good cooperation with industry and the public sector. Research at Mälardalen University is currently conducted in six areas, including future energy, health and welfare and built-in systems. Within built-in systems and the energy of the future, internationally recognised research is currently being carried out. It ranks among the best in the world, undoubtedly strengthens the competitiveness of Swedish industry and contributes to a sustainable future. But there is the capacity to switch up further to make an even greater effort, not only for the Mälardal region but also for Sweden as a country. Madam President, I would like A decision to upgrade Mälardalen University to a university would, firstly, significantly increase research activities. This means better opportunities to find new solutions to major challenges, such as the future of energy supply. Västerås is already a world-leading energy competence hub. Secondly, this would reduce skills shortages. A Mälar University can contribute even more to reducing skills shortages in both industry and the public sector. Most of the programmes currently offered by the university are in areas where there is a great need for skills provision. They collaborate with ABB, Bombardier and Westinghouse when it comes to engineering training while being Sweden's largest educator of nurses. Thirdly, it would strengthen Sweden's competitiveness. A Mälar University will be able to attract experts and researchers from all over the world, and a university can become the tongue of the wave to enable the creation of a centre for technology development with an international impact. This is how we make it easier for new industries with great climate ambitions to develop. This is how we enable new jobs to be created. This is how we increase growth and strengthen Sweden's competitiveness. Madam President, I would like We Social Democrats in Västmanland and Södermanland are convinced that investments in health, climate change, electrification and automation can create confidence in the future, not least in the time of the test we are now in. This is where we need to show political momentum and dare to invest in research and innovation and in industries where jobs are created. That's how we build our society strong. This is where Mälar University has a given place, Madam President. I support the committee's entire proposal in the report.
i-f2999c5907a82396-834	Madam President, I would like Today is a big day for Sweden's international competitiveness. Large companies such as ABB, Bombardier, Westinghouse, Volvo, Northvolt and Amazon, established in the region around Eskilstuna and Västerås, have an even better opportunity for skills provision, research and development. It is the most important thing about the proposal to turn Mälardalen University into Mälardalen University. Of course, the 1 000 employees, 20 000 students, 85 professors and 215 doctoral students are already making a major contribution. After all, no new activities will be set up. Instead, one more step is taken. Making Mälardalen University College a university is a milestone. The decision means more research resources for an institution that currently has 130 million direct research grants and 250 million generated from research foundations, companies and the surrounding society. It is a unique distribution between research funding in the budget and the resources generated in this way in competition. It should have been able to appeal to some parties. Today, of course, it is also a big day for us in Västerås and Eskilstuna. I will do something as unusual in Parliament's speaker's chair as thinking about those who have made this step possible. This applies to the former County Governor of Sörmland, Bengt Gustavsson, who sat in the 70's university inquiry. It was behind the establishment of the university. This also applies to Vice-Chancellor Hasse Odenö, who laid the foundation for the research that exists, and Municipal Commissioner Åke Hillman in Västerås, who, together with me, helped fund the first professorships that laid the foundation for the research. This is a day to thank for good cooperation in the region. I would like to thank the companies that have been good citizens of society by helping to build up what can now become a university. I would also like to thank the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats for informing the voters in Sörmland and Västmanland of their position on this issue. The employees at Volvo and ABB are now learning how much these parties protect the opportunity for their companies to survive in international competition. Thank you for this information to all voters! I support the proposal.
i-f2999c5907a82396-841	Madam President, I would like It was a long day waiting to have a debate at last, and we will continue after the vote. I would like to begin by calling for our reservation and therefore rejecting the proposal in the report on the revision of the regulation on closed youth care. Preventing, preventing and reducing crime requires action from the whole of society and many policy areas. Some of the most important protection factors are good and safe growing-up conditions, a good school and education that is able to look after each child's needs and to compensate for the different conditions that children and young people have. We have recently been able to find out about the problems, shortcomings and needs that exist in the activities of closed youth care, for which the National Board of Institutional Affairs is responsible. However, this does not apply everywhere; it is easy to generalize and just see what does not work. It is about deviations from Sis institutions, safety deficiencies, an increase in threats and violence and a tough working environment that makes it difficult to recruit and retain skilled staff. But it is also a question of staff acting in breach of their powers. Trade unions in the activities have made a clear effort to improve the situation. The problems should be taken seriously, and we all agree on that in this House. The question we come to then, Madam President, is how to change and improve it. In October 2020, the Government commissioned the State Department Board to strengthen its security work. The Authority has decided that differentiated security levels should be progressively introduced in all institutions. This provides increased opportunities to adapt operations to the needs of individuals. Youth homes in Södertälje and Kalix will be upgraded to the highest level of safety. The departments of Södertälje will be operational on 15 May this year. Work on safety-enhancing measures is expected to be completed in the first quarter of 2022. In addition, six youth homes will have dedicated LSU departments. In 2020, the Agency has strengthened technical and physical security and improved intelligence capacity to ensure that placements of children and young people are as safe as possible. In order to ensure that the right skills are available to achieve the goals of the business and to meet the needs in the short and long term, the Government has commissioned the Authority to develop a strategic and long-term competence supply plan. In January, the Government announced its intention to set up an investigation to review the criminal law regulation on closed youth care. There must be a sufficiently strong response from society even in the case of very serious crime, and care times must be able to match the seriousness of crime. The study will also review the quality of care in order to ensure safe and secure care for young people and staff. It is also a question of examining the possibility of introducing a post-release lock-out similar to the activities of the Prison Service and the authority responsible for the operations. To this it must be said that the National Board of Institutional Affairs has received a budget increase for the current year of SEK 110 million. Madam President, I would like Now a majority in the committee wants, in principle, to reintroduce the juvenile prisons that we dismantled 30 years ago. I think that is wrong and that the arguments do not hold up. There are several reasons for that. With this proposal, it would be a completely different investigation from that set up by the government, and it is difficult if not impossible to do both. The problems and challenges of closed youth care are here and now and require action here and now. Initiatives have been taken and it is important that the work continues unabated. Transferring activities from one principal to another is not just a matter of changing signs, but requires thorough work. It does not aim to solve the current problems. Despite the problems that we see and that need to be resolved, the activities are mostly well-functioning and adapted to the needs of young people for support and schooling. Major organisational changes are rarely a solution to the problems we see. It is important to take advantage of what has been built up in terms of skills and experience. A change under the proposal also requires a thorough review of criminal law, which means a focus on law rather than business. The proposal also risks creating concerns in public authorities and activities and could lead to an energy leak and delay the necessary work to strengthen security and improve operations. The prison services are currently in a difficult position to ensure the quality and safety of the inmates, with full prisons and a lot of construction projects under way. To burden them with another new mission is not very wise. Madam President, I would like I find it regrettable that we cannot have a greater consensus on this important issue. Measures need to be taken here and now for safe and secure closed youth care, where we ensure that there are no deviations and that the business has improved opportunities to strengthen its work. We also need to put forward in this House proposals based on what the authority and staff are founded on, so that we make the most of the well-functioning activities.
i-f2999c5907a82396-858	Madam President, I would like Today, the Parliament will decide to transfer the closed youth care to the Prison Service. It makes me sad and worried. Young people today feel worse and worse. There's a lot of mental illness. There's too much juvenile delinquency. Young people who commit serious crimes when aged 15 to 17 are often sentenced to closed juvenile care instead of prison. It is a fixed-term sentence that young people serve in special departments of Sis' special youth home, according to the Act on the Enforcement of Closed Youth Care. Most of them are boys, and the average age is over 17. What politicians in this pulpit often lift is the importance of a good schooling. It is through school that we equip young people for the rest of their lives. Young people who have been sentenced to closed youth care participate in the youth home's regular treatment activities and attend Sis school. That's good. Continued schooling is crucial. Prison services do not currently have established contacts with different schools. Adult clients in institutions rarely have desirable access to education. It's a question I've raised many times. If you are in an institution, you should go to treatment, work or study to get out on the other side with knowledge. Sis has a well-established contact with schools and is used to teaching under strict security measures. Measures are already in place to equip young people to continue attending school. It is the school that we politicians consider so very important. The schooling at Sis can certainly be much better. But it exists, unlike what it is like in the Prison Service, where education is too rarely offered.
i-f2999c5907a82396-864	At the end of the sentence period, Sis has the opportunity to place the sentenced person outside the special youth home – it is a so-called lockout. The young person should then be prepared for a life of freedom through concrete measures such as education, training, housing and leisure activities. The young person can during the lockout stay in an open section, some form of lockout housing, HVB homes, family homes or the like. The lockout is planned after consultation with the social services of the young person's municipality of residence. Correctional services do not have as well-established forms of lockout as the agency should have. Improvements are needed through more interaction with social services and the region's drug treatment. It is also about education within the municipality and the possibility of housing. Excluding an adult client through parole is quite different from closing out a youth. Is this youth also to be placed within the care system? How should parole be equipped to also be able to channel young people out?
i-f2999c5907a82396-867	Madam President, I would like It is clear that Sis has not worked in the best way. The agency has a broad mandate, and the competence of the staff has not always been there. I am deeply critical of the large amount of coercive measures being used. I break down when I think of all the girls who have been locked up and isolated for many lonely hours because they've felt bad. There is therefore a need for a clear division within Sis between those sentenced to juvenile care, who have committed crimes, and those who are there because social services have decided to place them in youth homes because of psychosocial problems. That work is going on in Sis, and it's great. But the Left Party remains critical of the treatment of the most vulnerable young people in society. We call for a much higher level of training for Sis staff, for isolation and various forms of coercive measures to be prohibited, and for each youth to have an individual treatment plan. There is currently security work in progress in Sis. It is very good and necessary. The intelligence activities should be strengthened so that young people involved in gang crime are not placed together with other gang criminals. It is also about other factors that can affect safety. Madam President, I would like This House should be aware that what Parliament decides today is to set up juvenile prisons. It is a reform that was removed in 1938 but still remained until the beginning of the 1980s. I will now read from a parliamentary motion from 1971, written by Elvy Olsson, centerpartist from Hölö. She writes: The youth prisons as they operate today cannot be considered to be justified. If a positive outcome is to be achieved, and that must be the purpose of all care, it is necessary to find other forms of care for young offenders. ..................................................... I find it very difficult to see that Sweden's only agency that carries out prison activities, the Prison Service, in its new assignment would come up with a completely new form of institution for young people. Youth prisons will be like a smaller version of adult prisons. Is that really what you want? We have all visited prisons in committee. Is it really an environment that you think a 17-year-old guy should be in? I don't think so. It can be seen as a petitess, which authority should treat criminal youths. Both Sis and the Prison Service work well, but much can get better. Both authorities have treatments within the CBT. Both authorities are used to taking care of people with criminal behaviour. But if we put 17-year-old boys who have committed quite serious crimes in a prison, it will strengthen their criminal behaviour. It will give the status to be detained, to be on trial and to be locked up. It gives the status to share a yard with adult criminals. The kid's criminal life-style will be locked down. The boys will go into the prison as criminals 17-year-olds and come out as lifestyle criminaries 18-year-olds. They will continue to commit crimes, return to prisons as adults and come out as gang leaders. Instead, we keep young people and adults separate from each other, and it's not even the same authorities that take care of them. It's much more difficult to cement the criminal behaviour. Madam President, I would like Children are children, even when they commit the most brutal criminal acts. Children have special rights. Adults have obligations. It is the duty of the Riksdag to ensure that children are treated as children and that children's rights are protected. Today, the Riksdag is betraying those children who most need the help of society. I'm in favour of the reservation.
i-f2999c5907a82396-880	Madam President, I would like Every year, some seventy young people, almost exclusively boys, are sentenced to closed juvenile care. They're convicted of serious crime. These are serious robberies, sexual crimes, serious violent crimes, manslaughter and even murder. Serious violent crime is one of Sweden's most important problems to address. It's about preventing it, but it's also about dealing with the young guys who started committing these crimes. The functioning of the National Board of Institutional Affairs is absolutely crucial in this regard. It must work better than it does today. The government has done many things in this area since before. Some have been after the 34-point program against gang crime from September 2019. These are measures that have involved more penalties for young people, such as youth monitoring, and more rapid prosecution. The National Board of Institutional Affairs has also received more funding. They were also given the task of introducing departments with higher safety classes, to which the Authority has also responded. Madam President, I would like The Green Party also wants to see changes to the Swedish National Board of Institutional Affairs as a whole, including the parts concerning the law on the care of young people, LVU. Those sitting there are not convicted of crime, but often they spend less time in these homes and homes than they would. One reason for this is the financing model, where municipalities pay most of the money. They pay two thirds and the state one third, which means that municipalities do not always pay for the places as long as it would be necessary. This is an individual issue which we will have to come back to in other contexts, but it is also a question of this. Madam President, I would like On 20 January, the government announced that an investigation would be set up to make changes to the law on closed youth care. It was welcome. From the Green Party we have worked to bring about a reform of the closed youth care system, and the direction that was presented for the investigation was good. Among other things, it was about longer periods of care. Those sentenced under the law on closed youth care today are sentenced on average to one year. Long penalties have no intrinsic value, but a time is needed to get back out better, especially when young people have committed serious crimes. In almost all cases, it's about long missed school hours. One is in deep crime, and therefore it takes time for the possibilities after the sentence to become better and fewer to relapse into crime. Madam President, I would like Follow-up and lock-out are also crucial. There are parties in Parliament who want a smaller part of parole than today, even when it comes to adults who are sentenced to prison. Conditional release is an important way for authorities to keep track of sentenced persons after the sentence is served. With the current system of closed youth care, this is not working at all. After-checks and follow-up are far too bad. Many are left wind by wave, at best with a check of social services in the municipality but not even that. We can't have a system where these young guys who have committed serious crimes are left wind by wave, unattended. It is about their opportunity to come back to a normal life, but also about the environment. Madam President, I would like The health environment must be better than it is today. The Green Party wants to see a system where there is a clearer link to missed education, where the inmates catch up with it. You should be able to get out faster if you make up for missed schooling and break with criminal networks and destructive environments. Madam President, I would like Improved security at Sis is also an important issue. There have been escapes from Sis, and there have been problems with the regulations, for example with the electronic equipment that you can have. This must be clarified and less administratively burdensome than it is today. The purpose of this activity is for those who are inmates to get away from the criminal environment, and then you should not continue to have these contacts from within the prison. There must be more control than today. Madam President, I would like An investigation into this was announced in January and was due to take place in February. Why, then, do we have this issue up for debate in Parliament today? The reason for this is that there was a committee initiative before the investigation was completed. A majority in the committee was not satisfied with what had been heard. It wanted to add that the investigation should review a major reorganisation that involves transferring responsibility for closed youth care from Sis to the Prison Service, i.e. in practice setting up juvenile prisons. This is a bad idea, Madam President, and I will tell you a little bit about why. Large reorganisations are per se cumbersome and take time, energy and resources. All parties agreed that the Police Authority would make its major reorganisation, but it took many years before it began to function as we wished and as it was intended. I think most of us today think it was worth it. However, with regard to the issue we are discussing now, the potential benefits are not nearly as great as in the case of the Police Authority. On the contrary, there is a great risk that things will get worse. Another reason is that the Prison Service is a very strained authority with a difficult mission already today, not least on the basis of the resources it has. We have debated the conditions of the Prison Service a great deal in this House. We all know here they're overcrowded. They do not have adequate facilities at all places where they are located. The premises are worn out and neglected. Correctional services find it difficult to cope with the quality of work needed for those in prison to be better equipped after serving a sentence. They have a staffing situation that is strained and therefore need to be equipped to carry out their current mission. Madam President, I would like The target group of the prison service that they work with is adults who have committed serious crimes. Getting the responsibility for children who have committed serious crimes is quite different from what they are doing today. It's not a small change. It's a gigantic change. A couple of many parts of this are that new premises would be needed, but also staff with completely new and different skills than today. Madam President, I would like The law on closed youth care needs to be amended and reformed. It's announced that an investigation will review this. There are a lot of pressing issues. The fact that several parties require the Prison Service to take over this is not at all good. It's bad. The majority of committees could have been content to review this unconditionally, but it does not stop there but states that the starting point is that this should happen. That is why, Madam President, I support this reservation.
i-f2999c5907a82396-897	Madam President, I would like This is a very important report on a very important issue. It is about the future of closed youth care, how this care should be carried out and how we can ensure that we develop both content and, above all, safety. Unfortunately, we in Sweden have major problems with criminality that spreads further down the age range. Had this been discussed a few years ago, the people they talked about as very young and who commit crimes might have been 16 to 17 years old. Today, when you talk to police, social services and teachers, you can unfortunately see that it very often happens that people who are significantly younger than that actually commit crimes. We can also see how young people are increasingly over-represented in crime statistics. In 2019 36,000 crimes were reported in Sweden where the suspect was between 15 and 20 years old. Madam President, I would like Of course, there are many things that are needed to reverse developments and make sure that there can be a change. An absolutely central form, I think moderate, is to ensure that society, the rule of law, marks with force the first time anyone has committed a crime. There will be early and clear action on the part of society. One should not wait to implement the kind of measures needed to pull young people out of a criminal environment and ensure that they get a better start elsewhere and do not continue the crime that unfortunately so many end up in. There are many things that need to be done here, and there is room for great improvement. The police have also stated this in a report that came in 2018. A new type of solution is needed for young offenders. The closed juvenile care system is the sanction that is used primarily for young offenders who have committed – one should remember – very serious crimes. That is what we are talking about here. These are not just crimes, they are often very serious crimes committed by this group of people. The number of individuals in closed youth care last year was 67. It is not a huge business, but the question is what happens in the future when we see how crime spreads further down the ages. Today, the business has many problems. One such problem is that only last year there were 26 observed deviations, escapes, of only 67 people. Here, I think we should stop and think for a second. These are people who are often convicted of very serious crimes. This is totally unacceptable to the victims of crime, and it is unacceptable to the public. There must be a clear change here. Madam President, I would like It is to be welcomed that the government has recently chosen to set up an investigation to look at the issues, even though, to put it mildly, the problems are not new. A change could have happened a long time ago. What is strange is that the government in that investigation with the closest clinical precision actually avoids the big core issue, namely who should be responsible for the important business. Who's going to be the principal? But I don't want the investigation to look at that. On the other hand, you should look at all other issues except what is really the crux of the matter. We find this a strange principle. If you are going to look at how you can change and improve your business, why ignore the issue that really matters? It is negligent because it has been clear that there is actually a majority in Parliament to make that kind of change. Yet the government chose simply to ignore it. That is the background, Madam President, to the committee initiative. The proposal has been put on the table by the Moderates, the Center Party, the Christian Democrats and the Liberals. When the initiative goes through, it becomes clear that the announced investigation will have as its starting point to carry out a move from the National Board of Institutional Affairs to the Prison Service and develop the necessary legislation for it to happen. This has obviously been a sensitive issue because it has been very high in the political debate. Among other things, it has sounded like putting children in prison. I would just like to point out that of the 67 people who were in closed youth care last year, 45 were older than 18. Thus, the vast majority of these people are not children, nor are they young people, but are actually adults, older than 18 years of age. They can both take part in parliamentary elections and do a lot of other things. They're adults. We can consider a counter-question, namely why adults should be placed in youth homes with children. What exactly is the idea behind this? There have also been questions during the debate about how this is to work. It is important to point out that what we are deciding on in this House today is not to carry out a move tomorrow, but the investigation will look at such issues and produce that information. Of course, any changes to that proposal should be carefully and consistently investigated, and that is exactly what we are proposing. In that part I find it difficult to understand the question marks. Possibly, some parties do not believe that the Prison Service is capable of doing this, but I want to say that we should have confidence in the staff of the Correctional Service. They are extremely competent, and they know their things. They're watching. Of course, the agency with all the competent employees is able to do this. It would also be good for the State Departmental Board because they can then rather focus on all the young guys and girls who are in their area of work because they feel bad and who are not criminals and have not committed serious crimes. Then it will be a clear focus for Sis on that group. Madam President, I would like Will there be money for the Prison Service to do the work? Of course there will be money, at least if we get what we want. We Moderates have spent several years in our budget providing funds to the Prison Service precisely to set up a special unit for young people. If it is the decision of the Riksdag, we must of course ensure that additional funds are transferred from Sis – or new funds – to the Prison Service so that it can be implemented. Madam President, I would like It is time for a change in the issues. It is time to carry out a powerful reform to ensure that there is a change, that we overcome the many escapes. I would like to thank all the parties that have taken the initiative and those who have supported it, namely the Center Party, the Christian Democrats, the Liberals and the Swedish Democrats, and who are voting today to make this important change.
i-f2999c5907a82396-911	Madam President, I would like We are currently debating a report on reviewing the regulation of closed youth services. These issues are by no means new to the House or to the Swedish Democrats as a party. Through our years in Parliament and in this House, we have debated how we see young people committing crimes and how we see that the penalties, or what is called care, are often not really proportionate to the seriousness of the crimes. I listened earlier to the Green Party's Rasmus Ling, who said that long periods of care have no intrinsic value in themselves. There may be a point to the fact that long periods of care have no intrinsic value if the only purpose is for the person to be cared for and rehabilitated. Nevertheless, I would like to remind you that these are very serious crimes committed by young individuals. Then one must consider something other than the criminal's perspective and the ability to re-integrate into society, namely the perspective of victims. If you are under the age of 18, you can today commit a murder and be punished three to four years of closed juvenile care. Then you're free. I think that's a ridiculously low penalty for a murder. The Swedish Democrats have pointed out that we also need to look at the perspective of crime victims and society's ability to respond to serious crimes – setting examples. Punishment has its own value in itself. This is something that the Swedish Democrats have pointed out for many years – that the punishment is important. This is a perspective that has been completely lacking from the government when it comes to people under the age of 18 – or, for that matter, under the age of 21, who are also receiving penalty rebates today. That perspective has been lacking by the government. The Swedish Democrats have previously exercised to lower the age of the criminal authority to 13 years and to move down the entire staircase available for penalty rebates from between 15 and 21 years to between 13 and 18 years. If this were to happen, there would also be longer penalties for those under 18 years of age. We have also proposed moving to a regular prison sentence after the age of 18 if the so-called care period imposed goes beyond that. We think redress is reasonable. We think that social markings are reasonable, regardless of whether you are over or under 18 years of age. As has been said, the policy now established stipulates that you get somewhere between three and four years of closed juvenile care for a murder. In terms of how society has developed, we have not had the ability to prosecute the crimes and handle this gang crime and its spread in society in a good way. Today, therefore, a great many murders in gang-related environments are committed by people under the age of 18 because they are ordered by an elderly person. So the system is being used as it stands today to burden young people, young people, with very serious crimes. So, as it works today, we encourage younger people to commit more serious crimes. That is something that we need to take into account, I think, when discussing how we design, for example, the closed youth care system. Since it is the case that very young people under the age of 18 commit very serious crimes, not infrequently murder, we must also look at how to deal with that situation when the inmates are involved in serious organised crime. Is it appropriate, then, to have a care perspective? Is it appropriate to have the State Department Board as the principal? Or perhaps you need to have other skills involved to overcome the problem that is so deeply rooted in younger people? The Swedish Democrats believe that it is important that we investigate the possibility of giving K. Correctional Services greater influence over these individuals, who are often at the age of 18 and sometimes over 18. Then, of course, there will be prison sentences in the world of Sweden's democrats so that the K. Correctional Service will be held responsible for these individuals, who have a deep-rooted criminal identity. We also hear – of course, it is nothing new for the public or in the political debate – that there have been 26 escapes in the previous year. It is clear that there are serious problems, and it is not very strange that there is a political reaction – in this case from a parliamentary majority. We can see that developments are moving in the direction of the Swedish democrats. Measures for tougher action against younger individuals reach wider acceptance in the Riksdag among more parties, and we are pleased about that. I do not often have the opportunity to support the committee's proposal. It's not very common for an opposition party. But that is what I will finally have to do in this debate, and I am pleased about that in view of the content of the report. I support the proposal in the report.
i-f2999c5907a82396-926	Madam President, I would like We are debating the situation of young people sentenced under the age of 18 who have been convicted of serious crimes, who are today serving their sentences at Sis-hem – the home of the National Board of Institutional Affairs – where they are to receive care and treatment. The last time a reform was launched for this target group was 1999. The law on closed youth care as well as the law on care for young people means that the state is forced to override your freedom, either because you have committed a crime or because you are a danger to yourself. The question of how the state should respond, deal with and support minors who are criminals has been the subject of discussion for decades. In the 1970s and even before that there were, as we have heard described here, juvenile prisons where young people were placed after they committed crimes. They were placed indefinitely – to be released from juvenile prisons, they had to undergo a so-called written examination. But the passing of time led to the closure of juvenile prisons, and from 1979 the responsibility for young people convicted for crimes was transferred to the municipality. Some were placed in youth care schools, i.e. what is now Sis-hem. However, the relative transparency of Sis homes did not work for these young people with serious crime in their luggage. Some were still placed in prisons, in special youth departments, not least after criticism from the judiciary and the public that these young people did not work either in social services or in Sis homes. But even from time to time, in prison, the activity was not adapted to young people, and the criticism grew. Finally, in 1999, the Parliament decided on a special legislation for young criminals: LSU, the Act on closed youth care. The responsibility once again fell upon Sis. Thus, young people could take part in Sis' long tradition of care and treatment in a structured way. Thus it was legally established that both young people with criminal luggage and young people with serious social problems would be under the same roof. This meant that a prison law and a care law – SoL, the Social Services Act – came under the same roof. One might wonder whether it is reasonable that a health care organisation should also take on the role of penalism. What do I want to say with this history description? Yes, first of all we can well note that we as legislators have in fact failed to manage and support these young people for a long time– partly even today, I think. Madam President, I would like If the state decides that you as a minor for a number of years will be in prison, it is our duty to ensure that it is done in the best possible way. You will receive care and treatment, end criminal activities and be able to return to a life in society and everyday life. How'd it go? How does it work today with LSU care? Yes, very well done in Sis-hemmen; it should of course be said and stated. I have great confidence in the Director-General of Sis and the development that is now taking place in the business. This development will benefit all around 700 young people placed, regardless of whether the LSU-placed young people are located within Sis or not. But, Madam President, we also know what has not worked. Runaways and continued crime are one thing. The gross criminal youths may not have taken full advantage of Sis' care palette, as it was thought. Instead, they have challenged the system. A great deal of money, time and effort has been spent on the expansion of shell protection, security and new construction to complete this mission and the handling of LSU condemned. Perhaps it is the case that prison spatter with shell protection and safety has left its mark on juvenile care more than the other way round, i.e. that LSU young people had learned of Sis' long tradition of care and treatment as thought was. Madam President, I would like Mixing groups of young people with such different needs for care is complicated. In her assignment, Sis receives both girls and boys who may be as young as 11 - 12 years of age. Of course, these young people, or those children, have completely different needs than older LSU-judged teenagers. After all, the LSU-judged group represents a very small proportion of the total number of young people in Sis, about 70 out of 700, and I think that the question of whether the current organisation under the same roof with LVU and LSU is the best one can well be asked. The need for separation, as it is said, is important whether these young people are in Sis homes or in prisons. What are the reasons for moving LSU young people to the Prison Service? In addition to the existing protection of shells, it is also a question of improved procedures for visits, regulations on contacts with the outside world, care with conditional release and therefore adequate post-release control and support measures, staff recruitment and training procedures. Madam President, I would like If the House were to decide on the transfer of responsibility for LSU young people to the Prison Service, it is of course not something that can be done in a quick turn. We need to review the number of places and their own departments and the range of education provided by the Prison Service. But if an investigation comes to the conclusion that it might be the best thing for the young people, but it takes time to implement-- well, then that's the case. We cannot say no to a good reform because it takes a long time. And let us remember, Madam President, that the reform of Sis homes, which is needed regardless, is not something done on a coffee break either. Sis has been adapting its activities to what it is today for 20 years. I would also like to remind you that the Committee on Social Affairs has also delivered an opinion on this matter. Among other things, they point out that young people who are sentenced to closed youth care have a criminal life - style. The committee believes that this could adversely affect young people placed under the LVU in the same special homes as those convicted under the LSU. Madam President, I would like In 2019 a total of 86 young people aged 15 to 20 were sentenced to inpatient youth care. In the autumn of 2020, a total of 67 young people received inpatient care, 45 of whom were over the age of 18, as we have heard. The mean age at admission was 17.2 years. During 2020 there were 26 deviations from closed youth care. So it is often a case of young adults who have been guilty of very serious and serious crime. The closed youth care system must take this into account. There are probably few things that have touched on so much and rendered so much discussion with our elected representatives in the country as this issue. It's not surprising, because we're talking about young people who live in their community, in social services. The picture is very mixed. Many people think it works well with Sis, but many actually think that it works even better with the Prison Service when it comes to collaboration and contacts. We should also remember that there has been a major debate in the media with former Heads of Unit and Head of Department who have been critical of this organisation. We have to listen to them too. Not to do so and not to investigate this when a review of LSU is still being carried out is a bit wasteful. Parliament has said this on a number of occasions. So yes, Parliament needs a greater consensus, but I think that Parliament has made this clear enough; this is the third time. I support the committee's proposal.
i-f2999c5907a82396-947	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by saying that it was interesting to listen to Helena Vilhelmsson's speech on both the historical changes that have taken place in the area of legislation and the authorities responsible for this and the challenges that exist in this complex and difficult area today. I have a question in the light of what Helena Vilhelmsson describes when it comes to what has been landed in by the Center Party – you want to investigate this and point out that the Riksdag has said it. My question is about why we not only want to investigate this with open eyes and without preconditions, but have as our starting point that this should be implemented and thus lock it in advance, as I see it. Madam President, I would like to ask Helena Vilhelmsson about that.
i-f2999c5907a82396-949	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Rasmus Ling, for the question! There was a huge debate on this in committee. I'm a little surprised by that. I have taken note of many investigations that have followed the investigation directives to the letter, but in fact I have also taken note of many who have done much further investigations than they have been commissioned. I may not have the same literal faith in what the investigative directives are set out to be. I think it is good that there is a clear focus on what Parliament has ordered. I would rather see an investigation proposal that is very detailed in terms of, as we have heard before, legislative proposals, costs and timescales than one that is less detailed. I'll settle for this. I'd rather see an investigation that provides more answers than one that provides fewer answers.
i-f2999c5907a82396-952	Madam President, I would like If you want to see more answers rather than fewer, I would say that you should not decide in advance what the investigation will come up with in this part. When you establish that the starting point is that this change should be made, it means, as I read it, that you determine what you want the investigation to come up with. I am sorry about this. We had discussions on this in committee, and we have had it in other contexts as well. Madam President, I have often heard Helena Vilhelmsson argue about this. She has then had more nuances and been more open because you can come up with different things and listen to different arguments than I think can be seen in this text. After all, Madam President, it is the text that Parliament decides on, and I regret that it has chosen to express itself in this way.
i-f2999c5907a82396-954	Madam President, I would like I respect the honourable Member's views. It is still the case that we decide on an investigation, and so the result comes on our table and we value and compare with other proposals and with our own opinion. We bump and wet and come up with a proposal after we have heard of the investigation. You can also say no to an investigation. But I am absolutely keen that we have a comprehensive investigation that can look at all aspects and what can happen if we find that it is good to move. I think that an investigation should be clear and comprehensive.
i-f2999c5907a82396-956	Madam President, I would like To breast a four to become a hundred-year-old is an expression used in gang-criminal environments. It's about committing a very serious crime, maybe even a murder, and taking a four – a four year long, or short, punishment in a Sis home to become a hundred-man, that is, to a hundred percent inside the gang. It's a step in the criminal career. This reality is painfully palpable. It is enough to look up newspapers or get pushnotisers about how young people are used and early schooled into gang criminal environments. However, this reality was not foreseen when the youth sanctions, which we are debating today, were produced. Security hasn't kept up either. Rymnings from Sis-hem, where very serious criminals can almost walk out, have been repeated time and again in recent times. Only last year there were 26 escapes, which was 15 more than the previous year. Reality has caught up, Madam President, and it is time to take it in. A well over half of those who are currently sentenced to closed juvenile care are over 18 years old. We have heard earlier in the debate that there are 45 out of 67 inmates. It's about young adult killers sitting four years in a Sis home. The view of the Christian Democrats is that the penalties need to be substantially tightened. It is partly about the need for penalties to be fair and more proportionate to the very serious crimes that have been committed, and also about having a victim's perspective. But it is also a question of having more incapacitation, of protecting law-abiding persons from dangerous people. Then it is also reasonable for the Prison Service to take over responsibility from the outset and to investigate this issue of the proposal. This is not a new proposal – it can almost sound like that in the debate. The police have pointed this out in the January 2018 letter, and in two previous occasions we have announced that a special unit within the Prison Service should take over overall responsibility for young people who have committed serious crimes. We Christian Democrats presented this in our package of measures last August to better combat juvenile delinquency. Now that the government has announced an investigation into Sis, we want to add that the investigation should also look at the issue of transferring responsibility for the closed juvenile care to the Prison Service and investigating this at the bottom. The starting point shall be that such a move shall take place. It is worth noting in the debate that the last one amazes me. But it is not new that an investigation directive expresses the political will. One of the problems with this government's policy in the area of justice policy is that very much is marked by unbiased investigations. This is an investigation with a political will that we want to see in the directives, but it obviously means that we should investigate this in the usual way. The study's directive should also be designed in such a way as to make it clear that the maximum length of care for closed youth care should be increased. The opinion of the Committee on Social Affairs, which has been drawn up in the course of the preparation of this matter, states that young people who are sentenced to closed youth care often have a criminal lifestyle. The Committee on Social Affairs believes that this can adversely affect young people who are placed under LVU in the same special youth home. Just as Helena Vilhelmsson said in her speech, there are obvious risks of mixing groups. I am absolutely convinced that – as the Committee on Social Affairs points out – because it concerns people who already have a criminal lifestyle, it can lead to the strengthening of the criminal identity of very young people who are placed in charge of health care at the National Board of Institutional Affairs. It is therefore clear to us that there are very many advantages in actually transferring responsibility to the Prison Service and investigating this. But why is the government so afraid to investigate this? And why does the government want to defy an already adopted parliamentary decision? We have had it up twice, we have made two announcements and this is now the third time that we have it here on Parliament's table. It will be a decision, so now I hope that it will be the third time that the government will be happy and that this very clear investigation directive will also be added to the investigation that has been announced. The fact that you want to fight gang crime becomes false if you are not even prepared to consider a system in which the penalties are more similar to the serious crimes committed and therefore also transfer responsibility for these serious criminals to the penal services.
i-f2999c5907a82396-969	Madam President, I would like This issue is not exactly new. It has been discussed in this House for at least 20 years how to deal with the young men who commit very serious crimes. For almost as many years we have seen the misplaced goodwill reign, that is, that one should not intervene. Liberals think this proposal is important and correct. We, like many other parties, have had periodic announcements in the Committee on Justice and have long demanded that young people who commit the most serious crimes be subject to rehabilitation and care within the framework of the Prison Service. We know from the debate how many people there are, whether they are adults or not and how many differ. At the beginning of the debate, we were told by the Social Democrats that there was a great deal of concern within the authorities. I can say that those who are very worried are the people who are affected when the young criminals run away and commit new crimes. It is something that worries me and many in this House, and it certainly worries the Swedish people. That is why we believe that the investigation already announced by the government must be supplemented by this. I come back to the fact that it may be that this has not been seen and that it has taken so long. Of course, these young people are being severely exploited. One reason for this is the extensive automatic penalty rebates that are built into the system. This makes young people very easy to become cannon food in a perverted culture of violence and gangs, where their lives are mostly a mental ice age filled with hate and serious crimes. We are also trying to make changes in youth discounts. However, we have a history in which we have not wanted to make any early and clear efforts whatsoever. There shall be no investigation of any crimes. For a while, it would not even be investigated if youths under 15 years of age had committed robbery. We wouldn't have any evidence. People were sentenced to care at home and thought that it would surely be good. There has been a confidentiality barrier that we have now gradually managed to take down for a more effective intervention opportunity from police, social services and schools together. It was for a time an almost crazy view of crimes in school, that they should not be reported. There has been continued unwillingness to arrest and prosecute young people, when we know that it is so important to put an end to urgent criminal activity. But now we're here anyway. The objections raised are that the Prison Service is now taking over youth surveillance, which will mean that the Prison Service will take care of young people under the age of 18. They are highly competent, otherwise we would not be doing this. After all, the minority who have reserved for this committee should reflect on this. The Green Party had an objection here and argued that it should be left open for the investigation to decide this. There was recently a highly topical investigation into honour-related violence and repression, as well as measures against gross female defamation. Sadly, the investigation advised against raising the penalty minimum for gross women's freedom. However, it is proposed, because we have ordered it, that this should be raised to one year. Then there are all of a sudden parties that want to go even further. But, Madam President, we happen to be the Swedish Parliament, and it is still up to us to decide. It can be provocative for some sometimes, but I think it's good. From the Liberals' point of view, the objections are weak. As has been said before, it is clear that this will be investigated and then implemented when it is all in place. As I know the people in the Prison Service who are currently working on rehabilitation, care and education, they are particularly well placed to take care of these young people and give them a better future, because it is clear that they will get better out. This may mean that they are locked up longer for rehabilitation, but the idea is that they should feel that it is a time for change. That is not the case, because it has been a much too lax regulatory framework. There has been a misplaced benevolence in the board of state institutions. I support the proposal in the report.
i-f2999c5907a82396-980	Madam President, I would like At the outset, I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 1 in the report, which is a rejection of the government proposal. The proposal is specifically called investment space for electricity grid operations – investments in increased network capacity but in terms of content does not have any regulation that leads to that very thing. This is now the second time the government has tabled this proposal. When it was presented for the first time last autumn, it was clear that only parties in the government intended to support it, and this led the government to withdraw the proposal. We had hoped that it would take a different form before it was presented to Parliament again. This is not the case, however, as in practice it is exactly the same proposal. Unfortunately, it also seems to be able to go through. For a long time, electricity grid prices have been an increasing part of the electricity bill for consumers. In fact, for many customers the electricity cost and taxes represent the majority of the amount of electricity bill. After the Swedish Parliament voted on the proposal, consumers will have to pay an additional SEK 28 billion in electricity grid costs, with very unclear benefits. It is hoped that the decision will lead to increased investments in grid capacity deployment. Here the government and the other parties hope for the good will of the electricity grid companies because they choose not to direct investments there in the legislative proposal. Madam President, I would like There is an urgent need to expand the capacity of the electricity grids, as the capacity shortage is a fact around the country and a growing problem. The Swedish Democrats agree with this. It is now so serious that it affects community development and planning and prevents, for example, housing projects, business start-ups and increasing electrification in order to achieve fossil freedom. In the long run, this leads to the loss of jobs as well as tax revenue for municipalities, regions and states, which goes against our well-being. The Swedish Democrats are fundamentally in favour of using unused deficits from previous revenue frameworks for investments that increase capacity in the electricity grid. For us, however, it is self-evident that there should be regulation that directs investment precisely there in order to create such specific drivers. We are not exactly alone in this view. Several consultation bodies agree with the criticism of lack of governance or want the proposal to be rejected completely. The energy authority is similarly positive but wants a number of conditions to be met. Consultation bodies The Swedish Energy Market Authority, the Swedish Competition Authority, the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise and the Swedish Municipalities and Regions fully reject the proposal in its current form. The Confederation of Swedish Enterprise believes that the proposal does not include a sufficiently clear customer perspective but rather leads to increased costs without adding more benefit to the user side. The Swedish Municipalities and Regions consider the proposal inappropriate and insufficient to remedy the local capacity shortage. The Swedish Democrats therefore believe that the Riksdag should reject the Government's proposal. Instead, the Government will come back with a proposal for a special investment space for electricity grid activities that provides increased incentives for electricity grid companies to invest in electricity grid capacity and where there are mechanisms to direct investments there. If the Riksdag nevertheless adopts the Government's proposal, which unfortunately appears to be the case, the Swedish Democrats believe that it is reasonable to evaluate after the first period of supervision how the Government's proposal has expired and whether the fees actually went to what was the purpose. The Government's proposal for a law states that such provisions may be made concerning the obligation for electricity grid companies to account in a special order for investments made in a accounting unit with special investment space. We do not think that is enough. It would have been more reasonable to have clearer guidelines on this and a letter from the Riksdag on such a follow-up to the proposal. There is a need for legislation that clearly requires what you want to achieve – instead of having to say years later that you have been naive and that this was not the case.
i-f2999c5907a82396-995	Madam President, I would like I request the approval of reservation 3. We also support the Swedish Democrats' reservation to reject the bill. What's this about? In short, the government wants to give electricity grid companies the opportunity to charge higher charges than they do today. The aim is to get more investment in the power grid, but few other than the government believe that it really is. Electricity customers will suffer from more expensive bills, but nothing suggests that the money will go to investments rather than even higher profits for the companies. The criticisms of the consultative bodies are stinging. Several consumer organisations, such as the Tenants' Association and Sweden's Public Benefits, but also the Swedish Competition Authority and the Government's own regulatory authority The Swedish Energy Market Inspectorate rejects the proposal. This is also the case for the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise and the Swedish Municipalities and Regions. The Energy Market Inspectorate, that is to say the government's own regulatory authority, states that electricity grid companies already receive cost recovery for their investments in the current regulation, which means that the proposal only leads to increased profits. The same conclusion is reached by the Tenant Association with several consultation bodies. The Competition Authority is as critical as several other consultation bodies. The Competition Authority considers that the proposal represents an unjustified increase in costs for electricity consumers as electricity grid operators are given the opportunity to increase charges without ensuring that the objective of capacity expansion is achieved. Electricity network companies have a monopoly on their markets. In other words, you cannot choose who supplies electricity to your property. And now for the strangest thing. When marketers constructed the system in 1996, it was promised that the network cost on the electricity bill would be lower. Instead, it was the opposite. The Swedish electricity market was liberalised, but only the electricity supply is competitive. Electricity distribution is a monopoly with 180 electricity grid companies spread throughout the country. The bill now under discussion is a revised version of the one presented by the government last autumn. At that time it was withdrawn because there was no support in Parliament. Now they have brought with them the Moderates, the Christian Democrats, the Center and the Liberals. Perhaps the bourgeois have a little remorse because their philosophy of life is that the market solves everything, and the liberalisation of the electricity market is something that can spell bourgeois politics. Friend of order naturally wonders if the bill is so much better now that you have received support for it in the Riksdag. I must admit that it has not become worse, but will it solve all the problems that have accumulated when electricity grid owners have neglected their commitments? The fact that investment has not been a priority, with all network charges being increased, is well known. When two thirds of the price increases made have been passed on to the parent company, robustness, capacity increases and so on have not been given priority. My answer will then be: No, it is not reliable enough. If we look at the ten largest network owners in 2015 we see that they made an operating profit of 8.7 billion SEK. In the period 2014 to 2019 electricity grid charges were increased by 27 per cent. There is nothing in society that has had such usury increases as network charges over a ten-year period. Then why is it like this? The electricity grid companies thus have a natural monopoly, and their way of charging customers is therefore regulated by the Energy Market Inspectorate, EI, which sets the framework for charging electricity grid companies can charge customers. When the Swedish Energy Market Authority has received new rules to calculate the so-called revenue framework for a period, known as the regulatory period, the majority of electricity grid companies have appealed against the revenue framework decision. In other words, electricity grid companies do not accept limited revenues. They refuse to comply with the Swedish Energy Market Inspectorate's decisions and try to secure future increases in electricity grid prices through litigation in court. It is these court proceedings that the government justifies its proposal, i.e. that since electricity grid companies still win in court, they need to be given the right to charge higher fees. I have to admit that the government has done the best it can to get a little more investment into the proposal that is on the table today, but the basic problem is that it is simply a system error. The closest I could compare this madness with is if we were to sell out all our state roads and then invent an authority to try to regulate road charges. The fact that a socially important function, as electricity networks are, has become a lucrative monopoly market which, moreover, does not work is, in any case, completely incomprehensible to me. Madam President, I would like Electricity distribution needs to be seen as part of society's infrastructure, which we jointly build on societal goals, such as other infrastructure, such as roads and railways. We cannot have a system where comparable home consumers can have SEK 7 000 in difference to the electricity bill on an annual basis, just because the monopoly market approves it. Electricity networks belong to basic infrastructure, and that is what society should take responsibility for.
i-f2999c5907a82396-1008	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating NOW15 Especially investment space for electricity grid operations – investments in increased network capacity. I support the committee's proposal and reject any motion for a resolution. The proposal proposes a law on special investment space for electricity grid activities aimed at creating specific drivers for electricity grid companies to make investments that increase network capacity, but also some changes to the Electricity Act. The new Act covers network companies that have a so-called unused deficit in relation to the revenue framework for the supervisory period 2012-2015 and means that the Swedish Energy Market Authority may decide that such a company has a special investment space. It is also proposed that the government or the authority that the government decides should be able to provide regulations on the obligation for electricity grid companies to account in a specific order for investments made in a accounting unit with special investment space. Madam President, I would like The Government also states that it is of particular importance that investments are made in areas that have been lagging behind so far and where there is or will be in the near future a need to increase capacity or to prevent capacity shortages in order to increase customer benefits. The follow-up shall provide a picture of the investments made possible by the specific investment space. Follow-up should be carried out every three years starting in 2022. Sweden needs a robust electricity system that is capable of delivering electricity at reasonable prices and which allows companies to grow. What we see is that the development of society and technology is fast and that there is a constant demand for electricity, which places new demands on both production and electricity grids. Capacity-enhancing investments are therefore necessary to meet the need for future impact increases. Madam President, I would like We all agree that the use of electricity will increase in Sweden. The only question is how much. The Minister for Energy is taking the height of a double use of electricity, and in order to do this, we will triple the investments in the electricity grids and halve the permit period for the extension of electricity lines. In the legislative referral Modern licensing processes for electricity grids propose a large time savings for electricity line building, including changes to the Electricity Act, in order to make it easier to build electricity lines and to make the authorisation process less resource-intensive for both electricity grid companies and the relevant authorities. That's good, because it's taking way too long today. This is something we need to solve in order to cope with the transition in society. We are now seeing major investments that have begun and are at the planning stage in order to become climate neutral. Hybrid, steel without coal, is one such example, but there are more. It is important for the industry to switch and become competitive, for this is what the customers they are selling their goods to demand. Madam President, I would like The government states in the bill that it is justified for a limited period of time to create additional incentives to increase the impact of the networks, and I would like to say that this is absolutely necessary. We need to improve the transfer from north to south but also solve local problems. With this bill in place, we are taking a step in the right direction, but more needs to be done. We need to develop user flexibility to make use smarter, and we need to develop hydrogen production and battery bearings so that we have electricity when we need it. Therefore, Sweden supports, among other things, the development of battery cells and an electrification campus for battery research in Västerås. Hydrogen will play an increasing role in the energy system of the future, and the Swedish Energy Agency has been tasked with developing a hydrogen strategy to accelerate this development. We also see the emergence of local markets for capacity in our cities. This does not solve everything but is a valuable addition to managing the challenges of cities. We have historically a large electricity surplus. Since 2010, we have gone from net imports of 2 terawatt hours to net exports of 25 terawatt hours of electricity. This corresponds to consumption in Latvia, Estonia and Lithuania combined. Not only do we produce more electricity than ever before, but we also produce less fossil electricity than before. We need to produce more electricity in southern Sweden, and there, the wind power of the sea will be important. At the same time, cogeneration will play an increasingly important role. The Government has begun work on an electrification strategy to take a holistic approach and to contribute to the 2030, 2040 and 2045 climate targets.
i-f2999c5907a82396-1022	Madam President, I would like First, let me say that the Swedish Democrats share the view that there is a great need to invest in increased capacity in the electricity grids around Sweden, and above all in view of the electrification that we can see before us and the ambition of fossil freedom to ensure that this does not hold back social development but can contribute to the social development that we want. One constructive way is, of course, to be able to manage the unexploited revenues from previous revenue frameworks. However, there is no link between such space and local capacity shortages. Nor is there anything in the proposal put on the table by the Government that directs investments to areas with local capacity shortages. That is a little bit what is perhaps the problem in the proposal that has been chosen to put forward, where citizens may feel that they are paying a great deal for their electricity and that taxes are increasing and also electricity costs. Politicians justify that electricity grid companies should be able to charge tens of billions of dollars extra, but where there may be no connection at all to local capacity shortages. Madam President, I would like I wonder why the Social Democrats think it is reasonable that electricity grid companies should be able to charge tens of billions of SEK without any regulation that directs precisely towards increased investments in network capacity?
i-f2999c5907a82396-1025	Madam President, I would like We do not really have the same idea of the effects of this bill; it is quite obvious, Mr Bäckström Johansson. We believe that this will steer towards more investment where it is needed. That is what the whole bill is about. Even with regard to the revenue framework, we have seen that there have been a number of court proceedings that have allowed them to actually charge these fees. Then we think it is better to try to steer them so that they actually make the investments and that the investments end up in the right place.
i-f2999c5907a82396-1027	Madam President, I would like One fact that shows that it is possible to still make corrections is that it withdrew the first bill and has come back with another proposal. I cannot, however, see in any way that the possibility of having a regulation that directs investment where it is to be done has been exhausted. There is no such connection whatsoever in the proposal that has been put forward. What you do here is more or less trust a handshake. Hopes are put to the good will, that they will invest on the basis of what is described as the purpose of the bill. But that is not how we deal with other proposals in this House. In that case, the question is why we have revenue frameworks at all. The electricity grid companies may only invest and charge as much of the electricity grid customers as is needed. I do not quite understand why it is handled in this way. Now it is time to investigate and look at what the investments were. Somewhere it's not tax money that we're talking about here. Without this, electricity grid companies will charge electricity bills from ordinary citizens, and then it will be evaluated. It may then become apparent afterwards that the investments may not have gone to what was said they were going to do. What are the consequences? What confidence will these people have in politics and in how to handle regulation and their hard-earned money with which they have paid their electricity bills? Madam President, I would like One question to the Social Democrats about how they view this is: what if it turns out afterwards that they have not invested at all in increased network capacity in any company or in different areas? What will be the consequence of this when it is evaluated? There must be a purpose in the evaluation of this proposal.
i-f2999c5907a82396-1030	Madam President, I would like It is also a little unclear what the purpose of the Swedish Democrats' proposal is when it comes to what the evaluation according to the proposal would give. That is, among other things, what you are asking for in your reservation. It's pretty unclear. But it is clear that the evaluation will show whether this has produced the result that we want. Electricity grid companies are also under pressure on this issue. This issue has been on the table for quite some time. Efforts have also been made to stop proposals on the level of network charges.
i-f2999c5907a82396-1032	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the proposal in the report to be approved. Sweden needs to invest in electricity infrastructure. We have a largely old net. Sweden was early on electrifying, and already in the 1800s some cities received electric lighting. The electricity grid was then expanded when hydroelectric power was expanded in the early 1900s and the power was to be distributed from there. Add to this the expansion of nuclear power and general electrification of society, which historically required considerable investment. Madam President, I would like Today, many new investments in networks are needed to cope with increased demand, changes in demand and to make the networks more robust to storms. The old infrastructure was only airborne, and now more and more of the electric cables are being dug down, which is probably so important when you fear that climate change can cause more and more storms. When electricity production and consumption are moved, the need for electricity grids is also moved. Madam President, I would like The electricity network consists of three different levels: core networks, regional networks and local networks. The Swedish electricity network consists of 15 000 kilometres of high-voltage lines, i.e. main grids. Furthermore, it is the lower-voltage regional networks that often supply electricity-intensive companies and activities such as smelters and paper mills. Local networks then send electricity to private individuals and to smaller electricity-intensive companies and industries. Here is the excitement that we have in home wall contacts. Madam President, I would like The core networks are owned by Swedish power networks, and the regional networks have only three network owners: Eon, Vattenfall and Fortum. But 170 companies own the local electricity networks in Sweden. In their territory, undertakings have the exclusive right to provide electricity to their customers. It is a highly regulated free market. Much of the regulations and laws govern, and many times detailed control, the market. Madam President, I would like All of this requires investment, and investment that now needs to be put in place quickly. Over the past year we have seen problems with distribution to Mälardalen, Stockholm and Skåne above all. But the entire price range 3 and 4 has problems with distribution and inadequate networks. That is why we support this proposal, despite the fact that there may be some clouds of concern. This allows electricity companies to create, through new legislation, special investment space for electricity grid operations, through the use of unused deficits from previous years. Madam President, I would like We are concerned that this can lead to unnecessarily high prices for customers and that investments do not get where they are most needed. That is why the government has had to come back with a new legislative proposal and a legislative amendment, following the proposal that came in the autumn, by demanding that this be carefully followed up and that investments be made where they are needed and that this should not lead to increased dividends from the companies. Madam President, I would like If we are to cope with the enormous transformation of our new infrastructure needs to our car fleet, industry and transport sectors, in addition to the strengthening of old infrastructure, new investments will be required. We want everyone to be able to switch to electric cars and be sure that the car can also be recharged. These are new challenges for our electricity grid. Madam President, I would like The energy industry also states that we miss a growth of SEK 150 billion per year if the electricity supply continues to be a narrow sector. This means that we are missing large tax revenues to the state unless jobs and growth exist. Sweden already has an unemployment rate of 9.7 per cent, an unemployment that can cost us all huge losses of tax revenue, tax revenue that must be taken somewhere. Nor should the tax on electricity be increased for the consumer. Madam President, I would like Sweden has to a large extent an electricity-intensive industry and many businesses that require both good infrastructure and secure electricity supply. Through this we have attracted new industries, while also having managed to maintain and be the world leader in many heavy industrial segments. But this requires infrastructure. And if you compare Sweden with Germany, for example, we use twice as much electricity per capita. Madam President, I would like It's all connected. If Sweden is to be an innovative country with a visionary industry and low unemployment and be able to change into the first fossil-free welfare country, we need major investments in electricity infrastructure. We cannot achieve our climate targets nationally and at European level without a reinforced electricity infrastructure, Madam President. Only then can we do the jobs, the welfare and the climate.
i-f2999c5907a82396-1043	Madam President, I would like Sweden is growing, and the transition is ongoing. This means, among other things, that we see increased demand for electricity around the country. This, of course, requires a number of efforts, and increased investment in our electricity grids is one of them. When the government presented its proposal for a special investment space for electricity grid activities, it was therefore important for the Center Party that the proposal should lead to increased investments that strengthen the capacity of the electricity grid, in order to ensure a more secure energy supply. Investments are now needed more than ever to future-proof our electricity grids and to meet Sweden's climate targets. It is needed to enable electrification of the vehicle fleet so that we can be the first in the world to produce fossil-free steel that can actually reduce emissions in Sweden by as much as 10 – 14 percent. Technology, which is under development, could also reduce global emissions by 7%. With the government's original proposal, which was later revised, the electricity grid would be replaced every four hundred years – a pace that is far from ongoing social development. The proposal would also be a severe blow to electricity customers in certain areas, who would expect increased charges without sufficient counter-requirements for electricity companies to increase investments in electricity networks. That is why we are pleased that we were able to help strengthen the ambitions of the proposal. The Centre Party was involved in raising the requirements so that this really moves towards investment to also remedy the capacity shortage in particularly stressed areas. Madam President, I would like Having said that, we are still not entirely satisfied with the government's policy in this area. The Center Party is concerned that the government seems to lack a long-term plan and ambition for the infrastructure that is so central to meeting our set climate goals in several sectors. What we need now more than ever is long-term and predictability. We need to commission Swedish power networks to plan for increased electricity use. We need to clarify the responsibilities between our relevant authorities, and we need to review the relevant legislation so that it is adapted to a system in transition. This applies both to electricity law and to electricity grid regulation. Madam President, I would like Today, more traditional investments are rewarded, which is not always the most socio-economically effective. Legislation needs to steer more towards smart solutions, not least because we know that building new pipelines takes a long time. We want to see more investment in smart technology that can adjust demand. It could also give the customer more power to control their electricity bill through smart use. Madam President, I would like We also need to increase transmission capacity, as many have been involved here today. When we talk about transmission capacity, we often talk about transmission of power – often hydro power – from north to south, but in the future it will be at least as important with transmission capacity from south to north. The industry is growing so that it is creaking in northern Sweden, and wind power in the south – including offshore – will therefore play an important role. The different power sources have different characteristics. When it does not blow, we have hydropower that provides us with large amounts of energy, and when the wind is on, it should also be able to be used north of the country. It is about creating a system that is robust and where the characteristics of the different power types can complement each other. Finally, Madam President, it is important that we also evaluate our proposals. We believe it is important to follow up and ensure that the proposal leads to increased investments in our electricity networks and not unilaterally to increased profits for the companies. We need to follow up on our actions so that we can see that they are moving towards improved capacity, stronger supply capacity and a robust system. This is needed for the transformation and for us to reach our set climate targets – and of course for Sweden to continue to grow.
i-f2999c5907a82396-1050	Madam President, I would like The report we are discussing has emerged from previous speakers. When the matter was submitted last autumn, we Christian Democrats were rather critical of the design of this as a whole, and we were not alone in that. That is why the government withdrew the bill, and there is now a revised proposal on which we Christian Democrats have taken a position. In the previous proposal there were far too many serious shortcomings so that from our point of view it would be possible to deal with it properly. We stand today with a partially amended proposal. Several parameters have changed, but there are still a number of issues that we Christian Democrats believe need to be resolved over time. We are therefore still critical, but the situation must be dealt with on the basis of the current situation. Our reason for meeting the government in this situation with regard to the proposal is that we believe that Sweden is in a situation where the issue of the expansion and maintenance of the electricity grid as a whole is very important for the entire electricity system. We must therefore create the conditions for the various companies to continue their important work, so that valuable time is not lost. That is why we are prepared to support the proposal in the proposal under the current circumstances. We see that there needs to be investment in the electricity grid that increases the capacity of the grid. It is urgent, and it is also necessary to identify the authority – which the government decides – to be able to provide regulations on the obligation for electricity grid companies to account for the investments made regarding the special investment space. It is also important to monitor and evaluate investments. It is clear in the bill that this should be done already 2022 and then every three years. For the future, however, we would like to point out that the Christian Democrats believe that electricity grid regulation needs to be developed into the future regulatory period 2024 – 2027. The electricity market issues as a whole need to be reviewed, and this is an urgent issue that must not go further down the agenda than it has done so far. For this to happen, a number of preparations are needed. If you are serious about electricity supply being a hygiene factor in the future, changes also need to be made in the electricity market. Proposals must then be drawn up, referred to, prepared, prepared and subsequently decided. This takes time, and it cannot be done too late. There is an obvious need, and despite the calls, we are not there yet. We hope that the government will take and speed up its work to bring this to fruition. There are several issues that need to be addressed in a work on network regulation. Sweden has had countless legal processes that have created both regulatory uncertainty and a twitch in pricing for us customers. It is reasonable to consider how to overcome this uncertainty and thus reduce the risk of electricity grid investments. It is a question that needs to get into the government's retina as well. We believe that the existing regulatory model should be taken into account and based on it. However, this does not mean that everything should be as it always has been. On the contrary, parts and areas of the regulatory model need to be developed. It is self-evident to seek a balance between reasonable charges for customers and reasonable investment conditions for companies. In addition, particular consideration should be given to how to reward new technologies that can develop the functioning of electricity networks. In the work, EU law sets a framework for what Sweden can do, and it is therefore important to see what opportunities Sweden has for its own decisions but also to see how other countries have designed their grid regulation. Our country's competitiveness and the climate challenge require secure production. The Christian Democrats believe that the design of the electricity market should be reviewed so that it better steers towards security of supply. Today, the energy market pays for energy, but there is no incentive to provide quality or effect, that is, enough energy at a given moment. Support services that make the system work are mainly provided without payment. An electrical system that pays for these properties would be more robust, we believe. Planning power, such as nuclear power and cogeneration, would then be compensated for the important function they have in the electricity system. In this context, it should be said that the Riksdag has decided to produce a proposal for a delivery security target. Unfortunately, I can see that the government has left this issue for the energy industry so important, and proposals have not been made again despite the fact that it is two years since this House decided on such a declaration. However, we expect the government to come back in that part. Just because today we can bring together a broad majority in this House is not all that matters have been resolved. There seems to be a lot to continue working with.
i-f2999c5907a82396-1062	Madam President, I would like Thank you, everyone else who is in the debate! Everyone knows that climate is the biggest challenge. We fully agree on this in the Committee on Economic Affairs. It is the greatest challenge facing us as a country and as people in our time on this earth. It may seem a little overpowering, but it doesn't really have to be. If we were to succeed in electrifying exactly everything that we are currently running on electricity that comes from fossil sources that emit emissions that drive climate change, we would actually be able to meet the climate challenge, provided, of course, that our electricity production is fossil-free. Madam President, I would like If you are going to do this, you have to work on several fronts at the same time. We work with all those parts of the Industry Committee. Some things are in other committees too, but the Committee on Economic Affairs is perhaps the committee that will have the closest overall view on the climate issue, precisely because we are dealing with energy issues. In this case, we are dealing with electricity grid issues, but we are also dealing with several other elements that are important for climate change. This means that we get a more stable and longer term planning and investment in our electricity grids in Sweden. It is absolutely crucial for us to be able to electrify, regardless of which part of the country we are talking about. And we're supposed to electrify everything. Madam President, I would like In Swedish debate we talk a lot about transmission capacity between north and south. I really think it is out of the question, but it has been raised by a number of other debaters. It was found that today we have a system where we have made southern Sweden dependent on electricity from northern Sweden. No matter how much money we spend on electricity grid operations and how much we invest in the electricity grid, this will not be sustainable in the future if we want to continue electrification. There are industries in northern Sweden that will require more electricity. Then we don't have any power to transfer. We also want to be able to expand throughout the country and have more industries also in the southern parts. We also want more climate-smart energy production that we can export to others and thus push away their energy production, which is not fossil-free. For this to come into place, we will need to build new, regulated energy production both in northern Sweden and in southern Sweden. Both parts are needed, no matter what we do on the electricity grid issue. I therefore think that this is not really part of the debate on this matter, but since others have raised it, it is difficult not to say what the situation is, I admit. Madam President, I would like We in Sweden need long-term, stable investments in our electricity grids. That is why this is an incredibly important matter. If we succeed in electrifying and ensuring that the electricity produced is green, we will also be able to meet the climate challenge.
i-f2999c5907a82396-1070	Madam President, I would like I see that I have signed up for a speech in eight minutes. I don't think I need much, but I'll still say a few words. I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved. First of all, I would like to state that Sweden is in great need of increased investment in the electricity grid. It is obvious, not least when it comes to the core network, where Swedish power networks have a responsibility, but it also applies to regional and local networks. This is partly due to urbanisation, partly because we are moving towards 100% renewable electricity production, and then the capacity of the electricity grids needs to be increased vigorously. Let me take an example of this with urbanisation. When we put the shovel in the ground to build Bromma park town, we will have to draw electricity lines there, for example. Then this is a monopoly, and then one needs a balance. We simply need to regulate this activity so that it leads to investment. It has not done enough so far. For many years we have had underinvestments in the electricity grid. We need to change that, and then we need to present this proposal. I would like to say that this proposal meets the demand. There is a balance, and the purpose is clear. This will lead to increased investment and thus also increased capacity in the networks.
i-f2999c5907a82396-1076	Madam President, I would like Let us now turn to a debate on Natura 2000 status, NU16. I would like to begin by saying that Sweden stands out as one of the world's most historic mining and mineral countries, with a large supply of ore and minerals. This has been a major factor in our being able to have the prosperity and prosperity we have in this country. I feel very proud of that. At the same time, we see that our minerals will mean a great deal in the green transition that we are actually in the middle of. This will be more in demand. This applies not least to innovation-critical metals and minerals. They are necessary to develop, for example, the next generation of wind turbines, electric car batteries and other products. In our transformation, we will depend to a large extent on having access to these minerals. Thus, the measures to facilitate the mining and minerals industry are important efforts from an economic perspective but also from a climate perspective, of course. Madam President, I would like It is also important to note that the mining and minerals industry has, and has had, a very tough time during the pandemic. Many companies have closed down. Life has been lost. Many have gone into unemployment. And the mining and minerals industry is also affected. In an earlier debate on these issues in this House, I pointed out the importance of planning for extraordinary measures. At the same time, however, it is very difficult to say what the long-term consequences of this crisis are, where special measures sometimes need to be taken. It's very difficult to judge. Nor do we know how long the crisis will be. The proliferation of covid-19 has hit, and is likely to hit, very hard against exploration companies and mining companies in the future. This is a worrying situation that we need to monitor from here in Parliament. Madam President, I would like Against this background, it should be pointed out that the Government has actively focused on these issues and set up two new investigations concerning the licensing of mining operations. Among other things, I would like to highlight the new provisions of the Minerals Act, which this House has previously decided on, which means that research permits that have been extended when there are exceptional reasons can be extended one year from 1 July 2020. It is an important decision that has been taken in the past. At the same time, the Government launched an investigation into a modern and effective environmental test as late as August 2020, where a special investigator has the task of reviewing the current environmental testing system and making concrete proposals for changes and measures needed to achieve a more modern and effective environmental assessment. The Directive to the study states that the aim is to facilitate environmental and climate-enhancing investments and to achieve, which is important, a faster and simpler trial process while ensuring the maintenance of environmental protection. It is also clear in the mission statement that the investigator may also propose other changes to the current environmental testing system that contribute to a green transition through more predictable and efficient trial processes, which shorten the trial time and reduce administration while maintaining the level of environmental protection. Natura 2000 permits are part of what is to be reviewed and analysed by the investigator in order to have a faster and easier trial process. I would also like to point out that, as late as March this year – it is not very long ago – the government commissioned a special investigator to review trial processes and regulations in order to ensure a sustainable supply of innovation-critical metals and minerals. This is also important because many mining and exploration activities can cause inconvenience. That's why these investigations need to be done. This applies, for example, to the rights of landowners and other rightholders. Mining often has a major impact on the local environment. This requires the design of permit processes and efficient management that guide the review carried out with support both in the Mineral Act and in the Environmental Code. Madam President, I would like As has been stated, these issues are currently under review. An investigator is currently working and will propose measures to achieve a more modern and effective environmental assessment. As also reported, the investigator will submit his final report to the Government later this year, 2021. Allow me to repeat a few points I have mentioned earlier in this debate. An investigation has thus been set up to review the current environmental testing system, and a special investigator has been assigned to review environmental testing processes and regulations. Both these studies have the task of submitting concrete proposals for change and improvement this year to create more efficient, faster and well-designed permit processes. Now the opposition is presenting a committee initiative that breaks out parts of this whole – read Natura 2000. You could ask yourself if that's a good thing. The answer is no. Do we see the consequences? The answer is no. Is that responsibility? The answer is no. Is it a privilege exploited by the opposition? Yeah, I think it is. We should definitely, in my opinion, wait for the investigations in order to have a more efficient and faster licensing process. As a social democrat, I am extremely proud of our nation's mining and mineral history and what it has meant. I am equally proud when I look forward and see what opportunities we have in relation to these issues. Then don't lay the hookbones and create false hopes by breaking out some when we have two investigations to be presented this year! We can take the steps that are reasonable in order for this to work sustainably later. It's about a faster permit trial that's sustainable. With that, Madam President, I would like to endorse our reservation.
i-K7WGes1L7YTcg9mXd3zu7p	Madam President, I would like The report of the Industry Committee is entitled Natura 2000 authorisation when applying for processing concessions. I would like to start by trying to understand or clarify a little to myself what Natura 2000 area is. Here's what the Swedish Forests Board says: The purpose of the EU Species and Habitats Directives and Birds Directives is to protect animals and plants from extinction and to prevent the destruction of their habitats. The directives mean that Sweden has a long-term responsibility to ensure that designated habitats and species remain and have favourable conservation status in the country. In the case of Natura 2000, Sweden has listed around 4 000 sites that are part of a network, and many of them are also covered by other site protections such as national parks, nature reserves or biotop protection areas. It is therefore 4 000 areas with an area of 7 million hectares. It is a good thing that we protect habitats in order to preserve species and biodiversity. But then I can't help asking myself a few questions. Madam President, I would like We have these areas, at 7 million hectares, which we shall handle with care. That's good. You can add 2.4 million hectares of formally protected forest land plus voluntary provisions which, according to the forest industry, account for 25% of the productive forest land, which is 23.6 million hectares. So 5.9 million hectares are set aside on a voluntary basis. For information, I can say that 62% of formally protected areas are in mountain regions. Of course, some of these areas can patch over each other and be found under several headings. But I wanted to develop this so that we can agree that Sweden is probably quite good at defending biodiversity and habitats for endangered species. Back to the report. Just as the title says, this is about when permits under Natura 2000 are to be taken into account. In the announcement by the citizens and SD, it says this: That is to say, what comes after you have obtained a concession. A friend of order can see that exactly as described above it has been used to do, i.e. Natura 2000 permits are tested when the concession has already been granted and plans for a mine, with economic calculations and so on, are already under way. The government landed in a different order in one case recently. Why, one might ask. On 22 December 2020, the Government examined an appeal against the Bergmästar's decision to reject Boliden Minerals' application for processing concession under the Mineral Act for the Laver area in Älvsbyn municipality. In other words, they want Natura 2000 permits to be issued before the company's application for processing concessions can be examined. However, the tours will not end here for these permit trials, for Boliden has applied for a judicial review of the Government's decision to the Supreme Administrative Court. That application was lodged with the Court of Justice on 11 February 2021. The Left Party agrees with the majority in the committee that Swedish mining and mineral industries are of great importance to Sweden. These are jobs, often in sparsely populated areas where jobs can play a crucial role in the development of rural areas and, of course, in the development of well-being and new technologies for green conversion. At the same time, it is a fact that mining has a major impact on the local environment. A thorough environmental assessment is therefore important. Well-designed permit processes and efficient management should guide the review carried out under both the Mineral Act and the Environmental Code. It is important that Sweden continues to be a leading country in the mineral industry in terms of sustainable development and that our minerals in the world are seen as the most green – if you can now call virgin minerals green and sustainable. That they have this status is important for a green nation like Sweden. Of course, permit processes should be effective and legally secure, but without us being the country where it takes the longest time to get any information at all. The left-wing view is that there should be some kind of notification to applicant companies at an early stage if something is particularly sensitive when the permit process is launched, in this case that Natura 2000 permits might be tested before processing concession. Instead of being in suspense for decades while large amounts of money are being invested, signals should be given whether a project will have any chance of obtaining a permit at all. It should be possible to classify these as high-risk projects or as interesting if nothing unusual arises. Such an arrangement will benefit all parties. I'm convinced of that. I call for approval of the Left Party, the Social Democrats and the Green Party's reservations.
i-f2999c5907a82396-1111	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, if any, I would like to ask you a few questions. Metals and minerals are needed for the green transition, and sustainable and responsible supply is important. I think we can all agree on that. At the same time, we cannot turn a blind eye to the fact that mineral activities have a major impact on the environment and the environment, biodiversity, groundwater, drinking water and so on. Therefore, the environmental party's overall policy in the field of minerals is that we must primarily work to reduce consumption. We cannot, as it were, turn a blind eye to the planetary boundaries that exist. We cannot continue to consume uninhibited. Our policy is also that the circular economy is very important. We have tuned a linear economy for hundreds of years, and now we really need to look at instruments for the circular economy – legal instruments but also economic instruments. Environmental Party policy does not exclude new mining activities. They will be needed, because recycled material is simply not enough as it stands at present. A high level of environmental protection and regulation are essential for companies to take social responsibility, to provide adequate financial security and so on. It is important for everyone, both for companies and for those living in the area, that it is a legally secure and predictable process. There are processes that have been delayed. We are aware of that. Some fall on the government. But some also fall on companies that submit material in supplementary rounds and that may not have all the data from the beginning. There are two sides to that too. To overcome this whole challenge, the government has set up several investigations. We have heard about the Environmental Assessment Report, which is due to be completed in December this year, and also the recent review of the Minerals Act to obtain a supply of innovation-critical metals and minerals. So it is a work in progress. In preparing this matter, we have invited several different experts to the committee. We have listened to the authorities, we have listened to the mineral industry and at the initiative of the Green Party we have also listened to the Swedish Environmental Protection Association. I think it is very important that we politicians start from facts and science and ensure that we balance interests for the common good and for sustainable value creation in the long term. I believe that this initiative shows that the initiators go unabated in the affairs of the mineral industry. We have heard non-political officials saying that EU law provides that it is important that Natura 2000 enters a very early stage, that Natura 2000 should be tested at the early stage of the concession and not later in the environmental review. We also hear from several quarters that there will be greater financial damage if you get a rejection very late in the process. In addition, a case is currently pending before the Supreme Administrative Court, an application for judicial review concerning processing concessions and Natura 2000 permits. We from the Green Party therefore believe that there are ongoing investigations and a court case and that the facts have come up on the table showing that this is an inappropriate initiative. We think it is better that we take these studies that exist and see how we can get a better regulatory framework as a whole that takes account of both the environmental impact and how we can have a sustainable, responsible supply of metals and minerals. That is why we are calling for the reservation of the Social Democrats, the Green Party and the Left Party to be approved.
i-f2999c5907a82396-1120	Madam President, I would like Business is growing by leaps and bounds in the northern part of the country. In addition to the Northvolt battery factory in Skellefteå, Facebook is investing in Luleå, and H2 Green Steel is investing in Boden. LKAB and Boliden are investing large sums of money in expanding their mining operations and developing the existing technology. At the moment, Boliden has ended up in a difficult situation, where the investigation permit soon goes out into their Laver project in Älvsbyn. The regulatory burden is too great, and it has devastating consequences. Late and uncertain permit processes are becoming an increasingly pressing issue. The county boards around the country sit with Svarte Petter in their hands: What is most important? Environment, climate or national interests? The need for metals for electrification and conversion to fossil-free energy alternatives will require new mining establishments and a higher degree of recycling of especially critical metals. The need to ensure Sweden's and the EU's needs for metals is clearly reflected in the EU's green deal and the EU's action plan on critical raw materials. As the EU's most important mining nation, Sweden should be the country that points out the shortcomings contained in the EU directive. Madam President, I would like Sweden has been a major mining nation for centuries because we have many mineral and metal bodies in our bedrock. Many of the mines are located in the northern part of the country and contribute significantly to the large increase in jobs in our northern part of the country. The mining industry is a very special industry, because its location is fixed and cannot be relocated. Examination of permits for mining operations is a process involving a large number of actors in several different stages. From an operator's intention to start searching for ore to starting a mine, several different permits are required. The review process differs from other environmentally hazardous activities in that, in addition to the Environmental Code, it also contains testing according to the Minerals Act. The environmental code test aims to promote sustainable development, while the mineral law test aims to enable society to supply essential metals and minerals. Licensing under the Minerals Act is designed to provide the conditions for applicants to reach mining by gradually adding increased financial input and knowledge to the project. From the time an operator wants to start looking for minerals to a possible start of mining operations, various trials are required. In addition to these trials, the operator may also need to apply for a permit for activities that may affect a Natura 2000 site. Other permits that may be required include exemptions from off-road driving bans, cultural memory protection, beach protection, species protection and biotop protection. If the operator plans a test break under a permit or processing concession, the environmental code requires a permit. Madam President, I would like What I'm trying to describe is a complex nutrition that takes time, is costly and complicated. Sweden has been at the top in mining industry for many years, but in recent years we have fallen on the ranking list because of all the regulatory problems and that it takes too long to get all the necessary permits. Sweden is dependent on a strong and driven mining industry, and there is a number of minerals in our bedrock that are not broken because the regulations are too complicated and it takes too long before you can get a profitable mining business. Our committee initiative, together with previous announcements, points out in many ways that we need to review all the regulations and make it much smoother and faster to seek permission without compromising either the environmental code or the mineral law. Growth analysis notes that national and European practices do not take into account the main challenge facing the mining industry, namely that unlike most other industrial establishments, operations are not delocalizable. Among other things, the Authority notes that the Swedish division of the authorisation process with concession testing and subsequent environmental permits does not meet the EU requirements for a comprehensive and complete environmental assessment required by the EU Directive for Natura 2000 sites. The Authority also notes that the EU practice developed in relation to Natura 2000, among other things, creates significant institutional and financial risks, which means that exploration and mining companies do not dare to invest in Sweden or the EU. Growth analysis already highlighted in 2018 that the state needs to clarify when the Natura 2000 test will take place. The Authority notes that the State should consider moving what is regulated in the Environmental Code regarding Natura 2000 trials to the subsequent environmental review. If an early Natura 2000 test is carried out, it cannot be complete, precise and final. A change in the mineral law should be made in line with EU law in order to make this possible. At the same time, the Authority points out that from an investment perspective it is important that as much as possible of the permit assessment, i.e. other land use testing, remains in place early in the permit process, i.e. in the concession trial. That is exactly what our committee initiative is about: making the necessary changes that take into account EU law but which take into account the risk for companies in general. Madam President, I would like There are ongoing investigations concerning the Minerals Act and the Environmental Code. None of these initiatives, however, specifically concern the issue of Natura 2000 permits. The committee therefore believes that ongoing work should be complemented by the issue of Natura 2000 permits. The Government should urgently return to the Riksdag with proposals that make it clear that in cases where a Natura 2000 permit is required, the examination of permits under the Environmental Code should be carried out. The committee therefore does not believe that a Natura 2000 permit should be a precondition for granting a processing concession. Therefore, the committee proposes that the Government should return with proposals as soon as possible, but no later than 30 June 2022, which coincides with the time when the Government will, according to the Riksdag's previous decision, return with proposals for simplified permit processes and shorter processing times. I therefore support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-f2999c5907a82396-1132	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your speech. We heard in the speech, and we heard in committee, that two investigations are already under way. We have also heard that EU law says that the investigation should take place at an early stage. What does the honourable Member think about this? Isn't it a little strange to short-circuit the investigations that are already under way?
i-f2999c5907a82396-1134	Madam President, I would like I thank Mrs Palmstierna for the question. The government has been in office for seven years and has done nothing. The government has been incredibly slow on this issue. The committee initiatives and investigations currently under way do not contain anything on Natura 2000 trials, no matter where they are to be carried out in the process. It is important that Sweden can regain its top position as a mining nation, and that requires simple rules and approaches towards those companies that want to start a processing concession. Then Sweden can again climb the ranking list. Sweden needs all these critical minerals in order to transition to a fossil-free world and make the green transformation that the country so badly needs. For this reason, we want to speed up the investigation, and we want to add that there is also a need for an investigation in which it is clear that a Natura 2000 trial, which is costly, should not have to be carried out in two rounds.
i-9DVfoJHHkRr4Bvjb73Rzq1	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm, for the answer to the question! As far as the investigation is concerned, this environmental assessment has already been going on for quite some time and it will be delivered as early as December this year. The government has therefore taken the initiative and has work in progress. As far as the Natura 2000 test is concerned, it is currently carried out early in the concession phase but not later in the environmental test. I think that if you do it early, there will be less risk of major economic consequences at a late stage. EU law also says that a trial should be carried out very early. Against this background, I still find it strange to present this initiative and also to break out a little bit of a whole. I think it would be better for both the mineral industry and environmental issues to investigate the matter in its entirety instead of picking out a small piece. There is also a court case going on, and I think it is even more inappropriate to investigate that particular part. Instead, we have to wait for the legal process to come to an end.
i-NJDPqus4N9XXpFmFNcmqYv	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Amanda Palmstierna, for the question! What I can say is that I find it strange that the government and its minister have not done more in seven years. The Minister has even been notified to the KU on the issue of mining and that nothing is happening. I mentioned the Laver project in Älvsbyn, which Boliden has now brought up to the Högsta administrative court. But there is one more case – Kallak in Jokkmokk, which also belongs to Boliden – which is still on the government table after four years and where nothing happens. This scares both investors and prospectors because we have such an incredibly complicated regulatory framework and long lead times when it comes to making decisions, and it does not need Sweden. Sweden needs a fast and effective regulatory framework and fast and effective law and permit processes in order to regain the status of the EU's leading mining nation. I do not want to be dependent on Congo-Kinshasa or China, leading mining nations that use child labour and do not at all have the demands on the working environment that we have in Sweden. I want to be proud that we have a mining industry where I know it is right and that it is a good working environment for those who work in those mines. Right now we are in limbo when it comes to permits and regulations because it is so complicated, and I do not want to see any more of that.
i-f2999c5907a82396-1147	Madam President, I would like I should like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved and to apologise for the fact that I am likely to be slightly overshoring my registered speaking time. During this spring, Sweden's mining and mineral policy has been debated several times in this Chamber. This is good, because it is one of Sweden's most important industries that generates work, prosperity and well-being and therefore deserves the attention of both the public and politics. Many have probably heard of LKAB's huge future investments in Malmberget, where hundreds of billions will be invested in what is described as one of the largest industrial investments in modern times. It is fantastic, not only from a national perspective but also to a very large extent for me as a Norwegian resident and Gällivarebo. In fact, Madam President, if I go out on my terrace at home and look north, as I did the other night to see a magical aurora, I see LKAB's mining lava in Malmberget drawing towards the sky a few kilometres away. It's there, in my hometown, it's happening, and it's creating faith in the future. But a mine doesn't start like that. Giant mines such as LKAB's underground mines in Kiruna and Malmberget or Boliden's huge copper day crime in Aitik just south of Gällivare do not arise out of thin air. They have to start somewhere. It must begin by allowing someone to look for metals and minerals and by allowing someone to extract them. Now it is not always deposits that make mines as large as those in Kiruna, Malmberget and Aitik. The fact is that for half a decade it is not always deposits lead to anything at all, because our state processes have gone completely behind bars. As soon as three quarters of my term of office comes into office, I note that here, from this very speaker's seat and from one of the speakers below the platform, I have addressed this fact in a number of report debates and interpellation debates – many times with a feeling of speaking on deaf ears, because nothing is happening. Last time, just a month ago, we debated the Committee on Economic Affairs' report 18 Mineral Policy. I was then accused of missing concrete proposals that were easy for the government to implement without prior investigation, although this was not the case. Yesterday you could read in Svenska Dagbladet that Sweden's Minister for Economic Affairs Ibrahim Baylan believes that new mines are needed if we are to succeed in electrification. Madam President, I would like I ask myself how. How, when we want to simplify and clarify the licensing processes in order to improve the conditions for Swedish mining, do we see how the issues are delayed and dismissed by the government? That is also the case on this issue. I do not think that, during my short time here in the Swedish Parliament and in the Committee on Economic Affairs, I have been involved in such a carefully examined committee initiative that has prompted the committee to invite and listen to such a wide range of experts as in this particular matter. Nothing wrong with it; it guarantees a higher quality of the final product and a more informed decision. Nevertheless, although I do not see any serious arguments against the proposal, S, V and MP reserve their reservations. That V and MP do it, be it. But the fact that S – whose own minister just yesterday pointed out that, when we read that cobalt is extracted by children's workers in Congo, we can't just ooze us – will push the red button when it's time for tomorrow's vote, it actually makes me a little surprised. For what are we debating here today? What are the government parties opposed to? Is it some kind of carte blanche for the mining industry to dig when, where and how they want to be proposed? Or is anyone seriously in favour of abolishing the strict environmental rules which rightly regulate activities? If that had been the case, I would have understood the government's concern and rejection. But if that had been the case, then the Swedish Democrats would never have joined this committee initiative. It's not like that now. What this report is about is where in the permit process a Natura 2000 test should be done, not about. The industry is clear to point out that Natura 2000 testing is problematic at an early stage, before the processing concession has been announced, and entails increased costs. This is because many crucial parameters in that situation are not yet known. That is a highly relevant point of view. When the state's own expert authority then admits almost the same thing – that the bases of the pre-concession cases are often of substandard quality because many important factors are still unknown – I cannot understand for my life the government's motives for rejecting the proposal that Natura 2000 testing should take place at the same stage of the permit process as other environmental testing, especially in view of the fact that this generates better evidence. In fact, everyone in this House should agree on that is positive, regardless of whether you are in favour of or against mines as a phenomenon. If this is the case, as the Minister for Economic Affairs and his party representatives claim, that one actually recognizes the importance of a viable Swedish mining industry, one should gratefully receive and investigate or implement any proposals that strengthen the industry's conditions without compromising the strict environmental rules that we have in this area and in fact agree on the whole. Or you continue to sit on your hands and wait a little bit for Fraser Institute's next ranking of mining nations' attractiveness when it comes to investments and then ask yourself a little bit dizzy why Sweden continues to lose competition. It should be made clear that the conditions exist. The companies are ready, the mineral resources are available and our know-how is world-class. What's missing is a bit of political fucking embrace. Finally – Fraser Institute's ranking is telling. In 2016, Sweden was in eighth place, close to countries such as the United States and Australia. By 2020 we landed in thirty-sixth place alongside nations such as Mali and Ghana. Where we place ourselves in 2022 with current politics is, Madam President, written in the stars, but I am not the only one to be worried.
i-f2999c5907a82396-1166	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report. Today there are several major and exciting investments in new and green technologies. We Norwegians brag a lot now, but I saw that it was also on the front page of Today's industry. It doesn't happen every day, I'll tell you! That's why I think it's good that you can treat us northerners a little bit of gold on life. It will lead to thousands of jobs. But it will also lead to a more climate-smart approach. One of these exciting initiatives is Northvolt. I think we've been going on about it quite a few times here in the pulpit, and most people know what it is. It is a battery factory that is now being built outside Skellefteå. The first line will be ready by the end of this year. The area is about the size of 40 football fields, if I don't remember wrong. Some 3 000 people will be employed there. There are also other exciting industrial investments in the north, not least Hybrid, which we have talked about very much in committee. SSAB, LKAB and Vattenfall invest in fossil-free production of steel. A similar idea of producing steel through a fossil-free process is underway in Boden, with the company H2 Green Steel at the forefront. Madam President, I would like Access to metals and minerals is a prerequisite for modern society. Did you know that in your lifetime you will need 800 tons of minerals and metals? Almost everything you see around you, starting with your home – the apartment or the house where you live – has a connection to our bedrock: the toothpaste that you brush your teeth with, the jewelry that you carry on your body, the appliances in the kitchen, the batteries, the windows, the mobile phone, the computer and the speaker. And when you step outside the door there are also a lot of products from our bedrock everywhere: buses, cars, trains, bridges, lampposts, sculptures, signs and far more. Without metals and minerals, our modern life would simply be impossible. Madam President, I would like Metals and minerals are also essential to take the step into the future. Wind power plants, batteries and other climate-efficient solutions require this, and the green conversion requires metals and minerals that we have not broken in Sweden before. Several of them are in our bedrock. In Sweden we have a more than a thousand-year tradition of both understanding and taking advantage of the mountain's raw materials. They are the start of long, growing value chains and form a backbone of the Swedish economy. Metals are elements and therefore recyclable as many times as possible. They thus fit very well into the circular economy and play a crucial role for the sustainable society. Metals that are mined are supplemented with recycled raw materials. You know that in order to recycle, we must also add virgin material. This is good for both the environment and the economy – combining primary and recycled raw materials in the processing process. Recycling alone does not cover the needs of today and the future. A growing population and new technical solutions for the climate require more and more metals and minerals in the circular flow. Madam President, I would like As I said, the world needs more minerals and metals, and with the transition to a climate-smart society, there will be increased demand. In the case of rare earth metals, which are needed for the production of, for example, batteries for electric cars, hydrogen storage batteries, wind power, smartphones and drones, there is, as I mentioned earlier, no production in Sweden or Europe. Globally, China is the largest producer, with 86 percent of world production. Only a few percent are produced by recycling. However, the mining company LKAB is trying to develop methods for extracting mining waste from iron, which is very good and necessary. It is important to mention here that there is also a geopolitical aspect. The EU's eyes are directed at Sweden to reduce dependence on China. Madam President, I would like The mining industry is important to Sweden and, as I said earlier, contributes thousands of new jobs, not least in rural areas. Unfortunately, however, long and unpredictable processing times for environmental permits, for example, have caused more and more mining companies to hesitate to invest here. We have also seen in Fraser Institute's study that we are slipping down the list and have become increasingly less attractive as a mining country. It is not reasonable for a company to have to wait up to ten years for a reply. In the Center Party, we are opposed to the fact that different authorities can appeal each other's decisions instead of speaking with one voice. It creates enormous uncertainty and unpredictability for companies. We are also concerned that the licensing processes are so different around the country and that companies should have to decide on their location based on which county board can best balance issues regarding conservation of natural areas and sustainable industrial development. This should not be the case; it should be the same throughout the country. Nor do we feel that there is a balance between different values. It has become a bit too strong a list to preserve, for example, cultural landscapes and key biotopes versus building wind farms, even when the impact on the cultural landscape or species richness is almost minimal. Finally, we also believe that there are far too many different legislations and review bodies involved, which places an excessive administrative burden of proof on companies, thus opening up to arbitrary and lengthy processes. Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, I have to say that the government has not lifted very many fingers in recent years to overcome this situation. My colleague Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm mentioned Boliden. When Boliden announced a few months ago that they are considering leaving Sweden because of the lengthy and intransparent permit processes, the Ministry of Industry and Minister Ibrahim Baylan reacted : M an appointed a mining investigation to facilitate the problem. The interesting thing is that it will conveniently be ready shortly after the 2022 elections. The consequence of companies like Boliden considering leaving Sweden is that thousands of jobs are completely lost, and that Sweden misses out on the leadership shirt in the fossil-free green transition that the government often says we should have. Swedish environmental legislation is among the strictest in the world, and we want to continue to see this with simplified licensing processes. In fact, our Swedish mining companies have progressed further in their sustainability efforts than any other country. If they choose to move abroad, there is also the risk that extraction and processing will take place in a less sustainable way elsewhere far away, as long as we do not have to have this behind our own house knot. They are also countries where you don't always have very good working conditions or particularly good, if even existing, environmental legislation. Madam President, I would like At the end of December 2020, the government announced that it had decided to introduce a requirement for Natura 2000 testing, which means in areas with high natural values, and that it should take place earlier in the process, because it will not escape if you are interested in a break in a Natura 2000 site. But then the government decided that it should be brought forward. Initially, you might think it's a good idea. Then you can find out right away if it is good or bad. It costs less money, and you don't have to spend so much energy and resources on it. But it is not that simple, because at an earlier stage little is known about the deposit. You don't know exactly where to demarcate the area. It is also not known exactly what impact it can have on nearby waters or areas. What that means is that this will be a cosmetic product, that is, something that one will probably have to do again at a later stage in the environmental testing process. Then it will cost even more money, even more energy and take even longer. It will hardly attract mining companies to invest in Sweden. I say this: those of you who are voting in favour of bringing this forward should be aware of the consequences. It is both process-economically poor and legally insecure. In addition, I would like to say that it is a huge waste of tax money.
i-f2999c5907a82396-1189	Madam President, I would like As a citizen of our elongated country, the mining and mineral industry is a very important basic industry for Sweden. This has been a fact for centuries. And we see that nutrition will continue to be a necessary piece of the puzzle when we as a nation want to make the next technological leap to digitize and electrify our society. For this to be possible, for example, we will have to look for raw materials that make it possible to produce batteries, for example, which we discussed in the debate earlier here, in sufficient quantity. We Christian Democrats therefore want not only to protect but also to further develop Swedish mining and mineral industries. Unfortunately, we see time and again that the government is wiggled in its handling of this basic industry. One example is the message given when the government recently rejected Boliden's appeal regarding the mine establishment in Laver – this after putting a wet blanket over the process for over four years. In addition to actually receiving a rejection, one has also waited over four years for a decision, which is a completely insane way of treating a company. It is not only this company that has alerted this, but more companies have alerted us about the slowness. Boliden's Communications Director has said that they have grown tired of the mass of demands, hassles and unpredictable processes that stop key investments in Sweden. Then we have to look at other countries," he says. That makes me, as a citizen of Sweden, very worried. The mine in Laver could have created thousands of jobs in the municipality of Älvsbyn and be a significant part of the climate transition, of which most of us are actually supporters. But when the government acts in a slow manner and does not prioritise one of the pieces of the puzzle in the value chain that the mining industry is, the situation of unspeakable state processes and hassle becomes untenable. Companies need to look for other solutions in other countries. Is it really the situation we want in Sweden, that companies move their investments to another country? We Christian Democrats are deeply concerned about the Swedish rule problem. It is a genuine threat to Sweden's ability to continue to develop as an industrial nation. We Christian Democrats believe that there are good social and environmental reasons for mines to be established and developed in Sweden, rather than importing from countries that have substandard conditions, for example, that human rights and environmental requirements are not sufficient. So when it comes to establishing mines, our government chooses to push companies to other nations, where human rights are not taken into account and where environmental requirements are not sufficient, rather than taking advantage of the opportunities available in Sweden. I find that quite fascinating. Our joint responsibility for a sustainable value chain throughout the process for battery production, for example, is a priority. The same is true of our planet, which we should use according to reason but not consume. We must take joint responsibility here. The government's management of the mining companies is now in danger of getting a business escape from the country, I claim, which for Laver in this case regarding Boliden's announcement from the government would be an incredible loss to the local community. The reason why we are standing here today is a committee initiative that points to the long lead times for obtaining a permit for a new mine and the uncertainty that the permit process entails for the applicant but also for those affected by an envisaged mine. In addition, the management of Natura 2000 permits has further increased uncertainty. It is therefore urgent for us Christian Democrats to clarify the issues surrounding these permits and that, in cases where a Natura 2000 permit is required, it is in connection with the examination of permits under the environmental code. At the same time, a Natura 2000 permit shall not be a precondition for granting a processing concession. The latter issue has also been raised in previous chamber debates this year, which shows the importance of the issue, not least from a sustainability perspective in order to manage a transition to a more sustainable society in the future. It is therefore urgent that the Government return to Parliament on 30 June 2022. I think it is late, but it is the date that has been set. I support the proposal in the report.
i-f2999c5907a82396-1202	Madam President, I would like Thank you for a good debate on this urgent matter. It is, of course, also a subject with very difficult balances – very difficult political, fundamental balances. Madam President, I would like After all, as people – and as Members of Parliament – we face a huge challenge in bringing about the climate change that needs to happen. It needs to happen in order for us to have a decent life, all over the world and also here in Sweden, also in the future. Madam President, I would like This has been said earlier in the debate, but I repeat: in the climate transition, we need good access to a range of minerals, metals and rare earths in order for an effective green transition to take place. Madam President, I would like We often beat our chests in this Chamber and in international contexts when we meet colleagues from other parliaments over how far Sweden has come in the climate transition. Of course, we are not satisfied, but we have often gone further than many others. We often make very tough demands on other countries to catch up with us – and feel free to get past us even if we don't speed up here at home. If we make such tough demands on climate change both here and in other countries, we must also take responsibility for its feasibility. One cannot simply make demands on emission reduction, for example. There must also be a requirement that there are opportunities to do so. For example, we must ensure that there is good access to various minerals, metals and rare earth metals. Madam President, I would like For this reason, it is important that we have a workable and legally secure process for this. In simple language, you need to be able to understand how it works to start a mining operation to get these important things out of the ground. Madam President, I would like We also place great demands on ourselves and on other countries in terms of human rights and environmental aspects in general. As a liberal, there is also a great deal of concern about property rights. In Sweden it is a legal right, but it is also one of the fundamental human rights. This is an old piece of legislation that came about long before this kind of balance was struck between climate, the environment and human rights. It therefore needs to be updated, and we probably have many and long debates on it before us in this House. Madam President, I would like It is in this balance that this debate moves. I think it is hypocritical to say, as a politician, that you are in favour of climate change and, at the same time, make it difficult to break the rare earth or other metals and minerals that we need. But you are also a hypocrite if you are out in the world and advocate great respect for human rights, ownership and the environment while pushing forward processes in Sweden that are far too hasty and that do not take these values into account. It is precisely at this point of balance that we are. I believe that we need legislation and processes that take very great account of cultural landscapes, of different environmental values and of the living conditions of the people who live and work in the areas we are talking about. We also need to take great account of ownership. There are quite a few people in both the north and the south who are concerned about what is going to happen in the backyards and lands where they have been active for many years if these are freely exploited. Madam President, I would like It is in order to be able to make a good assessment and get a good balance where we can continue to drive the climate transition forward with respect for these values that we need a process that is predictable and legally secure. This means that companies have good opportunities to meet the needs of, for example, the important earth metals. It also enables those who oppose it, for example, to be better able to pursue their cause. It is also for this reason that it is important that things take place in the right order. Liberals want the assessment when granting the permit we are now debating to be made with more knowledge and more meat on the bones so that there is a higher quality of the assessment. We do not support this because we want a long-term balance between these different values. It should be the same respect for human rights in Sweden as we demand abroad. We will have the same respect for the environment in Sweden that we demand abroad in order for us to be able to have a climate change change in Sweden in the same way that we demand abroad. Simple, legally secure and transparent processes are needed and therefore this matter is important.
i-f2999c5907a82396-1218	Madam President, I would like I wasn't going to take a line, but I couldn't help it when Joar Forssell said that we would be hypocrites in terms of the supply of innovation-critical metals and minerals. I have to ask how Joar Forssell thinks. We have just set up an investigation that aims to see how to obtain a good supply of innovation-critical metals and minerals. There has also been work going on at SGU for several years where several assignments have mapped out where there are innovation critical metals and minerals and looked at both primary and secondary sources. Missions and resources have since continued to be added to this. At the moment, SGU is also working with a database where you should have a traceability of such metals and minerals. Speaking of human rights, Sweden is a strong voice for due diligence legislation on metals and minerals, sometimes other supply chains. How does Johan Forssell get this together with us not taking responsibility for these issues?
i-f2999c5907a82396-1223	Madam President, I would like I'm a little surprised by the question. If you listened to the debate at home and were not taken by storm, you probably heard me say that we are moving at a point of balance. It is hypocritical if one claims to care about climate values, human rights and more and at the same time opposes reasonable processes in Sweden to get things out of the ground in order to be able to do, for example, climate change. I didn't say the Green Party is doing this. I believe that all parties in the Swedish Parliament are at this point of balance and wiggle a little one way or the other. I personally think that in this case it would not be unreasonable to review the bureaucracy and the order in which things are done. In my perspective, it is about strengthening the process and making the assessment more legally secure and knowledge-based. We are not opposed to an assessment, on the contrary. It's an important part. Much of what Mr Palmstierna is raising is positive. The Green Party, the Left Party and the Liberals are, of course, the parties in parliament that are most in favour of due diligence legislation, and I believe that the Liberals and the Green Party are often related to these issues. Then I would have liked us to have been able to get closer on this particular matter. I do not understand that there is a conflict in that we both think there is a need for a balance between these values. I feel that the matter in Parliament today is also about making the process easier, more legally secure and more knowledge-based.
i-f2999c5907a82396-1229	Madam President, I would like Thanks for the clarification, Joar Forssell! That seems to me to be a much more reasonable line. I can agree that this balance point is absolutely something that all parties need to think about – that we take responsibility here at home and that we take responsibility for other countries. That is a perfectly reasonable line. I still want to turn against something. I heard Joar Forssell said you need to take things in the right order. I fully agree with that. In this respect, I think it is reasonable that the two investigations under way should not be anticipated and that the case before the Court of Justice should not be pre-empted. I think it would be better to take things in their entirety and investigate them properly instead of picking out a small part of it all. What I am concerned about is that this initiative will lead to a small piece of investigation and then to a lack of the great overall process. I think we need to look at synergies and how things relate properly. The reason why the investigation has been given such a long time is that you really should be able to look at this properly and well, because we know that there are problems on different sides and edges, from permit processes to, for example, the county boards need more resources to be able to work properly. My question is: How does Joar Forssell mean that the piece of cake means taking things in the right order?
i-f2999c5907a82396-1234	Madam President, I would like Thank you back for the question! Now it is not we who have taken the initiative, but I believe that the reason why it was taken is what has now been described in our discussion as a change of practice. Such a change could be argued to be a departure from a process in which you have exactly the kind of large, broad grip that Mr Palmstierna advocates. I am far too broad-based, particularly on these issues. Sweden has a situation where we as a nation have come a long way in technology development, where we are good at breaking things and where we can be an example in the world when it comes to doing so in a climate-smart way and with respect for human rights and so on. We are also a country where it is not entirely straightforward, partly because of respect for human rights for those who live, live and work where they want to carry out various forms of mining in the land and partly because of respect for property rights. Which of the things you put the greatest focus on depends a little on which country you live in. Of course, there is also consideration for the environment, especially in view of our high tail rate internationally. I would have liked us not to have this matter in our committee, but instead to have had a coherent process in which we amended the legislation together, in broad political agreement and with respect for all the different values. Now the situation has caused the matter to come to our table, and that must be taken into account. With this in mind, we have simply landed where we have landed.
i-f2999c5907a82396-1239	Madam President, I would like The Commission is reviewing trade policy. According to the parliamentary order, committees are required to give opinions to the House on the EU documents that have been referred to them. This has happened, and today the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs is debating the Commission's communication on how they envisage a review of trade policy. The committee has now examined the communication. The Commission wants to reach a consensus on a new direction to address the challenges that exist globally with the experience gained during the Corona crisis. The Commission mentions that the challenges of the new era will respond to a trade policy for the 2030 world. To get there, you have identified five events that you want included. It is about globalisation and technological development, China's rapid rise, accelerating climate change, digitalisation and the economic outlook for the world as a whole. Three objectives have been added to this, which we want to see in the medium term. The objectives are: the EU's readiness to contribute to economic recovery through support for the green digital transition, a renewed focus on strengthened multilateralism and reformed global trade rules to ensure fairness and sustainability, a more determined approach to defending the EU's interests against the world, protecting the EU's economy against unhealthy trading practices and ensuring a level playing field for all. The Commission states that achieving the objectives requires a stronger commitment from the EU's global partners, and the USA is a key player. Madam President, I would like The Moderates broadly support what is stated in the European Commission's communication. Sweden should remain the main voice for free trade and openness within Europe and the world. We want to say this every time there is an opportunity. We therefore believe that the European Commission's ambition to open further negotiations on trade agreements is positive and important. Sweden is a small, trade-dependent country on the outskirts of northern Europe. We are a knowledge nation, and we have a lot to offer the global world in terms of business. We therefore share the Commission's view that it is good and important for the EU to conclude more free trade agreements. The EU needs to strengthen its strategic position so that trade policy contributes to both growth and sustainable development. The Commission's ambition to deepen trade relations with the neighbourhood and enlargement countries and increase synergies between the EU and Africa is welcome. In our neighbourhood there is Britain. We Moderates believe that safeguarding and maintaining trade between the EU and the UK should be a priority. The UK is an important trading partner for the EU but especially for Sweden. It is now important to ensure that the trade and cooperation agreement adopted last year works well for all parties involved. We welcome and believe it is urgent that the Commission's intention is to press ahead with ambitious negotiations on agreements and facilitate trade, market access and a level playing field. Protectionism in the world is on the increase. We know this with certainty, and it is a bad way for our world. The pandemic has clearly demonstrated what happens when value chains fail. That is why priority must be given to continuing and increasing free trade. The Commission's ambition to reform the WTO is therefore welcome. It is important that the EU stands up for open and rule-based trade. We therefore share the view that it is important for the EU to involve China in the reform of the WTO, although we believe that it is possible to conclude afterwards that it was a mistake to let them in. The regulatory international trade organisation is important to protect. We believe that the WTO is the right organisation to deal with global trade structures, but this is based on the fact that all Member States respect and comply with agreed guidelines and do not act in breach of the rules of the WTO. Total compliance is required of all. A WTO compliance code is therefore very important. Barriers and national special legislation that hinder the development of digital cross-border trade should be discouraged. The EU should therefore work towards reaching common rules at WTO level for e-commerce. Customs barriers in agricultural and industrial areas, as well as barriers to trade in services, must be combated. I would like to highlight the USA and say that we share the Commission's view that the new US Government is an opportunity to improve trade relations. It also provides an opportunity to work together to reform the WTO. We welcome the fact that the EU will give priority to ensuring its partnership with the US. I would also like to mention the trade agreement between the EU and the countries known as Mercosur: Argentina, Brazil, Paraguay, Uruguay and Venezuela. We believe that this trade agreement will benefit the economic development, growth and employment of both regions and that it is of strategic political importance. It ties countries closer together. We share the Commission's view that trade policy will play an important supporting role in the digital green transition. We also share the Commission's view that the EU's trade and investment agreements should contribute to the promotion of respect for human rights and other labour market rights. We also welcome the Commission's view on the importance of further increasing trade opportunities for developing countries in order to reduce poverty. Trade lifts countries. Madam President, I would like Last but not least, we would like to remind you that we do not believe that the European Pillar of Social Rights belongs in the review of trade policy. With reference to the above, I would like to support our reservation of reasons 1.
i-f2999c5907a82396-1257	Madam President, I would like World trade has been under pressure over the past year in the wake of the pandemic. We have seen how temporarily stopped production in mainly Asia had far-reaching consequences even here in Sweden when inputs to our domestic industry shone with their absence, so layoffs became a fact. We have seen how the urgent need for medical protection equipment across Europe led to protectionist features within the Union, in which states seized protective equipment belonging to someone else, and how export bans limited the trade patterns on which we depend to enable the distribution of important products. We have seen how Sweden's bad reputation regarding our handling of the pandemic has caused severe problems of border barriers between us and our Nordic neighbours, something that has not least been felt for the business community in connection with the Norwegian border and for all the Swedes who usually commute to Norway. We have seen how the EU's internal market has broken and how states outside the Union have both secured better access to vaccines and managed to vaccinate their own population more quickly. We have seen how the Swedish tourism and tourism industry has been on its knees as a consequence both of domestic recommendations and restrictions as well as of extremely limited tourism from abroad. The Commission communication on the review of trade policy should be seen in the light of the challenges and problems in this area that I have just outlined. When it comes to this communication, I can see that it consists largely of conventional snow mosh. The Commission is talking widely about an open, sustainable and determined trade policy. And as a consequence of the fluffy formulations, there is not too much to take on, either for criticism or praise. Nevertheless, I believe that the Swedish Democrats broadly support the spirit of the communication. Not least, it is positive that the Commission stresses the need for a reform of the WTO and a functioning dispute settlement mechanism. This is something that we have long been pointing out in our policy and lying on the government for it to work for. The communication's letters concerning the strengthening of the EU's focus on the implementation and enforcement of trade agreements are also something that we are very much in favour of. As you know, the Swedish democrats are generally in favour of free and open trade. Good trade relations are of great importance, and we therefore support the conclusion by the EU of more free trade agreements that promote growth both within and outside the Union. Our first reservation contains our position that we consider it important that Swedish interests are protected in free trade agreements and that the government actively takes a stand during negotiations for sectors where Sweden is leading. This is something that we believe can be done by, for example, trying to introduce things that strengthen Swedish comparative advantages in the agreements. Furthermore, we find it problematic that the Commission communication completely omits the EU's trade relations with the US. We believe that a good trade relationship with the US is of great importance, and we therefore welcome the USA's stated indications of transparency, participation and responsibility in future negotiations. The Commission should have included wording in the communication on the value of our trade relations with the United States and at least mentioned something about how we can deepen them in the future. One of the states mentioned in the communication, on the other hand, is China. And although the Commission has pointed to the challenges of the EU's trade and investment relations with China, it leaves out much more nuanced criticism of China and its actions. It is our view that China today represents the single largest foreign economic-political threat to Sweden and Europe. Clearer demands must therefore be placed on the Chinese regime and restrictions imposed on China's use of strategic tools, such as takeovers, government-backed investments, ownership of sensitive assets and financial control of Swedish companies. In order to maintain fair competition and protect non-Chinese operators, trade policy measures need to be taken to meet this distorted competition. Unfortunately, neither the EU nor the Swedish Government has acted sufficiently in this area. In our second reservation, we refer to further points that we believe the European Commission omitted in its communication. As far as trade and sustainability are concerned, we point out, among other things, that, when more free trade agreements are concluded, the EU should also be careful, as far as possible, to make demands on the countries' work on the environment, democracy and gender equality. In this way, the Union can strengthen both trade and democratisation while at the same time limiting aid efforts accordingly. We also believe that the EU should require states to receive their own citizens, where appropriate, by including readmission clauses in trade agreements. Non-economic interests should also be taken into account in trade policy. For example, it should be possible to impose the same requirements on animal products imported as on products produced domestically. In our second reservation, we also emphasise the importance of trade agreements covering areas such as corporate social responsibility and environmental aspects where the priority lies in reducing carbon leakage, without the EU implementing the social pillar and regulating detail either Swedish or foreign labour markets. Finally, we welcome the Commission's overall approach to giving priority to environmental and climate issues in the new trade policy. At the same time, we believe that the scope of the green man must be reviewed. The task of the green dealer is to promote long-term transition to sustainable and circular production. We stress in our reservation in this area that the EU's efforts to solve environmental and energy problems must contribute to better conditions for growth and increased prosperity. The implementation of the Green Paper must not create unnecessary administrative costs for businesses. The green transition must not be at the expense of jobs and must not hamper the competitiveness of businesses and thus reduce the opportunities for companies to be an important part of it. We also emphasise that we are opposed to the European Pillar of Social Rights and do not believe that it belongs to the review of trade policy. Madam President, I would like With reference to the foregoing, we recommend that the Parliament add the statement to the file in this section.
i-f2999c5907a82396-1280	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of Motivation reservation 7. Resilience – our ability to recover and resist disasters, both ecological and social – is not achieved, is not improved and is not maintained by addressing only conventional business economic elements. Resilience can only be achieved by working strategically to achieve the UN's global sustainability goals. This requires a change in global economic structures, where the value of companies and supply chains – and responsibility along the chains – must change. It also requires government efforts to lead developments in the right direction. It requires a paradigm shift, and that shift must not be allowed to happen to businesses. It is good that the EU is taking the first steps towards changing trade policy, but I am disappointed that the changes are not being made from scratch. On the contrary, in the ordinary EU spirit, a system is patched up, despite the fact that it clearly has not produced the global results that have been promised. We should not measure the success of trade policy solely in GDP figures and profits for companies based in the EU, but trade policy must help to promote societies globally. The indicators for this are provided by the global sustainability goals, which point to the positive development of countries in terms of gender equality, human rights, education, the abolition of child labour, democracy and biodiversity, for example. Success is achieved in cooperation with, not at the expense of, our global trading partners. Would it not be a modern trade policy – a policy aimed at complying with and achieving the international agreements to which we have committed ourselves, primarily within the environment, climate and human rights? That is why the Left Party wants a fair trade policy that puts people, social justice, animals, climate and the environment first and focuses on social benefits for all, not just for big business. As we rebuild our post-pandemic economy, we should use the opportunities for a consistent, environmental and social transformation of our economies, together with our partners in the world, to achieve the UN's global sustainability goals. It is about being able to mitigate climate change. Trade policy should become an instrument for this transition and not a tool for maintaining historical relations between Europe and the rest of the world. Madam President, I would like In order to achieve the global sustainability goals and be able to deal with global crises, the business community needs to be fully involved. It is therefore important to take responsibility along the whole chain – to get companies to drive human rights from raw materials to finished products. The problem today is that countries are not consistent or obliged to impose responsibilities on companies to act in accordance with human rights. A binding agreement is needed to regulate the responsibility of companies throughout the global chain, and it is also necessary to facilitate cross-border conduct. It is good that the EU has taken on board this due diligence, and I very much hope that it will not just be a paper product but that the requirements are clear. One thing I miss is the possibility of having a fair trial when individuals and local communities meet transnational companies. The EU ensures the profits of companies regardless of whether countries choose to change direction in their social development or not, but it does not protect individuals and local communities when companies, for example, destroy their local environment. In my opinion, this shows that the European Union is not willing to do so. Also not covered by this review is the impact of contractual volumes through reduced customs duties. It is an effective tool for increasing imports of raw materials that the EU considers necessary within the Union. Although I know that this is not part of the matter, I would like to raise it. I believe that it should be critical that these volumes are determined without further analysis of their impact on the environment, the climate and the survival of small farmers and the development of local communities. There is talk of supporting small businesses in this Communication, but the question is which small businesses are meant to be. I am also critical of creating tools that favour monoculture and large farms, as I believe is the case with the Mercosur Agreement, which is mentioned. If environmental and human rights due diligence is the tool for companies to prevent their activities from having a negative impact on human rights and the environment, the United Nations binding measure is a binding regulatory framework for how companies must relate to human rights. The Treaty is a way of holding nations accountable for what their companies do, even when they operate in other countries. This instrument is in a position to fill the legal gaps that exist, especially when transnational companies do not respect human rights. This has been a major problem when many of the transnational companies divide up activities and businesses in order to avoid taking responsibility on this issue. Madam President, I would like When I express in the motivational reservation the importance of taking people into account, it also includes public health. Unfortunately, the Commission communication does not include public health, which is another aspect that should be an important part of future trade policy. We need trade agreements that strengthen small farmers and biodiversity and create clear control systems for the environment and legal requirements for the environment and democracy. We need trade agreements that strengthen workers' rights, not exploitation, and strengthen countries' management of natural resources and share technology. We need agreements that put public health ahead of corporate profits and give us power over our political decisions without companies being able to influence the choices we make for our future.
i-f2999c5907a82396-1291	Madam President, I would like We Christian Democrats are instigators of increased free trade and international relations, and we want Sweden to build on this. Increased free and fair trade binds countries and markets around the world, and we therefore share the Commission's view that it is good for the EU if the EU enters into more free trade agreements. Yes, we may not only think that it is a good thing but also think that more free trade agreements are necessary. Free trade agreements contribute to both growth and sustainable development, and it is through trade with other countries that prosperity is increasing. Therefore, it is urgent that Sweden welcomes the Commission's ambitions to deepen trade relations with our neighbourhood and enlargement countries and to work towards increased cooperation between the EU and Africa. With Brexit, it is also urgent that we continue to maintain good trade relations with the United Kingdom, with all that that means for us. The Commission's view is that building a fair and rule-based relationship with China is also a priority. We welcome the Commission's intention to press ahead with ambitious negotiations on agreements facilitating trade and market access and a level playing field. However, it is of great importance that the EU should also involve China in the reform of the WTO, although we believe that it can be noted afterwards that it was a mistake to let China into the WTO. I would also like to take this opportunity to highlight the need for us to make an effort to reform the WTO, which is an important player at global level. China and the market economy are not usually seen as synonymous with each other, and China's policy towards the outside world raises crucial questions about Sweden's, the EU's and the whole free world's approach to Beijing in a number of areas, one of which is the rule-based trading system. The regulatory international trade regime is important to safeguard. It is incredibly important for the WTO as an organisation that Member States respect and follow the agreed guidelines. Unfortunately, this compliance is lacking, as some countries, not least China, are acting in different ways in breach of the WTO acquis. We Christian Democrats believe that there is an urgent need for a code of compliance within the WTO. We also share the Commission's view that the new US Government provides an opportunity for improved trade relations. We Christian Democrats also share the Commission's view that trade policy will play an increasingly important and supportive role in the digital and green transition. Trade will be an important part of the implementation of Agenda 2030 and the Paris Agreement. Therefore, there should be a link between the EU's trade policy, the global goals of Agenda 2030, the climate objectives of the Paris Agreement and the green recovery. The Commission's view is that the EU's trade and investment agreements should contribute to the promotion of respect for human and other rights in the labour market. We share that view of the Christian Democrats. We also welcome the importance of further increasing developing countries' trade opportunities to reduce poverty. At the same time, we would like to remind you that we are opposed to the European Pillar of Social Rights. We Christian Democrats do not believe that it belongs in the review of trade policy. I therefore propose that the statement should include a reservation of reasons 5.
i-f2999c5907a82396-1301	Madam President, I would like One might wonder what the alternative to deeper trade relations and more free trade are. The opposite must be free trade or possibly the absence of trade. And it is indeed a violation of my rights and those of others as people when we are prevented from dealing with each other. I think we should start this debate there. Basically, free trade is not about us politicians creating something for citizens, businesses and so on. Free trade and the work for free trade are about removing obstacles that politicians have put up. The natural thing, Madam President, is that you and I can trade things with each other no matter where we happen to live. Now I do not know where the President lives, but if, for example, the President lives in Haninge and I live in Solna, we can trade things with each other. Or if I live in Solna and the President lives in Bangladesh, we can trade things with each other without anyone stopping us. That's the natural thing. Then there have been a lot of rules. States have engaged in irrational protectionism, and over the years walls have been built. But basically, people should still be able to trade with each other. It's a violation of my right to decide my own things if anyone prevents me from trading with someone else. It's a violation. The work for free trade is thus always a work for human rights. Having said that, it is clear – given that the starting point today is that we have put up a lot of walls – that in foreign policy it is possible to use free trade policy to put pressure on other countries when it comes to human rights. That's what we're gonna do. We have to do that. It is for this reason that we, the Liberals, have submitted a motive reservation. We agree in many respects with many of our colleagues in the committee that trade is what builds prosperity and prosperity in the world. That is what makes us a rich country and that other countries can become rich. It creates an enormous amount of freedom. Protectionism is always extremely harmful in all its forms. There has been talk here earlier today of resilience and of the problems we have seen in the coronas when it came to trade. Some countries have cut back on exports in all possible directions, but protectionism is fundamentally something that is extremely damaging to people's freedom and to the economy. We in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy are not often concerned with climate policy. From a climate perspective, resilience, which trade is building, will be extremely much more important tomorrow than it is today, even though it is already so important. Why? Well, it's obvious that natural disasters rarely occur in all places at once. This pandemic has hit hard all over the world at the same time, and it is an exceptional situation. But when it comes to climate, climate change and the extreme weather that we risk seeing, it is obvious that if the harvest is cut out in Sweden, it is good if we have trade with others. Climate disasters rarely occur in just every place at the same time. It creates resilience that we have more trade with other countries. Madam President, I would like I request the approval of reservation 4. Our motive reservation is mainly about China and Taiwan. In this respect, we need to look at the product we have heard, the Commission's communication, and the policy described in it. We must also consider the political balance that it means choosing what should not be in it. It is the Liberals' view that this government has a naive attitude towards China. It is our view that the European Union has a far too lax attitude towards China. Let me give you an example. In fact, some time ago I put the question to the Minister for Trade: can we say that there are private Chinese companies? I would argue that it cannot be done. Of course, you have to discuss what is a private company. But in a country like China, where the dictatorship has people sitting on all companies watching them and at any time can pass on information about what is going on to the party, where business leaders disappear, where the money can be confiscated at any time and where all companies can be forced to hand over information to the party and the state can hardly be talked about a property right. Then you cannot talk about private companies either. In this respect, all Chinese companies are in some sense an extension of the Chinese Communist Party and dictatorship in Beijing. Madam President, I would like If you do not realise this, you have a naive attitude towards China. It also recurs in this product. The EU's 2015 trade policy strategy, called Trade for All, promoted by liberal Cecilia Malmström, when she was a Trade Commissioner, highlighted Taiwan in particular. It is clear that China is using its economic power in the world in an extremely destructive way, also vis-à-vis EU countries and potentially also against Sweden. An important strategy to prevent it is to ensure that China's economic power in the world is reduced and that other countries' economic power is increased in relative terms vis-à-vis China. It is natural that Taiwan, which is already a strategically important trading partner for Sweden and is a very well-developed democracy and has a lot in common with us, is the trading partner with which we should focus and build stronger relations. What was included in 2015 is missing in this Communication. It is clear that it is politics both what you write and how you write it. But it is also politics, Madam President, what you choose not to have. It is not possible to turn a blind eye to China's increasingly aggressive actions against other countries both in the area of trade and in other areas. There is no turning a blind eye to China's extremely well-documented violations of human rights and to China's protectionism, which in itself is a serious departure from freedom in the world. For this reason, we have a motive reservation that is about being tougher against China and about building much better relations with Taiwan, which is one of the options that the European Commission should focus on.
i-f2999c5907a82396-1320	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report, NU28, and for the rejection of all the reservations. It is not long since we stood here debating trade policy in this House. It's nice to do it again. I would now like to remind you that cooperation between the countries of the world is becoming increasingly important as the share of world trade in the global GDP grows. Sometimes trade is even the only platform that works for dialogue, and we need to use that platform. Trade with others is good, and if we do so in a smart way, it can help lift people out of poverty and spread climate-friendly solutions. We've heard that several times in the evening. And that is exactly what we Social Democrats want to do. The benefits of trade should benefit everyone, and it should benefit both women and men. We won't settle for less. Madam President, I would like World trade also makes a big difference in Sweden. Our openness strengthens our competitiveness, and it creates jobs. I hope that by now everyone knows that as much as one third of the Swedish workforce is in the export industry. So we are totally dependent on world trade for our prosperity. Exports are going well despite the pandemic. It declined last year but not as much as was feared. Thanks to the rapid introduction of the short-term lay-off system, which the government introduced together with the cooperation parties, companies have been able to retain their staff when demand has been low and when, unfortunately, trade has been hindered. At the same time, you can quickly switch up when the reels start spinning again. That is a wise Social Democratic policy. Madam President, I would like With its successful presence around the world, Swedish companies have great opportunities to contribute to social and environmental sustainability. I want to see demands for human rights due diligence throughout the supply chain. It is therefore a question of all companies, regardless of where they are in the chain, respecting all human rights. It's extremely important. We shall facilitate this through a common playing field across the EU. This is something that many Swedish companies are asking for, and this is something that the Swedish government is helping to implement. In the Communication, which we are now debating, the European Commission has identified challenges for the development of EU trade policy and made proposals for action. We Social Democrats agree with the Commission that open and sustainable trade is the key to growth, employment and prosperity. As the government states in its preliminary position, trade should be a motor for sustainable growth, employment and prosperity. We will continue to negotiate and conclude more trade agreements. And the EU will promote international rules in order to phase out fossil fuel subsidies. But, Madam President, what is perhaps most important is that the future EU trade policy defends an open and rule-based world trade regime in which what is agreed is really being followed and that it helps to combat the growing protectionism globally. The government has, as you know, invited like-minded Member States to come up with proposals for and push for a trade policy that goes in the very direction I have described. This similar minded group, led by the Minister for Trade, makes a difference in Brussels. Together with the new administration in the US, the EU is a strong and important force in the absolutely necessary reform of the WTO – I believe that all parties in the Swedish Parliament agree on this. The new Director-General, Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala, has started the work there – thank you very much. It is also important to bring China on the WTO's journey of change. Anyone who has by chance missed the importance of the United States can read on page 5 of the report. I say that to the Member who had missed it. But, Madam President, what the government is still not fully satisfied with in the trade review is the important link between trade and Agenda 2030, the climate objectives of the Paris Agreement, the green recovery and the fundamental rights of workers. This should be strengthened. The government and we Social Democrats also believe that the gender perspective needs to be made clearer in the EU's trade policy. Madam President, I would like In addition, it is incredibly important that we continue to work on close and developed trade relations with, for example, Norway, the UK and other important trading nations. It is also important that we make efforts to ensure that more small and medium-sized companies in Sweden will and dare to go internationally. And it is very important that we equalise the competition differences that exist in different ways. We simply need to have a level playing field, so that there is competition on equal terms. There I look forward to the proposal expected in June for a carbon border adjustment mechanism. It is therefore some kind of customs procedure. In the case of imports into the Union, a fee shall be paid for the climate impact caused by the product during the production chain. I am so far in favour of this – we have not seen the proposal in detail yet – if it is drafted in accordance with the WTO acquis. And according to the National Board of Trade, it's quite possible. It feels safe. In conclusion, the EU should have free, fair and sustainable trade – right?
i-f2999c5907a82396-1337	Madam President, I would like Now you're almost getting wind-eyed. I am on my third debate. It also feels in the back, I want to say. Today we are debating the committee's opinion on the Commission's communication on a review of trade policy. In fact, this chamber treatment is more important and topical than ever. Now we see what pressure and uncertainty it is for countries and economies around the world when they try to maneuver under completely new conditions with the pandemic. New conditions for trade, such as technological developments, China's rapid rise, accelerating climate change, digital revolution and, finally, the economic outlook for the world as a whole make this Commission's communication very important. The Center Party supports the committee's opinion as a whole, and I believe that there is, overall, a clear and common set of objectives on trade issues in this House. Madam President, I would like I've been going on about Northvolt before, and I'm going to keep doing it. The company is now building several factory lines outside Skellefteå for the production of batteries for electric cars. They are, like many other companies, completely dependent on international flows, where imports of parts into their product are necessary and where the international market is important from the outset for the expansion of the company. The growth and development of the company is an example of how free trade creates prosperity. The pandemic that we are currently experiencing globally also testifies to how sensitive we are to disturbances and crises in international relations and flows, even in a city in Västerbotten. The world is more connected than we can sometimes see. Two conclusions can be drawn from this: either that we in Sweden must become more independent of our environment and have more control and regulation, or that the way forward is instead to strengthen international relations and develop multilateral and bilateral cooperation and clear and reciprocal agreements, for example by working so that the WTO is strengthened in its role of developing free trade. Madam President, I would like The Center Party believes that there is no way back to any kind of mercantilism. It is now, in the midst of the crisis, that the path is being chosen and preparations can be made for a trade order that embraces innovations, meetings between companies and the exchange of knowledge, capital and people, probably in some other forms than before, but nonetheless characterized by the basic values that have created prosperity in Sweden and the world since 1945. Sweden is a small, extremely trade-dependent nation, and so we, together with like-minded countries, must keep the free trade standard high. Madam President, I would like The EU is the world's largest integrated market. In fact, 73% of Swedish exports go to the EU. Our membership gives us the opportunity and also the responsibility to pursue a free trade line that benefits both Sweden and the rest of Europe. The Center Party would like to see a global Europe that takes responsibility and works together on cross-border issues such as free trade, human rights – just as Lorena Delgado was on – democracy, migration and security. Swedish companies and consumers, together with the rest of the EU, are one of the world's most attractive markets. It's easy to forget. It provides opportunities for the EU to negotiate advanced trade agreements with a variety of countries and regions in the world. We need more agreements than we have today, and in addition to removing tariffs and tariffs, we also need to harmonise standards and protect investment. As I said, a large part of what is produced in Sweden goes on export and thus contributes a great deal to our country's economy. This is both a challenge and an opportunity for Swedish food production in particular. I remember when Eskil Erlandsson introduced Matlandet Sweden and how Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht got to grips with the food strategy. I believe in Swedish food production, and Swedish quality and good Swedish animal welfare have actually spread around the world. Sweden and the EU should not withdraw in areas such as the environment, food, antibiotics, animal husbandry, health and consumer protection when new trade agreements are signed. Madam President, I would like I have been able to interpret the Commission's objectives to support the green and digital transformation. The objectives are to support fair and sustainable trade rules and a more firm approach to defending the EU's interests, protecting the EU economy against unhealthy trade practices and ensuring a level playing field for all. That's very good. In order to achieve the objectives set by the Commission, reform of the World Trade Organisation, the WTO, in particular the dispute settlement mechanism, is important. Support is also needed for the green transition and the promotion of responsible and sustainable value chains. Climate and sustainability considerations and the Paris Agreement are also important elements of future agreements. I mentioned the digital transformation and trade in services. Digital commerce is exploding now, and we all see the need for sensible rules of play that go far beyond our borders. Centrally, consumer protection works precisely across borders. As far as the EU's legislative influence is concerned, this is best done through enhanced cooperation with like-minded people. I have seen that the Commission wants to strengthen the EU's partnership with neighbouring countries, enlargement countries and Africa. I think the latter is very good, because if we do not, other major economies will do so – if they are not already in the pipeline. Finally, strengthening the EU's focus on implementing and implementing trade agreements and ensuring a level playing field for all is good, not least so that SMEs can reach international markets. The Center Party believes that Sweden should work tirelessly to strengthen our companies' ability to compete internationally and at the same time stand up for openness, confidence in the ability of international regulations and trust that free trade brings mutual gain.
i-f2999c5907a82396-1354	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, if any, I would like to ask you a few questions. I want to start with the very everyday situation when you go into your shop in your local center and put goods in your shopping cart or sit on the couch and click in goods in your digital shopping cart, as it is usually now in coronatimes. Then I don't think you think that every commodity you put in your basket affects other countries, people in Sweden and people in countries around the planet. I think all of us humans want to contribute to something good, something meaningful, something bigger than ourselves. Then human rights and the environment are very important, and that is something that I think most of us want to contribute to. I also believe that when you shop these products are made in a fair and good way, and I think that you as a consumer should also be able to trust that that is the case. Unfortunately, however, this is not the case today, and the European Commission has included this in its communication on the review of trade policy. In the final word, it says that trade policy should do something to reflect the challenges of our time and the expectations of our peoples. This is how we have these clear wordings on the environment and human rights. I think that is a very good thing, for example, that the Fair Trade Coffee that you put in your basket contributes to small-scale cultivation and to building up forests again. What the Green Party thinks is the most important thing in this trade review is that it states that it wants to strengthen compliance with the sustainability chapters. That's very central. We think it is incredibly important to have ambitious sustainability chapters which have all these different aspects such as human rights, workers' rights and all kinds of environmental aspects and then become binding with different types of sanctions, such as financial countermeasures. Our time has an enormous number of challenges. In Corona times, I really want to start by mentioning poverty, which is a major and widespread problem. Oxfam, as I mentioned in the previous trade debate, has renamed this virus the inequality virus, the inequality virus. They estimate that it may take a decade before we get back to the levels before the coronapndemy in terms of poverty. There is a high level of unemployment as a result of the coronapndemin and it affects women and vulnerable groups in particular. That is why it is incredibly important to support the participation of developing countries in trade and to support Aid for Trade. In this context, Sweden is pushing for stricter wording so that it can be seen more clearly in the Commission's communication. It is also important that the wording on gender equality is made clear. This applies here and above all in developing countries, that is to say, it is incredibly important for women to have their own power and economy to stand on their own feet. Then there is the whole aspect of human rights. Unfortunately, there are now both forced labour, child labour and wage levels on which there is no living. That is why the forthcoming due diligence legislation is extremely important. There must be strong legislation. As we have heard earlier this evening, it must be present at all levels of supply. As far as China and the human rights issue are concerned, the government takes what is happening extremely seriously. The government is in favour of EU-wide action on this issue. There we will see the breadth of the tools in relations with China. Another incredibly big challenge, of course, is the whole issue of climate and the environment. Here, UN Secretary-General Guterres has said that we must stop warring against nature. Human and nature belong together. We're not two different parts. We're connected. Here it is good that the trade communication raises the issue of the circular economy and to work with different standardisations. It is a question of finding a common language so that these loops can be stopped in the immediate vicinity, in Europe or globally. The trade agreements must be in line with the Paris Agreement. It is important to phase out fossil subsidies and to work with fossil-free export credits. This is something that Sweden has developed, and we have pushed for similar regulations in Europe and internationally. There is also the question of climate tariffs. It is also an extremely important measure that needs to be put in place. The Commission shall submit a proposal. In pandemic times, it is important to include the issue of animal welfare – not to overuse antibiotics. This is also a very important issue that Sweden is working hard for. In pandemic times, it is also important to combat protectionism. It's a very dangerous corner to end up in. There is a real need to distinguish between different types of products. The Center Party said earlier this evening that it is important to have a high level of self-sufficiency in food, but that does not mean that you should be protectionist. As far as the entire production of vaccines is concerned, we are completely dependent on global supply chains for manufacturing to work. In pandemic times we have noticed that indigenous peoples and rainforests have been particularly affected. Unfortunately, in the shadow of the pandemic, various political leaders have taken the opportunity to change the legislation and push for illegal activities. We have seen that economic revivals really violate human rights and evict people from their homes. The Green Party's line has been that as long as Mr Bolsonaro is doing as long as the violations take place, we cannot sign the Mercosur Trade Agreement. I would like to conclude by saying that it is not really trade itself that is important but what it leads to. Trade leads to prosperity, education and jobs. That is what we want to achieve. Trade also means that we can restore forests and develop environmental technologies and provide other countries with access to environmental technologies. I think Raworth Raworth sums this up well in her economic model. It means that there are the planetary boundaries that we must not exceed. They concern climate, biodiversity, air pollution and so on. Then there is the social floor that we must not undercut. There must be jobs, education and health care and so on. Then there's the safe space in between that we can move in. Let me conclude by saying that fair and sustainable trade with respect for the planet and for human rights is incredibly important.
i-f2999c5907a82396-1372	Madam President, I would like I would actually have asked for a reply in connection with the main speech by the Social Democrats, but now Mrs Palmstierna can represent the government. It is good that the EU is addressing the issue of due diligence. It is an issue that we have been pursuing for a long time, and it is a component that can lead companies to assume their responsibilities along the whole chain. At the same time, I see that we still think that the mechanisms that exist around the investor agreements are okay. There I see a conflict already today when countries are trying to change their legislation in order to open up to better environmental policy, labour law or, for that matter, public health. They run the risk of paying large sums when companies feel that they will not get back the investments they have planned to make anyway. How does the government view the issue? How do we resolve the conflict that will arise when we have to deal with human rights due diligence and environmental due diligence in companies and at the same time we do not allow countries to change their laws to face the issues?
i-f2999c5907a82396-1376	Madam President, I would like Now let's hope I manage to answer for the government. It is extremely important that the whole system is in accordance with the WTO and that there are dispute settlement mechanisms, which is central. There should be expert panels looking at how to comply with trade agreements, and it is important that countries are not stopped in going ahead in their own laws if they want to. It's a central part. That's the short answer. I do not know whether Mrs Lorena Delgado is thinking of any particular investment agreement or whether the issue was more general. With the help of dispute resolution mechanisms and action under the WTO, we can resolve these issues.
i-f2999c5907a82396-1379	Madam President, I would like I'm thinking in general. We see that trade agreements contain this type of investor agreement. These mechanisms are usually managed side by side without so much transparency. The amounts that countries have to pay are enormous. Let me give you an example. Pakistan had to pay to two companies that wanted to exploit areas in Pakistan, but when Pakistan decided to protect the areas, it had to pay as much as it raised in IMF loans for that year. It has enormous consequences for countries' ability to change, develop their industry, develop social rights and so on. I am therefore surprised that, on the one hand, due diligence is supported, but, on the other hand, there are mechanisms that will make it difficult for these countries to change from all aspects – environmental and social.
i-f2999c5907a82396-1382	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lorena Delgado Varas, for the supplementary question. I would say that we will have to look at this in its entirety. Transparency is incredibly important and absolutely must exist. When I read the Commission's communication as a whole, I also think that we want to move towards human rights and sustainable development. It is, like, something consistent in the regulatory framework. I think that Sweden together with like-minded people can work to get there in a good way, and I think that Sweden and the like-minded group can be an important part of developing this so that it goes hand in hand.
i-f2999c5907a82396-1386	Before the debate begins, I would like to inform you that many speakers have signed up for this debate and also for most of the other debates today. The debates will therefore last longer than previously announced. It is therefore not certain that all matters will have time to be debated before 23 p.m., and the debates that remain at 23 p.m. will be placed at the end of tomorrow's working session. I would also like to point out that the report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs 15 will not begin today, but will come up for debate tomorrow.
i-f2999c5907a82396-1388	Madam President, I would like Our everyday life is characterised by a huge dependence on technology. Technology has become such an integral part of life that it is almost taken for granted. We are constantly connected and do work, pay bills, shop and manage social contacts via phones, tablets and computers. The Energy Agreement states that Sweden's use of energy has increased tenfold over the last 200 years. Modern society is directly dependent on a well-functioning energy supply. Disruptions and disruptions in fuel, electricity and heat supply can have serious consequences, both for people's lives and health and for society's functionality. At the same time, Sweden is undergoing extensive electrification, where the driving force is the transformation of today's fossil processes with a view to reaching national and international climate targets. For every serious and responsible politician, it must therefore be a matter of course to ensure that Sweden has reliable energy at competitive prices. This is a prerequisite for Swedish industry, for our welfare society to function and for achieving climate goals. The management of nuclear waste is part of this and must be resolved. Intermediate storage in Oskarshamn is not a permanent solution and is now beginning to reach full capacity. It is extremely important that decisions are taken as soon as possible so that the question of the final disposal of spent nuclear fuel is given a long-term sustainable solution. Nuclear power producers have signalled that information must be given before the summer in order to secure production. However, as the issue of spent fuel is an administrative matter, this is ultimately a matter for the government. Minister for the Environment Per Bolund also confirmed at the meeting of the Defence Committee on 23 March that the issue is a priority and that the government should deal with it urgently. We assume that this will happen. We do not see, therefore, that there is currently reason for the Riksdag to act. However, I would like to emphasise that it is extremely important that decisions are taken as soon as possible. We are therefore following this issue and its development very closely.
i-f2999c5907a82396-1395	Madam President, I would like Hello to all of you listening this late night! Today, in the Committee on Defence, we are debating a so-called committee initiative that becomes an announcement, that is, a demand for the government to act on a particular issue. It concerns the very important issue of the disposal of spent nuclear fuel. During all the time that Sweden has had nuclear power plants, it has been clear that the spent nuclear fuel will have to be stored for a very long time because it is radioactive and therefore dangerous for both humans and the environment. The final repository has therefore been planned for a long time, and the funding is guaranteed by financial provisions from the companies operating nuclear power activities in Sweden. This debate is not about whether we are for or against nuclear power, whether we are going to build new nuclear power – it is of course against the Left Party – or whether we are going to have a repository or not. A repository will be needed, and it will be built in the most appropriate location. Madam President, I would like This committee initiative by the bourgeois parties aims to urge the government to take a decision on the custody very soon – simply to stress the government a little. We in the Left Party think this is unnecessary. We are convinced that the government will make decisions on this issue when all the different perspectives have been highlighted and all the different difficulties and problems have been solved. The final disposal decision is a huge decision that will affect our society for a very long time to come. We believe that the decision should be taken when there is sufficient information and a sufficient basis for decision-making. Madam President, I would like Building a final repository for spent nuclear fuel is an incredibly big decision, both in terms of the construction itself and the infrastructure, and in terms of safety and communication to future generations for at least one hundred thousand years. You get light vertigo from the time factor and the size of the project. At the same time, one is impressed by the necessary engineering and communication skills. The project requires collaboration across scientific boundaries. Engineers and humanists will have to work side by side. This is a decision that we believe must not be stressed out. We must feel confident that everything is right and right once the decision is made. Having said that, it is of course important that the decision is taken as soon as there is enough information to do so so that the planning can continue. I therefore propose that reservation 1 be approved.
i-f2999c5907a82396-1403	Madam President, I would like As an environmental party, I want to be very clear: whether you, like me, are against nuclear power or whether you are in favour of nuclear power, I am convinced that we can all agree that nuclear waste produced can be safely stored for a hundred thousand years. Madam President, I would like One hundred thousand years – as long as the repository must be able to guarantee the safety of spent radioactive fuel. It is impossible for us now living people to anticipate at all the geopolitical, ecological or social events that could pose pressures and risks to final storage. Therefore, the government needs to make informed decisions about nuclear waste. Madam President, I would like I want to be even clearer: do not politicalise the nuclear waste issue! It is extremely important to distinguish between the energy issue of nuclear power and the environmental issue of nuclear waste storage. The government has on its table to take an administrative decision on the continuation of nuclear waste storage. As we all know, SKB has long been researching and investigating a wide range of places where it may be appropriate to have a repository. For a little over ten years, SKB has been working on developing the basis for the final disposal in Östhammar, after a decision has been made that Östhammar was chosen as the place to proceed with. The application from SKB with the intermediate warehouse and the encapsulation process in Oskarshamn and the final disposal in Östhammar was completely logical at the time when the application was made; Östhammar and Oskarshamn wanted to cooperate and cooperate. Ten years may seem like a very long time, but in relation to a hundred thousand years it is a very short time. The government has had the question on its table since 2018. Before that, the Land and Environment Court and also the Radiation Safety Authority had the question on their table. Today, we are debating the management of spent nuclear fuel because the opposition parties want the Riksdag to address an announcement to the government to speed up the preparation of the biggest environmental issue a Swedish government has ever dealt with. I would like the opposition not to politicise this issue but to withdraw its proposal. I also think it is extremely important for the government to ensure that nuclear waste is taken care of in an extended intermediate warehouse, while at the same time the question of how high-level nuclear waste should be disposed of is further prepared. With a shared application – one for the final repository and one for the intermediate warehouse – the process would have been easier. Managing an application to allow more spent fuel in an intermediate storage is a simpler process; it is already an existing activity. After all, handling an application for a disposal facility that will last a hundred thousand years is a more comprehensive issue. You can't get away from it. Some encourage and say that the applications must be handled together, but it is possible to divide the applications. It is necessary to divide the applications because there can be no doubt whatsoever. From the Green Party we believe that the possibility of taking care of nuclear waste produced in Sweden should be available. It must not be stopped because we do not have a process to expand the intermediate layer. This is an extremely important environmental and radiation safety issue. Many may think it would be good to make all the decisions in a lump, but I still want to warn you of the risks involved. Even if decisions were to be taken by the government tomorrow, Thursday, on the basis of the application as it stands today, that decision will in all likelihood be subject to appeal. And with appeals in several different instances, it can take time. Then the matter of an intermediate warehouse may be greatly delayed by the more complex case of getting a final waste warehouse in place. Madam President, I would like The government makes many different kinds of decisions. When the government is going to decide precisely on the issue of nuclear waste, it must act as an administrative court and comply with the laws and rules that the Riksdag has established for this type of matter. It is not and should not be a political process, but it is a trial that the government has to do according to the regulations decided by the Riksdag. Madam President, I would like However, since the majority of the parliament comes with an announcement that means that it thinks that the government should abandon administrative management, I think it is completely incomprehensible. There must be some order in Parliament! It is clear that the municipalities, Östhammar and Oskarshamn, SKB and the Radiation Safety Authority believe that there are no obstacles for the government to make decisions. However, if the government needs to ensure that there are no grounds for making the decision, it is not really my business as a Member of Parliament to have any opinion on it – just as I do not interfere in other court cases. I can understand that it is important to ensure that decisions are actually taken on the correct basis, not least because there can be appeals and that they do not delay unnecessarily. Such a matter may not be decided by which party is in the government at the very time when a decision is to be taken. If so, what would the test have been if it had been another government? How, then, had the repository been handled? Would it have been more laissez-faire? We must be able to rely on those in power to do what needs to be done to safely manage the disposal of nuclear waste, even if it takes time. The storage facility in the intermediate warehouse must of course work and develop even if it is done while waiting for all questions about the disposal site to be straightened out. A decision that bears on the environment and human health for hundreds of thousands of years to come may not have to be rushed forward. Yet the government has announced that they are dealing with the issue as quickly as possible. The question of detention is under consideration by the government, Madam President. Parliament should not decide how the government should make decisions in administrative matters. There is therefore no reason for the Riksdag to speak. That is why I am in favour of reservation number 1.
i-f2999c5907a82396-1421	Madam President, I would like This debate did not really have to be held. We should not have to stand here on this beautiful spring evening and talk about an issue that the government should really have already resolved. I know there are many who would rather discuss important issues such as world development or how we solve the Corona crisis, but right now this is what is on the table. And it's not an unimportant question, because what's at stake? Well, ten years ago SKB submitted an application to build a disposal facility, parts of it in Oskarshamn and parts of it in Östhammar. In the meantime, this application has been supplemented, but now it is beginning to come to the end of the road. Ten years have passed, and there is still no information about when a decision is to be taken or whether a decision is to be taken. That, of course, makes time run out. If no decision is taken on the matter before the summer, the latter will have consequences which means that Sweden may face an electricity shortage. Everyone who has paid their electricity bills this winter knows what electricity shortages mean for Sweden, not only for the private economy but also for our business community. Madam President, I would like We must, of course, have full respect for the preparation and conduct of the matter. We should also respect that we should not interfere in the exercise of official authority here in Parliament. But what we are saying is that we are not satisfied with how you have communicated on this issue and with the fact that you cannot tell when to come to a decision. Those of you who have listened to previous debates this afternoon can conclude that this decision on licensing matters is not the parade of the government. There are previous examples of cases in the Government Office pending a decision for four or five years. Let us really hope that this issue will not remain so long. At the same time as the government apparently sits and has coffee, the meter ticks on outside Rosenbad. It's expensive not to make decisions. Every day there are costs of just over 2 million that land on SKB, and of course the costs on us electricity consumers end up. 800 million a year is the cost of not making decisions. Of course, not everyone feels that it is happening to them. But it is not only SKB and we electricity consumers who are affected, but also the municipalities concerned, who feel a great deal of despair. Oskarshamn and Östhammar have long been in the starting pits to build and start the processes of creating these facilities, and it is clear that nothing is being done in a bike. It is also the case that when you are going to carry out these major projects you need to have a special competence, a competence that may not always be easy to find and which is, above all, difficult to find when you can't set any times. It should also be known that the two municipalities, Oskarshamn and Östhammar, have invested a great deal politically, economically and in confidence to push forward these decisions and create such an education that a large majority of the inhabitants of the municipality have been brought along. But political confidence is a perishable commodity. Because a generation of politicians and, for that matter, a generation of residents are replaced as it is possible that that confidence still releases. In Oskarshamn, we have made the veto decision conditional and say: If we do not get a single decision on this issue, we must re-assess our position. So the question is not quite that simple. The Government has also made demands on SKB that there should be a single system in the application. That is also what the municipality has responded to. But now it seems that the government may have a different view of this, that one changes foot during the journey. Even if we need an increased capacity at Clab, this process needs to get started, because things don't build themselves. The question then is what obstacles remain for the government to make a decision. That's what you're thinking about. The issue has been dealt with in both the Land and Environment Court and by the Government's own expert authority Radiation Protection Authority, both of which have endorsed SKB's application. The so-called LOT trials are evaluated by experts and show that the KBS-3 method is robust and that it meets the risk criterion with significant safety margins. What can possibly remain is the so-called Espoo consultation, where our neighbours should have the opportunity to get answers and make comments. This is essentially an information procedure and has nothing to do with the decision of the authority. I can understand, however, that the government is waiting for this consultation. But what I do not understand is why the government does not communicate that decisions will be made soon or in a long time. I think it would be enough if one said: These things we still have on the way. We need to think about this and look at it. After we've done that, we'll get back to you. Then we may be ready to make a decision. But you can't even do that. Nor is there anything legal that prevents the government from communicating how it will make decisions, but it chooses not to do so. I think that's weak. That is why I support this proposal for an announcement. Had this been the case with the Green Party member here, that this has been communicated in a way that has made it clear both to the municipality and to SKB in what order this should take – even if it would take six months or perhaps a year – I would not have seen the problem. But the government chooses to do something completely different, and that is problematic. The only thing left then is to wonder whether the government, with its two constituent parties, has both entered into its party programmes to abolish nuclear power. What I am thinking is whether they are trying to do just that, but not openly, but instead by making it more expensive, more difficult and more procrastination for Sweden's nuclear power producers. That's almost what's left of it. When the government does not want to say when and why they want to make a decision, it is up to us in Parliament to make sure that they do, because the price is too high not to make a decision. Madam President, I would like I support the committee's proposal to announce to the government that this issue should be dealt with urgently.
i-f2999c5907a82396-1441	Madam President, I would like We are here debating the management of spent nuclear fuel on the basis of the application to build a final repository submitted by Swedish Nuclear Fuel Management more than ten years ago. It is an issue that is now stuck with the government, despite a thorough process of preparation, and where it seems unclear when or how it will be able to move forward. The government is happy to talk about this as a matter that has recently been brought to its knees, but the issue is considerably older than that. Work on a final repository for spent nuclear fuel in Sweden has been ongoing since the 1970s, when the first geological studies were started to map suitable locations in Sweden. The localisation process led to the municipalities of Östhammar and Oskarshamn being suitable candidates to look at. Pre-studies and site surveys have been carried out from the mid-1990s. The respective municipalities have worked to build up expertise in the matter and have carried out ongoing reviews, which during the process have included civil society as well as politicians and expertise. It has also been possible for the public to visit the facilities where research for the final disposal method has been carried out. SKB has also submitted reports on research, development and demonstration of nuclear waste management and disposal methods every three years since 1986, i.e. for over 30 years. These reports are submitted to the Radiation Safety Authority, which examines them and gives its opinion to the Government. The government then decides whether the industry has implemented its F U D programme, which they are obliged to do. This programme is also submitted for consultation to some fifty organisations. The aim and purpose of this is to enable an application for disposal to meet the requirements against which it is examined. And, as I said, the application to build a repository was submitted back in 2011. In addition to the authorities' own experts, the evidence was examined by a large number of consultation bodies. The municipalities involved, county boards, universities, environmental organisations and others have all had to say what they think. The State also requested that an independent international review be carried out of the long-term safety after closure of the nuclear fuel repository. It was carried out by an expert group appointed by the OECD Nuclear Energy Agency, which delivered its final report in 2012 with a good rating. In January 2018, the Radiation Safety Authority and the Land and Environment Court handed over the application to the Government with their respective opinions, in which the Radiation Safety Authority endorsed the application for permission to build an encapsulation plant and a final repository for spent nuclear fuel. In June 2018, the Council of Oskarshamn decided to confirm that the Government grants admissibility to a spent nuclear fuel encapsulation plant in Oskarshamn. In the same month, the Ministry of the Environment also gave SKB the opportunity to supplement the application on the basis of the opinion of the Land and Environment Court, which was submitted on 4 April 2019. Last autumn, the council of Östhammar municipality decided to approve the application for final disposal of spent nuclear fuel in the municipality. In recent times, the Radiation Safety Authority has also presented a review report on the LOT trials that have been carried out. The overall assessment is that SKB has carried out the trials with high quality and that the results are reliable and in line with what can be expected based on established knowledge about corrosion processes for copper in the final user environment, which is also well in line with the trials that have been carried out in the past. Another good assessment of the work and research carried out in Sweden is that the Swedish model has also been approved by another government. In Finland, a final repository based on the Swedish KBS-3 method is to be built. The application to build the final repository in Finland was submitted in 2012, and in February 2015, Stuk, the equivalent of SSM in Sweden, submitted its opinion that they considered that the facility could be built safely. The government decision was taken since November 2015. Also to be mentioned is that the Ministry of the Environment has had a review team that has already worked on the matter for several years. In Finland, therefore, it took less than three years from the application to the decision of the government. In Sweden, the corresponding period is ten years. It took nine months for the Finnish Government to make decisions after receiving the evidence from its expert authority. In Sweden it has passed three times as much time. What remains is that the government must make decisions on permits under the Nuclear Technology Act and admissibility under the Environmental Code. But the government's response is missing, and you can't even answer if or when it will be given. That's beneath any criticism. It should reasonably be possible to present a timetable or which elements intend to look at – this in order to ensure that the process is as transparent as possible. Nor can we rule out the possibility of trying to divide the application into two parts, as this also involves the expansion of the intermediate spent fuel storage facility in Oskarshamn, which is part of the application. However, Oskarshamn municipality has opposed this. Worse still is the impact of the absence of a decision. This risks endangering the continued operation of Sweden's nuclear reactors when fuel changes are made impossible and the capacity of the intermediate warehouse hits the ceiling. The industry has made it clear that a decision is needed by this summer, but the government chooses to hold others hostage in this waiting period without providing any forecasts. Oskarshamn municipality has made it clear that it does not unconditionally support an increased capacity in Clab, but only stands up for it if the disposal and encapsulation facility receives an admissibility decision from the government. It is reasonable to consider that, for over 35 years, a major national responsibility has been taken for the temporary disposal of nuclear fuel and has repeatedly been mentioned during the process and in other application cases. Madam President, I would like The government often chooses to lean on the administrative authorities when it comes to different decisions and stresses the importance of this. In this case, they do not lean directly against their own expert authority, the Radiation Safety Authority, which has approved the application or the Land and Environment Court, which has said yes to the issues relating to the site at Forsmark, the mountain and the buffer, or the environmental impact assessment. Rather, they are undermined by saying that we are analysing whether something remains. What could these bodies have missed that cannot be told to the rest? It is important that such a process is conducted in an independent, transparent and transparent manner. I and the Swedish Democrats believe that this has been done in Sweden for a very long time and in a way that is quite unique and that impresses globally. My view is that there is sufficient evidence to enable us to decide on permits and admissibilitys. It is not the case that, once the decision has been taken, this will be released, as some in the debate are trying to assert. Conditions for the operation will be issued, and the activities of the final repository will be examined in stages, along with continued research. Madam President, I would like The important thing here and now is to move the process forward, and the government needs to make decisions on the issue of permits and admissibility in order for this to move forward. Our view is that at least a response to a timetable is deserved and which parts the government intends to look at. I support the committee's proposal.
i-f2999c5907a82396-1461	Madam President, I would like The Center Party has always been against nuclear power. Everyone knows that, and we still have that position. What is not so well known is that during Thorbjörn Fälldin's time when you had to compromise and release nuclear power, you also put in place a regulatory framework that deals with final disposals and receives funding from various legislations. Today, I am a proud center party member who notes that thanks to the forward-looking job of Thorbjörn Fälldin, among others, Sweden and Finland are the only ones in the world who in practice have an order and a system to solve the end-of-life issue. Why are we debating this today? Well, no matter how you turn it around, nuclear power has huge safety and environmental risks. That is why we say that it is not a good energy source, but now we have it. We know that the apostasy must be separated from humanity for a hundred thousand years to come, and it is perhaps not an inheritance that this generation should be proud to leave behind for future generations. I can only imagine one thing that is worse anyway, and that is the climate effect that fossil fuel use has created. Let us go through some of the process that has been. This has been going on for a very long time. In 1998, an interim storage decision of 8 000 tonnes was taken in Oskarshamn. In 2011, i.e. ten years ago, SKB applied for the final product in Forsmark, and 2015 was completed with the additions. From 2018 until today it has been on the government table. Positive veto decisions also came from both Östhammar and Oskarshamn. Oskarshamn has, however, added an important pass to the effect that they are not prepared to split the application and open up for more intermediate storage, which really limits. Another aspect that is important is that the Center Party was very driven by Olof Johansson to push forward PPP, polluter pays principle, back in 1972. Then it fell heavily into the 1992 Rio conference. We are proud and pleased about it. Based on this, the F.D. process, research, development, demonstration, was formulated early on, which I think is very ingenious. This means that every three years SKB submits a report where everyone is involved – municipality, county board, radiation safety authority and environmental movement – and then the government says okay to this. It is a good and transparent process where everyone has been able to be on the train for a long time. Why do we have today's discussion? Because it is extremely important that we resolve the issue. Of course, I have great respect for the fact that you cannot rush a trial. I myself have worked in the Government Office and know that this is a difficult and extensive trial. At the same time, it has been there for three years, and it is always possible to prioritise the issue and move forward more quickly. Why is it so important? Well, it is so that if SKB is not told by summer, i.e. in a few months' time, you will not have time to build the repository. Then there will be a radical change in nuclear power production from 2024 onwards, because then there will be an end to intermediate storage capacity. The Center Party is no friend of nuclear power, and we are convinced that in 20 to 25 years' time we will be doing fantastically well without nuclear power. But if you are forced to fast stop in 2024, it is really bad for Swedish energy supply. We are also aware of this. That is why we are here today and call on the government to come to a decision. There's nothing else. Our instrument is today's debate and the committee report that we support. I very much hope that we will get a quick answer from, for example, Per Bolund next.
i-f2999c5907a82396-1472	Madam President, I would like Tonight we are debating the report by the Committee on Defence on spent fuel management. The origin of the report is quite unusual, as it comes entirely from the Committee on Defence. It was we in the Christian Democrats who raised the issue after the warnings that came at the beginning of the year from SKB and Vattenfall, who said very clearly that if we do not get a decision on this issue before the end of the summer, it will have decisive consequences. This means that we may have to close parts of Swedish nuclear power within two and a half years. It is also the case that the government has not been able to present a timetable. This has led the committee to move forward with a committee initiative in which we demand that the government act and take decisions so that a difficult situation does not happen. Nuclear energy accounts for one third of all electricity produced. Every third time you turn on the light, it's because of nuclear power. It has been important for Sweden for a long time and will continue to be so. Even when we took the decision on nuclear power, we were clear that we also had to take responsibility for the waste. It has therefore been important for the process to be carefully managed. SKB has a disposal method that protects people and the environment now and in the future. The application was submitted in 2011 and is based on 40 years of experience from research and technology development. What is important to note is that the government needs four opinions in order to be able to make decisions on the matter. First of all, you have to have information from the Radiation Protection Agency. They have approved SKB's application. Secondly, there is the Land and Environment Court, which has approved all parts except the copper capsule. It invited SKB to submit supplementary documentation to the Government. This has now been done, and it has been reviewed and approved by the Radiation Protection Agency. That is where the government has received the green light. Thirdly, Oskarshamn has agreed to the encapsulation facility. It's a green light. Fourthly, the municipality of Östhammar has agreed to the disposal of spent nuclear fuel. Also there is the green light. Then there's a formal thing. This concerns the Espoo consultation with Poland and Germany. This has been done mainly in 2016, and the last will be next month, in May. Then there are all the necessary documents, but no response comes from the government, although there are clear signals from the expert authorities. Then you can ask who the government is listening to if they do not listen to the expert authorities. Then who should give the advice? We have had a careful handling of this matter in committee. When SKB was in committee, they pointed out that decisions were needed in the summer of 2021 in order not to jeopardise the power generation of nuclear power plants from the turn of the year 2023/ 2024. That is why the committee is taking a position. We note that there is no timetable and that we are concerned about the fact that the long-standing government process has not led to a solution. We believe that it does not contribute to the safety and long-term safety of spent fuel management. What Parliament then does, with the support of Chapter 9. Section 16 is to make the Government aware that it should urgently take the necessary measures to ensure the conditions for the safe management of nuclear fuel in the short and long term. It is important to note that the method used by Finland, as I have pointed out in the previous speakers, is the KBS-3 method. With Sweden's good memory, you can use it in Finland, where you have made decisions about it and are running. But in Sweden we haven't got there yet, and now we're at such a serious point that the nuclear industry and SKB are clear that it will have very negative consequences if the government doesn't make decisions. Finally, speculation, because one might wonder what it is because the government does not come up with a decision and cannot present a timetable. Is it possible for the Green Party's reluctance to nuclear power to spill over to the government so mildly that the necessary decisions cannot be made? If that's the reason, it's tragic. To avoid this, a majority in the Riksdag is clear that the government must now ensure that we do not end up in this for Sweden, for the Swedish people, for industry and for the future very difficult situation.
i-f2999c5907a82396-1486	Madam President, I would like Thank you for an extremely important debate. It was said here before that this is the biggest environmental decision that Sweden will take. And it's a very big environmental decision. However, the biggest issue we have to deal with in this area is the climate challenge and climate change. That is why we are raising this issue, because we need nuclear power to cope with the green transition. Madam President, I would like I'd like to start with some history. There is, however, an accusing tone from the Social Democrats and the Green Party – that we would be rogue in how we deal with the role of Parliament. I think what is rather alarming is how the government is dealing with this issue. A little depending on how you count, you can say that the issue has been handled to and from 1973, 1984 or 2011, but let's say that it has been handled for about 50 years, in some way. In this context, Madam President, it should be said that my party is not innocent either when it comes to not resolving the issue. But now the situation is so serious and we have also come so far in the processes that it is time to make decisions. Madam President, I would like As the committee's report shows, the Liberals and the Christian Democrats have taken the initiative on what we are deciding today. The Christian Democrats took the initiative in the Committee on Defence, and the Liberals did so in the Committee on Economic Affairs. We have then dealt with this issue together in our two committees. It is about the custody of spent nuclear fuel from the Swedish nuclear power plants. What we are debating today is that it is ten years ago that SKB applied for authorisation to increase the intermediate storage and at the same time the new nuclear fuel disposal facility. This has been done together. It's a joint application. It is quite reasonable, just as we have been involved in the discussions here before. It is clear that if you are a municipality, as it is in this case, which has taken such a great responsibility for a very long time, it is no wonder that you want to see these issues resolved at the same time. You simply do not want to suffer what is still the risk, i.e. that the issue is drawn on a long bench year after year and never leaves the municipality as we talk about. Madam President, I would like It is strange that it has not been possible to make decisions on the matter. It is even more remarkable that we do not yet have a timetable and can tell when decisions are to be made. This is a very serious situation, and there is a very urgent need to make decisions now. But it is not as described by the Social Democrats and, above all, by the Green Party that it would be a premature decision. On the contrary, as has been said, this has been investigated for decades. Of course it is a process where you have constant trials, and the process never ends, so to speak. Nevertheless, the expert authorities have said that it is possible to move forward and make decisions. Then I find it a little strange that the government is sitting on the issue and not making decisions. In doing so, it is guilty of over-estimating the competence of our authorities and the expert opinions that have been made. Such a review is very strange. The reason why the government is involved as decision-makers in this type of case is that it is a big case and that different things have to be weighed up. It is not that anyone believes that the government has better control of radiation protection than, for example, the Radiation Safety Authority. If you think there is a mistake, you have to send the case back and ask for new reviews. But you haven't. Nor has it been wanted to answer us when we have asked questions and interpellations on several occasions about what it is that it is that it is missing. The reason why this initiative by the Committee on Defence needs to be on the table right now is that if a decision is not taken this summer, we will have to take one or more of our nuclear reactors out of operation. SKB and the companies operating our nuclear power plants have been very clear on this point when they have been in committee. Neither the government, nor the supervisory authority nor even the parties that have reserved against this, as we have heard here today, have questioned this fact. This is on the table, and this is a fact. And we already know that Sweden is facing extremely big challenges when it comes to our power system, our electricity grids and our electricity supply. Nevertheless, these parties and these parties have not been able to come up with any other message because this is simply true. If we do not get this decision, several reactors will be forced out of operation, and then we are in serious trouble. Of the total electricity supply in our country, nuclear power plants account for about 40% of production in the normal year. Together with hydropower, it is nuclear power that makes Swedish electricity production one of the most fossil-free in the world. Sweden's dependence on nuclear power is large and is likely to be even greater in the coming years. We will need new regulatory power both in northern and southern Sweden. The government's inability to put its foot down on the issue of interim stocks and disposals is therefore a serious threat to both the Swedish economy, household expenditure and the green transition to reduced climate change. The Social Democrats, the Left Party and the Green Party are opposed to this initiative on constitutional grounds. They refer to the government ruling the kingdom and having to make decisions on permits on the matter. That is quite correct. But if the government does not take its responsibility to make decisions according to the form of government, we in this House cannot sit with our arms crossed and pretend that it is raining. That is why it is a responsibility for this majority to take such an initiative. Perhaps it would be appropriate here to say j'accuse or something like that. It is surely the case that we from the Liberal side, and I have listened here and heard that there are more parties, have a suspicion that the slowness of the government may not be linked to the reasons stated, but rather to general scepticism about nuclear energy as a type of energy. Perhaps that is the case above all with the Green Party. It is important to stress that the government's authorisation decision should not be a political decision. The government is pursuing this issue by choosing to politicise it. It shall be a decision of administrative law. It shall be taken in accordance with laws that have already been adopted by this House and without political consideration. When the government has been given this responsibility, it is because this House has assessed that this House is making political decisions but that the government is to take this administrative decision. When the government does not follow what the House has decided, we will have to act. Madam President, I would like I would like to emphasise the seriousness of this situation. This is about welfare, about the climate, about the environment and about the country's security of electricity supply. I therefore support the committee's proposal.
i-f2999c5907a82396-1502	Madam President, I would like I would like to ask Joar Forssell two very brief questions. Do I understand the Liberals and Joar Forssell right in saying that the Liberals would like to see an increased intermediate warehouse in Oskarshamn in order to avoid the need for nuclear power to be stopped quickly?
i-f2999c5907a82396-1503	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question. We are extremely upset about this and extremely anxious that the whole issue of the custody should be resolved. In fact, I think that the Green Party owes an answer to why it chooses to politicise this issue. Why choose to politicise this issue? If we look at this matter, it is both a matter of disposal and of intermediate stocks. But what makes this so urgent and that makes us need to deal with these things together is that you can't replenish the middle layer indefinitely and indefinitely. It's a fact. And when you can't replenish it anymore, you'll have to stop using nuclear power because there's no place to store the nuclear fuel unless you have a repository to pass on to. I would be completely open to having more intermediate stocks if the municipalities concerned are in favour of it, if our authorities think that this is okay and if that means that we can continue to run nuclear power. But, Madam President, the municipalities concerned believe that this decision must be taken together. It is because you need to know that there is a repository so that you do not sit with it indefinitely. This has taken decades. This government has not been in office for decades to come. But it's taken decades. And I understand that these municipalities find it a bit difficult. I think we should make a decision about custody. If it is the case that these municipalities want to take responsibility and have even more intermediate warehouses so à la bonne heure– let them apply for it too so we can solve this.
i-f2999c5907a82396-1506	Madam President, I would like Now I asked a very brief question to Joar Forssell, to whom he almost answered. I can also say that in my speech I emphasised that we must be very clear about not politicising this waste issue. It is extremely important to distinguish between energy policy and environmental policy. It is important to distinguish between nuclear power and the disposal of nuclear waste. I am against nuclear power, but I am in favour of us taking care of nuclear waste in the most secure way. Madam President, I would like However, my question to Joar Forssell was whether the Liberals want an increased intermediate stock of nuclear waste in Oskarshamn, and I understood from the Liberals that the answer was yes. That is why I have a second question for Joar Forssell. It is very clear that the municipalities want the application to be kept together as a package, but if a solution to be able to expand the intermediate layer safely and in good time – before it is really necessary – would it be to divide the application with the intermediate warehouse separately and the repository separately, would the Liberals support it?
i-f2999c5907a82396-1509	Madam President, I would like I think I was clear, but I can be clear one more time: I do not mean that any party in Parliament should stand here and say that we should decide such a thing over the heads of these municipalities. This is a huge responsibility that has been taken over for a very long time, and government after government has failed to make decisions. Now there is an application on the table, and there are facts on the table. There are also official opinions on the table, and there is an opportunity to take a decision on final custody. The Green Party is standing here saying that you're for custody. Yeah, I hope so, because what else are we gonna do? All the people on this earth are for a disposal. But when the Green Party is in government, it's a little too painful to make a decision on this, because if one were to make a decision on a repository – yes, then the nuclear issue could actually be resolved as well. Then we could have more nuclear power and be able to solve the climate issue with more nuclear power. That is not what the Green Party wants, because it has ideological blind spots. Madam President, I would like I am absolutely convinced that there are those municipalities, certainly both the current ones and others, who would also be willing to take responsibility for the climate issue and take on such important work as being intermediate stocks for the expanded nuclear power that this country needs if it were to be known that there is a repository. That's why these things are connected. If we can't give the go-ahead to the repository, who's going to have the middle layer? Who will take on such a great responsibility if you do not know that there is something ahead – a far limit to what this is all about? It will be an infinite responsibility to take, and we cannot impose that requirement on any single municipality. Instead, we must take such a responsibility in this House.
i-f2999c5907a82396-1513	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating an extremely important issue. This is an absolutely crucial matter. Sometimes I think that the heat of the battle may ignore the importance of the subject on which this debate is based. The question of how to handle Swedish nuclear waste is one of the biggest environmental issues that our generation has to deal with. It is a decision concerning one of the most absolutely dangerous substances known to man at all, i.e. highly radioactive nuclear waste. It is also a decision spanning a hundred thousand years. So long, the waste must be kept separate from humans and from our environment. This is simply not just a matter, nor should it be treated like any other. That is why I have to say that it is worrying about the speculation we hear from here – the rather wild guesses as to why the government is dealing with this matter in a serious way. For example, there have been a lot of misunderstandings about the history of this matter. Some pretend that the government would have made a decision on the matter in 1973 before any proposal was made. Others have pretended that the government would have been able to take decisions in 2011, when even the courts or our authorities had not taken a position on the application at all. The truth, Madam President, is that the government received this matter on 23 January 2018. This was when the Land and Environment Court and the Radiation Safety Authority, with their respective opinions, handed over the Swedish Nuclear Fuel Management AB's application for permission to construct, hold and operate installations in a system for the final disposal of spent nuclear fuel and waste. Then the matter came to the government, and this means that the government has had the application on its table for a little over three years – no longer than that. So let us not pretend to be anything else! It'll just be a game for the galleries. This application is handled with the same seriality as the government handles other administrative matters, and we do so in accordance with the principles of the Administrative Act. It includes that the government does not have a timetable for the examination in advance. There is no review by the government of all the hundreds of cases that land on the government table. To claim that there would be something unique in this case is also a game for the galleries. Something that makes this application very different, however, is that it is one of the biggest environmental issues in Sweden's history, and it is also a major infrastructure project. It includes shelves of material that has now been given to the government to enable us to make a well-prepared decision. What distinguishes this case in terms of action is that the case was not ready when the environmental court handed it over to the government. It is important to point out, because it was not the case that the court agreed to the application. When the Court of Justice submits a case concerning the authorisation of activities under the Environmental Code, the case is normally ready for decision. This was not the case this time. It does not help no matter how much the opposition pretends; it is nevertheless a fact that it was so. In its opinion to the Government, the Court stated that there were insufficient grounds for a decision. There were issues that had to be addressed in order for the operation to be allowed, and that is what the government has been dealing with while we have had the matter with us. It would not have been serious to – and we could not – take decisions because the Court said that there were issues that needed to be clarified. There were no answers. It is of great importance that the handling of matters should take the time needed for us to be sure that it is the right decision, and that is also why the legislator – the Riksdag – has put on the government table to make this kind of decision. The opposition is now pretending that the government is not going to make those decisions, but that it is enough for the authority to have said its thing, but it is not going to go the way of criticising the government because we are dealing with an administrative matter. If you are not satisfied with how the law is designed, you actually have to change the law. This is a decision that applies to a period of time that is almost staggering, and if we do not make the right decisions, the activity can have huge negative repercussions for an almost intransparable number of generations to come. We have a great responsibility to ensure that there are no such negative effects. The Land and Environment Court stated in its opinion, Madam President, that it believes that the government cannot allow the operation unless a number of outstanding questions are answered. Among other issues, SKB must be able to report that the final disposal facility meets the requirements of the environmental code in the long term, despite remaining uncertainties about the protection of the capsule and how it is affected by corrosion. It is also clear from the Court's position that it must be made clear who is responsible under the environmental code for the disposal facility in the long term, after closure. In view of the fact that the Court of Justice issued this opinion, the government has started a great deal of work, and it has been going on all the time since the case landed on the government's table. The Government requested that the application be supplemented by SKB, and SKB also submitted the requested supplement in April 2019. The completion involves, among other things, the ability to protect the capsule and aims to provide greater clarity about the uncertainties about corrosion on the copper capsule and how it affects the protective capacity of the repository. This complement was referred by the government in 2019, and then announced – according to the regulations we have to work on – the complement. It was in April, May and June 2020. So we are talking about last year, so it is not decades ago, as was claimed earlier in the debate. However, the Court not only left the matter of the corrosion impact on the copper capsule to the government to investigate further, but also looked at the question who is responsible for the storage in the long term after closure – when you are finished filling the repository. Therefore, the government launched a major effort to develop new legislation that was not in place, and the bill "A clarified state responsibility for certain nuclear activities" now clarifies the responsibility for the detention after closure. The Government then proposed a number of legislative amendments that entered into force on 1 November 2020. So we are talking about a few months ago. As decisions have now been taken, it has been made clear that the responsibility for the final disposal facility under the Environmental Code lies with the State in the long term. So that clarification did not exist until then. The task of the government in the examination is to examine the application in its entirety. SKB's application to build, possess and operate a system for the disposal of spent nuclear fuel and waste is a major and complex issue, as the representative of the Center Party admitted here in the speaker's chair. There we should be able to agree that it is a large and complex matter. A question that has also arisen with the Government in the examination of the application is whether the complement that SKB submitted to the Government in response to the Court's opinion regarding, among other things, the protective capacity of the copper capsule requires an additional consultation with other countries, a so-called Espoo consultation, to which we are bound by the conventions that Sweden, including by decision of the Riksdag, has entered. The Environmental Protection Agency, which is the authority responsible for conducting consultations with other countries in accordance with the Environmental Code and the Espoo Convention, was therefore asked to inform the Government Office of whether or not the complement would lead to a consultation. The Environmental Protection Agency replied that the Authority intends to hold such a consultation on the matter, and this is done with Poland and Germany, which has also expressed a clear desire to take note of developments in the case. This consultation is currently under way. Making decisions before the consultation is concluded would violate one of the conventions that Sweden has signed. Then the question must go back to the Members of Parliament. When, with pretended or genuine indignation, one now thinks that the government is dragging its feet, does the majority of the parliament mean that this decision should be made before the consultation is completed? We would then be in breach of the Espoo Convention. Or does Parliament mean that we should leave the Espoo Convention and that Sweden should not be in it anymore? It is quite difficult to understand what the Riksdag really means. Another issue that has arisen during the time that the government's review has been going on has to do with the Radiation Safety Authority publishing its analysis of SKB's report on the research known as Long Term Test of Buffer Material, the so-called LOT trials. The Government is now going through the Radiation Safety Authority's review, which we are also expected to do according to the legislation decided by the Riksdag. Madam President, I would like I would like to say a few words about the role of the government in the review in relation to the Land and Environment Court and the Radiation Safety Authority, because that issue has also been raised. The government review includes a licence review under the Nuclear Activities Act, the Nuclear Technology Act, and refers to the conditions for the planned installations to meet the radiation safety requirements necessary to protect human health and the environment against the harmful effects of ionising radiation. The Government is examining site and method choices with regard to long-term safety and also safety in construction, operation and closure. The government review also includes an admissibility test under the Environmental Code, which Members seem to forget. It means that the government should decide whether the operation can be carried out at all. The activities eligible for governmental review are those of such a significant scale or intervention that they typically affect important social interests. It is therefore the Riksdag that has decided that it is the government that will make this test. Nuclear installations tested by the Government under the Act on Nuclear Activities are subject to so-called mandatory admissibility testing. That is to say, the government must always decide whether this type of activity can be allowed under the environmental code. If the Government permits activities, the Land and the Environment Court shall then grant permission for the activities and lay down the detailed conditions applicable to the activities. It is therefore not that it is a court or authority that makes that decision, but that the parliament has decided that the government will do the examination. The Government has undertaken to follow the principles expressed by the Administrative Act in such trials in the handling of administrative matters. If Members had read that law, they would have been able to see that this would mean that the cases would be dealt with as simply, quickly and efficiently as possible without the rule of law being respected. The committee initiative is therefore exactly what the Administrative Act already says. It must be said, however, that the door is completely wide open. The question is also why the Riksdag first decides that the Government will examine a matter and then, with real or recorded indignation, is upset that the Government is doing exactly what the Riksdag has decided through the legislation that we should do, i.e. examining a matter. To conclude, Madam President, I would like to emphasise once again that the government is, of course, working on this issue as a matter of priority and as a matter of urgency, preparing a decision. However, as I said, and as in all administrative matters, as Minister, I cannot anticipate the decision or exclude or exclude certain procedural measures in advance. It is precisely in this way that the government handles all the trials that come in. Therefore, I do not think that there is any reason for the majority's announcement either, but I am happy to hear how the Members of Parliament justify that announcement.
i-f2999c5907a82396-1541	Madam President, I would like Work on a final repository has been carried out in Sweden for over 50 years with research on the ground and with the development of the technology that has been chosen to apply for. The application was submitted more than ten years ago. The government chooses here to hold others hostage when it cannot be said that, when or how a decision can be made, this is despite the fact that the work has been carried out in a very transparent way over the years. Together with the rest of society, politics, other expertise and other countries, there has been a great deal of transparency in research and the facilities where the activities have been carried out. One might think that it would be reasonable for the government, too, to deal with the matter in a similar way. There is absolutely an understanding that it is the government and not the parliament that should make the decision, but one should still be able to specify what it is you intend to look at and what time you might need to investigate those things. This does not mean that you are bound by transparency, but the rest of society and other actors can have an understanding of how it is conducted and how to review the application before making decisions. However, the government has consistently turned against this and has not wanted to tell us anything about it. It is a question of whether the Government considers that it would be reasonable for the Government to deal with the matter as transparently as SKB has done during this period of time and also other actors. Another question is whether the Government does not think it reasonable to de facto exclude the possibility of splitting the application, given that Oskarshamn Municipality has opposed it. That is something that the Government has said before that it does not want to exclude. There, a clear statement would have been pleasant.
i-f2999c5907a82396-1546	Madam President, I would like I can inform Mattias Bäckström Johansson that the government is handling this test in exactly the same way that all previous governments have handled trials. The same principles apply in this case. After all, Mattias Bäckström Johansson's Swedish democrats have never been in the government, so they may not have any experience of it. However, in review cases we do not give advance rulings on when the trial should be completed precisely on the experience gained in government positions, that is, especially in the case of large and complex trials which often arise in this case, difficult issues that need to be taken into account. This has also been the case during the trial that the government has now carried out, and this is also what we have been dealing with throughout the journey. Since we cannot anticipate this before we begin the procedure and the examination, we cannot provide a timetable either. This is exactly the same way that previous governments have dealt with these matters. As far as the question of the trial is concerned, there is, as far as I understand it, a wish from the united opposition that we should not end up in a situation where the interlayer, Clab, becomes full and we risk that nuclear power in Sweden cannot supply nuclear waste and, at worst, may close down its activities. It is a desire that I very much share. I want to do everything I can to avoid such a situation. It is now clear that if we go forward with what the majority in this Parliament now wants to impose on the government, that is to say, to conduct a comprehensive review of the repository and the intermediate layer, we will not be able to make a decision that will enter into force before the intermediate layer is full. So the road that the majority are now trying to force the government on is a road that will lead, with 100% certainty, to us not being able to make decisions before the middle layer is full. It would be a irresponsible policy that I do not think the government should implement.
i-f2999c5907a82396-1550	Madam President, I would like No, I can see that the message somewhere is the same. I had an interpellation debate with the then Minister of the Environment Isabella Lövin last autumn. It has now been six months. The answers are about the same today as they were then. You can't go any closer on that. It is quite interesting how the government seems to be torn between whether this is a matter, or whether it is the most difficult and heaviest matter that has ever been tried. It changes when it comes to whether you want to give answers on what to look at or how long it takes. And you adapt and describe the matter as such according to what interest you have in it. Nevertheless, I believe that this is the way the Government has described it. It is a big and heavy case, perhaps one of the biggest cases that have been examined from an environmental perspective. It is because of what we have had the good transparency of the matter, the transparency of society in general. One should expect the government to deal with it as befits the issue, especially in view of the consequences if a decision is not taken. We are in danger of closure of nuclear reactors because there is no possibility of harnessing the fuel used in the plants and when it becomes full in the intermediate storage. I have a question in view of the fact that we do not want to go into this further. What is it that you are afraid should not be dealt with in this? It is not that with this decision you can do what you want afterwards. It is not just to kick off and get started, but to set conditions for the business. There is a step-by-step examination of the facilities. Research will continue on this. Then the question is: What is it that the government and the Government think you need to look at and that you do not feel satisfied with at the moment?
i-f2999c5907a82396-1556	Madam President, I would like Mattias Bäckström Johansson does not seem to understand the difference between handling a case according to the same principles as dealing with other review cases – we have legislation that we follow in all trials – and noting that this case is unique. It is uniquely large, and it is a uniquely long period of time that the decision covers. This should not be completely impossible to understand. Now I have said it once more. Then perhaps you can hope that understanding will come this time. Mattias Bäckström Johansson does not seem to have understood this either: If we should do as the Swedish Democrats want and now take a decision on final disposals and intermediate stocks in a whole, there is an imminent risk. There are usually appeals when it comes to this type of generational decision, and we know that very many people are involved in this type of issue. It is therefore very likely that the decision could not enter into force until the interim stock is full. What Bäckström Johansson is now trying to say is that the responsible way of dealing with the issue is, in reality, irresponsible. Such handling of the matter would lead to exactly what I heard Mattias Bäckström Johansson say in the speaker's chair that he wanted to avoid. I simply have to ask Mattias Bäckström Johansson to go back to his chamber and read a little more so that he gets a little better insight into which path we need to go in order to be able to make a decision that avoids us ending up in the dead end that I perceive we all want to avoid getting into. It is therefore a question of the intermediate storage of nuclear waste not being complete in such a way that nuclear power cannot produce in Sweden.
i-f2999c5907a82396-1561	Madam President, I would like I have noted that the Government puts some words in our mouths which I cannot recall I have heard in the debate. I have been listening all along, and I have not heard anyone who wants a sloppy and forced process that does not take a position on all the points that have been made. There are other reasons why we want a process where you actually take advantage of all the knowledge but also come to a decision. The government was not here earlier when other matters were debated. It was about the mining industry. On several occasions, matters have been placed on the government's table. Decisions in concession and other permit cases have not been wanted or taken. The government has even been notified to the KU for this. Now we have an errand on our table where there really is fire in the knots. We run the risk of electricity shortages coming winters while knowing that we need to increase our access to electricity. I must ask Minister Bolund: Does Bolund not understand the concerns we feel? Here is a government that has made it something of a national sport not to give permission. At the same time, we say: now you must make sure that this matter is rushed. On the same day that Bolund is here, he has announced that he wants to spend investigative resources on speeding down an airport. Then he should also be able to provide resources so that this matter can be speeded up. I have another question for the Government. Finland has had a process that has been considerably shorter. It's basically the same system, the KBS-3 system. But it has not taken as many years as in Sweden. Has Finland been sloppy? Has Finland not done its job when it has done so in a much shorter time than Sweden has done?
i-f2999c5907a82396-1567	Madam President, I would like Anyone interested in what I was referring to can go back in the minutes and look at what Jan Andersson said in his speech, for example: The government should have solved this issue already. That was literally what Jan Andersson said. This means that we should have made decisions before we had consulted surrounding countries according to the conventions that Sweden has signed. Does Jan Andersson seriously think that this is a serious matter? Nevertheless, I expect an answer to that from a Member of Parliament. Should we have taken decisions before we had consulted, that is, we would have violated the convention that Sweden has entered into? Or does Jan Andersson mean that we should leave the Espoo Convention? It is very difficult to understand what Jan Andersson really means when he says such a thing in the speaker's chair. I understand the concerns that exist, and that is a concern that I share. As I said in my previous speech, if we deal with the issue incorrectly, there is a great risk that we will have a decision that is too late. It is about us being able to expand the intermediate warehouse in Oskarshamn and thus also be able to create space for the nuclear waste that needs to be taken care of. Otherwise, we will end up in a situation where nuclear power cannot deliver its used waste, and that would be a very worrying situation. I think we should be able to take a joint responsibility to ensure that we do not end up in that situation. However, I do not understand Jan Andersson's assertions that the government has waited and that we have not acted. I was very clear in my speech that during this time the government has proposed laws, which have been clubbed by Parliament. We have given a large number of assignments which have since been delivered back to the government and which we obviously need to analyse. We have had consultations with neighbouring countries. The government has therefore always acted consistently, and the government continues to act and continues to work intensively on this issue. There are a great many allegations in this debate that, Madam President, when you really look at them, they do not turn out to be true.
i-f2999c5907a82396-1573	Madam President, I would like Once again, Minister Bolund chooses to listen to certain parts but not others. I was very clear in my speech that I have great respect for the fact that you have to take part in the formal parts. The last report on the LOT trials came just a few months ago, and this week, at least, it is possible to participate in the consultation. Two countries do that, I suppose. Not for nothing, there is a great deal of concern, and then perhaps there is a reason to look at the issue and deal with it in a particular way. There is nothing in the form of government or anything else that says you are not allowed to communicate and tell us this: These issues remain to be resolved. We see this timetable ahead of us. And somewhere here we expect a decision. Of course, things can happen along the way that change things. People respect that. But you don't have respect for a government that refuses to tell you how, where and at what pace to arrive while the meter ticks. I don't know if Bolund thinks it's okay for SKB to pay $800 million a year. After all, you want to shut down nuclear power, and then it doesn't matter very much if that industry is allowed to take that cost. These are the issues that arise when the government is unable to communicate with the players on the market. I think it's bad. Your party colleague said earlier that we should withdraw this proposal. Yes, I would have liked to have done so if the government had dealt with the matter in such a way that the parties could have felt a sense of security and confidence in how the matter would be resolved. Now we do not have that situation, and that is what makes us stand here at this late hour and discuss this issue. The Minister has received replies from all five opposition representatives, and Oskarshamn's Member of Parliament for the Social Democrats will also give a speech. The Minister must understand that there is a great deal of concern on this issue. However, he chooses to minimize the problems, and I think that is the big problem. That is why we will approve and vote in favour of this announcement tomorrow.
i-f2999c5907a82396-1580	Madam President, I would like I must say that I am quite upset when I hear that we are the ones who are trivialising the problems. What Jan Andersson says is that this issue, which is about a hundred thousand years and the most dangerous subject that mankind knows, is not really going to be analysed by the government. We'd rather just close our eyes and point and take the first suggestions that come. That's not how we work in the government. We take these questions seriously. The recurrent speculation that this would have to do with our attitude towards nuclear power, I must say that I am also strongly opposed. It strikes back on the opposition itself somewhere. Should it be interpreted as meaning that the Moderates would not assume their responsibilities in government? Would it not be a responsible test of this issue, because it is in favour of nuclear power? Would you just say yes automatically? I sincerely hope that is not the case. That would be a completely unserious way of dealing with this issue. I can guarantee that at least that's not how the Green Party deals with the issue. We take this issue seriously, that is to say, we do not minimize it. On the other hand, I think that Jan Andersson is really trivialising the issue when he ignores the major problem that we are facing. Should we do as Jan Andersson proposes, thus deal with the whole issue and take the issue of disposals at the same time as the issue of intermediate stocks, yes, then we would not be able to make a decision on time, before the intermediate layer is full. That is the analysis that the government comes up with. Then we would be in the crisis situation that we, together as responsible politicians, should really be able to take joint responsibility to avoid. I think that this is to minimize major problems that Sweden could face, and I do not think that either I as a minister or a Member of Parliament should do so.
i-f2999c5907a82396-1585	Madam President, I would like One question to which I think it is important to answer is whether it is true that the government needs four opinions in order to be able to make a decision on the matter. It's important to find out. Is it also true that you have received the documentation and now it is the Espoo consultation and that it will be completed next month? I think it is important to clarify this. I think most people know that intermediate storage, encapsulation and disposal is a coherent system that is required to take ultimate responsibility for the fuel used. These are then part of the same government affairs. Oskarshamn municipality has a veto right both against the expansion of the intermediate warehouse and against the encapsulation facility. The municipality has declared in a letter to the government that it intends to use the right of veto if it is proposed to separate the decision on increased interim storage from other cases. Since the 1970s, it has been clear that we want to ensure that there is a final destination for the fuel before it can be extended. Then I wonder: Is it the government's view that the rules of the game and the anchoring work that have been done in Oskarshamn and in Östhammar should now be abolished? Is it something that the government now intends not to accept and thus change what has been transparent from the outset?
i-f2999c5907a82396-1590	Madam President, I would like The government obviously needs a basis for making decisions. I think Mikael Oscarsson knows that too. Of course, we use those bases when making decisions. After all, it is not enough for an authority to have said one thing or for a court to have ruled, but the matter then goes up to the government for the government to make an overall assessment. We also do so under the Administrative Act, which I clearly described in my speech and which meets exactly what the parliamentary majority is now also announcing. So it may feel a little like breaking an open door, that is, something that is happening completely unnecessarily. It is important to point out that there is no one who has any intention other than that we should take a decision on a repository. I have not heard anyone who has said anything else in this debate at all. On the other hand, we must allow such a large and decisive matter to take the time necessary to do what is the government's job, for example, to have consultations that are now under way. If the government were to go on to see if we can divide an application into two different parts in order to have a better chance of making decisions before the middle layer is full, we would of course send out such a proposal for a referral. Then, of course, the municipalities concerned, like other consultation bodies, would also have their views on this proposal. Of course, we have a dialogue both with the municipalities and with other stakeholders. It is something that is also part of the government's examination of the issue. At least this government will examine the applications that come in. I assume and hope that even the previous government, of which the Christian Democrats were a part, did a serious job in its trials of the applications that were submitted to that government at the time.
i-f2999c5907a82396-1594	Madam President, I would like If I have understood correctly, we can check that at least we agree that the government needs these four opinions, and that has been given. That's good, and we know it. It has been said before about this copper capsule that it is something that SKB has supplemented and received green light for. This is also the method used in Finland, and that is where we are going. I also have a question about something that came in a previous change of line: is it a message from the government and the Minister that if this is not divided it will not be delivered on time, but then this disaster situation will occur? Is it a message to the Swedish people and to the industry that it is the attitude that one has? If so, I find it tragic. If this comes out as some sort of message, then I cannot interpret it in any other way than that this reluctance to nuclear power spills over so that you cannot make a decision, even though you have the basis. As I said in my speech: who should you listen to if not the expert authorities? In that case, you can beautifully come up with new assignments and say that you do not understand and so give a timetable. When we talk about something as serious as the fact that Swedish nuclear power may have to shut down in two and a half years – then, Madam President, you need a timetable.
i-f2999c5907a82396-1599	Madam President, I would like Once again, Mikael Oscarsson comes with recorded indignation that does not suit himself. There is no reason whatsoever to make such remarks. On the contrary, the government is trying to do everything we can to really try this issue in the way it deserves. I am a little worried about the indications that it would be about the attitude of the parties to nuclear power how we try an application dossier. Should I interpret Mikael Oscarsson as saying that a Christian Democratic participation in the government would not be a serious test? You're in favour of nuclear power, so maybe you don't even have to think about it? I really hope Mikael Oscarsson doesn't mean that, because that would be very, very serious. I assume that is not what Mikael Oscarsson means, but then, Madam President, it is rather difficult to understand what Mikael Oscarsson really means. On the other hand, I was clear that if one were to make a collective trial in the way that Mikael Oscarsson is fighting hard for, we see great risks with the appeals that can be expected from a large and complex case that arouses a lot of involvement in society. The trial would take so much time that the decision and entry into force would come too late after the interim stock is already full. This is a situation that the government wants to avoid getting into. That is why we are currently carrying out an analysis in the Government Office of moving forward with a shared application. It is the responsible way to act in order to avoid getting into the situation that Mikael Oscarsson himself says he wants to avoid getting into. It is completely wrong, and up the walls, to claim, as Mikael Oscarsson does, that this is due to decisions that the government has, or has not, made. I thought we agreed that it was not possible to make decisions during an Espoo consultation that is still ongoing. We cannot make decisions until the Radiation Safety Authority has submitted its assessment, and they did so just a few weeks ago. Let's try this question seriously.
i-f2999c5907a82396-1605	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your speech. Of course, I have a number of questions, and I do not have time to ask everyone here today. We have also had a number of debates on this issue in the past. First of all, I find it remarkable that the government and the Green Party are saying that they want to run over the municipalities concerned. Nevertheless, it is they who want a joint application, and there is a joint application at the government table to take a position on. It is not a question of someone being forced by the opposition or something similar, as it sounded from Per Bolund earlier. There is an application to consider. I can also note that it should be easy for the government to make a so-called overall assessment, in nte because the matter is simple– it is a very complicated case– without taking into account that the relevant recordings are fairly much in the same line. Madam President, I would like A large part of the Government's speech was about how important it is to comply with the rules and laws decided by the Riksdag and the order decided by the Riksdag. I appreciate the fact that the Government thinks it is important, and I also think it is important. It is in this House that we decide how to rule the country. Me and my colleagues here are the head of the government. It is we who appoint the Prime Minister, and the Prime Minister appoints the Minister. So we are ultimately Per Bolund's boss's boss. Now, through the announcement, we are saying that we need to see swift management. My question is about how the Government will act in order to satisfy Parliament's announcement.
i-f2999c5907a82396-1611	Madam President, I would like I made it clear in my speech that it is not the case that the government has not acted since the application came to our table. On the contrary, we have acted every day and every minute since then. We received a number of questions from the Environment Court, to which we obviously need to find an answer. Otherwise, we would simply not have met the criteria clearly set by the Environmental Court. I hope Joar Forssell will agree with this. It would have been irresponsible, not to say contrary to the court's decision. We needed to answer all the questions. We have also done this, a few questions just a few months ago. The last report from the Radiation Safety Agency only came in a few weeks ago. That is why it is so difficult to understand the real or played irritation of the opposition parties because we should agree that a government cannot make decisions before the preparation is complete. We cannot make decisions while the process is still ongoing. It still does. It is therefore difficult to understand why Parliament wants to make an announcement that the matter should be dealt with urgently. I just read out what the legislation says we should do, that is, the administrative law that has been made by Parliament. It says that we should examine matters quickly and effectively. And that, of course, is what we do. I want to reproduce what Olof Wilske, senior lecturer in constitutional law, has said. He clearly says that the Riksdag cannot interfere in how the government performs its administrative tasks. It is precisely a matter of handling cases, such as applications. Yet Joar Forssell and the Riksdag are trying to do this. It is difficult to understand why you feel that you can take that right when we on the government's side still follow the legislation that Parliament has decided on.
i-f2999c5907a82396-1615	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by noting to those who are watching the debate that the one of us in this House which sounds most irritated and indignant is probably the Council of State itself. In a previous change of line, he accused the Moderate of closing his eyes and pointing a little. It is not so statesmanly but perhaps indignant and provoked. Let's get back to the question. How does the government's failure to make decisions make waste management safer? Another thing I wonder about is why the government does not allow the expert authorities to get back to the question of whether there is something that needs to be looked at. That would be a reasonable way of dealing with the issue. The overall assessment should be based on the various expert opinions. If there is any ambiguity, the authorities should get the matter back so that they can clarify the ambiguities that the government has seen. This has not been answered by the government before, and I do not expect to receive an answer today – but it may still be worth highlighting the issue. I've been looking into the issue of the Espoo consultation. Poland and Germany will submit their replies the day after tomorrow. That's when they're gonna turn in their answers. If it had been the case that the Government had come to the Chamber today and said that we are waiting for the Espoo Council, it will be the day after tomorrow, it will take a few days to translate and check with the relevant parties, that is quite natural, but then it will be urgent to take a decision, I do not think that the debate would have been so long and indignant. Instead, the Government has chosen not to mention that the Espoo Council's response will be received in two days' time, focused on barking at the majority in the Riksdag in various ways and not responding to how to meet our announcement.
i-f2999c5907a82396-1619	Madam President, I would like The reason I appear to be indignant is that I have repeatedly heard allegations and accusations against the Green Party that it is because of our attitude towards nuclear power that the government would not make decisions. It is in fact a claim that we are not complying with the legislation. Of course I'm indignant about this. I agree with Joar Forssell. I think it's scary. That is why I had to put the question back: does that mean that the Liberals would not make decisions under the law because they are in favour of nuclear power? I was careful to stress that I certainly do not hope so, and I assume that is not the way of thinking. But then perhaps you should not accuse other parties of acting in that way. That would be respectful. I have made it clear that the government cannot make decisions until the current processes are completed. That is why, Madam President, it is difficult to understand why a majority in Parliament wants to make an announcement that we should act urgently on a matter on which we have not been able to take a decision. We could not have done so without violating legislation and international conventions. I find it difficult to come to any conclusions other than that it is simply for political reasons that the Parliament makes the decision. You want to take advantage of the opportunity to give the government a snap in the nose, even though you really have no reason whatsoever to do so or any reason to act. On the contrary, the government has done exactly what we are expected to do, that is, that we have examined the matter, produced legislation that the Riksdag has decided on and given assignments to authorities – just as Joar Forssell calls for. Questions may well arise in the course of the trial – it often does so in such large cases – which may, for example, lead to the need to give a public authority mandate. That is why we do not provide a timetable for the trial, which we do not do in any other trial either – because we know that issues can arise that we do not even see coming today. That is also why we have to deal with this issue seriously.
i-f2999c5907a82396-1623	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for this late debate! I would have liked to have done something else right now, but I have two questions. I realise that it is very easy to go overboard in this discussion and that it is a complex issue. I really do realize that. At the same time, I am a center party, and the Center Party is a very practical party that wants to solve issues and problems. It is not without me to interpret the signals that come from the Green Party as the fact that the party has some agony over this decision. In fact, that signal is sending the Government right now. I am also very well aware that investigations take time and are complex. This is surely the most difficult decision that this government or any government has had to make in an environmental matter. That is quite correct. But that does not mean that it is not allowed to provide a time forecast. It may not be normal, but it's allowed. I think it would have been excellent to give a signal that around that time we will be in a decision, because that is what everyone is asking for. SKB has been overly clear that we do not get a decision this summer, this goes wrong. My first question is this: does the Government not see the danger of us having to close nuclear power quickly in 2024? Because I do. I have now heard the Government say that we are being forced into a collective trial and that it is a dead end. My second question is: will the government not respect Oskarshamn municipality's veto signal? That is what it means indirectly.
i-XDGLnb5Bh7zjopxYb8v12r	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lars Thomsson, for the questions! Well, as I have said very clearly and several times here, that is exactly the danger that the government sees. We also see the danger of not analysing how we could end up in that dead end and what we can do not end up there. That is where I would like the opposition, too, to act responsibly and not just say: go ahead! Drive on the same road we've already taken! If, in the course of the trial, there are concerns – as it now seems to be – about making such a collective trial and continuing along the path that has been taken, it risks leading to exactly what Lars Thomsson says he wants to avoid, that is, that we do not get a decision in time to be able to expand the intermediate warehouse in Oskarshamn and thus end up in a situation where we cannot run nuclear power. It is a situation that I think we have a responsibility to avoid, and that is exactly why the government really does this analysis in a serious way. We work on the government's side with dialogue and cooperation. That is what we have done throughout this journey, and that is what we continue to do. Should we come up with a proposal to divide the matter, we would obviously take in the views of the municipalities concerned, such as Oskarshamn, and hear how they view the matter. It would weigh heavily, as referral points always do in the government's trial. As for the claims that we would run over or similar: That's not how the government works, simply, and I hope it wasn't so during Lars Thomsson's time in the Government Office either.
i-f2999c5907a82396-1636	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. I hear we share a great deal of the analysis of nuclear power. However, this is not a nuclear issue, I would like to point out very much, as some others might wish to do. It's something completely different. It is that we need to resolve the waste issue, point one. But I do see the danger, and I hear that the Government sees the danger, that we come to a dead end and do not have time to get a decision on time. We must avoid that all we can. I would also like to point out that we have a decision window with regard to these two municipalities. They have taken a great deal of responsibility for a long time, had an active debate for a long time and had popular acceptance for a long time. But popular acceptance can swing in a very short time, and if we get no from both Oskarshamn and Östhammar because we do not handle the issue correctly, we have an even bigger problem. That is what makes it so extremely important to respect the veto decisions and the veto signals. I do not think that it will be enough to refer to dialogue and to the fact that the issue will be tried again. Oskarshamn municipality has been very clear about the fact that they want to see a collective trial. If they do not, it will be a no on the question of veto, and that leaves it just to run over for a future government. This is not something that benefits the decision-making situation, either for Sweden as a country or in these two municipalities. The question remains: will the government run over a veto decision from Oskarshamn?
i-f2999c5907a82396-1642	Madam President, I would like It is important to point out in this context – I do not know whether there is no understanding of this issue either – that whether you go ahead with final and intermediate stocks together or if you decide on the intermediate layer separately, it is part of both ways that the intermediate layer needs to be expanded. The actual extension decision is a matter of course and something that we all support. As I have also made clear, none of us have any intention other than to take a decision on a repository. The Green Party's view – which I hope is shared by the other parties here, including the Center Party – is that our generation, which has enjoyed the electricity from nuclear power, should also take responsibility for the waste produced by nuclear power. Nor, I hope, is there any different view on the part of the various parties. On the other hand, I am firmly convinced that such a very big issue and a great deal of trial – it is a decision that covers a hundred thousand years and one of the most dangerous substances known to man – must be dealt with seriously by the government and must take the time it takes. During these years, we have dealt with a large number of issues that have emerged during the trial, including from the Environmental Court. We have answered those questions and we will continue to do this test in a serious way. That is what the Swedish people deserve – to feel confident that the decision taken by the government is well founded, that we have seriously tried this application and that we have also made a comprehensive lighting of such a large and important matter.
i-f2999c5907a82396-1646	Madam President, I would like I grew up living in Oskarshamn. I feel lucky and love this district. I am also a member of Oskarshamn City Council, as I am a member of the Swedish Parliament. As an oskarshamner, I have followed and been involved in the nuclear waste issue since my teens. There are many of us who have spent a lot of time on this through schools, workplaces, living environments, associations and other forums. We have had extensive municipal work on nuclear waste through our local, independent competence building project. For decades we have been there for Sweden. With us is the entire country's highly active spent nuclear fuel, which has provided electricity and prosperity to everyone throughout the country. Madam President, I would like In 2011, Swedish Nuclear Fuel Management, SKB, applied to the Swedish Radiation Safety Authority, SSM, and the Land and Environment Court to build a disposal facility for spent nuclear fuel in Östhammar Municipality, an encapsulation facility for spent nuclear fuel in Oskarshamn Municipality, and an expanded storage of nuclear fuel in the Central Reservoir for spent fuel, Clab, in Oskarshamn Municipality. It is now ten years ago. The government has had the question on its table since the last parliamentary term, when the SSM and the Land and Environment Court issued their opinions. After decades of work in and by the municipalities, the examination of the facilities has come so far that both municipalities, Östhammar and Oskarshamn, have left their strength to build the facilities to the government. That is where the issue is now settled pending a decision by the government. Madam President, I would like Oskarshamn municipality has followed the work through our local review team. The nuclear waste issue has taken a lot of time from the municipal board and the municipal council, not to mention our municipal administration. Of course, this has had displacement effects. But we have been honoured to take this issue very seriously since the 1970s. We have invested a lot of time and money in taking our share of responsibility. It is this long-term, serious and deep work that has led to our strength of application. It is based to a very large extent on the fact that the Radiation Safety Authority, SSM, has approved SKB's methods and assessed that a final disposal facility and an encapsulation facility can be built in a long-term safe manner. SSM will continue to gradually test SKB's research and construction of the facilities before SKB will start operating them in the 2030s. We are safe with this order. We are also confident that the application will provide a system for managing the entire nuclear waste cycle. The system is based on the fuel being encapsulated in connection with Clab and from there transported to the final repository in Östhammar when that facility is completed. But in the application there is also the question of expanding the storage in Clab as it is needed to store more fuel. By 2023, Clab will be full if nothing is done. Since Clab is not a final repository, Oskarshamn does not unconditionally increase its capacity in Clab alone. We have made that clear. Since the start of the intermediate warehouse in 1985, we have said that this is not a long-term sustainable solution for Sweden's nuclear waste. Oskarshamn municipality was also then social democraticly governed, and our position is well known, both in Sweden and in our party. We have been there for Sweden and for the government on this issue, regardless of the party colour, and we have taken a major national responsibility. We have always been actively involved in the process of making a repository a reality. We have always stressed that Clab is an intermediate warehouse and must not be transformed into a final repository in practice. Madam President, I would like Let us go back to the last millennium, when the government decided in 1998 on increased storage capacity in Clab. The Environment Minister was then named Anna Lindh. The government decision clearly shows that the government took note of our position at the time. I quote from the government decision of 20 August 1998: Oskarshamn municipality has stated that it wants to see a safe final disposal developed and will not accept an extended storage in Clab beyond the intended period of time. This is just one example of many where we know that our message to the government has been made. It couldn't have gone by. We have repeated it over time, and I can assure you, Madam President, that we have repeated it intensively over the past year. We do not accept that Clab should be expanded to de facto become a repository. The extension must go hand in hand with final disposal decisions. We put security first. We are confident that our party colleagues in both the Defence Committee and the Government Office are aware of this position and share our view that the issue must be dealt with urgently and collectively. Madam President, I would like Let me repeat these key words: quickly and together. The matter should be dealt with urgently because the current application has been reviewed by Swedish and international experts for ten years and the government has had it on its table since the last term of office, because Oskarshamn municipality's position has been known for decades and that if the government does not act, great values are at stake for our country. It should be handled together because Clab is an intermediate layer, because it cannot be expanded without seeing a final repository in sight and because a broken, shared process at this stage is not a serious handling of the issue after decades of work. If the government intends to run over Oskarshamn's municipality in this matter, break up the process and thereby make the intermediate warehouse in Oskarshamn municipality a long-term detention, in practice a kind of disposal, it is the first time in Swedish history that the state and government are driving over a local community in a nuclear installation. Historically, the government has listened to local communities on issues of nuclear installations. If consensus has not been reached, the government has backed, listened and tried to find other ways. The keywords have been a lot of together and a lot of respect for proximity. This has been the case until recently, when Oskarshamn Municipality receives a reply from the Government Office and the Department responsible. It has gone so far as to require a formal exchange of letters for the municipality to receive answers, and even then not all answers are given. On the contrary, it is claimed that there are new questions, but no one tells what questions require answers. It is a break in how respectful communication has previously worked between the state and the municipality. And that, Madam President, is something I, as a member of the Constitutional Committee, note with concern. Madam President, I would like I must also say that it would be remarkable if it were a government with some who call themselves an environmental party, which would thus be the first to run over a local community in this way. I would like to remind the President and everyone else in this House that territorial responsibility is a regulated municipal task. We stand up for our community and our citizens. One of MP's representatives in this debate said last week at a meeting where all parties were invited that it would be Oskarshamn municipality's fault if nuclear power shuts down. Madam President, I would like As the President understands, I would strongly reject such a statement of reality. It is not serious of the MP to treat us in the local community in this way. We have been clear since the start. Clab's not a disposal facility. It's an intermediate storage facility. We have reiterated that the government must act in good time before Clab becomes full in order to start building a repository. We will continue with this. We hope that we as a local community will be heard by the state of Sweden and that the central government, in this case MP, will show us respect. In this context, I would like to say that our municipality has close and very good cooperation with the municipality of Östhammar. We appreciate their open support for our stance. Madam President, I would like We will not accept the government turning Clab into a long-term repository. It is not intended for this, and it is therefore not a safe approach. We stand up for an increased storage if the disposal facility and the encapsulation facility receives an admissibility decision from the government. Sweden has a long and good administrative tradition of the government and parliament relying on their independent expert authorities for decision-making. Now, two municipalities, an authority and a court have agreed that the disposal and encapsulation facility can be built. Remains only make the government's decision so that the work can continue. Madam President, I would like To conclude, I would like to take this opportunity to clarify a few things that sometimes occur in the debate; it becomes a mixed compote. Firstly, the question of disposal is not about for or against nuclear power. After several decades of nuclear power, there is now a waste that needs to be handled. Now the question is at the government's table. Secondly, in response to the signals from the nuclear industry that they may have to shut down production if the government does not take a decision on the question of final storage, the debate sometimes reappears that it is up to the producers themselves to ensure that they have the necessary permits. This is a sad circular argument, because it is precisely because companies want to ensure that they have the necessary permits that they point to the responsibility of the government. Thankfully, we are living in a political democracy in which companies cannot decide for themselves what to do with environmentally hazardous waste, but it requires permission – in this case now from the government after two municipalities, one authority and one court approved the proposal, as I said. Thirdly, something that recurs is that there is no harm to more research and to investigate the issue more and that this would be an argument for waiting for decisions. We agree that research is necessary. That is why, since the 1970s, we have been pressing for this and have been most involved. But the fact is that since Clab is an intermediate layer, not a repository, a non-decision actually means that it can lead to harm. More research is welcome, but this does not prevent the government's decision. Even after a decision, the step-by-step test continues. Should something arise that means that the plan must be revised, there is time to do so. The first capsule will not enter the ground until about a decade, at the earliest. Last of all, Madam President, we Members of Parliament are running on our party lists. We represent the whole of Sweden and everyone who lives here. But we are also elected in our constituencies. It is not for nothing that we in this House are divided constituency-wise, not party-wise. It's a fine order of thought. I feel very confident when, on the basis of both my membership as well as my Social Democratic party membership and my geographical residence in Oskarshamn and Kalmar County, I say that it is high time to make a decision.
i-f2999c5907a82396-1676	Madam President, I would like Many thanks to Laila Naraghi for the burning post! That was very inspiring to hear. I note, like the honourable Member, that Oskarshamn's political position has been known for a very long time. I also note that the honourable Member points out that this should be an urgent and comprehensive assessment and that intermediate storage should never be a final disposal. I fully agree with that assessment. My question is quite simple. Does the honourable Member, who seems to have very good insight into Oskarshamn's management of this process for a long time, consider that a split and broken-up process would receive a different answer to the question of veto or not? When I listened to the Government, I understood that the Government intends to have a dialogue again. But what, in the view of the honourable Member, is the precondition for arriving at another response to the veto with a shared process?
i-f2999c5907a82396-1679	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lars Thomsson, for the questions! I would also like to take this opportunity to thank Lars Thomsson for his contribution and his commitment to this issue earlier in the debate. I have listened with great interest and great gratitude to him for highlighting the municipality. I find it difficult to see that our municipality will reconsider our position. Of course, the parties and members of the municipal council are free, but my view is that we share our party's position on this matter with all parties in the municipal council. After all, we are in complete agreement across party boundaries on this issue. We have approved the application as it looks in its overall form, precisely because Clab is an intermediate warehouse and not a final repository. If the issue comes back again, we will of course treat it seriously, as we have always dealt with it over the years. But my picture is that we think it is very important that it is gathered together, just as I expressed in my speech. Our chairman of the municipal board has also, as I understand it, been in a committee and expressed this and repeatedly expressed it in different contexts, in media interviews and so on. As far as the dialogue mentioned by the Minister for the Environment is concerned, we very much welcome the launch of such a dialogue. That has not really been the case so far.
i-f2999c5907a82396-1683	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr President, for the clarification of the answer. I draw exactly the same conclusion as the honourable Member, namely that it will be difficult to find another position in Oskarshamn, given that the information has been very clear for a long time. All parties are in agreement, and we do not want to see intermediate storage as a repository. My assessment is that the process that the government seems to have been forced into in the end will end up running over Oskarshamn Municipality's veto decision. I also have extensive discussions with the municipality of Östhammar, which happens to have a council chairman who is a center party and who points out what the consequences for local democracy and credibility would be if two responsible municipalities that have for a long time taken a great responsibility for our nuclear issues were to be run over by the government. Then I would like to say in my question: how does the honourable Member see that it would affect Oskarshamn's democratic process if it were run over by the government with a veto decision on such a central issue as we are talking about right now?
i-4gga69MDp7ZGwvucC8gjFY	Madam President, I would like Thank you again, Lars Thomsson! We have for decades taken this great responsibility for the state of Sweden. All the high-level waste is with us. We have carried this for everyone who lives in Sweden, because everyone has benefited from it. We have certainly done so with pride. It is with great pride that we have been able to make this effort. We have also had, we believe, until a few years ago a respectful dialogue between the state and the municipality, regardless of the party colour in the government. Should the interruption of this communication lead to running us over in that way, it is clear that it would have enormous effects on how one perceives the central power. We're also small-timers, remember, so of course it has effects. I hope I got your question correctly and answered it. Since I see that I have time left, I would like to take this opportunity to say that it is not only the parties in Oskarshamn municipality who have been involved in this issue, but also associations, schools and workplaces. We have had a broad societal commitment to these issues in our local competence building project. And I say that because the Green Party has not been present in our municipal council since the last elections, nor in our regional council, because of a lack of public confidence. But, of course, people and associations outside our council have also had the opportunity to participate and engage in this independent project.
i-f2999c5907a82396-1690	Madam President, I would like I'm not gonna get bored. I would just like to express my thanks for a brilliant speech in which the honourable Member made it very clear what this is about and the danger that a government would go against the whole political process. I am from Uppland and recognise the situation in Östhammar, which is the same as in Oskarshamn. This has been done for a long time. But now we get a message from the Government that over-examines the decision, even though it is connected and despite the fact that it has been known all along. I would like to thank Mr Laila and then ask her what her assessment is. Is this something that the government will be able to decide on? Or is there the risk, as the Government expressed, that decisions will not be made? Does the honourable Member have an assessment of how we can interpret the situation?
i-f2999c5907a82396-1694	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mikael Oscarsson, for your questions, for your words and for the kindness! I would also like to take this opportunity to thank you, like previous speakers, for your commitment to this issue and for the interest you show in our position in the municipalities. I would also like to start by repeating what I said in my speech, that I am very confident that our fellow party members, i.e. the Social Democrats in both the Defence Committee and the Government Office, are aware of our position and share our view that the issue must be dealt with urgently and put together. To then assess the inner life of the Government Office I do not know if this is the right forum for. I myself worked in the Government Office, at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and know very well what life there might look like. I am not sure whether I fully understood Mikael Oskarsson's question. But I am very confident that our party chairman and Prime Minister Stefan Löfven understand the importance of this issue and know what it is about.
i-f2999c5907a82396-1698	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. The hope is then that the order as a majority in the Swedish Parliament will be so clearly heard so that we in our country do not end up in the precarious situation that can otherwise affect us. Once again, thank you for your speech. May we now have this decision in time so that we do not end up in a difficult situation.
i-f2999c5907a82396-1701	Madam President, I would like I will take this opportunity to express my appreciation to the Municipality of Region Uppsala and Östhammar for the fine cooperation, because we really change this.
i-f2999c5907a82396-1702	Madam President, I would like We seem to have grown mild this evening, because I would also like to start by thanking you for the courageous speech that the honourable Member made. It is never easy to go against your own government, but the genuine commitment and the learned post are really appreciated. Madam President, I would like I have a question that might be similar to that asked by the Member of the Christian Democrats. As we have been told, we have historically had several governments that have respected the will of the municipalities. Historically, we have had several governments who have understood that the question of final disposal needs to be resolved. They've been Social Democraticly led. Now we also have a Social Democratic-led government, but this government is slow now that decisions have to be taken. What does the Member of the Social Democrats do to assess why this government is acting differently from previous Social Democratic-led governments?
i-f2999c5907a82396-1705	Madam President, I would like I thank Joar Forssell for the question. Let me start by thanking you for your commitment, for standing up for the municipalities in your previous posts and for the interest you show in this matter. It means a lot to me. Let me reiterate that I am truly confident that our comrades in both the Defence Committee and the Government Office are aware of our position and share our view that the issue must be dealt with urgently and collectively. There I take my starting point to answer your question, which is somewhat theoretical because no previous government has been faced with the final application which is now on the table of the government. I am not going to speculate on what this may be, but think that this debate has partly illustrated it. I am sure that those of you who sit on the Committee on Defence and the Committee on Economic Affairs have also experienced what I have experienced in the Constitutional Committee. At our meetings you can see about where the parties stand and why, and then it lands in something. The chamber may not be the best place to think about this. But I am a political scientist in essence, and it is clear that you can have many different thoughts about this.
i-f2999c5907a82396-1710	Madam President, I would like Of course, I have every respect for that. I note, however, that this Social Democratic-led government is different from previous Social-Democratic-led governments which have shown greater respect for the co-determination and will of the municipalities on these issues and have also expressed a great deal of understanding that the question of completion must be resolved even if it has not been put on the table. The Green Party is part of this government. I note the burning commitment of the Green Party to nuclear power, and if we do not resolve the question of final storage, nuclear power will be forced to shut down. I understand that this can be difficult. We are also negotiating with the Green Party and the Social Democrats, and I do not always agree with the Social Democrats either. However, on these issues it seems to me quite obvious that the reason for not making decisions may not lie with the Member of the Social Democrats or in the parts of the Government Office that she describes in this House.
i-f2999c5907a82396-1714	Madam President, I would like It is a real observation that the Green Party is in the government, and they did not do so before the last parliamentary term. I understand that there is a commitment to nuclear power, but it is important that we all try to see the issue of nuclear waste separately. Whether you like nuclear energy or not, we should try to keep it aside. As an oskarshamner, I think it is important that we talk about nuclear waste and not involve other aspects too much. I would really like to appeal for this, even though I myself see great benefits from nuclear power and recognise the importance of nuclear power for our industry, our welfare and our country. As an oskarshamner, I would also like to remind you of the importance of the energy agreement, which in fact gave long-termness and the opportunity to avoid the constant snipers about nuclear power that Sweden has had for decades. It was under Stefan Lövven's leadership that the energy agreement came into place. As with all compromises, it was a rewarding and taking, and you were not satisfied with everything. But it provided long-term planning conditions for nuclear power and no end date, so there were big profits there. I would just like to highlight these aspects in relation to previous words in this House.
i-f2999c5907a82396-1718	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mrs Laila, for your speech in the debate. It was a fair speech on how to look at it locally but also from my position and that of the Swedish Democrats on the substance. This is one of the issues where Laila and I agree on most of the details. What did not appear in the speech was some kind of position on what the report nevertheless concerns. Given the Government's participation and the tone that has occurred in terms of how you view the municipality's role and the possibility of dividing the application into two parts, it is a rather disrespectful entrance. It is, of course, intended to have a dialogue with the municipality but is still open to taking it further and that it would be a way forward. In addition to the motion, there is a serious question to be asked by Mrs Laila. Does the honourable Member have confidence in how the Government deals with this issue of the application for a custody?
i-f2999c5907a82396-1721	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mattias, for the question and for your knowledgeable contributions earlier in the debate, when you raised important aspects. I'll answer your questions. First of all, I did not have a motion in my speech, but I wanted to raise the perspective of Oskarshamn's municipality so that it becomes quite clear to the whole House. I know that our chairman of the municipal board has been on the Committee on Defence, but it is urgent that we give this picture to the whole House and to all the Members we hope will now be sitting at home listening to the debate at this late hour. As far as the second question is concerned, I shall also answer, because I think it is important that we do not try to talk past each other and duck for questions when we have this discussion. You heard my speech. You have also followed this question and know how frustrated both our Chairman of the Municipal Board Andreas and I are. No, I do not have confidence in the Minister for the Environment's way of dealing with these issues. But I have great confidence in our Prime Minister Stefan Lövven's way of leading the government, dealing with these issues and demonstrating that he knows what is important to our country. He has my full confidence. I would like to reiterate to you that I am very confident that my Socialist party colleagues in both the Defence Committee and the Government Office are aware of our position and share our assessment that the issue must be dealt with urgently and collectively. That is where I am today.
i-f2999c5907a82396-1725	I would like to remind Members that we are not talking to each other in this House, but using first and last names and speaking through the President.
i-f2999c5907a82396-1726	Madam President, I would like Thank you again, Laila, for a very sincere answer. I think that the debate deserves the substance of the matter so that we can move forward. My hope is that the government will take on board the announcement made in the report to ensure that the issue is taken forward in order to move forward. It is important to find a solution to the final disposal of spent nuclear fuel. There should be no political conflict about it. It is an issue that needs to be resolved regardless of what you think about nuclear energy in substance. It has been working on the issue for a long time, and it comes to a point where you have to take the process forward in order not to stop completely and lose momentum. I have no further questions. Many thanks to Laila and her cause! My hope is that the government will take on board the announcement and ensure that it can lead the process forward.
i-f2999c5907a82396-1729	Madam President, I would like I'm sorry about the mistake earlier. Thank you, Mattias, for the questions. I would like to reiterate that I share the view that this must be dealt with urgently and collectively. I feel confident that the party colleagues in the Defence Committee and the Government Office know and share our assessment. I would like to take this opportunity to say that I naturally support Mr Niklas's speech earlier in this House, in which he stressed the importance of the urgency of the matter.
