i-2a12480308ea766c-0	Ladies and gentlemen! Today is a historic date – exactly one hundred years ago, the Swedish Parliament took the historic second and thus the final decision to introduce universal and equal voting rights. After a long struggle, women were now given the right to vote and the opportunity to be elected. The Riksdag draws attention to this in several different ways, including through a light play on the facade of the Eastern Parliament building which is lit at 4.00 p.m. today and a web film s om narrates about the parliamentary decision and the spirit of time that finally gave Sweden universal and equal voting rights.
i-2a12480308ea766c-11	Madam President, I would like It really feels solemn to be able to come here and discuss and debate urgent issues such as this historic day, 100 years after the second decision to introduce universal and similar voting rights. It's big. Madam President, I would like Lars Beckman has asked me what measures I intend to take to ensure that existing aid is achieved, given that many entrepreneurs testify to the fact that aid does not reach its intended stage. Furthermore, he has asked me what measures I intend to take to develop aid packages that really reach the restaurant operators in Sweden, when companies' revenues are drastically limited by pandemic legislation. Finally, he has asked me whether I will study other countries' support systems for the restaurant industry and possibly implement some of these systems and which countries it would be about. Alexandra Anstrell has asked me what measures I am willing to take to prevent more restaurants from going bankrupt. Furthermore, she has asked me whether I and the Government intend to take any steps to streamline the application procedure for conversion and turnover aid and to ensure that payments are made more promptly. Madam President, I would like For large parts of society, the spread of the Corona virus has brought great difficulties and challenges, and we are still in this very difficult situation. Many industries, businesses, entrepreneurs and employees have been financially affected by the virus. It has therefore very quickly introduced a number of aid measures to mitigate the impact of the pandemic on jobs and businesses that can also benefit from the restaurant industry. These include, among other things, conversion aid, turnover aid for individual traders and short-term lay-off to reduce wage costs, the possibility of deferred tax payments, credit guarantees such as the so-called Enterprise Act, reduced employers' contributions and social security contributions, and reliefs in the unemployment fund for entrepreneurs. Madam President, I would like In connection with the increased spread of infection, the Government has announced that several of the support measures will be extended to support Swedish jobs and companies through the deep crisis. The government has also recently proposed a new closure aid and a new period of state aid during which some local tenants will receive a discount on the rent. Finally, the government monitors developments in other countries as well as the economic impact on companies in Sweden and continuously analyses the need for the necessary measures for the business community.
i-2a12480308ea766c-17	Madam President, I would like I agree with the Government that this is a historic day, both because of the introduction of voting rights and because we are standing here today discussing a very important issue. Just before this interpellation debate, the Swedish Radio Ekot published a news story. I don't know if Minister Baylan follows the media, but if he does, he's seen the headline: Figures from the National Enquiry Centre, UC, show that the number of bankruptcies in the hotel and restaurant sector increased by 38 per cent in 2020 compared to 2019. ..................................................... Madam President, I would like I'm afraid this is just a vest fan compared to what's coming. At home in my constituency in Gävleborg, a large number of restaurants have gone bankrupt in a short time. One of Bollnäs' leading restaurants has thrown in the towel, and more are on their way. Some are even closed. They went out all over Hälsingland last week and said that it is completely pointless to keep open the few hours. We know that a small light was seen in the tunnel when it was thought that alcohol would be served until 10:00 p.m., but with three days' notice the government said that the alcohol ban after 8:00 p.m. will continue. This was particularly worrying, Madam President, because collective agreements have a two-week approach to scheduling staff. So there were the restaurants, who thought they would get a little light in the tunnel and get revenue. They had scheduled the staff, who would have more hours worked, but once again the carpet was pulled away from the restaurants. I understand the Kastroll uprising. I understand why there are entrepreneurs from Kiruna in the north to Ystad in the south and bang on their pots at 3 p.m. every day – and why they intend to continue with it until the government listens. They intend to continue until the government listens, and not only listens; I know that the Minister has had meetings with representatives of the restaurant industry, but the important thing at this point is not just to listen but also to act. We cannot have a wave of bankruptcy that affects the restaurant industry. I'm surprised at the government's passivity. I am surprised that the government has not done an alternative cost calculation. What is the cost of thousands of restaurants going bankrupt, Madam President? What's the alternative cost? Did you count on that? I understand the entrepreneurs, not least in Gävle, who in desperation had a press conference a few weeks ago. They wrote debate articles and explained very clearly how they have gone from being profitable companies to making multimillion losses because they have complied with the regulations set up by the government. They have been banned from business, as they see it, but the government has pulled the carpet away from the companies. It does not support companies. The Minister has now listed a number of measures, but they do not work. They can't get through. That is, of course, why the Riksdag, through the Finance Committee, has called on the government to develop support measures that meet the companies and help them. We are not talking about months or weeks when it comes to how quickly the government must act, Madam President, but we are probably talking about days.
i-2a12480308ea766c-24	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. Well, imagine, a hundred years ago, I wouldn't be standing here. I am glad that I am actually allowed to stand here today to debate issues relating to the restaurant business. It is an extremely important industry where many young people get their first job and where many born abroad get their first job. This is something the government needs to take more seriously. The Minister for Industry refers to a number of decisions that have been made, yet so many entrepreneurs are screaming for help. Many testify to the need to adjust emergency aid in order to achieve greater progress. Many testify that it takes a very long time to get the support they thought they would receive months ago. Many are still waiting for support that they would have received or that they sought this summer. Aid should be paid to healthy businesses, Madam President – but how can a company remain healthy and benefit from the various subsidies if it does not receive the money it has applied for? It'll be a bit of a moment 22. If you decide one thing, you still want it to be that way. Then you have to follow up that it will be what you had planned; otherwise you have to decide about. Ten months with Corona has hit many entrepreneurs hard all over Sweden. The government does not seem to understand the seriousness we are in or how the business sector actually works. Or what the CEO says today is that the government may not want to get the money out. Today it takes 30 % or, for some time, up to 50 % to benefit from the conversion aid. For example, according to the Swedish Tax Agency on 12 December, applications for conversion aid for the period June – July had been received for just over SEK 200 million. It is therefore a very small part of the budgeted 7 billion for this support in 2020. I think it is quite clear that the conversion aid has not been properly designed to reach the companies. Then it's great that you want to lower those limits, but it's still important to point out that there are quite few viable companies that, month after month, manage to lose between 30 and 50 percent of their turnover. It may be one of the factors behind the fact that the aid is not fully used. Support needs to be improved. They really need to reach businesses better. Decisions need to be taken more quickly in order for aid to benefit businesses – but above all, what has been decided must be paid out to entrepreneurs. The situation must be taken very seriously immediately, and the government needs to shoulder its responsibilities here. The Minister needs to ensure that entrepreneurs receive the support they need to continue running their businesses, thereby helping to create jobs and tax revenues, and that both rural areas and cities can live even after the pandemic is over. Why does it take so long to get the subsidies paid? I've been sick in covid-19, and that's nothing I recommend. I am certainly in favour of clear rules for reducing the spread of infection. In my home, however, no one but me became ill when I was. It is therefore largely a question of keeping a distance and washing and drinking hands. Many entrepreneurs are extremely good at this, but the restaurant industry has had extreme restrictions at extremely short notice. Now, however, the upper secondary schools are reopening, so I wonder what the government means. You want all teachers and young people to go back to school, but the restaurant business is not trusted to serve guests in safe environments. At my Ica at home you can shop between 7 and 22 – with 450 people. What's the difference between Ica and the hotel a kilometer away?
i-2a12480308ea766c-31	Madam President, I would like The Coronapandemia has hit Sweden very hard as well as the rest of the world. We can see how it has affected: People have become sick or even died. Many in Sweden have been laid off, and others have been laid off. Many entrepreneurs are fighting for the survival of their companies. We can see that the industries are quite different; some have done quite well, and if you sell groceries, it has even been very good business in the past year. Conversely, however, we can see that culture, sport, transport, tourism and parts of the trade have an incredible struggle. I have great respect for the fact that it was not easy for Ibrahim Baylan and his colleagues when the pandemic hit: What crisis measures should we put in place? But now it is almost a year, and we can see that there are a number of recurring and pervasive problems regarding how the government has managed the support for the country's entrepreneurs. The first is that it has taken the Minister for Economic Affairs and his partners a long time to give information at all whether to support companies and, if so, how. Then it has usually taken months for the government to return legislative proposals to the Riksdag. When the Riksdag has then decided, for example, to provide support to restaurant owners and traders, it has usually taken weeks, sometimes months, for authorities to set up their processes and adapt their computer systems before an entrepreneur can finally apply and get money. To be specific, Madam President: in the middle of autumn, the government gave notice to extend the so-called conversion aid for limited liability companies. Anyone who lost a particularly large amount of turnover in August and September last year should therefore be able to receive support. As far as I know, we have not even received the motion to Parliament, and that is not a decision made on this. A person – it may be a restaurant owner – who at the end of last summer, in August or a little after that, lost a lot of their turnover will at best be able to apply for and get money in, say, March or April this year. It's six months after Ibrahim Baylan gave the message. I mean this is one of the main points: that the government is acting so incredibly slowly. That it was difficult initially I can buy, but that it goes so slowly gradually I really can't understand. Another problem in all of this is that there has been enormous twitchiness. This applies, for example, to the so-called conversion aid, where certain months have not been known whether it will be extended. It has also shifted – sometimes you should have lost 30 percent, sometimes 40 percent and other times 50 percent of your turnover to be eligible for it. I will answer honestly: I, who still spend a lot of my time working with crisis support and entrepreneurs' conditions, find it difficult to distinguish between the periods and know which conditions apply. If you sit there as a shopkeeper, restaurateur, transporter or cultural person, it is hard when impossible to keep up with all the Minister's coats. What is now required is much more resolute action. There I would like to ask, Madam President: will the government use the new Pandemic Act? It's actually an option. Instead of the partial shutdowns of restaurants and other things you can actually use the new legislation – and link it to direct compensation. The second question is about what Ibrahim Baylan intends to do in concrete terms to simplify this support for the country's entrepreneurs, Madam President. Only this week, the Committee on Finance came up with a so-called announcement, that is, a decision to call on the government to actually do this. What plans does the Minister of Economic Affairs have for the country's entrepreneurs not to get caught up in the continuing government bureaucracy in crisis management?
i-2a12480308ea766c-39	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the start of the great day for democracy and the right to vote – an important day! Sweden's and Skåne's restaurateurs and entrepreneurs active in the restaurant industry and other industries are on their knees economically. We could all be in line here – we are, of course, a number of moderates in this House today who are asking questions concerning a number of regions, with stories from the entrepreneurs in particular. We also share the Government's description that there are major problems for large parts of society. A lot of things are going well – it should be said – but we leave it there for so long and talk about what is problematic. After all, the Minister for Industry has the task of promoting industrial policy and ensuring that our wheels spin economically. At least I think that is how it should work, even during the pandemic – that we are doing as much as we can. This differs from the mission of Minister Lena Hallengren, who focuses on people having their health and people doing well through the pandemic. Many companies, such as the taxi industry and the tourism industry as well as hairdressers and others, have had a really tough time since March. They have emptied their money and borrowed their businesses and homes in order to survive, if they have an individual firm. We are talking about normally prosperous companies, which would have run on as usual with customers and income if it were not for the pandemic. Madam President, I would like In its reply, the Government states that the Government has promptly handled decisions regarding most of the support that the restaurant industry can take part in to mitigate the consequences of the pandemic for jobs and businesses. For me, this is a very strange statement when, on the other side of the year, the government announced that the lay-off aid available from 1 December cannot be applied for until the end of March. There will be bumps along the way when decisions do not go along with what is to be done. It is retroactive and destructive because companies need to know here and now what is going to apply and what path they are going to take forward. The understanding of the everyday life of companies seems to be lacking because the money that the government promises is meant to be delayed. 中 Unreasonably long time to wait! The quote comes from the Federation of Swedish Enterprises. They say that when the government first decided to postpone the tax for entrepreneurs it took 22 days before it was launched; that was good. Now it's gonna take at least three months. The Federation of Entrepreneurs considers this unreasonable, and one can agree. Madam President, I would like Undoubtedly, it takes oceans of time for the one who fights for his work every day. When companies cannot plan ahead, they risk losing their life's work and many even homes and homes. It is important to make decisions so that companies know whether to go bankrupt or continue their business, plan and borrow themselves and their family. Seen from that point of view, that they will survive, there will also be changes. I'm thinking, where does this go? What about the tourism industry? Does the government have a plan for us to have one even after this pandemic?
i-2a12480308ea766c-47	Madam President, I would like Thank you for reminding us of the important day for Swedish democracy! Madam President, the Minister for Enterprise and Industry. Much that is wise and right has already been said by my colleagues. To sum up, extraordinary times require extraordinary action. I would like to put a specific question to the Minister for Economic Affairs and I would like to ask for a concrete answer. In the Pandemic Act, the government has announced closure aid for affected companies. That's good, and we Moderates have pushed for that to happen. Provided that the European Commission approves the closure aid, companies that have been prevented from carrying out their activities due to the Pandemic Act will receive compensation of up to 100% of their fixed costs. Entry into force is expected at the beginning of April, but the support will be possible to apply retroactively if the government activates shutdown before then. However, many restaurants have already been forced to close completely or drastically reduce their opening hours due to other restrictions, applied under other legislation than the Pandemic Act. In practice, these restrictions have in principle meant a ban on the business of large parts of the restaurant industry. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for Economic Affairs whether he is going to push the question that restaurants that have lost their entire turnover because of restrictions other than the Pandemic Act should be able to benefit from the 100% aid.
i-2a12480308ea766c-52	Madam President, I would like Thank you for reminding us of the important day of democracy! On Thursday this week 2 I was contacted by restaurant owners in Idre Fjäll who wondered how the government thought about changing the decision on opening hours from one day to the other. The proposal was that the restaurants should be open until 22 o'clock. That's not what happened. Madam President, I would like Making a decision like this affects the restaurant owners. This is an industry that's already on its knees. Dalarna's mountain world, with holidaying families in Sälen, Idre Fjäll, Grövelsjön and many other facilities, has guests who want to sit longer than 20.30 in the safe environments that the restaurateurs make possible. The guests want to do this in all Dalarna municipalities and throughout Sweden. The restaurant owners have asked me to present their stories here today. Lasse runs two places in Mora. He says: It was a tough spring, but a hemester summer and a small buffer from Vasaloppsveckan made it still look good before a second wave. We felt a little better prepared. In November, the first knock-out came from the government: alcohol sales stopped after 22 o'clock from 20 November. I was forced to close one of our operations, the Little Helfvette rock club. O 中 Learys we could continue, but of course we adjusted the opening hours based on the rules that apply under the Alcohol Act that the place should be evacuated according to the permission to serve. The next knock from the government came for Christmas weekend: stop for alcohol serving already from 20:00. This affects hugely as we are a sports bar and many come to watch hockey, which is big in Dalarna and with us. Maria runs a restaurant with her husband Love; they are also parents of young children. They have chosen to live their dream life as a restaurant owner. She describes it this way: I want to highlight that behind every company there are people – a family, perhaps a brother or a mother – who struggle and toil and go in personal bail with banks and suppliers in order to be able to conduct their business. Because it's a rose dance? Because you get rich? I don't think so, but why? Because we restaurateurs have one thing in common: We have a passion for food and drink, and we love to deliver experiences. We are extremely good at following current restrictions. We adapt all the time – we change, we are creative and we see opportunities. Because I think few people are more eager than we are to stop the spread of infection so that we can return to normal. We have terminated 9 of our 15 employees. The conversion support is delayed, and the small thing that came in last spring didn't even cover the rent for a month. We need emergency support now. The government has blacked out an entire industry. Madam President, I would like I wonder what initiatives the Government is prepared to take in relation to what I have now put forward.
i-2a12480308ea766c-58	Madam President, I would like Thank you, the debaters, for a lot of questions. I'll try to go through them. Are we looking at other countries? Yeah. Which countries are we looking at? We look at countries such as Germany, Denmark, Norway, our closest neighbours, and the Netherlands. These are countries that in many respects resemble us. What conclusions do we draw? We see that there are quite a lot of similar measures being taken. They are often quite general but also here and were a little more specific. These countries have often gone significantly further in terms of closures. Sometimes they have closed completely, and sometimes they have closed parts of society. In Sweden we have tried to find a balance that I have understood that there is quite a broad consensus about. There is a balance between both combating the infection – saving human lives is basically what this is all about – and mitigating the effects on jobs and entrepreneurship, in that order. Of course we look at other countries and try to learn. Where possible, we will also be helped. Madam President, I would like I get a number of questions here about why the government does in a certain way, or, as Malin Höglund concluded by saying: What does the government think? The government believes – and I have understood until now that we have quite a consensus here – that we must do our utmost to curb the infection. We do this for the reason that Malin Höglund mentioned, namely that it should not get any worse. We should not end up in the situation that many other countries are in, where you go into so-called lockdowns. I have not actually understood that any party in Sweden or the Swedish population wants to be part of it, because it is already tough as it is. Then we must stop the spread of the disease. We are taking a number of measures. Yes, they have quite far - reaching consequences. We know that. But that is basically what it is all about. I think we all know that, although opposition and government are expected to hold a debate. Basically, I think we agree, or aren't we? Lars Beckman asks: Have you done an alternative cost calculation? Yes, it goes in the order that I said: it is about saving human lives, curbing the infection and alleviating the impact on businesses. We know that the situation is very difficult for parts of the Swedish business community. Parts of the business sector have been closed ever since March. Lars Beckman, or if it was Lars Helmered, mentioned cultural life. It's about cultural life and events. The travel industry, which I and Alexandra Anstrell have discussed in the past, is having an extremely tough time, as well as the restaurant and hospitality industry. I was asked by Ann-Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson if we should not have a strong tourism industry. Yes, of course we should strive for it. We had a very strong development before the pandemic, and we will strive to get back there. We must help each other during this period to overwinter. Here you paint a picture of nothing being done. On the contrary, I would like to say that we are doing our utmost, faster than any government has ever done before. We have delivered 12 – 13 extra budgets to make sure to build support for the companies most affected. However, given the depth and breadth of the pandemic, I think we all realise that this is essentially about mitigating the effects. To stand here in Parliament's pulpit and promise that there will be no negative consequences can none of us do. It is against this background that we have proposed further measures, because we know that those we have had in the past have not been sufficient. We are also working intensively to get them out.
i-2a12480308ea766c-70	Madam President, I would like We can start with the alternative cost. Of course, it is not about whether or not to allow a pandemic to run freely in society. We fully agree that all contamination should be combated. I do not know if the Minister for Economic Affairs deliberately misunderstood me, but what I meant was the alternative of letting all these restaurants go bankrupt. That's the alternative cost. It must be cheaper to do as other countries have done and to support the business community fully so that there are no bankruptcies. Let me quote what Entrepreneurs CEO says in SVT: So it is not we Moderates who say this, but it is the CEO of the organization Företagarna. Madam President, I would like There is reason for that criticism. As I read, there is now a wave of bankruptcy through the restaurant industry. The Minister for Industry fully defends the government's work here. He thinks that the government has done nothing wrong and that the government does not have to do anything more, but it is a natural law that we should now let all these restaurants go bankrupt. It is a natural law for the government to fail the business community when the support is needed most. What has happened to the restaurants is a food ban. They have 24 hours of expenses and a few hours of revenue. That is of course why, among other things, the restaurant in Bollnäs that I usually buy catering from has said that it is not an idea to be open, but to close. That's why Lars Helmered's question is so relevant. Perhaps it would be more honest to say that the restaurant industry in Sweden is being shut down for some time – all the restaurants with an alcohol license – and then also take the cost of it? Now the government closes the restaurant industry's opportunities for revenue, but it does not pay compensation. But maybe there's a little hope for the restaurant business. The Minister for Finance was interviewed in SVT, and she said, unlike the Minister for Finance: I note that she is directing some self-criticism towards herself as Minister of Finance and against the government, unlike the Minister of Economic Affairs. The Minister for Industry comes here to the Chamber, looks into the camera and turns to Sweden's entrepreneurs. He turns to the restaurant entrepreneurs who now do not have the money to pay their bills, because that is the reality, and to the restaurant entrepreneur who says to Söderhamns-Kuriren: Last year we worked 363 days at a time but 15 – 18 hours a day. We pay to work. We need to borrow money to survive. That's what business owners say to Söderhamns-Kuriren. In fact, I would have expected a degree of humility from a minister of industry. From my perspective, Minister of Economic Affairs is one of the finest posts in the Swedish government. He has the privilege of being Minister of Economic Affairs, the privilege of travelling around the country in a simplification journey and the privilege of working to ensure that there will be jobs and growth. But then you actually have to stand up even when things go bad and blow. This is what all these entrepreneurs, who have paid taxes and provided jobs, expect. They expect support, not someone pulling the carpet away from them. We'll have to keep our jobs when we've passed the crisis. Madam President, I would like Does the Minister of Finance share the view that the aid has been misplaced and not achieved?
i-2a12480308ea766c-79	Madam President, I would like I was 13 when I got my first job in the restaurant business, in the counter at Brinkeboda Wärdshus in Mörsil. It was amazingly instructive! It has been followed by various jobs in this industry both in Åre and here in Stockholm and also abroad. It is a fun business that nurtures many in life. The average age of the industry is now 35 years. 43 percent are born abroad, and it is quite even, 50 - 50, between women and men. It is an industry that is important for Sweden and for Sweden's jobs. Many have heard from them and told them about their everyday lives. My colleagues have testified to several of them. They see their life's work go to the grave because support is not paid out in time. They wonder why they are not trusted to provide safe environments for their guests. That's what they want and try to do. Many now no longer walk on their knees, but on their corner teeth. It's devastating to hear their stories. You actually need to take responsibility for this. Stockholm is particularly affected under the coronapandemine, as the metropolitan areas of Stockholm, Västra Götaland and Skåne account for almost 60 per cent of the employment in the hotel and restaurant industry. The Minister says that a lot is being done and that many amending budgets have been made and so on. But then the supplementary question is: Are the right things being done? Does the government follow up the fact that the aid is granted to entrepreneurs? The entrepreneurs are screaming for help. I know that the minister himself has met many entrepreneurs. The CEO of the company, Günther Günther, says in the media today that the conversion aid, just like Lars Beckman, is one of the worst implemented reforms ever in modern history. I understand that the restaurateurs and the whole business are making a pot riot. They need help. The Committee on Finance now wants to see more accurate support for these entrepreneurs – it will be debated in this House tomorrow. Can all these entrepreneurs expect the government to support this proposal? It is obvious that the support is not accurate. Or what does the Minister of Economic Affairs say to all these entrepreneurs who need help? I asked the Minister for Economic Affairs a few questions in my interpellation. The first was whether the Minister was willing to take any steps to prevent more restaurants from going bankrupt. I can't hear that I'm getting an answer to that question. Or should I interpret the Minister's reply as saying that there will be no other action? My second question was whether the government intends to take any steps to streamline the application procedure for these subsidies and to ensure that payments are made on time. It must be done more quickly. Even there, Madam President, I do not get an answer. I would therefore like to ask the Minister again: will you ensure that payments are made more quickly?
i-2a12480308ea766c-88	Madam President, I would like The Coronapandemia has really hit our society very hard. By now, 11 000 people have died, I think, and we are still not through this. There is, of course, hope that a vaccination will allow us to return to some kind of normality and that we can learn lessons from the horrendous year we have behind us. But it is also necessary, in my opinion, to act more forcefully and resolutely on the part of the government and the Minister for Economic Affairs to save and help affected entrepreneurs in important sectors – such as tourism, trade, transport, culture and sport – who have been particularly vulnerable in the past year. The example, Madam President, is the conversion aid. Ibrahim Baylan and his colleagues told us in the middle of autumn that this would be extended so that an entrepreneur who was affected last August and the months ahead could receive support. A proposal has not come to Parliament. An entrepreneur cannot therefore apply for money for that period. At best, the money can enter the account six months, or more than six months, after the month in question. Often for a restaurant owner it is at the end of a crisising summer almost a year ago. That is why I wonder whether the government has considered looking at and using the so-called pandemic law. In some cases you can say: Now we close a mall or a restaurant to get a more powerful corona management. But it is also linked to compensation for an affected entrepreneur. What do you do specifically on the part of the government? We see, Madam President, that there is a concrete proposal on Parliament's table that the government should produce more accurate measures and that more measures should be developed for individual entrepreneurs. The Social Democrats in Parliament say no to this, so my final question is: Why are the Social Democrats voting against having more accurate measures and developing support for individual traders?
i-2a12480308ea766c-93	Madam President, I would like Here today, the focus is on the economic part of the pandemic. As I said, many companies have emptied their airbags. They've taken out loans to make it through the pandemic's hump. It is, as has been said, trade, culture and tourism, which have ended up in a so-called impoverishment phase, one must say. Government! The government is not closing completely. You're not grounded. This means that these companies should manage on virtually nothing. Should we take it as an elected line from the Government? Please respond to that in the next speech! Crowd Fredrik Eriksson stated in TV4 that a healthy dialogue with the government is needed. I take that as a statement that there is no such one. I would like the Council of Ministers to respond in his next speech to how he views the statement on dialogue and whether it is being conducted in order to find solutions that are covid-19-proofed. It must be possible, as Alexandra Anstrell mentioned earlier, when companies themselves say: We can provide solutions for us to keep open and for us to make it work. The Government replied earlier to my question about the tourism industry and its future. SOU 2017:95, A country to visit – A comprehensive policy for sustainable tourism and growing tourism industry, lies with the government. I've got it on the table. At least it's supposed to be put in the lake. Will this be possible? There's a lot in it. The question still remains: Will there be two leaves, or will there be a forward tourism industry? We have heard many stories here today. The question remains: will the Kastrull uprising be able to change the government's mind?
i-2a12480308ea766c-99	Madam President, I would like The Minister for Industry! I would urge the government to act quickly. Unfortunately, everything the government has gone out with has been perceived as empty promises, and we know that promises do not pay bills or feed stomachs. The government must turn every stone around and be very quick to ensure that all people who are at risk of losing their life's work and who have borrowed themselves up to their ears, pawned their houses and emptied the children's savings boxes will be able to survive and again become the taxpayers who make sure that Sweden works well. We must show respect for these companies, which have really done everything in their power to deliver to welfare. Now that they're trying to get back from the insurance they've paid, they're being let down. I would also like to repeat my question, to which I did not receive an answer: will restaurants that have lost their entire turnover because of restrictions other than the Pandemic Act be considered for the 100% closure aid?
i-2a12480308ea766c-102	Madam President, I would like In August 2020, moderate members of parliament started a Dalaresa, which lasted until Monday. We have visited about 50 companies, including several restaurants. We've heard their stories. My sister Anna runs companies, several restaurants, at Idre Fjäll in Dalarna. She relates the following: We're not canceling. Let's switch. We restaurateurs have adapted all the time. This rule of alcohol after 20 o'clock causes many to lose their second sitting at night. We at the restaurants have full control of our seated guests, so why not let us be open until 22 o'clock? What does the government think happens at the restaurant after 20 o'clock? Then there is the next problem: four sitting at each table. A family today is maybe six or seven. At present, we must divide the family into two tables, but they live in the same house. We have fewer guests in our restaurants and thus less revenue. We're people who see our life's work go down. We're throwing hands. We'll keep our distance. We're doing everything we can, but our legs are being put away all the time. Madam President, I would like I am interested to know what measures the Government intends to take to allow restaurants to return to their normal opening hours in the safe environments they have created during the pandemic.
i-2a12480308ea766c-106	Madam President, I would like There were a lot of new questions. Let me start with the last and say that it is entirely and exclusively the state of disease protection and the spread of infection that determine the future. It is the spread of infection that makes us in this very difficult situation. I think we are all aware of how extremely tough a number of industries and entrepreneurs have it. The cultural sphere has been pointed out as well as performing arts, events and amusement parks that have been closed for a long time. It is about the tourism industry in general as well as the travel industry. We are all aware of this, and it is against this background that we have also introduced a large number of measures. It is clear that these also have an effect. Let us take an example, because it comes up here that nothing is done: the biggest aid, which is short-term aid, Madam President, is about helping companies with wage costs in this very difficult situation. By the end of last year it had been paid out EUR 31.6 billion and includes 580 000 employees – 18 per cent of employees in the private sector in Sweden. There are 90 000 applications, 73 600 of which were approved. Madam President, I would like If we look specifically at the restaurant industry, this meant that by the end of the year, only SEK 3.2 billion had been paid in short-term support in this very difficult situation. Then we know what happened in the fall. The pandemic and the spread of the disease increased, and we had to impose new restrictions to reduce the spread of the disease and ensure that the health care system was able to cope with the situation and save human lives. We are all aware of all this, Madam President, and it is therefore a bit sad to hear Lars Beckman try to put words in my mouth that I have never said. We can engage in this type of political rhetoric under normal circumstances. However, in this very difficult situation both for people and for our society, our companies and our employees, I think we should stay too good for it. Madam President, I would like I know the situation is very tough for the restaurant and hotel industry. I'll see them. AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson quoted Fredrik Eriksson – whom I spoke to this morning – who is a very wise entrepreneur. I have met with Visita's board quite recently, and I meet with individual entrepreneurs to take in what is happening in the companies and to see how we can help each other with the support measures that are already decided. We must realise that 3.2 billion sounds very much, but that is not enough. It is not enough because the situation continues to be very tough for the country's tourism industry, for hotels and restaurants, just as it is for the rest of our business that today cannot operate in the way we are used to. It is against this background, Madam President, that both the Minister for Finance and I myself have said that we will have to do more, and that is why we have quite recently put forward proposals to increase the level of short-term aid and extend it. The same applies to the conversion aid. It is a question of turnover aid and re-imposed rental aid. We have also made sure that you can get more time to cope with liquidity and extend the Business Act so that you can get help with liquidity. Madam President, I would like I realise that these are very tough times and that there is a great deal of frustration in everyone, because I think that, basically, whether we are moderate, social democrats, wage earners or entrepreneurs, we long for and wish that we could have a more normal situation. But we don't, and we're gonna have to work together. We are not ruling out any measures at all, because we will be in a very difficult situation in the future.
i-2a12480308ea766c-116	Madam President, I would like It is one of the worst implemented reforms ever, says the CEO of the Enterprise of the support that the Minister of Economic Affairs has expressed in this House in today's debate – one of the worst implemented reforms ever. Then why does the CEO of the Enterprise say this? Why is the country's small business who runs restaurants from Kiruna in the north to Ystad in the south and bangs on their pots in desperation at three o'clock every day? This is, of course, because aid does not get through. Of course, it is in desperation that they no longer have any money. You've emptied your sparring bags, you've borrowed your house. I know an entrepreneur in Sandviken where the whole family has been bailed out for the company to survive another month. That is the reality, and that is why action is needed here and now. Then it is good that I have misinterpreted the Minister for Enterprise and that he intends to present concrete, strong measures that will be achieved this week. It is, of course, to be welcomed, if I understand the Minister for Economic Affairs correctly, that the Social Democrats will, in tomorrow's vote, support the majority in the Parliament who says: "Develop measures that work!" I can only quote what the Minister says in his introduction: we are following developments closely. This does not help the restaurants in Gävle that are going bankrupt. It does not help the family in Sandviken, where the whole family has been in the castle for the restaurant, that the Minister for Economic Affairs is following developments. What is needed is action and action!
i-2a12480308ea766c-121	Madam President, I would like At home in my grocery store is a sign: Max 450 people. They are open from seven in the morning until ten in the evening each day. A mile away is the hotel that is not allowed to serve anything after eight o'clock, although the company sits a maximum of four together in a safe environment. At 8:30, even a father is not allowed to sit with his child in the lobby while the mother tries to put her little sister up in the room, as it is a serving area. Another kilometer away is one of Stockholm's largest high school schools, which is now opening with lots of teachers and young people. What scientific evidence does the government have for the restaurant closure after eight o'clock in the evening? I wonder. I understand that the Minister is not going to do anything more to reduce and counteract more bankruptcies in the restaurant business. Nor did I get an answer on how to ensure that the authorities make payments more quickly. Why do they not make payments more prompt? Entrepreneurs are encouraged to hold on and endure. But if the subsidies do not arrive, how can they endure? You still have to get food on the table. Entrepreneurs are encouraged not to set up but to reset. Entrepreneurs are changing. But why is the hotel and restaurant business not trusted to be able to reset?
i-2a12480308ea766c-127	Madam President, I would like We announced further measures last week, as Lars Beckman is very well aware. We're in a tough position. I think we all realise that, and although I now hear a number of comments, I do not know that the Moderates have proposed any other strategy to deal with the spread of infection. Nevertheless, I understand that we have had a rather broad consensus in trying, as far as possible, to balance the fact that we are doing our utmost to save human lives, provide health care with good conditions and ensure that the spread of the disease is controlled by not going into the lockdowns, as far as possible, of the cut that we have seen in many other countries. There has been a broad consensus on this. Of course, that does not sound that way when you stand in the speaker's seat questioning individual measures, but it is still a fact, as far as I know. Madam President, I would like It's a tough situation. I would rather not impose any restrictions whatsoever. There is a frustration that is expressed both here and definitely in my dialogue with the companies that are suffering as a result of restrictions or, in general, the very harsh pandemic in which we are in the midst. Of course you wish we hadn't been. You wish you could have been able to do your business as you normally do. That's what I would have wanted, too. But we're not there. It is against this background that we will have to continue to work hard to curb the infection, to ensure that health care works but also, of course, to mitigate the effects of this pandemic on the restaurant industry, the hotel industry, the travel industry and the cultural industry – for all sectors that are currently very hard hit by the fact that they cannot carry on their business and thus find it difficult to get revenue and be able to walk around. Thank you for a very important discussion.
i-2a12480308ea766c-135	Madam President, I would like Boriana Åberg has asked me several questions about the handling of track damage on Västkustbanan in Skåne. The Government has high ambitions for the Swedish railway and for transport to be moved from road to rail and shipping. After years of underinvestment in Swedish infrastructure, the Government decided in 2018 on a national plan for the transport infrastructure. This meant a sharp increase in the allocation for railway maintenance, which increased by 47 per cent. Since then, the Council has continued to invest in the railways. According to the Government's proposal in the budget proposal for 2021, rail maintenance increased by SEK 500 million per year for 2021 – 2023. This enables Trafikverket to advance and expand urgent railway maintenance throughout the country. It will take time to make up for the neglected maintenance in the railway. Safety is always the highest priority, and if the Finnish Transport Administration detects damage, measures are taken to remedy the defects. Unplanned disruptions are, of course, unfortunate. On behalf of the Government, the Finnish Transport Agency has developed action plans to improve maintenance planning, traffic information and reduce disturbances in rail traffic. I will continue to follow the work closely in my dialogue with both Trafikverket and regions and the railway industry.
i-2a12480308ea766c-140	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. As usual, the Minister commends the policy of the present government, while at the same time obsolescence to the shortcomings of previous governments. But he does not answer the question of communication between the Finnish Transport Administration and the train operators. Madam President, I would like At the beginning of December, the West Coast Line between Helsingborg and Lund was closed for high speed trains. The reason was extensive damage to the rails. There were no less than 246 injuries on the route between Helsingborg and Kävlinge. Five of these injuries were so serious that they could have caused rail breakage and derailment. A derailment of trains where it normally travels hundreds of people on their way to work or school would have caused enormous tragedies. So luckily, traffic was stopped before a disaster occurred. However, the question arises as to whether the damage could not have been remedied earlier and the train operators were informed better in advance. These severe injuries were known to the Swedish Transport Administration as early as last summer when the work ordered a track milling on the Helsingborg – Lund route. The contractor who performed the work reported that many cracks were too deep and too wide to be milled away. In October, a consulting company was hired to document the errors more accurately. Even when the report was completed at the end of November, the train operators were not told how serious the damage was, even though they offered to release as much time as possible for track work. So the special train order from the Traffic Administration's command center was perceived as a flash from a clear sky. Cancelled trains, delays in both Skåne and parts of Denmark have been the result of the sudden train order and many worried people who have not been able to get to their jobs. Failure to provide information on the damage has been perceived as a cover-up of the safety risks, which is extremely serious. It is no wonder that Skånetrafiken, SJ, Arriva, Transdev, Green Cargo and the Öresund trains were and are still very upset. They call for a dialogue, an open dialogue between the Finnish Transport Administration and the train operators so that the cooperation will work. In the end, it is the passengers who have to take the consequences, the same passengers that the government says it wants them to use public transport. In order for passengers to consider replacing the car with public transport, trains must go on time and be on time. It is about punctuality and security. It should be predictable to take the train. The actors are tired of constant surprises such as track faults, ne-powered contact lines, solar curves, and more.
i-2a12480308ea766c-151	Madam President, I would like I thank Boriana Åberg for the questions. It's very important that the trains go on time. In fact, last year was probably a new record in punctuality. The targets that the Swedish Transport Administration has set together with the train operators show that it was a new record in punctuality. The year before was also an improvement. So there has been a steady improvement, partly because, unlike when the Moderates led this country, we are now investing in railway maintenance and renovating and repairing the railway but also building new ones. This is necessary for freight trains and passenger trains to arrive on time. Punctuality has thus been greatly improved. That's the first thing that's important. In addition, we are providing more resources for this to be possible. There is now a long-term railway maintenance plan that the Swedish Transport Administration has had to develop together with the maintenance contractors and the train operators, so that there will be predictability. When people plan their journey in good, they should know that a certain distance will be turned off, like Getingmidjan here in Stockholm, which was shut down for three consecutive summers so that one could properly grab, renovate and repair a very central part of the Swedish rail system. I am puzzled when I hear Boriana Åberg now resort to the rhetoric that is increasingly heard. In the past they only heard it from Swedish democrats but now also from Moderates. This is the cover-up of the authorities," says Boriana Åberg. This could have caused enormous tragedies. It is constant maintenance that is now being pushed forward. First of all, we should know that the route in question was not included in any maintenance plan. It is therefore not a question of any forward maintenance. As soon as regular inspections revealed shortcomings, it was first assessed that these were deficiencies that could be remedied by milling them away. But as soon as you noticed that they were worse than you thought they were, you made direct contact with the railway undertakings and stopped the traffic, because safety always comes first. That is the most important thing, and that is the mission of the Finnish Transport Administration. It is important, however, that we argue in a way that also has confidence in social institutions, that is, that authorities are actually doing their best in this case to have a good dialogue with railway operators and maintenance companies and to inform citizens about the problems that may arise as a result of emergency railway maintenance and planned railway maintenance. My view is that it is a work that has improved. This concerns information to those concerned and more structured and planned railway maintenance. The advantage of actually planning railway maintenance is that the risk of getting that kind of emergency stop becomes incredibly much less. Let me be clear. It is in the work's instruction that you should of course do everything you can to ensure that there is good safety in the rail system. It should be a good dialogue with rail operators and with municipalities, regions and maintenance companies. It is up to the Finnish Transport Administration to have that responsibility. Similarly, I think it is up to politicians to ensure that there are resources. I understand that it is difficult for Boriana Åberg to hear, as a moderate, that during the time the Moderates ruled the country did not provide sufficient resources for railway maintenance or investment. It is now that investments are being made. It is now in the last budget that there is a 47 % increase in rail maintenance. Instead, the Moderates continue to give priority to lower taxes on petrol or other efforts that will hardly benefit climate-smart travel in the future.
i-2a12480308ea766c-158	Madam President, I would like Former governments also had their trespasses, but these are not the ones we are talking about today. We are talking about how the current government should ensure that things work and how they should steer their authorities. With regard to cover-up, it is a matter of not telling train operators for several months that there were extensive and serious injuries. That is not my view; it is the view of the train operators. Then there was the question of punctuality in traffic. Yes, that's right, and it's positive. But a large part of the traffic doesn't work. It is always easier to get punctual traffic when there are not so many to get along on the insufficient tracks. I would like to return to the question of the Swedish Transport Administration's cooperation with the train operators, such as Skånetrafiken. Skåne is the metropolitan region in Sweden that operates most regional traffic. Public transport in Skåne is therefore very dependent on the Finnish Transport Administration's tracks working. Region Skåne has ascribed to the Government and has emphasised what is important in terms of successful maintenance, namely clear objectives for the mission, clear objectives for the performance of the assignment, good follow-up of the client and further collaboration with the train operators for practical solutions, for example in the case of shutdowns. It is not possible to stress enough how important dialogue between all parties is for the planning of maintenance, i.e. which times the track should be switched off for traffic so that maintenance can be carried out. Planning is also extremely important in collaboration between Trafikverket, the maintenance contractors and the train operators so that the efforts can be coordinated and access to the tracks can meet the need for good maintenance while the impact on train traffic is not greater than necessary. That is exactly how it has fallen in the case I refer to. Previously it has worked better when it comes to cooperation between Skånetrafiken and Trafikverket, but now there have been some changes. Does the Minister know why this has happened? It is gratifying that the Minister looks forward and talks about all the investments in the infrastructure in Skåne. They are really needed for road and rail. My interpellation is about the West Coast Line, but it might as well have been about dozens of other Scanian infrastructure initiatives that have never come about despite the needs. But let me go back to the West Coast Line. The Parliament already decided during the Parliamentary Session 1992/ 93 that the West Coast Line should be extended to double tracks. Today, almost 30 years later, there are still single-track routes that stop efficient use, such as the Maria – Helsingborg Central Station section. When will it be built?
i-2a12480308ea766c-165	Madam President, I would like It is true that too little has been invested in infrastructure in Skåne for a long time. It was then a government that gave priority to tax cuts instead. Not least after the Öresund bridge's construction and after the strong commitment that has been held by regional politicians in the Skåne region, I think that the state did not follow up with sufficient investments. Since we took office, several bets are made. One such is Lund – Hässleholm. I opened the building myself and started with the Flackarp – Arlöv section. There are extensive investments made there. The stretch Maria – Helsingborg is on the national level. This is the last stretch, which allows us to complete what has been a long project. Now we are making the investments that have been called for because we choose to prioritise them. There are now even trams in Lund. It is thanks to the urban environment agreements that the Moderates are opposed to. There would not have been any if the Moderates had ruled – nor a North Bothnia track or other rail investments. We choose to prioritise them. It's important. With regard to cooperation, I would like to commend those who have been. It became most obvious when there was a fire in Hässleholm. It was of course worrying in Hässleholm, and it also had major consequences for the entire Swedish rail system. There, major efforts were made by the region, train operators, maintenance companies and the Finnish Transport Administration. Quickly and quickly, tracks were cleared, repairs were made, and traffic was already running after three days. The consequences in terms of budget and planning were great, but this shows that when it came to it, they had a fantastic ability to interact. There can be no other level of ambition. Of course it should be a clear collaboration. This is why the Government commissioned the Finnish Transport Agency to develop a long-term railway maintenance plan in collaboration with train operators and maintenance companies so that the predictability that is actually required can be achieved. There are, of course, comments on public transport in Skåne. For a long time, public transport has been cut or not prepared to invest for political reasons. However, this is an issue that the region and its citizens have to debate. We in the government have said that we can get the money we spend on public transport if we maintain the volume at the same time, so that savings are not made when we have to ensure that it is not crowded on buses or trains but that people can travel safely. And those who work in public transport should travel safely. Some of Boriana Åberg's party colleagues in Skåne have criticized the government for making demands on what volume it should be. I think that's reasonable. When the state spends money on public transport, for the first time, it is the responsibility of the regions, we do so in good faith that it should be safe and secure to travel on public transport during the pandemic. Not everyone has their own car. Not everyone can ride a bike to work or work from home. Some must be able to get to work, and public transport is often available. That's why we're shooting at extra resources. There were 3 billion last year and 2 extra billion now. But we also make demands to ensure that the volume is maintained. In essence, it is incredibly important to have a well-functioning cooperation between the Swedish Transport Administration and regional actors. It is important that investment continues. In the run-up to the forthcoming national plan, the government has also listened to requests. I myself have met regional representatives in Skåne and, as I think, had a very good dialogue together, not least with Boriana Åberg's party friends in the region. I am confident in the hope that we will have good discussions about future investments in Skåne as well as throughout the country.
i-2a12480308ea766c-173	Madam President, I would like It sounds good with future infrastructure investments in Skåne both when it comes to road and when it comes to rail. However, I cannot help but wonder that the Minister uses the Maria – Helsingborg Central route as an example of well-functioning national infrastructure planning – this route will be more than 30 years old. This leads my thoughts to the last question in my interpellation: What will the Minister do to ensure that infrastructure investments in Skåne are not constantly shifted forward in time? This issue is even more topical in the light of a recent report by the South Swedish Chamber of Commerce with the appealing name of the whole kingdom and half the money. The report shows how economies are systematically excluded from infrastructure investments. First they have to wait a long time, and then there is much less money spent than elsewhere. The numbers are telling. In Skåne, 13 per cent of Sweden's population live, but Skåne receives only 8 per cent of the total investment budget. Actors receive approximately SEK 15 000 per inhabitant in planned investments on road and rail, which is less than half of what the residents of Stockholm and Västra Götaland receive. I would like to hear the Minister explain how he intends to deal with this injustice and when he will get started on the work for Skåne to get much-needed infrastructure investments. They're supposed to be on time.
i-2a12480308ea766c-178	Madam President, I would like The work to ensure that we provide more resources is in full swing. In fact, it is SEK 100 billion more for infrastructure in the current plan than when it was a moderate government that ruled the country. Over the years as Minister of Infrastructure, I have learned that reports should be taken with a pinch of salt. However good the South Swedish Chamber of Commerce is – and I appreciate them and have a good dialogue with them – I will point out, for the sake of fact, that the Stockholm Chamber of Commerce and very many other chambers of commerce also regularly report that their region is under-served. In fact, I have not met a single region that claims to be satisfied with having received more funds than before. This is closely linked to the interest and commitment in infrastructure, and I think it is a good thing. I think it's good that the entrepreneurs in Skåne, like a lot of politicians, want more resources. This is why they also see the benefits of building new main tracks and that Lund – Hässleholm can become a reality. There, local and regional moderates support the idea of building new main roads, but here in Parliament the Moderates dropped out of the talks and did not participate in the discussion about financing new main courses. I have had a couple of debates with Elisabeth Svantesson. The Moderates have nationally said no to what Moderates in Skåne have thought was such an important initiative and which, not least for the Skåne region, would have an incredible impact on offloading the Södra Stammerbanan and providing more space for freight, commuter traffic and regional traffic on the Södra Stammerbanan. If Boriana Åberg agrees with the regional demands for more investment in rail, I welcome that. I also hope that Boriana Åberg succeeds in convincing her own party leadership to inject more resources and about the importance of us building new main courses in Sweden, both in Skåne and in other parts of the country.
i-2a12480308ea766c-182	Madam President, I would like Thomas Morell has asked me whether I intend to take steps to ensure a reasonable standard of winter road maintenance for the major roads. It is of great importance that the winter road maintenance on our roads is of high quality. This is important for both accessibility and road safety. The Finnish Transport Agency, which has the Government's mission to be responsible for winter road maintenance, has therefore developed requirements for what should apply to winter road maintenance on the state roads. The requirements vary according to the type of road and the traffic. However, the requirements apply equally in all parts of the country. The Government and the Riksdag have decided on a financial framework that ensures that the Swedish Transport Administration can carry out the task. The national transport infrastructure plan decided in 2018 invested SEK 164 billion in maintenance of state roads. Trafikverket procures the implementation of winter road maintenance and has developed new methods and working methods for monitoring. Among other things, GPS is used in the vehicles, which enables the work done to be followed up at a detailed level. The Finnish Transport Agency also hires a third party to follow the contractors' work and to check that operations start and are completed at the right time and that they are of the right quality. It is important to ensure that entrepreneurs meet their commitments. I can thus conclude that Trafikverket has the necessary financial resources and that there are established requirements for the standards of winter road maintenance and procedures and methods for monitoring the work of entrepreneurs in a necessary way. This creates the conditions for a working winter road maintenance.
i-2a12480308ea766c-187	Madam President, I would like I thank Minister Tomas for his answer. This is the road management in Skultorp, which sounded like a sketch in the late 60s and early 70s. Sten-Åke-Åke Cederhök did the sketch, and Rulle Lövgren was the author of it. They were two famous revelers in Västra Götaland – well, they were known all over Sweden. The road administration in Skultorp was a road station, like so many others around the country, that was responsible for its area and kept the roads navigable no matter how the weather was. I am not saying that we should go back to that kind of road maintenance, but perhaps we should have taken advantage of the knowledge that was there. This is something that is clearly missed in today's society. On Tuesday 12 January, the Government and I stood in this House debating, among other things, the lack of maintenance, which has led to a reduction in speed on large parts of the country's roads. At the same time as we were in the Chamber discussing a rather heavy snowfall was going on up in Norrland. There was also a huge slip in the southern part of Sweden. When I returned to my office, my phone literally overflowed with text messages, messages on Messenger and posts on Facebook. Drivers who didn't arrive got out of their cars and went on their shoes on the road. It was not about a single road or a single route, but it was about almost all major roads in southern Sweden. This had consequences in accident statistics. There were a lot of downhill, and roads were shut down. The E20 through Skaraborg had four downhill, I think, with heavy vehicles blocking the road and destroying the accessibility. When a road as large as the E20 is blocked, it obviously has consequences for the transport that supplies important parts of our society – industries, shops, healthcare and so on. It is a collective profession that sees the changes in road maintenance in the winter before. I myself have the privilege of having had a driving licence for 45 years now, and I have driven almost every possible vehicle on our roads. I can also follow the development that has taken place towards less road maintenance. The roads are glashala; it's basically possible to put on skates and go for a ride. Something's gone wrong. This also testifies to those who are on the road — salting and putting such a thin lake on the road that it thaws and refreezes. Then there is an ice beam on the road, and that ice beam cannot be fitted with vehicles. On January 12, one of my friends, who runs a trucker, was out on the road. He said it was almost impossible to keep the car on the road. It didn't matter if you were driving at 20 or 30 kilometers an hour-- it wasn't possible to go any faster. He was also a radio player and described the situation on the roads in Västra Götaland. This is the daily life of professional drivers. There is no other profession anywhere that would accept to work under conditions that professional drivers may work under when the roads are not maintained.
i-2a12480308ea766c-196	Madam President, I would like It is incredibly important that we have well-functioning winter road maintenance and that it is good road safety on our roads. We have debated and discussed these issues in the past. I am the Minister for Infrastructure who has now introduced a regulation that means that heavy vehicles should have winter tyres. That was not the case before. Then it was not a requirement for winter tires, a requirement that I think is quite reasonable. Now this requirement is imposed on foreign trucks and Swedish trucks. My experience is that Swedish hauliers are really good at following up and ensuring that they have safe vehicles and well-trained drivers. I talked last winter to a trucker who was worried that some people drive out when it's black. He said: I take responsibility for my drivers and say that it is not possible, because it is not always safe for traffic. Thomas Morell may have driven a truck in the 70s and 80s, but the signal I get is that the pace is much harder now. You stress with driving and rest time rules. It's faster deliveries, and there's harder pressure on drivers who have to deliver. Stocks are no longer in warehouses, but now they are going straight into production, which makes you stressed to drive even when there is a meter of snow in just a few hours. I think that sometimes we also have to think about what is our own responsibility for actually not going out but putting the vehicle on the road. However, once that is said, it is important to state that there are no budgetary restrictions on winter road maintenance. It is not saving or anything like that that means that you do not keep the winter road. There are additional resources for the Swedish Transport Administration to procure a well-functioning road entertainment, and the requirements are tougher now than they used to be. The problem has sometimes been that the follow-up has not been thorough. One of the reasons why the Swedish Transport Administration is now putting GPS on the riders who drive and do winter maintenance is to ensure that the driving is done and with sufficient quality. I think it is incredibly important, so that we know that we have well-functioning winter road maintenance on the roads in Sweden. It is also important, as perhaps not everyone knows who is following this debate, that the Finnish Transport Administration does not have any resources of its own for this, but it is procured traffic. The assignments are placed on private entrepreneurs, and a third party then goes in and inspects and controls. If there is a mistake then you should even be able to give a penalty payment in some cases. Trafikverket has the task of following up and ensuring that winter road maintenance works within the time limits that exist, which are quite clearly defined, for when to go out and snow out, not least on busy roads. This is not only for professional drivers to arrive but also for ambulances, fire vehicles or other vehicles. Of course, I have respect for the fact that there will be trouble in cases where, as is the latest, there will be a lot of snow in a very short time. No winter road in the world is able to clear immediately when there is so much snow or when there is black ice. Everyone has to take this into account. Chauffeurs like truckers have to take that into account. That is why I initially chose to say that the stress suffered by our professional drivers is worrying. Sometimes both the end customer and the owner say that it is now important to drive, but road safety is important. I imagine that when Thomas Morell was a driver in the 80's, or when it was, he also really took responsibility and drove a little calmer when it was bad road law. Nowadays we also have requirements for winter tires on heavy vehicles. We are now making additional demands when it comes not least to certain types of combination that are more frequently seen in accident statistics. This is how we systematically work with road safety in Sweden.
i-2a12480308ea766c-206	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister Tomas Eneroth! The friend to whom I referred a moment ago puts his combination when it is not possible to drive. He chooses to do so because it is not worth continuing. But when it is not possible to travel at low speed and even arrive at a place where it is safe to stand, something is wrong. I would like to stress that it is not the operators who are the problem here, but it is precisely that the control of the Finnish Transport Administration is not working. I talked to a trucker last night. Then there was lightning. The owner personally knows the drivers who are on the road doing the job. One of them had called the skier and said: You have to go out and salt, because it is glass content. The answer was: I have called the Swedish Transport Administration, but I can't go out. He stayed at home because he couldn't go out. It was not considered to be slippery enough, and then it was skating ahead on the road. I myself have had a similar incident five six years ago. I was on my way to a trucker in Hova and took the county road 200, which was a glass halde. When I came to the farmhouse and I was talking to them, one of their drivers came in from Norway, and it was the same there. It was glass content, so he had to stay. I couldn't drive. Then he would have called the performer and got the same answer: I can't go out, because it's not slippery enough. There's something really wrong here. You put on a give that's way too weak. Then it thickens on the surface which then refreezes. That's how you create a slip that can't be handled. Vehicles that do not have safe tyres are like wasps out on the road. They have tyres that have a pattern depth similar to the table top of the speaker's chair. They go like cheeses. On 19 January the Norwegians checked cars that came from Sweden. Of 65 controlled vehicles, 35 were banned from driving. They had gone here in Sweden. A representative of the haulage industry writes on Facebook: What happens at Trafikverket? Are we supposed to drive cars, trucks, and more to kill ourselves when we're on the road? I stopped the car and went out on highway 23– it's probably somewhere down in Växjö – and it wasn't even possible to walk normally on the roadway. Come on, let's go, let's go! There are several comments on this. It says: Welcome to our workplace! This is a work environment issue, but it has no high priority at the Swedish Work Environment Authority. It is more important that you have a certificate showing that you can drive a taillift. Chauffeurs and riders are rather refined that you are left in the lurch under winter road conditions. That it was difficult in Norrland, up there in Sundsvall, I fully understand, because it is not possible to handle such a amount of snow. There's no question that it's hard to keep the road going. But it was not the same relationship in southern Sweden, but instead they created a blackie and a slip that was not necessary. If one had had enough giving to lay out, these problems would not have arisen. With GPS control of vehicles, to which the Minister refers, you can see directly where the car is. You can also see how strong the give is. And those who drive usually know in which curves and on which bridges it freezes on a little extra. That's where they're increasing. Then it comes right back that they have put on too much, although they know from experience that it is precisely where the slip occurs.
i-2a12480308ea766c-215	Madam President, I would like It is always good to constantly review how we can develop and improve winter road maintenance in Sweden. The government provides resources so that there are no financial restrictions, and there are no budgetary restrictions. If there is a lot of snow, winter road maintenance will work. The Swedish Transport Administration is laying out missions with GPS surveillance and with road weather stations to ensure what it looks like. Let me give you an example. I think it's 800 weather stations located all over the country. They show outer temperature, air temperature, precipitation, wind direction and wind speed. On almost everyone there are also roadside cameras that take pictures every ten minutes of how the road team looks, even at night. This allows you to quickly identify where you need to make efforts to reduce the risk of slips and snowdrifts. I imagine that it is in such situations that Trafikverket ends up in a situation where one sometimes has to prioritise and not make efforts on a road that gets on but on roads where it is tough load and many professional vehicles that are going forward. Again: This responsibility rests with the Finnish Transport Administration. I am not an expert on winter road maintenance and salinity, and I do not know exactly how much to spray roadways with. I assume this requires professional competence, and that is what the Finnish Transport Administration has. Together with road hauliers, they ensure that the measures needed in winter roads are implemented in the best possible way. I am also pleased that we now have third-party controls, where a third party goes in and checks and see if winter road maintenance is done properly and is effective. Do you go for the right ride? Is there the right priority? Development work is constantly taking place here. What Thomas Morell points out and stresses is also important. The drivers and not least the owners of the road haulage industry have their own responsibility when it is not safe and black ice can occur. The experience I have with hauliers is that they care about their drivers and tell me if it is not the time to drive. That is why I sometimes worry about the tough pressure on cabotage and international transport, not least. Low-paid, foreign drivers have the pressure to deliver goods through or to Sweden, sometimes with dumped social conditions. This is why the government has systematically pushed for not only winter tyre requirements for foreign vehicles but to be able to push if the rules on driving and rest times are not complied with. It is also sanctioning and ordering liability that applies. At European level, we have negotiated the mobility package, where we say posting from day one with cabotage, and the combined directive, the road section, of these transports. This is to ensure that we get better standards, quality and conditions for the transports made in Sweden. The winter road team is an important part. That is where we put resources, and there are no budgetary restrictions. Another part is, of course, to ensure that the vehicles are properly equipped, for example through requirements for winter tyres. Furthermore, we have proper controls for this, and we have earmarked resources so that the police can carry out more checks. A study that will be completed in the spring is currently investigating the conditions for an organisation of its own, a traffic inspection, precisely in order to increase checks on professional traffic and to ensure that the many road hauliers who take care of themselves, have well equipped vehicles, meet the climate criteria, comply with the rules of driving and rest time and have the power to develop more modern and attractive jobs in professional traffic get the right conditions for competition. I am passionate about this, and the government works for it.
i-2a12480308ea766c-228	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. I note that the Government is satisfied with today's situation. I think it's sad, because the professional drivers work under difficult conditions when the road team is not able. The vast majority of professional drivers, and I know many of those who are on the road, take a great responsibility and in front of their vehicles with great safety. But sometimes the roads are so slippery that it can't be handled. A heavy vehicle works differently than an easy one. If you get standing with a 60-tonsekipage on a road that tilts a bit, the vehicle slides off. The warm tires and the weight make the ice melt. That's how the drivers out there have it. The modern road maintenance system is clearly not working. Someone sits at a computer screen and decides that here no one needs to go out, so those who are going to do the job are prevented from going out and taking the necessary measures. That is most remarkable. I think the Government should have a serious discussion with the Swedish Transport Administration about how this should be handled. There are no budget restrictions, says the Government. Fine, then we can expect it to be navigable roads in the future.
i-2a12480308ea766c-233	Madam President, I would like Engagement is important, and it is important that we have a discussion about winter road maintenance. I have held discussions on several occasions with the Swedish Transport Administration as well as Svevia and other actors in the winter road management to ensure that they work together and that they accept, understand and comply with the guidelines that exist. It is not least a question of being able to make local adjustments. In northern parts of Sweden there has been a shortage of entrepreneurs who have wanted to bid for routes, including, for example, individual roads. This has worried me, because I do not want us to have roads where ambulances or home help cannot arrive, but winter road maintenance should work. Then the Finnish Transport Agency must work together with those who are road keepers for example for individual roads and find smart solutions. The contractor has a responsibility to be on site and provide this public service and perform it. It is also about the fact that the GPS monitoring that exists carries out what the state pays for. I do not think there is any party politics in that we should have good winter road maintenance. What there may be party politics in is how much money we are prepared to invest. This government is investing SEK 100 billion more than the previous bourgeois government. It is about SEK 164 billion in road maintenance and a substantial increase in efforts, not least for road safety and for strengthening professional traffic. With Fair Transport 2.0, professional traffic is now making incredible efforts to increase attractiveness and the ability to travel safely and safely. It is about taking political responsibility, and this government does.
