i-5eeb11fb522aa205-1	Mr President, I would like to A year ago, I stood in this House thanking everyone in our country for the efforts made during the pandemic. Then we would have lived through a long spring. Now it's been another year. A normal life may seem remote to you who work in care, but I hope you too see the light in the tunnel. The pandemic has exposed the strengths and weaknesses of society. Now that restrictions are phased out, I would like to say the following: Sweden should not go back to what it was like before the crisis. Together, we will build a stronger and better society. Mr President, I would like to We now have a new political situation. As always, jobs are the foundation of a strong society, and we were able to tackle the Corona crisis with 300 000 more in work compared to 2014 and with 100 000 new training places in the Knowledgelift. When crises strike, it is usually ordinary employees who take the fall. During the Corona crisis, the government and the cooperation parties have delivered policies that protect employees and companies. Now we will use the strength of the Swedish economy to implement a powerful green restart package. And there are plenty of jobs that need to be done. We need more employees in welfare. We need to pull new broadband fibre. We need to build housing and rebuild roads and railways. We need training places so that people can go further or maybe start working in a new industry. It is when people work that we can strengthen welfare, speed up climate change and hire more police, teachers and social workers. Then we can continue our efforts to build a stronger Sweden step by step. Having a job to go to is also the basis for women and men to feel power over their own lives and over their children's future. It gives confidence, and it creates faith in the future. Mr President, I would like to The climate crisis is the destiny of our time. Therefore, Sweden has taken the lead sweater in the climate change transition. We're going to push down the emissions. We're going to be the world's first fossil-free welfare country. We are now making the biggest investments in the environment and climate ever in our country. We're helping the industry to reset. At the moment, a new industrialisation of Sweden is under way, with huge investments and tens of thousands of new jobs. The industry is not fundamentally gone – quite the contrary. Sweden's leadership in the climate issue is important. We can show that it is possible to combine jobs and welfare with reduced emissions. Already today, Swedish exports provide enormous climate benefits. When the investments now made in Norrbotten and Västerbotten are to start delivering batteries and fossil-free steel, it will give Swedish exports new opportunities and also make a huge climate benefit. Protecting humanity and the survival of our planet is our duty. But climate change is a huge opportunity for our country. That's what we're gonna get. Mr President, I would like to The pandemic has shown how important a strong well-being is both in everyday life and in crisis. But the pandemic has also shown how vulnerable we are all when welfare is lacking. The time of market experiments must be over in our welfare. Today, few are crying out for more privatisations or major tax cuts. Some still do. Swedish health care, school and care for the elderly should be our country's pride. This will require continued efforts, more employees and better terms of employment. This is why the government is now carrying out the biggest initiative in Swedish care for the elderly ever. We are injecting resources that really make a difference for our elderly and also for the hard-working staff. Mr President, I would like to The heinous violence that breaks down society, destroys dreams and extinguishes human lives is to be stopped. Combating gang crime and men's violence against women are two of the government's most important priorities. The most secure place, the home, is for many women and children associated with violence and insecurity, and it is repulsive. Consent legislation and more resources for the police are some of the efforts made by the government. From 1 July, it will also be punishable to expose children to witnessing criminal acts in close relationships, such as violent and sexual crimes. We shall also fight this in the roots of terrible violence. Mr President, I would like to We see that the hard work of police and civil society has an effect. Yesterday it became public that the Swedish police have been involved in leading the biggest international action against organised crime to date. 155 people have been detained in Sweden, and the police say that more arrests are to be expected. This is a great success in the fight against organised crime. But gang crime has emerged for decades. It takes time to fight and does not disappear overnight. The intense struggle to crack the serious crime continues. We've tightened 60 different sentences. The police have been given new, more powerful tools. We have over 5,000 more employees in the Police Department, and about as many more are to be employed. But the police themselves say that this requires strong police action, yes, but at the same time a strong school and a strong social service. Anyone who thinks that only one or the other is naive. The government has three priorities for this work: we are going to be uncompromising with the gangs, we are going to make sure that not a penny goes to these networks and we are going to break the recruitment. Society is always, always stronger than the gangs. Mr President, I would like to As with the folk home, we social democrats once again want to take Sweden forward with a proper community building, a community building where everyone who can work is involved and contributes, a community building where everyone has the right to feel safe, free and equal. The labour movement once led Sweden from being one of Europe's poorest countries to becoming one of the richest in the world. We did so despite the eager resistance of the right. Now the labour movement wants to continue the social construction of our time, despite the eager resistance of today's right-wing conservatives.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-18	Mr President, I would like to Sweden's potential is enormous in the small country, which for generations has been characterised by great trust and equality. We have become rich and successful through inventions, entrepreneurship and the work of many people. The list of everything that's good in our country can be made really long. Yet discouragement and pessimism are growing. A large majority believe that Sweden is moving in the wrong direction. The list of serious problems is getting longer and longer. We want to change that and put Sweden on a new course. There will be no empty promises and pious hopes, but concrete reforms that gradually take hold of Sweden's problems and seize Sweden's opportunities. Reverse developments will require both a new leadership and a new citizenship, both political action and personal responsibility. The Social Democrats have now ruled Sweden for seven years, but when you listen to them you might think that Carl Bildt is still Prime Minister. Everything is always someone else's fault and responsibility. They blame any authority, municipalities, regions, bourgeois government long ago or possibly Axel Oxenstierna. There is a red thread from the Swedish Transport Agency via the LSS breakdown and the Corona crisis to the Pisa scandal. The government always wants someone else to take responsibility. The Social Democrats have their shortcomings and the Green Party has its own, but the combination leads to paralysis. Important laws get stuck in drawers. Investigations are being presented, but nothing is being done. Proposals are drawn on a long bench. This has consequences. Last year Sweden was shaken when two boys were subjected to pure torture in a cemetery in Solna. The sentence clearly states that the offender who turned 18 would have been sentenced to almost twice as long without the youth discount. But the Social Democrats want to keep the discount. As early as 2018, there was a fully completed bill for the abolition of the youth discount that would have entered into force before the torture in the cemetery. By then both of the perpetrators had been sentenced to nine years in prison. In April of this year, a 19-year-old man was convicted of murder and was punished considerably less because of the discount. This is how it goes, and it's a mockery of the victims. When the government abdicates and takes a step back, the Riksdag takes a step forward. Over the past few years, the Moderates have repeatedly gathered political majority for better politics. Never before has Parliament agreed on so many initiatives that run over the government. Together with the Christian Democrats, the Left Party and the Swedish Democrats, the Moderates corrected the ill-considered reform of the Employment Service. We stopped the free year and instead spent the money on welfare. After the Corona Commission, the same parties brought 4 1⁄2 billion more to care for the elderly. Together with the Liberals, the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats, we have pushed the government in front of us in law and order regarding access bans to stores, tougher arrest rules and stricter penalties for gross female defamation. Yesterday, US legislation gave Swedish police access to such interceptions of criminals that are not legal in Sweden, and 150 suspected Swedes could be arrested. The Moderates have gathered a majority in the Committee on Justice to change exactly this law, but the Social Democrats say no. Such hypocrisy! In the Social Committee, the Moderates, together with the Christian Democrats, the Liberals, the Swedish Democrats, the Center Party and the Left Party, have worked together for better legislation to protect socially vulnerable children. Now the Riksdag will even take over the entire investigation work. The government doesn't want to, but the parliament does. The government does not decide; the parliament does. Mr President, I would like to This is a historical shift in Swedish politics. A weak government without a supporting idea or an understandable direction meets an impatient parliament that wants to move from words to actions. What we see is a renaissance of Swedish parliamentarism. It is perhaps bad for social democratic power but definitely good for Swedish democracy. Then it matters what you vote for. Last year, Parliament decided with a single vote to continue the decommissioning of Swedish nuclear power. M, KD, L and SD voted to maintain nuclear power. Now that the government, despite our huge integration problems, wants to increase immigration to Sweden, the same four parties have agreed on a sharp counter-proposal for a more sensible immigration policy. If the Centre Party votes like the Social Democrats, the Left and the Green Party in this House on 22 June, it will again separate a single vote. Let this one voice become an eye-opener for next year's elections. If you want a new course and a new government, you have to vote for parties that want a change of power and new criminal policy, new immigration policy, new climate and energy policy and a new policy for more people to work. If we are to tackle Sweden's problems, we must change the government. The power of action shown by the Moderates in the Riksdag will also be demonstrated in government. Mr President, I would like to Every government that takes office must from now on be able to anchor its policy in the Swedish parliament. A weak government that can't do it will be beaten up, just like in the last seven years. The Moderates will continue to gather Sweden and the Swedish Parliament when we form the government after the next elections. When others dig ditches, we build bridges. We will combine a new direction with the ability to act and to cooperate.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-35	Mr President, I would like to The Corona virus that has paralysed our country and the whole world for almost a year and a half is about to be defeated, and that is of course very pleasing to all of us. All the other failures and problems that the government has caused during its seven years in power have been overshadowed by the pandemic but of course have not disappeared. They must now return to the top of the agenda. Not least, the criminal gangs have moved their positions street by street and block by block. The city after the district has fallen into the hands of serious criminal organizations, and the shootings continue to be at a high level. Sweden has continued one of Europe's absolute highest levels of deadly gun violence. Once Sweden was at the bottom of these statistics, but now we are at the top. Our safe country has turned into Europe's Chicago. Uncertainty, division, and slumber are spreading. If the government had only shown the slightest sign of self-criticism and understanding of what has gone wrong, it would have been possible to hold a constructive debate on how to solve these problems. But Stefan Löfven and his government are not capable of self-criticism and self-examination. They do not want to talk about the obvious fact that a irresponsible migration policy and a policy of naïve and undemanding integration in all respects is what is behind virtually all the serious social problems that today affect ordinary, honest Swedes in their everyday lives. This laxity and inaction not only serves as a motor for serious crime. It is also a spark for the so-called everyday crime, the mass crime. Fraud, vandalism, theft, burglary and so on are, of course, less serious crimes, but they have a major impact on people's everyday lives and sense of security. As a result, ordinary, honest Swedes are forced to adapt their daily lives to the progress of criminals. It also means that in some cases small businesses who have dedicated their lives to building a future for themselves and their families are even forced to give up. It has gone so far that a majority does not even report when you have been subjected to burglary, fraud, vandalism or theft. The proportion of entrepreneurs who have refrained from reporting this type of crime has increased from 42 to 65 per cent. Knowing that the police, even though they are doing what they can given the resources they have, lack the resources to investigate such crimes, of course exacerbates the situation further and exacerbates the feeling of insecurity and powerlessness. Criminals go free, and ordinary honest people remain insecure. I think this is a great shame for Sweden. It is clear that hopes for an effective, lasting change, a change for the better, can only be met by a government other than that which Stefan Löfven has been leading for seven years. Mr President, I would like to It is equally shameful to see how the government has treated Sweden's elderly and pensioners. While there are billions after billions to invest in adult Afghans and other consequences of irresponsible policies, pensioners in our country, especially those who have the worst, are forced to live on crumbs. When it comes to certain things, there is always money, but when it comes to other things, there is never money. It is not worthy of a country like Sweden to treat its oldest citizens in this way. Mr President, I would like to I hope that this debate and forthcoming debates up to the elections will be about real problems that need to be resolved by an effective government.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-45	Mr President, I would like to Daniel, Lotten, Schani and Linda are the names of some of the outstanding forces that during the pandemic have carried our country on their shoulders and given strength to others to move forward. Daniel is the entrepreneur from Värmdö who has refused to give up and who, like tens of thousands of other small entrepreneurs, has taken off their savings and changed their operations, saved their lives and their employees' jobs. The Lotten has volunteered at a women's shelter in central Sweden during the pandemic, responded to the hotline and given violent women a way out of hell. Schani is the nurse who made sure to vaccinate Gothenburg's homeless and gave strength and hope even to those who have a tough life. Linda has worked at the pandemic front line at the IVA department in Kalmar, nurtured and protected and been the difference between life and death. On the spot, people step forward and make a difference for their fellow human beings, for the countryside and for Sweden as a country, demonstrating leadership, responsibility and action, and how our country's common force is never stronger or weaker than the sum of the individual people's power. It is for them and for all the other people in Sweden that we must now continue forward, manage to hold on, push back the infection completely and make sure that this is the end and that the infection does not come back. We need to protect people's lives and health and give them a safe everyday life, give healthcare professionals a chance to recover and a life that contains more than just work, give our companies the power back and see to society can return to a more normal everyday life where we can get the Swedish economy back on track. The Center Party takes responsibility and shows its ability to act during the pandemic. We run the government ahead of us to get in place a more effective testing and contamination detection, to design the best possible support for our companies and to get a pandemic team that is used effectively and aggressively. We are involved in increasing the resources for municipalities and regions in their work towards covid. If the government had been faster and acted on our proposals, the second and third balances would probably also have been better managed. Fewer had been infected and died. Mr President, I would like to We are also a force for moving Sweden forward in other areas. We show how it is possible to lower taxes for ordinary people while investing in welfare. We add record amounts to municipalities and regions, to the core of prosperity. We invest in maternity care and in the work against mental illness. We are starting work on a new primary care reform, for closer and safer care throughout the country. We are improving the conditions for the country's small businesses, reducing employers' contributions and making a rigid labour market more transparent and accessible. We are a crucial force to give the country's women's and women's shelters stronger and more long-term funding and to tighten the penalties and improve preventive work so that more women and children can leave violence and threats behind. We are a force to put an end to gang violence and killings, to more severe penalties and to stronger preventive work. We continue to develop an even sharper environmental and climate policy, invest more in new green technologies, support our companies in their efforts to become even greener and more sustainable and continue to invest in the Swedish bioeconomy so that the Swedish countryside and forest are involved in replacing fossil fuels. We are a constructive and cooperative force in all of this, because we know that the most hopeful way forward for Sweden does not go through huge tax increases for jobs and businesses or through nostalgic flashbacks, nor through xenophobic right-wing populism or suspicion of anything new and different. The hopeful way forward is through the political centre, through liberal reforms, through clear, down-to-earth leadership and through a policy based on development and forward-lookingness, a policy that creates a green and secure everyday life for everyone and a policy that empowers every human being.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-58	Mr President, I would like to When I was ten years old, I went from stairwell to stairwell and put up notes in the swallow. There were small paper lashes with the telephone number on it. Then, in the mid-1990s, the tax shift had led to increased rents, and it became more difficult for our family to stay. The anxiety rose at our house when it became increasingly difficult to pass the rent. As a child, you feel the anxiety of your parents when something is wrong and the money is not enough. You want to help, but you don't know how. At least I could put up notes so that someone out there, with a smaller apartment, might trade with us. No child should feel the clump in the stomach over rental wine, over insecure housing, but the government and the Center Party's proposal on market rents, which was presented last week, will greatly increase rents in Sweden. It is a shock decision to Sweden's tenants. They will pay a thousand more a month to wealthy property owners. Calculations have already been made on this. This can range from 20 - percent rent increases to double rents. According to the Financial Policy Council, market rents mean that 80 percent of tenants have to pay more. At the same time, it is precisely the tenants in Sweden who pay the most of all in housing costs. Nearly every third crown of the tenants' income goes to the accommodation. This is much more than what right-holders and homeowners pay. Why should tenants pay more? Nine out of ten municipalities have a housing shortage. The proposal means that once there is a lack of housing in an area, property owners can increase the rent for all dwellings built after a certain date. This is not a small thing. In view of the number of homes to be built in the coming years, the impact will be great. One in five Stockholmers can, within just a few years, live in a new production or will do so. The proposal is about new leases, but it is also a big deal. It means a system shift. The government is now clearing the system and allowing the market to enter. Now the government and friends of the neo-liberals are fighting as madmen to imagine that when the floodgates open, the water will not rush in and affect all tenants. But everyone understands that the government's proposal soon puts the whole house under water. I have spent many years on the housing issue. This is a system shift. In all these years, the bourgeois parties and property owners have pushed this very issue, abolishing the right to collectively negotiate their rent. The Left and the Social Democrats have stopped. The Social Democrats stood in the election movement and said that this type of proposal will greatly increase rents for Sweden's tenants. This is a system shift. The Swedish model means that it is the parties in the housing market who negotiate. But the investigation that was presented last week is a commissioned work from one party, Fastighetsägare. Why has only one party been heard in this investigation? Now the consultation round has been rigged. LO must not answer. But the company Klarna will be allowed to decide what Swedish housing policy should look like. Why does this government not stand up for the Swedish model where the parties negotiate with each other? Why should the government by law run over the tenant? This is about the Swedish model and that we in Sweden have parties that negotiate with each other. I am very concerned that a Social Democratic Government now wants to abolish the Swedish model.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-68	Mr President, I would like to In just over a year, the Swedish people will choose the way forward. There are two options: to the left a motley coalition of the reluctant Left Party, the Green Party, the Social Democrats and the Center Party. To the right an alternative gathered around Ulf Kristersson and the formation of a KD-M government. How should these options be evaluated? On policy, of course. But there is the problem that we do not really know what the reluctant actually want. We don't know what they're for after 2022, just what they're against. What do you get if you vote reluctantly? Is it the red tax increases that will be achieved or the green tax cuts? Is it a red no to choice or a green yes? Is it a red no to market rents or a green yes even in existing stocks? Is it green forest hostility or green forest friendliness? Is there green naivety around criminal policy? Or will naivety rather be red painted? Anyone who votes red - green certainly buys the pig in the sack for most things except on one point. If you vote for Dadgostar, Bolund, Stenevi or Annie Lööf, you vote in practice for Prime Minister Stefan Löfven. That's the only thing that seems to be safe. Since it is not possible to get sensible answers to the substantive issues, we need to evaluate the two options as to which leadership they represent. If you vote in favour of Stefan Löfven and his government, what leadership will you get if you vote in red green? I thought we should look at some examples. In April, it was found that unemployment in the country is now close to 10 per cent. Over half a million people are unemployed. We are at the bottom of the EU's unemployment rate. And what does Minister Baylan have to say about this? Well, he thinks you should think of it as being half full. He says: There are a lot of people who want to work in our country. That's a good thing. Another example is the escalating shootings. Safe Sweden now has the second most killing shootings in Europe. What leadership does Minister of Justice Morgan Johansson show? When the shootings escalated, he stressed: The risk of innocent people being affected is very small. Another example is the lack of electricity in winter, when industrial companies had to shut down parts of their production. However, Minister of Energy Anders Ygeman felt that it was whiny of those who complained about electricity prices. Instead, it was good for companies because they had been taught to regulate their production at the price of electricity. And let us not forget Prime Minister Stefan Löfven who, when his government was exposed with covering up major problems with the latest Pisa survey, thought that people should stop sulking. And recently he felt that he should be praised for the development of crime in the country when he said: Prisons and jails are full. So we have a government whose attitude to events in the country all too often seems to be inspired by the final scene of Life of Brian: Always look on the bright side of life. I myself think more about the words: Father, forgive them, for they do not know what they are doing. Sweden deserves better than a government that sees every social problem as an opportunity to train itself in positive thinking and not something to be solved. The bourgeois opposition represents another type of leadership, where the essential is not what one is against or keeping power in one's own hands at all costs. We do not turn a blind eye to the problems when they become too difficult. We have a common understanding of the healthcare queues, about crime, about migration and integration, about how to create more jobs, about the need for infrastructure investments and about how we can create more housing. And if we are not in agreement in detail, we agree on the direction of the country and what the goal is. This is central, for a bourgeois government will not be held back by this sort of internal strife. We will be able to make the necessary decisions, step by step and by consensus, to reverse developments in our country, for Sweden to work and for you to be able to trust Sweden.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-79	Mr President, I would like to Social problems require effective solutions. Having listened to the previous speaker here, however, I can note that the political differences between the parties about how:the continue to be great this way at the end of the tunnel of this pandemic – openness or solitude, the focus on everyone's life chances or on outcomes regardless of effort, independent individuals or subjects of politics. Liberals are convinced that the fundamental values that once built Sweden are also crucial for the future. Yesterday but also tomorrow, the Liberals will stand up for individual freedom, social responsibility, equality, education, the rule of law and enterprise. These wealth-creating powers are our sacred grail. Mr President, I would like to The January Agreement has had clear merit in reforming the labour market and the rental market, taxes on labour and, not least, in setting down legislation against medieval phenomena such as honour-related violence and oppression or other violence against women. In the school area, a knowledge focus has been strengthened, and a suburban lift has begun. But after eight years with the current government, a new leadership is required for Sweden where the arranged marriage next year is moving towards an equally planned divorce. Liberals are the left hand of the bourgeoisie. We have seen our societal challenges grow for almost eight years. It is time we met them with strength, care and from the perspective of the most vulnerable people. A new start is needed for Sweden and a new government. Mr President, I would like to It is no coincidence that liberals return to school. It's not safe for me to sound like an old major. In fact, however, school is the answer to most of the long - term. There are no shortcuts. We need to raise the floor and lift the roof. All children should meet the basic knowledge goals. No student should feel unnecessary limitations when it comes to reaching the stars in his or her own sky. The forthcoming national study and safety plan is based exclusively on demands from the Liberals. Ability to concentrate is the basis for all learning. It applies to all schools, public or free. But we have to do more. Teachers and other school staff should not be worried about being fired if they intervene against violence at school. In parallel, we must continue to increase the focus on knowledge and strengthen teachers' conditions. The billions we are now shooting at school for what we call the suburban lift must be multiplied for the sake of the children. A government headship is crucial to equivalence. Diversity is freedom, we mean liberals. That is why we want to adjust the rules of play for the important free schools. Sweden managed well to integrate people up to about 20 years ago. Since then efforts have certainly been made, but they have been misplaced, and goodwill has prevailed. It is about work, language and care and gender equality. Everyone living in Sweden should know what is expected of them: Care, form and care! Or as it once stood on the red banners: Do your duty, demand your right! Now it seems to say the most: Increase taxes on everything for everyone! Crime is rooted in a rule of law that has been pushed back from the areas where it is most needed. This is due to police shortage, inadequate toolbox in the fight against the serious crimes and irrelevant punishments for people who choose crimes as a lifestyle. Mr President, I would like to The idea of stewardship is strong within the Liberals. It is central ever since we founded the Nature Conservation Association. Not least, it is about the fact that we see the forest not only as our Swedish counterpart to other countries' banana plantations. If we are to meet the climate target, we need more cooperation, trade and aid. We need to do this together with other progressive countries of the European Union and the United Nations. Electrification is crucial for managing the future, jobs and climate. We see that it is time to put the plate in the carpet for the huge investment projects that we are facing. Some have begun, others are waiting. Mr President, I would like to The mission of the liberals is to defend the individual and its living conditions and to solve the challenges of our society. For 100 years we have been driven by the idea that the freedom of the individual is crucial for the Sweden of opportunity. With freedom, empowerment and personal responsibility, the strong Sweden that we liberals love is created.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-93	Mr President, I would like to A hot summer breeze blows in on us. This year it is a breeze that gives hope for a better summer. A year ago we stood here, in the midst of a pandemic that was hard to see an end to. Now we are many who have recently had a tender upper arm, but the only lasting side effects are joy and hope for the future. With the hard work of the police and the crackdown on gang crime, we can all sleep a little safer at night. But the pandemic has given us reason not only to reflect on life and death but also on our relationship with nature. During the pandemic we have seen how nature has become a place for both experiences and discoveries with the closest family or for walks when the coffee breaks at work have not gone. Our national parks and nature reserves have broken the visitor record. Hemester, he's a peoples' movement. I believe and hope that we humans will protect nature a little more after the pandemic than we did before. And we have good reason to do so. The pandemic has clearly shown how we humans affect nature. It also affects all of us - literally everyone on earth. About 60 percent of all infectious agents that affect humans come from animals. Pandemies usually occur by spreading viruses from animal to human. Animal markets with wild and domestic animals packed on small surfaces are a threat to all of us humans on earth. When we deforest and seize more nature, animals are also crowded closer to humans, and the risks are increasing. It is no longer enough to believe that security policy is only about military power. From now on, it must also be about disease protection and how we treat animals and nature. The Pandemin has also called for us in politics to prioritise and join forces and think about what to do with our moment on earth and our moment in politics. Some form parties to save the planet and give hope to our young. Others form parties to reduce taxes. Some do so in order to fight gender equality policy or with the will to create a society built on us and them, built on fear. I would like to devote my time in politics to building a fair and solidarity-based society within the framework of nature. And we're on our way. Right now, the transition to a fossil-free welfare society is taking place throughout Sweden. In Gällivare, Luleå, Boden, Kiruna and Skellefteå hundreds of billions of dollars are now invested in fossil-free technology to produce green steel, climate-smart iron ore or electric car batteries. And that gives jobs – up to 100,000 jobs in northern Sweden, SVT reports. Or as Marita Lundgren at Arbetsförmedlingen in Norrbotten put it: In the old days, we said we had moved Now people have to think, we've moved here. This isn't a charity. It's not a beautiful painting – no fjutt, as Boden's councillor put it. The companies expect continued expansion of wind power and that it will provide the necessary cheap electricity. Nuclear power is too expensive, just like coal. That's what the companies themselves say, not just me and the Green Party. As we move out of the pandemic, we will also take the opportunity to invest away from a climate crisis. With the right investments, the conversion will not only be a profit for those companies that create new business models, but it will be a profit for the planet with reduced emissions. There will also be a profit for all those who get a workplace to go to and where the job will also be part of the solution to the climate crisis. The Green Party is today the new industrial party in Swedish politics. It is thanks to the Green Party's policy that it is unprofitable to invest in coal power and profitable to expand renewable energy. It is thanks to the Environmental Party's industrial policy that fossil-free technology leaves the pilot stage and now becomes the world leader for steel without coal, for example. It is the Green Party's policy to ensure that the market for electric cars in Sweden is growing faster than anywhere else in the EU. Modernisation is much more than just new, cool technology. In a changing world, modernisation is also bringing new jobs to people. For us environmentalists, the green transition is not a recreational interest. It's our main mission every day and every hour. Now we also see the positive effects of an ambitious environmental and climate policy with major investments for the climate, for jobs and for Swedish competitiveness. That is how we prioritise our time on earth.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-108	Mr President, I would like to It is quite clear that we have a new political situation. Either we continue to take Sweden forward with more decent jobs, strong climate change, stronger well-being and an uncompromising fight against violence, or Sweden will be governed by the most right-wing conservative and most anti-employee government Sweden has had in modern times – a government entirely dependent on the Swedish Democrats. It is a clear dividing line that now goes into Swedish politics between on the one hand more jobs, investment in education, reinforcement of unemployment funds and health insurance, and on the other hand a right that remains in the idea that workers can only make an effort if they get it badly first. It stands between a government that is carrying out the greatest climate transition ever and a right without any plan or interest in the greatest destiny of our time. It stands between a government that listens to the police, which says that it requires both police action and strong prevention to combat serious crime, and a right that ignores this and more or less ignores how to break the recruitment of criminal gangs. It stands between a government that wants to build prosperity stronger and more equal and a right that wants to continue to expose welfare to failed market experiments, cuts and privatisations. In short, there is a new political situation in Sweden. We need to put the jobs first. That is how we can prioritise welfare, invest in greater security and in a climate change that also strengthens the country's competitiveness. In short, we need more Social Democratic policy.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-114	Mr President, I would like to Nearly 200 000 people are now long-term unemployed. In six months, it could be 300,000. Every year, the cost of welfare is SEK 36 billion. It leads to alienation. This means less money in the wallet for the unemployed, but also much less money for the police, school and health care. If more people don't start working and pay taxes, everyone else will have to pay higher taxes. Increased taxation now seems to be the only economic strategy of the Social Democrats. There are constantly new proposals on increased taxes: removing the job tax credit, reintroducing property tax on houses and apartments, new tax on investment savings accounts and higher tax on small businesses. The history of the Social Democrats' ability to raise taxes is completely uncontested, Stefan Löfven. My question is: is there a single tax right now that you do not want to raise?
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-117	Mr President, I would like to The unemployment rate when we entered the pandemic was lower than when we took office. We have the highest employment rate in Europe. We have the highest participation rate in the EU. Unemployment is still too high. But it is by breaking unemployment, long-term unemployment and youth unemployment that we can also afford welfare. During the pandemic, unlike the 2008-2009 financial crisis, we ensured that employees did not have to go a lot from jobs and their businesses. They could stay with, among other things, short-term lay-offs. After the pandemic, with a green, powerful reboot, we will make sure to do the same again. It's investment. However, it is education that allows people to get jobs and not primarily job tax deductions or people to become poorer. Why, Ulf Kristersson, do you have to make workers poorer? Is that what you think leads to work?
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-120	Mr President, I would like to It is good that the Prime Minister at least says that unemployment in our country is too high. We have the fifth highest in the whole of Europe and not the lowest in Europe. We have 200 000 long-term unemployed. In six months, it could be 300,000. We have 675 000 foreign born who are not self-sufficient. The answer is yes. Unemployment is too high. Which of the tax increases that have been mentioned in recent weeks will make more people go to work, more people become real taxpayers and more people stand on their own feet? What tax increase will solve the unemployment problem?
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-122	Mr President, I would like to Here is the answer to the question. The only thing the Moderate Leader can think of discussing when it comes to unemployment is taxation. There's only one. An unemployed person does not get a job because he has received a job tax deduction. An unemployed person does not get a job because the unemployment benefit has been reduced. An unemployed person gets a job when they can show: I have qualifications, qualifications and education for this job. Then you get a job. That's how it's done. That is why we invest so much in education. We will continue to invest in education. That's what gives unemployed people jobs. I would be happy to make the comparison with the European Union. The goal we set was based on two things. It was based on employment rates and hours worked. Both of these have progressed during our reign. If Kristersson chooses a country that he would like to see as a model, we will compare and see that it has a completely different picture.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-125	Mr President, I would like to We just heard Stefan Löfven say in his first speech that society is always stronger than the gangs. It is not a law of nature, Mr President. It is clear to everyone in this country that Stefan Lövven's society is not stronger than the gangs, but the gangs move forward their positions every day. This has been the case during the seven years that Stefan Löfven has been prime minister in this country. Throughout this period we have heard basically the same message from Stefan Löfven. The gang crime is about to be broken. Organized crime must be broken. We're going to break the gang's violent practices and so on. These are flossels that have been stacked on top of each other, Mr President, for seven years. Very little, not to say nothing, has happened. Mr President, I would like to If it is that nothing has happened, what is it that the Prime Minister and this government are going to do now to make society stronger than the gangs? I see no sign whatsoever in that direction.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-128	Mr President, I would like to With that rhetoric, of course, it becomes strange. But now things have happened. Maybe even Åkesson should see that. The police themselves say that they have now been involved in leading one of the biggest international efforts that have ever been made. We now have 1 000 more people from the gang criminals who are in custody. We've raised 60 sentences. We have provided the police with resources so that they have now hired 5 000 more, and another 5 000 are to be employed. What is missing in both SD's and the entire right-wing conservative block analysis is: How do we stop recruitment? It has to be done now. These are investments in school, care for the elderly, health care and welfare. It is about ensuring that we have a decent unemployment fund and a decent health insurance so that people feel the hope for the future, and it is not least about education. That part must also be learned by the right-wing conservatives.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-130	Mr President, I would like to I may think it is a bit presumptuous to disarm Swedish police during its seven years as Prime Minister and Head of Government, offer gang criminals juice and buns, pizza and so on and at the same time take credit for things that other countries police manage to do. It is almost embarrassing, Mr President. It is not Stefan Lövven's government, Stefan Lövven's punitive measures, as he calls it, or Stefan Lövven's efforts at the police, that have not become the investments that they should reasonably be, that have led us to have so many prisoners today. It is that the police of other countries have the resources and the authority to do things. If Stefan Löfven has not deprived the Swedish police of the resources and powers he has ensured that they do not have the resources and powers they need to crack the gangs and gang crime. Mr President, I would like to I don't trust Stefan Lövven's ability, on the contrary. He's had seven years to show his total inability to crack the gangs.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-134	Mr President, I would like to Honor the one who is honored should be honored. It is the police who have done an amazing job. But it is also the case that the police have 5 000 more employees. It is also the case that we have increased the penalties. The last strike made yesterday is not the one that has led to 1 000 more in prison, but is an amazing job done by the police. I'm concerned that you can't even enjoy it. Even that can't be seen as a success. Of course, as a populist party, it must be kept in mind that it is only dark. Look at the South Police Region. There, the shootings have now decreased since 2017. Are we done? No, but we have to keep going and not give up. It's about two things. It's the harshness of the criminals here and now. That's why we keep doing it. But that's also stopping recruitment. There the Swedish democrats are completely empty of answers. In your society, the gaps will increase further. It doesn't help in the matter.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-137	Mr President, I would like to I was going to continue on the tax theme that Ulf Kristersson started. In recent weeks, the Social Democrats have worked hard on their left-wing flank and presented proposals for a substantial increase in taxes on savings, entrepreneurship and entrepreneurship. There are a number of free tax fantasies in today's parliamentary situation – fantasies that the Center Party firmly rejects. The leader of the internal working group and the Social Democrats is none other than Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson, who is also responsible for managing the financial consequences of a pandemic that has hit hard at jobs, finances and companies. What makes the Social Democrats believe that Swedish jobs, Swedish companies and people's financial security will improve by increasing the tax on entrepreneurship, entrepreneurship and individual people's savings when we are on our way out of a pandemic?
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-141	Mr President, I would like to First of all, there are no concrete proposals for taxes. We will now use this as a basis in the party board. It's going into the congressional work. We'll be back in good time before the election, and we'll talk taxes just like everyone else. But one thing is stated in the report and in the group: we will need a great deal of resources for welfare. We will have more people at work, but we will also have to ensure that we ensure elderly care, health care, school, health insurance and unemployment insurance. All of this must be funded. When we look at how inequality has spread in the country for a long time, we see that it is a place, a source of income, on which it occurs most, and it is property income. That's where we see the big one, and that's where it goes. Me and my party think that those who have it best can actually contribute a little more. It is not about ordinary employees but about those who are actually wealthy.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-144	Mr President, I would like to A stronger Sweden we all want to see here. It is ordinary employees who will pay an increased tax on investment savings accounts. It is ordinary employees who live in villas who will have to pay an increased property tax. Together, the Social Democrats and the Center Party have shown that it is possible to reduce taxes and invest heavily in welfare. Together, we have abolished the military tax, reduced taxes on low and middle wage earners, reduced employers' contributions and reduced taxes on pensioners. There is no contradiction in this, on the contrary. Strong companies and more people who work and pay taxes and gain increased financial security are at the heart of Swedish welfare. But now the Social Democrats announce that they want to shock-raise the tax on important parts of the economy, and we clearly say no to this ill-considered way forward. Who do the Social Democrats intend to raise taxes on savings, capital and companies together with? How will you even get a majority in Parliament? This feels like a powerful left in the air.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-149	Mr President, I would like to Since Annie Lööf does not have a clue about what the proposals are about, but only in a rhetorical pirouette draws on what it will be, it will be a little difficult to debate. So there are no ready-made proposals; we will come back to that. But I still think – and so do the Social Democrats – that in a society where we should be helped, it is reasonable that those who have it best contribute a little more. There's nothing weird about it. It's simple solidarity. It is also a society that is best for those who have it best. Increasing the gaps in a society is dangerous not only for those who are poor. It is also dangerous for those who are more wealthy. Look at the communities in the world where you have high walls with broken glass on top – it's because you're afraid of the surroundings! We are going to build a society that stays together, and then, of course, we are not going to increase the burden on ordinary wage earners. But we will also make it possible for those who are most wealthy to contribute a little more. I'm sure they do.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-153	Mr President, I would like to Market rents are an attack on Sweden's tenants. It will eventually drive people from house and home. The Swedish model to have the right to collectively negotiate its rent – it is that right that is now being crushed. Stefan Lövven's voters are against this. The Swedish people are against this. Seven out of ten Swedes say absolutely no to market rents. SSU says, "It's a shitty idea. 中 Stockholm's Social Democratic Commissioner says absolutely no to this proposal, which the government tabled last week. Can the Prime Minister explain why he has failed to convince his own party members? What does the Prime Minister understand that the Socialist voters and party members have not understood? Please tell me, Stefan Löfven!
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-156	Mr President, I would like to Nooshi Dadgostar and I agree that we should not have market rents. There is no government proposal. Nooshi Dadgostar knows that. There is an investigation proposal that is now to be sent out for a referral, and so let's see what the various consultation bodies think about the proposal that exists. Morgan Johansson has already said that there are things that we have agreed on in the January agreement that we think are good. But there are also elements that we do not think are good. We will have to come back to that once we are ready to draft the proposal. But it's better that Nooshi Dadgostar and I hook arm. Now, instead, Nooshi Dadgostar and Left Party will hook their arm with the right-hand conservative block on this issue – those who absolutely want market rents. How does that make sense? If I were a tenant now, I'd be very afraid of this. So tenants – watch out for the Left Party as long as they want to settle and make a motion of censure in consultation with the Right Conservatives! It's the most dangerous thing you can do.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-160	Mr President, I would like to Oh, my God, the Prime Minister doesn't want to talk to me! He doesn't want to negotiate with me. That is why he has put himself in this situation. How could the Social Democratic Party have agreed to these extreme center proposals? Even Fredrik Reinfeldt did not agree to these proposals, for even then they were pushed forward. Who will ever be able to trust the Social Democrats now? How will anyone who goes to the polling station next year know whether it is Social Democracy that is doormat for the Center Party or whether it is the Moderates who do the greatest harm to the Swedish negotiating system? Mr President, I would like to In history, my party has been used as a doormat; I will not put that under control. But we won't be anymore. It is tragic to see that the Prime Minister's party has shouldered that cape. As a friend of the broad left, I would like to say to the Prime Minister: stand up for your policy, for you can be sure that we will stand up for ours!
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-163	Mr President, I would like to I'm not so sure about that when V is ready to join the right-wing conservative bloc. We don't really know where V is here. We are against market rents; I have said that all along. There is a reason, Nooshi Dadgostar, that the word'market rents' does not appear in the January agreement, and that is because we do not want it. Now the proposal by the investigator, on whom neither party nor government has taken a position, is on the table. That is what is to be referred. This includes, among other things, an opportunity for this in the newly produced, which is – listen now – 1 per cent of the stock. This now paints Nooshi Dadgostar and Left up as market rents for the entire stock. It's irresponsible. You're scaring the tenants for nothing. Let us work together to achieve something that prevents us from getting market rents! It would be better than the Left joining the Right Conservatives.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-167	Mr President, I would like to I thought we should talk about labour migration. Sweden allows a high level of labour migration to unskilled and relatively low-paid jobs. Systematic cheating occurs on a large scale, and slavelike conditions have been reported from several quarters. At the same time, unemployment is now sky high, partly linked to the pandemic but mainly linked to the large groups that have arrived in Sweden in previous years. While we have high unemployment among people with weak ties to Swedish society, even the simplest jobs can be passed on to people who are outside Europe. It's untenable. I know that KD and S agree on this, but there are two questions to which I wish the Löfven would answer. With which partners does S intend to carry out a reform of labour migration? And how does S. think that the unemployed here will be induced to take these jobs?
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-170	Mr President, I would like to Concerning the last, that you should take assigned work: In Sweden it is duty and right that applies. If there's a job that's available, you should take it. If you do not have qualifications for this, you should receive training or some other measure that makes you qualified for the job. But I share Ebba Busch's view that there is something wrong with this. If we now have workers here who could be trained or may already be able to take jobs, why is that workforce being brought from the other side of the world? But it also requires parliamentary support. That's where we haven't come. There is no support for that. However, I believe that we must do all we can in the meantime to ensure that people are treated with dignity. That is why we are increasing controls and increasing penalties for those who abuse people. But basically it should be that those who are here and can take the jobs should take the jobs. We don't have to pick them up from across the globe if we have them here.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-173	Mr President, I would like to If we look at reality, however, it is obvious that it does not work that way. Last quarter of last year we had about half a million Swedes who did not have a job to go to and barely 80 000 vacant jobs. Then it goes without saying that something is wrong in the system, and it cannot just be about education. We also know that it pays too little to take the jobs that actually exist versus to go on grants. Support was called for. If you put together the Social Democrats, the Christian Democrats and the Moderates – I perceive that there is also an interest among them in changing labour migration, as well as among these Swedish Democrats – there should be an opportunity to actually make sure that more Swedish mothers and fathers who today do not have a job to go to but who should take these jobs are given the opportunity to do so, in front of a labour immigration that has failed, which is competing out jobs here in Sweden and which also leads to people being exploited under slave-like conditions.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-175	Mr President, I would like to We basically share the same view. It is also the case that we have just worked out a migration policy package of 23, I think, various proposals. A committee here in Parliament worked but did not agree, voted on a number of proposals and voted for a package. We have handled it and referred it, and now it is as a bill on Parliament's table. Now that we have agreed on a package after so long of work, we shall safeguard this agreement, which creates stability. Now we are changing the whole migration policy from a situation that gave us the situation we had in 2015 to a situation where we actually have a substantial reduction in immigration to Sweden. I do not agree with the argument that it pays too little. I am tired of hearing that ordinary employees are lazy and do not want to work because it pays too little. I really don't like it.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-178	Mr President, I would like to I don't suppose anyone's lazy. I have a question for the Prime Minister on unemployment and crime, but I was going to take the lead in skilled people with vocational training. If people have a job to go to, most things work out, but then you have to have a good education. We know that in the near future we will miss perhaps up to 200 000 skilled professionals, ranging from welders and machine drivers to plumbers. I actually met these machine drivers the other day. They pointed to the acute lack of industrialization of parts of northern Sweden, as we liberals think. There's no co-workers. My old party secretarial colleague Lars Stjernkvist has come up with an investigation that says that we need to manage vocational education better – partly in high school and partly in Komvux – to get these important employees to come to work. They're not slow, but they're uneducated. What does the Prime Minister intend to do about this?
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-183	Mr President, I would like to Johan Pehrson knows that during this collaboration we have also made sure to increase the number of training places in the Knowledgelift. We did so even before the pandemic, during the last parliamentary term, and we have continued so that we now actually have more than 160 000 training places to enable people to move forward. That is why I say that this is the key to success. That's how people get jobs. Job tax deductions are not good enough. It's not good enough with a reduced unemployment fund. It is education that is needed. We need to do more. I'd be happy to pick up the information in Stjernkvist's report. I have also said in talks with the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise that we need a better match between the needs of the labour market and the design of the courses. That's where I'm definitely ready. We have to move on. But then this is the case. It is investment in education that is now bringing people to work, not making them poorer. I hope that we can agree on this too.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-187	Mr President, I would like to Yes, indeed — a hundred percent! It is education and it is investment, but it also requires governance. It kind of has to be a little bang for the money. Liberals are very happy to talk about nationalizing the head of the school. An excellent example of this is when we press money into our municipalities that sit on this headship. Just as Stjernkvist points out, we need to steer this up. There's nothing wrong, I want to emphasize, on nail techniques, stylists, influencers and all that. They're needed. It's very important to many people-- I actually see some influencers in here, but many of them are self-educated. But we must also have these professionals. Then what Mrs Stjernkvist says is that we must have national responsibility and better governance so that we can bring out skilled professionals. Then we solve unemployment, we solve exclusion, we reduce the pressure from crime and we get the opportunity Sweden for more.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-190	Mr President, I would like to I shall start with the assumption that the Liberals do not want to lower the unemployment fund and do not want to make people poor. That's good. As far as education is concerned, it is quite right: we need better governance. That's what I said in my last line. So let us think about and agree on how best to do it. But I do not think that mere nationalization is the solution. It may have to be better controlled, but I believe as much, if not more, that it is about the local forces, whether it is Skellefteå, Kiruna or where it is. It is local and regional, in the municipality or region, that cooperation and machinery must be started. They will receive resources from the state, but they know best – not us here in Stockholm – what education is needed and how to organise it in the best way. On the other hand, I believe that resources need to come more from the state. That's right. This is how it should be done: The state ensures that there are resources; municipalities, regions, employers, employment services and education providers have the opportunity to make a workshop out there.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-193	Mr President, I would like to Sweden has an acute and unique problem with serious crime. It is urgent that bombings, killings, robbery of children and open drug trafficking put terror in residential areas and undermine confidence in the rule of law. Last year, 47 people were shot to death. The youngest was Adriana and was 12 years old. It is unique because Sweden is the only country in the EU where the shootings are now increasing. Buses cancelled after a stone's throw, ambulances in need of police protection, schools closed in fear of gang conflicts, roadblocks and executions in the middle of the day – this crime is a systemic threat. In February, Mikael Damberg was pleased to say that the trend is changing. May became the deadliest month in years. Eight people were shot to death — one shooting every four days. We've heard this before. After a very temporary trend break in 2018, Morgan Johansson said: The shootings now appear to decrease sharply. In 2020, we broke records both in shootings and in shootings. Yesterday came the news that the Swedish police have arrested 150 suspects after another international effort – very good! But the police in Sweden do not have the legal right to carry out such operations themselves because the Social Democrats repeatedly said no to the right to listen to criminals for preventive purposes. This has to change. Moderates' demands to amend legislation are now supported by L, KD and SD. In just a few seconds, Stefan Löfven will be able to answer how the Social Democrats will vote in the Committee on Justice tomorrow, when the matter is decided for real. The tension is excruciating.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-198	Mr President, I would like to We are now moving towards a restart after the deepest crisis since the Second World War. During this crisis, we have been able to save hundreds of thousands of jobs, and the companies are still in Sweden. Let's get on with it. Then it is the jobs, jobs, jobs and education, education and training that apply. That's how it works, Ulf Kristersson. You're supposed to make demands. That's right. But support should also be given. Duty and justice, education and conversion are the way forward. We could have handled this pandemic that the moderate-led government was dealing with the financial crisis. They severely deteriorated unemployment funds, refused to introduce short-term work, even though virtually all other countries did, and tightened up. Many lost their job unnecessarily, and long-term unemployment increased. Young people were allowed to go long without a first job, and those who lost the job became poorer. As we do the reboot, a starting point is very clear: Don't do what you did then! It is as true now as then that the road to work is through education, not poverty.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-201	Mr President, I would like to I'm not just happy with my mother-in-law who is 89 years old and has received both shots and now can hug our children again. I am also happy with my children who, unlike those who now take the student, get a chance to do it for real. I am pleased that we can open up society. It is the vaccine that is restarted, Stefan Löfven. If Sweden had been as good as the UK and Israel at buying vaccines, we would already have been out of this. It is the vaccine that is restarted. The economy, of course, took a beating from the pandemic. What did we do about it? Well, this Parliament, from the Left Party to the Swedish Democrats, made sure to create a majority for the crisis packages and support packages to save jobs and entrepreneurship that you did not want to present. You've administered this pandemic. It is the Riksdag that has made the sharp decisions.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-204	Mr President, I would like to Now you make the same error ige n; there are only vaccines. It's important and it's a good start. But then we have to start the economy. People have to get to work. Now the Moderates are making the same mistake again. They want to make people poorer. A year ago, it sounded different. Then the generosity was unlimited. Then employers would receive SEK 100 billion a month in reduced social security contributions, without any control. They were just to be thrown out. You faced the financial crisis with a very severe deterioration in security, Ulf Kristersson. Now you want to lower the unemployment fund as quickly as you can. Those who have lost their job in the pandemic should, according to the Moderates, become poorer. In your world, it gives more jobs. It's old, classic right-wing politics. It has never worked and will not work now either. Your policy is the same. The only new thing now, when you have been in opposition, is that you want to implement it together with the Swedish Democrats.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-208	Mr President, I would like to I don't think the pandemic is impressed by the Prime Minister's sudden class struggle rhetoric. I think it was absolutely necessary to give massive support to companies during the pandemic, in order to avoid the bankruptcies that would otherwise have led to unemployment that would have required unemployment funds. You wanted to talk about unemployment benefit. We wanted to talk about avoiding bankruptcy and unemployment, Stefan Löfven. The big problem right now, if we are to be honest, is that a very large proportion of the country's unemployed are born abroad. What do they need? They must learn the Swedish language. They must be expected to learn the Swedish language so well that they can enter the labour market. Then we cannot have a benefit system that does not make it really profitable for people to go from subsidies to work. That is why we have 675 000 foreign born who are not self-sufficient. You want to make more of the usual, which has led us to have Europe's fifth highest unemployment rate. Spain, Italy, Greece and perhaps even Lithuania have higher unemployment rates. Everyone else has lower unemployment. How can the Prime Minister stand here and be satisfied with that result?
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-212	Mr President, I would like to I thought I'd bring up some school issues. Next year it has been 30 years since the Moderates launched their school reform where commercial companies were granted access to the Swedish school sector. It was said that it would be small cooperatives, village schools and non-profit forces with alternative pedagogy that would enter the world of school and contribute to diversity. Today we see that huge commercial players have taken over large parts of the school. It is banks and funds based in Qatar, India and Brazil that own the large commercial companies that now exist in the school world. They have become investees and make their profits by reducing the number of qualified teachers and sorting out students who need extra help. The segregation has increased sharply, and we see a galloping rating inflation. Have we now reached the moderate school nirvanat, Ulf Kristersson?
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-217	Mr President, I would like to It is refreshing that you in the Left Party say things that the Social Democrats do not dare to say but they think, Nooshi Dadgostar. I think that honors you. You're helping them. You want to abolish freedom of choice, remove free schools, tear up the reform and return to a Sweden as it was in the 1970s. I don't think you should do that. But it's good that you say whatever you want. What you are saying right now is that we are going to abolish the International English School, which is a country's absolute best and most popular schools. Write letters to the parents of the children who go there and tell it! You want to abolish the international school in Akalla. There are 500 students, one of whom is Swedish as a native language. I spoke to Principal Johan the other day. He said that what matters is order and the Swedish language. Everyone graduates in ninth grade with a passing grade and can enter high school. That's what real class trips look like. You have class trips in rhetoric. We have class trips.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-222	Mr President, I would like to No one has talked about the freedom of choice of schoolchildren. What I am saying is, of course, the majority of the Conservatives and the majority of the Swedish voters out there. It is Ulf Kristersson who sits on his high horses and tells the Swedish people what to think and not. They think that we need to remove the profit interest in the Swedish school market. For three decades other countries have been visiting. Ulf Kristersson own party friends have come from all over the world to watch the Swedish school experiment. Not a single country has followed the Swedish market experiment at school, Mr President. Swedish teachers are now launching campaigns because they are living during this market experiment. Students also learn far too little at school. Ulf Kristersson knows this, who has talked about the Pisa measurement. The segregation is too powerful. Now it matters more what parents you have and not what you learn in school. Isn't this a problem? What do the Conservatives not understand, Ulf Kristersson?
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-228	Mr President, I would like to The countries that did not abolish school order, the countries that did not abolish the idea that the provision of knowledge is the primary task of the school, do not have to go around the world and look at everyone else. They have a school that works. Sweden doesn't have that right now. It depends on two things. There is too little order in schools; those students who want to learn something are disturbed by those who do not want it. There is also too little focus on real knowledge of the curriculum that Parliament has decided and that free schools and municipal schools must follow. There are also too many immigrant students who cannot cope with school, which this government is trying to hide in a Pisa measurement that is a veritable scandal. I think the vast majority of Swedes are deeply concerned about these things. Let's solve the real problems.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-232	Mr President, I would like to Ulf Kristersson has not said many words about jobs and entrepreneurship, which may say something. Being an entrepreneur is often about valuing risks for an investment. Now we see how well-known venture capitalists and many others are investing in a new green base industry that will create new jobs and confidence throughout Sweden. But one thing they're afraid of, and that's uncertainty. This uncertainty now stands for the Moderates along with their new Conservative Society in the Swedish Democrats. If the Moderates had led the government, we would not have had the world's most ambitious climate law, which now spurs climate investment. We had not had any state industrial or climate action, which led to investments in battery factories and green steel. The uncertainty that is most serious at the moment is the uncertainty as to whether the deployment of cheap renewable electricity will take place. The question is why the Moderates do not want to provide stability and security. Why are you slaughtering environmental policy as soon as you get the chance? Why are you more afraid of climate policy than of the climate crisis, Ulf Kristersson?
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-236	Mr President, I would like to It would be strange for me to start comparing the votes of entrepreneurs for the Moderates and for the Green Party. However, I feel that we have considerable support for our policy among the country's entrepreneurs. I believe that the country's entrepreneurs are currently concerned about three things. One thing they're worried about is a galloping crime. It makes them afraid to run their businesses. Yesterday I met a pharmacist in Rinkeby. What she talked about most was this risk. The second thing they are concerned about is a tax policy that returns to a romantic view from the 70s or 80s that you can solve all the problems of higher taxes and higher subsidies. The third thing they're worried about is a shortage of electricity. Now Per Bolund will soon say that there is no shortage of electricity and that we are exporting more than we have ever done. Tell the entrepreneurs who don't get electricity when they need it! I see these three things as a matter of deep concern to the entrepreneurs with whom I am speaking.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-238	Mr President, I would like to Again, there were no answers to all those who now want to invest hundreds of billions. In debate after debate, year after year, Ulf Kristersson and the Moderates have crept about how high climate requirements will pose a risk to competitiveness and how they will drive entrepreneurs out of Sweden. In doing so, they have also stopped, tried to stop and fought hard to stop all climate reforms. Now we see the results. Hundreds of billions are invested in Sweden, not in other countries, for climate-smart production, for sustainable industrial solutions and to make Sweden a fossil-free welfare country. It offers great opportunities. One speaks of a hundred thousand new jobs only in northern Sweden. This is a great opportunity, however, at risk from the blindness of the Moderates. There must be an answer from Ulf Kristersson. What do you say to those who now invest hundreds of billions when they are concerned that the Moderates will pull the carpet away by lowering their ambitions and removing the investment aid that now exists? Why aren't you prepared to release the hand brake and take the climate crisis seriously, Ulf Kristersson?
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-242	Mr President, I would like to I don't understand why Per Bolund first paints a nid picture and then pastes it on me. What these companies need is good and reliable access to cheap clean electricity. You are shutting down nuclear power, the individual energy source that next to hydro power also gives us the opportunity to build a lot of renewable energy. Other countries are now investing in new nuclear power. It is you who are literally deliberately, as it is sometimes called, responsible for the fact that Sweden does not have reliable access to pure fossil-free electricity. These companies are concerned about this with good reason.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-243	Mr President, I would like to Society is always stronger than the gangs, we heard Stefan Löfven say in the debate. Per Bolund said that he and all other citizens can sleep a little better at night right now. Mr President, I would like to I see the government's attitude as an arrogant optimism. This arrogant optimism has marked the government for seven years. It is an unprecedented self-righteousness. It is an obscene insolence that becomes a spittose, excuse the expression, right in the face of all the people who in their everyday lives are forced into insecurity and anxiety. Unemployment, housing shortages, gang crime, shootings, people dying in care queues, everyday delinquency against individuals and businesses, fragmentation and segregation, welfare collapse, calllessness, naivety and paralysis – we have, Mr President, a government that never sees anything coming and that always closes its eyes as long as it only goes until reality comes and forces its eyelids up. We need a new leadership in our country. There is a need for leadership that has the strength and will to solve the social problems experienced by ordinary, honest Swedes in their everyday lives today. This government won't do that. It has shown this for seven years. It is now time for a new government and a new leadership.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-247	Mr President, I would like to Many people had a good laugh when Jimmie Åkesson said, "We want to be the social conscience of a government with the Moderates and Christian Democrats." I can understand the tactics behind the statement, because broad electoral groups firmly reject right-wing experiments with privatisations and anti-employee proposals. There is undoubtedly a need for a counterweight to right-wing conservative policies. It's just that the Swedish Democrats lack all credibility. We already know they're not to be trusted. In interviews in the business press, representatives in the Finance Committee say that a policy of greater economic justice is a strange misthinking. And when we discuss that those who have built up large fortunes can contribute more to the household, the idea is called disgusting. The companies that earn a lot of money from elderly care and well-being can count on SD protecting their profits. Åkesson himself promises that he will not make any tough demands in a possible government negotiation with the right-wing conservative parties. This is what it looks like.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-249	Mr President, I would like to It is always fun to talk about credibility, especially on these issues. If I say military tax, LAS and market rents, what does Stefan Löfven say? Oh, my God, what happened? ..................................................... Mr President, I would like to Here we have a prime minister who, in election campaign after election movement, has accused the so-called right-wing conservative bloc – the right-wing conservative parties, to use Stefan Lövven's expression – of a lot of horrors that will happen. For example, we will reduce taxes on the richest, remove job security and introduce market rents. Then Stefan Löfven had the chance to rule for another four years, and what did he do? He abolishes the military tax, reduces job security and introduces market rents. Don't talk to me about credibility, Stefan Löfven!
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-252	Mr President, I would like to As far as employment security is concerned, I should remind Åkesson that the parties have settled the amended rules of the Employment Protection Act. Here is Åkesson and makes the social partners down. He should be ashamed of himself! Instead, he should respect this. Market rents are not proposed. The Swedish Democrats are trusted friends of the profit-making companies in school and their owners. The Swedish Democrats want to abolish the 1 700 regional safety representatives who make over 50 000 workplace visits every year, and thus want to make the job more dangerous for ordinary workers. They want to abolish the so-called father-months and reintroduce a child-care allowance, which we know for sure is driving women away from the labour market and back into homes. SD is and remains a distinct right-wing political party. Let's not forget that. Unfortunately, they are opposed to what the vast majority of Swedes are proud of, namely equality and, not least, equality. This works against the so-called Swedish friend Åkesson.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-256	Mr President, I would like to Stefan Löfven goes with untruth when he says, for example, that we want to abolish the father months. The Swedish Democrats do not want that. We want as many father months as we want, but we think the families can decide for themselves how many father months and how many mother months you can have. Furthermore, there is very strong support for this among the voters, so I am not ashamed of it in the least. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Democrats are a party that stands up very strongly for the Swedish model. Stefan Löfven, on the other hand, is now, although he belongs to the so-called labour movement, gradually weakening or even dismantling the Swedish model by, for example, giving power over the Swedish labour market to Brussels, which Stefan Löfven promised would absolutely not do. In what way will Swedish employees benefit from the fact that it is Brussels that is in charge of the Swedish labour market? Not in any way – on the contrary, I would argue. It is Stefan Löfven who does such things and a long line of other things.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-259	Mr President, I would like to A zero vision for asylum seekers. a net minus for immigration; People who have been granted a residence permit should leave the country if they, as the Swedish Democrats themselves formulate it, do not belong to Swedish society. a strong tightening of the possibility of family reunification; These are just a few examples of key points in the Swedish Democrats' migration policy. Most recently for a few weeks Jimmie Åkesson said in an interview with Expressen that the political content determines whether they are even interested in working with the Moderates and Christian Democrats. My question to Jimmie Åkesson is how important it is for the Swedish Democrats to have an impact on their migration policy in a future collaboration with M, KD and L.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-262	Mr President, I would like to I can well take note that political content is, after all, the most important thing; it is somewhere reasonable that this is what lies at the bottom of some sort of political agreement. Annie Lööf, Stefan Löfven and the others negotiated the January Agreement, which was not based on political content but on hatred and disgust against a political party in the Swedish parliament. But that is not what we are doing, but we are focusing on the political content. That is what is crucial. Of course, migration policy and integration policy are crucial for the Swedish Democrats and for the voters of the Swedish Democrats. I also dare to say that these are issues that are absolutely crucial for how we are to solve a wide range of societal problems that Annie Lööf, Stefan Löfven and others have been involved in creating in the years that they have influenced the Swedish parliament and the government's policy. It is clear that our voters are giving a very high priority to the issue of migration. This is because the issue of migration has been extremely neglected. Its management has been based on naivety, calllessness and irresponsibility for decades. Now is the time for us to change direction and make it better. This is what we want, and we will fight for it.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-266	Mr President, I would like to That was a clarifying answer from Jimmie Åkesson. However, Ebba Busch said only a few weeks ago that she took Jimmie Åkesson's demand for an agreement and a joint action plan for the election with a heel kick. She has also dismissed the idea that cooperation parties should have influence over any government policy depending on its size, with clear reference to the Swedish Democrats. The Liberals, as I said, have red lines towards cooperation with the Swedish Democrats. Just for clarity: Does Jimmie Åkesson agree with Ebba Busch's view that it is not election results and the size of parties that should be decisive when it comes to influence? And will the Swedish Democrats accept a situation where they are not given significant influence over migration policy in cooperation with M and KD?
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-269	Mr President, I would like to That's a strange question. It is quite natural in a parliamentary democracy that it is the size of the parties that determines the influence of a party. After all, we are living proof of this in all respects, so I don't understand why you even ask about it – it's just obvious that it is. This is also an important signal to the voters. If you want a Swedish democratic policy, vote for the Swedish Democrats. If you want a responsible immigration policy and a demand-based integration policy, you should vote for the Swedish Democrats, for the Swedish Democrats is the party that has the highest credibility on these issues and which gives them the highest priority. Mr President, I would like to I am very confident that we will of course want to have an influence on what we think is important if we are to be part of some form of collaboration after the next election – otherwise it is not so interesting with any collaboration. I also believe that all parties in this Parliament understand these rules of the game. If you want to work together, you have to look at the interests of all parties. I am absolutely convinced that this is the case.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-272	Mr President, I would like to Sweden has the most poor pensioners in the Nordic countries. People who have worn out a whole working life, such as construction workers and nurses, are shocked when they retire. Sweden has one of the EU's worst pension systems. It's an experiment from the '90s, from a time when all parties wanted to privatize our systems. It is far too small a share of the final salary that is going to retirement today. This is unacceptable – we want to increase pensions significantly. It is the Pensions Group that has silenced the debate in Sweden and is keeping secret the debates that exist so that there will not be popular pressure to raise pensions. That is the big problem today. Why, Jimmie Åkesson, did you vote this week to keep the Pensions Group in Sweden?
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-275	Mr President, I would like to It's not that long ago– maybe a week or possibly two weeks ago– I went out very clearly with my view of both the Pensions Group and the pension system in the future. I believe that, at least in the short term, we need to add more money to the system, so that we can raise more money and so that pensioners can get more money. I believe that this is the short-term opportunity to deal with this situation. There are those who refuse to do this. There are those who think that it is better for us to reduce the tax on pensioners because we can then quickly have an effect. I believe that the tax on pensioners should be reduced, but for those who have 10 000 SEK per month, a tax reduction is not worth much. We need to get more money into the pension system in order for people – including those with the lowest pensions – to be able to live on their pensions. If Nooshi Dadgostar and I now agree on this, maybe we should talk about it. Neither I nor Nooshi belong to the Pensions Group. Then we should be able to talk about this instead of debating and pretending that there is a conflict that may not exist.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-278	Mr President, I would like to I note that Jimmie Åkesson did not answer the question. The Swedish Democrats voted this week to keep the Pensions Group, which silences the debate on pensions just to lower them. It is a pension sub-group, and this pays tribute to the Swedish Democrats. That is, of course, the problem, Mr President-in-Office – the Swedish Democrats are in the lead band of the Moderates. The proposal that the Swedish Democrats describe here gives the most to those who have the highest pay. Simply increasing the fees will not give more to middle-svensson or to low-paid people. This goes well with Moderate politics. The Swedish democrats talk and talk, but in practice they lie flat. This week they made sure to keep the Pensions Group in the Swedish Parliament. Mr President, I would like to I'm surprised.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-283	Mr President, I would like to I am surprised that Nooshi Dadgostar believes that we are in the leadership of the Moderates on the issue of pensions. The Swedish democrats and the Moderates do not agree very much on pensions, at least not so far, but rather it becomes a challenge. We're gonna stand up. We intend to ensure that Sweden's pensioners will be better off. Above all, the pensioners who are the worst in Sweden today will be better off. This has been a key part of our economic policy since we entered Parliament ten years ago, and it will continue to be the day when we have a significant influence on politics in this country. It's not an empty talk. Every budget we have put forward in this House over these years has been aimed at improving the welfare of the most deprived pensioners. I don't understand the conflict area Nooshi Dadgostar is trying to find. There is no conflict area. Don't pretend it exists! Don't create a conflict area for nothing! Instead, let us talk about what we can do together to make it better for the country's pensioners!
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-287	Mr President, I would like to Jimmie Åkesson and I probably celebrated both National Day the other day. Maybe we joined the Old You, you propose. But I think we stressed it a little differently. I have a feeling that Jimmie Åkesson would like to emphasize the old. Liberals tend to stress the free. It's our Sweden. We believe in international cooperation. There we are a little different. Our different parties have been formed for quite different reasons. But does Jimmie Åkesson see any advantage in that, for example, we agreed within the EU and then with the G7 countries on minimum corporate taxes to ensure that we can afford the welfare and so that we can contain the global giants? When we last debated Jimmie Åkesson was in on the tech giants and how they judge the world. It is a good thing that we have a common tax rate. What does Jimmie Åkesson think?
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-289	Mr President, I would like to You old man, you propose-- I tend to stress both. I think it's a very good combination. On the one hand, it is about taking into account traditions and proven science. You don't make mistakes but learn, on the contrary, from history. There will not be too rapid political fluctuations and so on. On the other hand, it is about freedom. It is of course about individual freedom, which I think is what Johan Pehrson focuses on, but also about national freedom. In our country, generations of Swedes have fought and fought for precisely the freedom to decide their own situation, the freedom to make their own laws and the freedom to tax themselves. That's important, too. It is not so much freedom if we are now to move decisions over tax policy and tax rates to Brussels. It is then the politicians of other countries who decide how Swedes and Swedish companies should be taxed. I'm never going to do that, Johan Pehrson.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-292	Mr President, I would like to Yeah, but when the world changes, we change with it. There will be new challenges of a globalised world. Swedish companies are highly globalised. People travel all over Europe – yes, all over the world. Crime comes to us. Then we must resolve this with more cooperation with the countries that we like. Or are we going to build a wall against Denmark and a wall against Romania or Poland? It seems incredibly uncomfortable and pretty stupid. Cooperation with these countries must then be stepped up. I understood that Jimmie Åkesson is not interested in us doing something about corporate taxes globally. I'm sorry about that. How does he view judicial cooperation? There's been some talk about the raids that were made yesterday. It is also European cooperation for efficiency, which increases security and, Mr President, greatly reduces crime. This applies, in particular, to the profits of drugs.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-295	Mr President, I would like to The latter is a brilliant example of how to work together to tackle organised crime. Then I can regret that this government, which we have had for seven years, has not given the Swedish police the powers and tools that other countries' police have. Then you could have been as effective in Sweden as you are in, for example, France or the United States or wherever it can be. But it does not have much to do with EU cooperation, but rather with a irresponsible and paralysed Swedish government. Liberals are a party that wants to transfer power over almost everything to Brussels. That's what freedom is, you mean. We have a different view of it. We believe that we should cooperate with countries that we like and countries that we are favored by cooperating with on issues where we are favored by cooperating. But that other countries' politicians should make laws, set tax rates and decide over the Swedish labour market or Swedish family insurance or health insurance I will never agree to, Johan Pehrson.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-298	Mr President, I would like to Building on the old is the model of the Swedish Democrats, as we have heard, which does not work so well in the midst of a burning climate crisis. Real little kids usually think they won't be seen if they close their eyes. The logic is, I can't see you. Then you can't see me. The same logic applies to Jimmie Åkesson all the time, even here in the speaker's chair, when it comes to our generation's greatest challenge: the climate crisis. Jimmie Åkesson has had two chances here to give answers to the voters. Each time he has put his hands in front of his eyes and hoped that it would be enough to hide from the crisis. It is not a word about how we should ensure that the new Swedish base industry can get the renewable electricity it wants. There is nothing about how ordinary people can buy a new modern electric car and charge it at home or how to expand the railway. There is nothing about how the major cuts that the Swedish Democrats are constantly making in their environmental and climate budgets will reduce emissions. It's cute when kids think they're gonna disappear if they close their eyes. It's not as cute when grown people think that problems go away when they keep their eyes open. Isn't it time, Jimmie Åkesson, to open your eyes to the climate crisis now?
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-302	Mr President, I would like to In my last speech here, I presented a list of a wide range of social problems that Per Bolund and his colleagues in government have been turning a blind eye to for seven years. They turned a blind eye to it even before they got government power. Why don't we have a closed-minded competition, me and Per Bolund, and see who can close our eyes the longest. I'm pretty sure Per Bolund will come out as a winner in such a competition. How will Swedish industry receive electricity? How are we going to get electricity for all electric cars and everything else electrified in a future? Yes, it is not by closing down the stable electricity production that we have had in this country after all and that we could have kept if the Green Party and the rest of the government had not chosen to shut down nuclear power prematurely. It is a brilliant example, I mean, of how to turn a blind eye to reality. You think things should be a certain way. Then you try to steer the ship there, but you forget the reality. You close your eyes to reality. This is typical of this government, Mr President.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-305	Mr President, I would like to That's not true. Anyone can see that we are making great efforts in terms of crime and security and school problems and many other welfare challenges. But this is how it usually sounds when Jimmie Åkesson talks about the climate. It is a lot of cold weather but no sustainable solutions. Unprofitable nuclear energy is no answer to any question. But when you listen to the industry, you can hear what they want. H2 Green Steel, which will produce green steel in Boden, says it is cheap wind power that they want. LKAB says that they can get more money for their products with wind power and stored hydrogen. Scania says it's renewable. They need electricity here and now and not at some point in the future. Nuclear power is a bourgeois philistine to hold, but the market is investing very clearly in renewables. It is truly tragic that Jimmie Åkesson does not just cover her eyes. It seems that he does not want to listen to the representatives of the major industries either. Jimmie Åkesson! Isn't it enough to cover your eyes? Do you have to cover your ears, too?
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-310	Mr President, I would like to I'm pretty sure you want stable access to electricity, just like I want. When I put the cord in the wall, I want there to be electricity in that cord so that my devices in my home work. In the same way it works in an industry, albeit on a slightly larger scale. You want to know that you can run your production at the times you have decided to run your production. I think that is the most important thing. But for Per Bolund and the government, that is not the most important thing, but the most important thing is the symbol. The most important thing is Sweden as an international symbol of a dreamy naïve policy. I mean, it's irresponsible. I believe that this reduces Swedish competitiveness. I believe that this reduces Swedish growth in the long term. What Sweden needs in terms of energy policy is stable access to cheap electricity, and we do not get that with either the Green Party or the Social Democrats.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-312	Mr President, I would like to Taking Sweden forward requires the ability and courage to see the whole, to realize that without prosperous companies no money for the welfare, to understand that climate change cannot be stopped if we do not have companies with us and to believe in people's own ability. The Center Party has been fighting for a greener, safer and more enterprising Sweden for over 110 years, but there is even more to do. We want to move forward for an even better business environment throughout the country. We want to reduce the costs for our companies, make it easier and cheaper to hire and open up the labour market to more people. We want to continue on the path that the Center Party has shown possible, where we lower taxes on jobs and businesses while investing in the core of welfare and where we do even more to make you feel safe and seen no matter where in the country you live. We want to make sure that care comes closer to people, that ambulances and police come when calling whether it's in Hjällbo, Härnösand or outside Haparanda. We want to ensure that every woman can feel safe in her own home, tighten the penalties for those who strike and threaten and give stable and permanent funding to the women's shelters in the country. We shall continue to develop a strong, results-oriented climate policy. We will continue to invest in new green technology and invest in the Swedish bioeconomy. We will continue to work for a country that holds together, continue to renovate existing roads and railways and invest in new ones and provide more people with fast and stable broadband. The Center Party will continue to be a voice for more liberal wise reforms that make Sweden stronger as a country – reforms that empower each person and lead our country on a hopeful path towards a brighter future.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-317	Madam President, I would like Where's Annie Lööf? Where's Annie Lööf? Hey, hey! Where's Annie Lööf? It has been five days since Annie Lööf gave a shock decision to Sweden's tenants: Now we raise rents! But not in a word has she commented on it or answered questions from tenants' organisations. She does not want to talk about why it is so important to introduce market rents in Sweden that she is even prepared to cause a government crisis. I understand the instinct. I understand it. The Centre Party voters do not want market rents. A crushing majority of the Swedish people say absolutely no to market rents. Annie Lööf's municipal councillor can be difficult for market rents, for it will be even more difficult than it is today to build homes in rural areas if market rents are introduced. Isn't it time now, Annie Lööf, to drop the prestige and make sure we don't risk a government crisis and massively raised rents?
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-321	Madam President, I would like Nooshi Dadgostar must stop lying. There is a majority in the Riksdag to introduce free renting into new production. These proposals will be implemented. This means that we have the opportunity to create more housing throughout the country. I think it is unworthy of Sweden that with today's utility value system we have to stand in line tens of years to get an apartment, that we have black contracts and usury rentals in an increasingly widespread secondary market. We must ensure that more rental apartments are built, and for that reason we have got through a number of different proposals in the January agreement that make it possible. The proposal that has now been put forward by an investigation will be implemented in the coming year, and that is why we have a Social Democratic Prime Minister: the January Agreement is the basis on which we tolerated Stefan Löfven as Prime Minister.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-323	Madam President, I would like Now I'm worried. Annie Lööf's own investigation has told us that they can't see if this leads to any new leases. This has been investigated over and over again, and Annie Lööf knows that. It would be interesting to know how many times Annie Lööf has met the tenants and Tenants Association versus how many times she has been in meetings with Real Estate owners. Because this is still an order straight from Real Estate owners' congresses and conferences, isn't it? It cannot be reasonable to significantly increase people's rents when there is not a single positive effect of it. The investigation shows that. The reason we are not building is because we do not have a government housing policy with strong financing and investment aid. Then we would have been able to rebuild the housing shortage, but the Center Party fights with beaks and claws against that. How can it be so important to cause a government crisis that you are prepared to raise people's rents on this issue, Annie Lööf? Doesn't she want to avoid a government crisis?
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-327	Madam President, I would like I have some tips for Nooshi Dadgostar: Stop gassing from the left! In addition, there are no market rents that increase the rent for those living in rental apartments. This is a reform that means more free renting in new production. The rent is not raised for a single tenant. In his introduction, Nooshi Dadgostar raised concerns and a lump in the stomach of children and people living in rental apartments. Stop lying, Nooshi Dadgostar! You're the one who's causing that worry! We need to make sure that we have comprehensive packages for more rental apartments in this country so that young people have the opportunity to have an apartment and move away from home. So we get increased mobility and therefore more rentals. I've met the Tenants' Association many times. They usually attend our party meetings and our municipal days. We believe in an open conversational climate. But this is the policy of the Center Party for a long time. Sweden needs liberal reforms, and now they will be implemented.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-330	Madam President, I would like Last Sunday's message to the Center Party that they want the government to sign a framework agreement with private health care providers throughout the country to relieve the regions and bring down the huge healthcare queues. It is in practice about the same proposal as the national health care agency that we proposed last autumn, so gladly for me. In addition to the care queues, our outdated healthcare system is also disastrously poor for rural areas. Inequality between the different shipments is indefensible. For us, a national health care agency is a step towards giving the state responsibility for healthcare and its funding as Denmark and Norway have already done. It would strengthen, not least, rural conditions for providing good care. The question is therefore: can we hope that the Center Party will also join us in this regard? The regions do not need to be relieved. They need to be abolished.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-333	Madam President, I would like In fact, I find it very difficult to see how sparse and rural areas will benefit from decisions being made here in the Riksdag in Stockholm. Just look at other nationalities and what it has meant for the police in rural and rural areas. Take Arbetsförmedlingen, take Försäkringskassan – there have been fewer offices and less availability and presence than an increased presence. For us, it is very important that healthcare is close and secure and that decisions are made as locally and as closely as possible to employees and patients. On the other hand, increased government governance is required within, for example, highly specialised healthcare, but also the possibility to choose health care throughout the country. A general hospital choice, where you can choose the shortest care queue to thus graze the care queues and give the person to be operated on for example for the hip a faster time for surgery, is a policy that the Center Party has had for a long time. It is important, good and results-oriented centre policy.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-336	Madam President, I would like I don't understand. Patients and staff are under pressure in Sweden because we are 10 million inhabitants in a huge, magnificent but elongated country with 21 different autonomous regions. They often make decisions for themselves instead of interacting over a larger area. They could make joint efforts to ensure that we do not drive too far to have access to safe and safe childbirth, to prevent regions from doing the kind of territorial thinking that we can see now, where actors are forbidden to deliver more care and beta from the care queues, or to allow a doctor to open his own box in the small town of sparsely populated areas. It would release the power of Swedish health care. Decisions should not be made in Stockholm, but instead regional politicians should be abolished and healthcare professionals should be put in charge of healthcare.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-338	Madam President, I would like As I said, I do not believe in a huge administrative change in the aftermath of the pandemic – and not later. In the light of nationalisations to one authority, such as Försäkringskassan, Arbetsförmedlingen and the Swedish Police Authority, we have seen what it has meant for sparsely populated areas in Norrbotten, Västernorrland and also in the Småland highlands. I want there to be a close and good service and well-being throughout the country. For this reason, I believe in strong and well-functioning regions, but we must ensure at national level that it is possible to choose healthcare, that there should be open healthcare choices and focus on highly specialised care – important not least for research. But making a big reorganisation now is not the way. We will focus on employees, give them better conditions, short care queues and ensure that Sweden continues to have the best care and care in the world.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-341	Madam President, I would like I was gonna talk to Annie Lööf about energy. We know that a big change is that we need more electricity. The electricity is great for our well-being, and our entire development is based on electricity. The need will increase by almost double from today's 140 terawatts, or whatever it is on right now. I saw that the price is quite expensive right now, and it is probably because the wind turbines are standing still, quite simply. The question of nuclear power is a little sensitive. Although the Center has made a small journey, I think that forward in time hydrogen is good. Maybe it shouldn't be blue or grey, but it should be the green hydrogen. Then it is good if you can supplement wind power and solar power with a little modern new nuclear power also in Sweden to press on hydrogen production, which is still good for example steel without coal.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-343	Madam President, I would like The Center Party is behind the Energy Agreement, not least that which the Alliance concluded almost twelve years ago and which this government has confirmed. This actually means that we have to build nuclear power in Sweden. The tank ban is gone, and you have to replace existing reactors. It is even possible to upgrade the power of existing reactors. The problem is that there are no private actors who see this path, but instead choose to invest in renewables. A number of months ago I suggested on our municipality days that Sweden should raise the target for increased energy production to 200 terawa thhh. It is absolutely necessary to move forward in time. We also need to increase storage capacity and invest in hydrogen technology in order to be able to store energy produced in the summer to be used in the dark days of winter. Of course, a major effort should be made to expand the electricity grids. We want Svenska Kraftnät to have an explicit mission to ensure just that.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-345	Madam President, I would like We agree that stable production, networks and capacity are needed to electrify Sweden. Not least, our transport must be fossil-free. The charge of the car, bus or truck should also be made fossil-free. Then the hydrogen is hopeful. We Liberals note that the huge expansion of wind power has taken place with substantial state aid. We can look at all sorts of energy commissions historically how incredibly much money has indirectly or directly subsidised wind power. I think it would be good to bet a lot. Annie Lööf and I are about to negotiate the budget – soon there will be divorce in the January agreement – and then we will focus on green investments and there is a lot of green credits so that we can develop and invest in hydrogen. Are you in?
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-348	Madam President, I would like What Johan Pehrson says sounds promising. In fact, we have jointly implemented a national hydrogen strategy with associated money. In fact, in last year's budget negotiation, we received earmarked money to invest not least in hydrogen. We are happy to refill that money bag to create long-termness. If Sweden is to be competitive, that there are long-term and stable conditions for investments, we need broad energy agreements between many parties so that the conditions do not change after different power shifts. That's what the Center Party wants to guarantee. For this reason, it is important to have long-term energy agreements with several parties that keep the course. These are multi-billion amounts for renewables and for hydrogen storage. Then conditions must exist. I would like to see broad funding for long-term investments ahead.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-351	Madam President, I would like It is possible to read about the system shift plan that market rents entail. There are statements for government investigations, and there are internal documents with Real Estate owners. The investigation proposal that came in last week, Real Estate owners have ordered from the Center Party. First, market rents will be introduced on newly produced apartments. It then puts great pressure on other tenants and drives a debate on how different rentals for the same housing have become. It won't last. Then they will move on to introducing market rents for the empty apartments, the apartments from which people move, and then the rest of the market rents. No other country, as I know, has been able to isolate market rents to just new production or have managed to implement this without starting to build large state-owned poor housing. Young families with children, pensioners and young adults are driven out of their homes with this proposal. Then the state must build poor housing in the same way as we did in old poor Sweden. This will cost huge amounts of money in housing allowances, and segregation will increase. Wouldn't it be better to create more equal housing conditions in Sweden? As Property owners themselves state, their role model is Finland, which has done exactly this journey. Today, hundreds of thousands of people are in the housing line, and they already cannot afford to move to the new homes. I can't for my life understand how it's gonna help them get even a little more expensive. We have given 3 million tenants a promise that this proposal will never see the light of day, and we will keep that promise – I can promise this House.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-356	Madam President, I would like Nooshi Dadgostar was before she became party leader of the Left Party's housing political spokesperson. She knows how important the housing issue is for people and what anxiety misleading arguments and claims can create. Against this background, the question is why Nooshi Dadgostar and the Left Party express themselves in the way they do about the proposal on free renting in new production. On several occasions, even in this House, most recently during our change of line, Dadgostar and the Left Party have gone with direct untruths. A common and recurring claim is that 3 million tenants would get higher rent even though the investigation is clear about this: There is no one who currently lives in rental apartments who will get their rent higher when this proposal becomes a reality. Not anyone. No one. Zero. Why is the Left Party lying? Has the Left Party made up this figure of 3 million in its own office? Have the arguments ended, or is the Left Party just not interested in having a serious debate on the matter?
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-359	Madam President, I would like I've been working on this question for years. That's why I know this is how system shifts happen. It starts with new production, just as I preferred in my speech. Then it is not possible to maintain these two systems. Here you will already abolish the negotiating system. It seems obvious to Annie Lööf that the next tenants should think it's okay. Then who are they supposed to be? What kind of creatures should have a lump in their stomach and think it's okay with such high rents? Eventually, the whole system becomes impossible to stick together. It will be just like Finland, which is the favourite example of the Liberals and the Center Party. It is difficult to stop the rapids that flow in and ensure that there are market rents throughout this stock. I don't know any country – maybe Annie Lööf does – that has been able to isolate this phenomenon into just new production. This is exactly how system shifts happen. You start with new production, but then it always flows over to the other tenants. I think we should have two parties in the housing market negotiating with each other.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-365	Madam President, I would like At least we got an answer to one of my questions. The Left Party is obviously not interested in a serious housing debate. No one who currently lives in a rental apartment will get their rent high through the proposal that the investigation has now presented. No one. The Left Party lacks evidence of its fear propaganda and spreads concern. The Center Party wants to see more rentals built throughout Sweden. We want tenants to have the right to feel both secure and involved in their own housing situation. It is therefore clear to us that the housing policy reforms contained in the January agreement – and there are many – are really needed, because that is how we are moving forward. That's how we make sure that more people can move away from home and adapt the accommodation to the way life develops. We are prepared to take a serious debate and defend these reforms. But the Left Party seems to be more interested in raising its tone and burying the issue under the arguments of finders and unsubstantiated assertions. In what way does Dadgostar believe that their own interpretations and fictional figures reduce anxiety and create more housing? And when is Dadgostar gonna stop lying?
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-370	Madam President, I would like These are harsh words from a person who is just about to create a government crisis just to enforce this small proposal. If it is so small and does not affect anyone, why is it so important for Annie Lööf to go forward with it and create a government crisis? I've been looking for Annie Lööf to try to talk to her, talk to her, talk about how we solve the issue. But Annie Lööf says no. Then what are we gonna talk about if Annie Lööf never wants to talk to me about how we solve this issue? It is not the Left Party that has said that this will mean market rents. It's the Tenants' Association. It is all those who know something and have been present in these investigations who understand that this is the first step towards a system shift. This has always been the first step. Then let's sit down and talk about my arguments and Annie Lööf's arguments. I am extending a hand to Annie Lööf to prevent a government crisis for a proposal that apparently does not mean much to Annie Lööf because it will hardly affect anything at all. Then we can agree. Let's drop the proposal and avoid a government crisis.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-374	Madam President, I would like The Left Party has said it wants to form a government with the Social Democrats, and the Left Party and the Social Democrats have recently found each other in a tax increase agenda. The Social Democrats have gone radically left, perhaps to compensate for previous terms of office. One highlighted point on this new tax increase agenda has been to tax small savers and pension savers by setting a ceiling on how much you can save on an ISK account. Previously, the Left Party has pushed for increased tax on all ISK accounts. The parties on the left like to in their rhetoric drum up that one should tax the rich, the one percent. They're counting the number of new billionaires and they're out of it. But in their concrete reform proposals, the definition of who is rich is very broad. The working group said that it could be enough to have $150,000 in your savings account. My question is therefore where Dadgostar's border is. When do you belong to the rich to be squeezed? When you've saved $100,000? $300,000? Who's rich in Dadgostar's world?
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-378	Madam President, I would like We will not raise taxes for small savers. However, we think that if you own a lot of capital you should contribute more to the welfare. We have just suffered a pandemic, where over 14 000 people have died because elderly care is so understaffed, because those who work there have hourly jobs and because there are no resources to have good schedules, continuity for the staff and salaries that allow them to remain in this job and work long in the care of the elderly and gain the knowledge needed to work with demented and severely ill elderly people. We need to strengthen our welfare. I think young people who don't pass school need that help. Why does Ebba Busch want to cut down even more on Swedish welfare? That's who I'm proud of. I will always defend Swedish welfare. I'm concerned that Ebba Busch won't do the same.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-382	Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats are, of course, the party that prioritises welfare most in its alternative to the state budget. It is in that case a new message if the Left Party no longer wants to increase the tax for all ISK savers, who have previously been the line. But you continue to hold the line of the richest. In its budget, the Left Party proposes, among other things, an increase in income tax for private sector officials with an average salary and an increase in income tax for groups such as midwives, surgical nurses and personnel scientists. How does it help them to pay more with one hand if you tax them more with the other hand? You raise the treasure for anyone who uses root and grid. It increases the property tax for the vast majority of those who own a house in metropolitan areas. And for those who want to shift a company, a house, a farm or a larger forest ownership to the next generation, the Left Party wants to reintroduce the inheritance tax. Then I wonder: Are Sweden's midwives really part of the one percent to be taxed harder? In what way is it better welfare?
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-387	Madam President, I would like Both me and my mother and many others in my family and family have worked in public-funded welfare. Ebba Busch's entire salary is funded by the taxpayer. Even midwives and nurses and everyone else who works in the public sector have a 100% funding of tax money for their salary, so if we take in more tax, they get an advantage. That goes without saying. Sweden has become a country with huge economic gaps because those who inherit a lot of money from parents who were very rich themselves become very rich. This social heritage, this class society, we should not have in Sweden. I will fight it in my role as leader of the Left Party. I will ensure that we have an equal Sweden where every young person can feel hope for the future and every elderly person can feel secure in Swedish care for the elderly. That is not the case today. We will change that.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-392	Madam President, I would like The Liberals and the Left Party probably share the passion for a well-functioning welfare sector and the importance of having resources in the long term. But as we liberals approach this, we have a huge passion for high tax revenues. It is something quite different from high tax rates. In fact, if you have 100 percent of tax, it can lead to zero dollars in revenue. Being involved in running businesses, saving, working and investing in risks may not be very interesting if it is very high taxes. That is my question: does Nooshi Dadgostar prefer 0 % in tax or 100 % in tax? Both options are bad. And why are you so focused on high taxes rather than high tax revenues? After all, it is the proceeds that pay your and my salary, Nooshi Dadgostar, and also all people who do good and stand for the welfare?
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-395	Madam President, I would like It goes without saying that it is tax revenue that is the important thing. It's obvious. It would be interesting to know which country Johan Pehrson looks forward to where you have very low tax rates but very high tax revenues – is it Malta or Bulgaria? Who are these successful countries that have no tax at all? For me, it is central that in Sweden you should be able to trust the school regardless of which school you send your children to. As an elderly person, you should feel confident that there are permanent employees in a retirement home who take care of you. It was the Sweden I grew up in, and I think it is a sadness that I do not see this Sweden today. For us it will never be so important to raise the tax. Strengthening Swedish welfare is the important thing. I hope that Johan Pehrson agrees that Swedish welfare should always be prioritised and defended.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-398	Madam President, I would like I fully agree with that approach. I can say that it is not Cuba, Venezuela or North Korea that are my role models in any way, and it is not Nooshi Dadgostar's role models either, I would like to emphasise. But we know that countries that have strong business and are driven by education and research attract capital, well-educated people and innovative companies. That is the way to create growth. That's how you get high tax revenue. It may also be necessary to avoid having the highest tax rates. That's not the way we're going. In those places in Sweden where there really is a vulnerable situation in school and in care, it is often municipalities that work hard, not infrequently in the north of the country, with huge municipal tax rates. The high tax rates mean that people cannot afford to move there, but they may be lower in Örebro or Solna. Does Nooshi Dadgostar not see the risk that high taxes drive people away and investment?
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-400	Madam President, I would like I fully agree with what Johan Pehrson says. The reason why municipalities are forced to raise taxes in this way is that Johan Pehrson's party has reduced the state defence tax. This is where the tax cuts fall, in the inner city of Stockholm, and then the municipalities have to raise their municipal taxes. That's totally wrong, of course. I am totally against the fact that rural municipalities now have to raise taxes. We think the defense tax would have been left behind. Capital taxes need to be increased for the absolutely richest in Stockholm's inner city, but certainly not for people in the country. What is central is what Johan Pehrson also says: In order to make companies and businesses flourish, we need to make large and partly costly government investments in electricity grids, new electricity generation, roads and rails in order for the fossil-free steel to get anywhere. It is also to be exported, and the cars are to be exported. People need to come forward and education is needed for industry to flourish. It costs money.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-403	Madam President, I would like As a nation, we face very difficult problems. In fact, I do not think that anyone expects the policy in the face of all these problems to deliver perfectly – that you should always have exactly the right proposal that achieves exactly the right effect. But what people expect and have the right to expect is that the leadership in the country faces the problems, chooses to act and through their decisions also shows that you see the problems. This is also my main criticism of the January parties. The leadership is over. The necessary reforms cannot be carried out because you are locked up by old wording and internal conflicts. Politics is then governed more by its own prestige battles than by what is happening out there in reality, what the Swedish people really need. There's hope. The bourgeois opposition has an increasingly cohesive agenda, and we Christian Democrats will push for decisive reforms that can help reverse developments. It is about the reform of the care of the century, which would abolish the regions, shorten the care queues and provide more equal care throughout the country, and about the billions of people living in the elderly, so that we can build up the shortage of retirement homes by giving priority to those who give priority to the elderly. It's about admissions, so you can learn the job at work, and it's about increased job tax deductions. It is about the introduction of the Adriana laws, which are hard on the fight against the gangs. It is about the security of energy supply, where nuclear energy is a natural part, and about infrastructure investments throughout the country, which are made possible by stopping the Gökungen high-speed train. These would only be the first steps, and I promise that if we do not reach the targets, we will continue to act until we do, not be complacent. You should be able to trust Sweden.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-408	Madam President, I would like It is welcome that the Christian Democrats are also engaged in Swedish health care. Strengthening health care is a very important task for us, not least to shorten queues. The Christian Democrats often talk about nationalising Swedish health care. What surprises me, however, is precisely the high tone of the Christian Democrats' debate. Looking around the country, you can see that almost 75% of those who wait beyond the limits of the health guarantee – what Ebba Busch usually regards as illegal for a long time – are in a region where the Christian Democrats are in charge. Then the question is: Is it to avoid taking this responsibility that Ebba Busch and the Christian Democrats talk so much about nationalising health care?
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-410	Madam President, I would like No. Here is a clear dividing line. It is really a prime example of different types of political leadership: political leadership that wants to protect the system whether it is red or blue governance in the regions, and political leadership that wants to put people at the centre of the system. There is a difference between social-democratic welfare policy and Christian-democratic welfare policy. We need to do the homework that the Netherlands, Belgium, France, the United Kingdom, Denmark and Norway have done and see that small autonomous regions cannot handle highly specialised healthcare in a way that benefits patients and staff in the best possible way. They are squeezed into today's Sweden and today's system. I don't want to defend it. Prime Minister Löfven is happy to continue to do so. The voters will stand for the verdict.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-412	Madam President, I would like It's just that here and now municipalities and regions are receiving substantial support. Municipalities receive over 40 billion from national sources to manage to strengthen their welfare. As of this year, municipalities receive 4 billion annually only for elderly care. This gives municipalities better opportunities to deliver strong care and security for the elderly. We have seen many fine examples of how it works – Arvika, Kalmar, Uddevalla and Luleå. Here there will be more nurses, better basic staffing, full time becomes the norm and shared tours will be abolished. In short, the elderly are better off. These municipalities have one thing in common: Christian Democrats are not in charge there. However, they are in Huddinge, Danderyd and Värmdö. It is municipalities that completely refrain from investing in care for the elderly. Ebba Busch should take responsibility for his own party's politics here and now instead of just talking about the system.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-415	Madam President, I would like I come back to the fact that there are different types of political leadership. This is like listening to a pale copy of Göran Persson's recipe to just spend more money on Swedish elderly care and Swedish healthcare and believe that it will solve the problems. Instead, we have seen under the leadership of Lövven that the care queues doubled before the pandemic. Now you have the same prescription that gave you doubled care queues, which did not have a plan to solve the nursing home shortage, and you think it will produce a different result. What is the very definition of folly is to do the same thing time and time again and expect a different result. To make the same mistake as Göran Persson made for Swedish welfare in the early 2000s and believe that it will provide better care for the elderly and better health care is foolishness. We stand for another way forward that puts people at the centre of the system, regardless of local political governance.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-418	Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats and Ebba Busch claim to be proud that they have opened up for cooperation with the Swedish Democrats and thus brought the Swedish Democrats into the heat. Just now, in a change of line with me, we heard Jimmie Åkesson himself being very clear that the Swedish Democrats will demand a great influence in the area of migration in a future cooperation and that it is obvious that you have influence in terms of their size. At the time, it was about zero vision for asylum seekers, sending out people who already have a residence permit, severely restricting family immigration and making it more difficult for families to reunite in Sweden. This is, of course, quite a distance from the views of the Christian Democrats on migration. Having heard these requests from Jimmie Åkesson in today's debate, I wonder whether Ebba Busch can promise that the Christian Democrats will not accept a zero vision for asylum seekers, a ban on asylum, a net margin on immigration and the abolition of family reunification opportunities in exchange for support for a future budget.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-421	Madam President, I would like It would be, I would say, a welcome shift in Swedish politics if we saw a sudden impact on politics in relation to size versus the order that we have in Swedish politics today, where the Green Party is the party that is crucial for the direction Swedish politics takes around migration, integration, climate policy, parts of health care and energy supply and thus the conditions for the entire Swedish industry. We want to form a government together with the Moderates, and it is we who will form the core. Then we are happy to meet agreements, including on migration, with all parties in the Swedish parliament, but we share the ambition with the Swedish Democrats to tighten it up. We have different, concrete policy proposals, but there will be a significant reduction in migration to Sweden with a KD-M government that negotiates with the Swedish Democrats.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-423	Madam President, I would like I interpreted Mr Busch's reply as being welcome if one has influence over a government's policy by its size. We have now heard from the Swedish Democrats and Jimmie Åkesson here today that they will prioritise influence over migration policy and that they are just demanding influence in relation to their size. Jimmie Åkesson said it's obvious. This means that they will make demands on things such as the arrest of asylum, the net minute for immigration, sending home people who have a residence permit and far-reaching restrictions on the possibility of family migration and family reunification. Can Ebba Busch and the Christian Democrats here and now promise that they will not compromise the right of refugees to be reunited with their children or that people who live in Sweden should not be forced back home because, as the Swedish Democrats themselves say, they do not belong to Swedish society?
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-427	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by emphasising that those who have let the Swedish Democrats into the heat are the voters. It is the voters who vote; it is the voters who decide what the proportions are in this House. Then you can be different at negotiating, as both our parties have shown on a number of issues. And no, the Swedish Democrats will not get through all their concrete proposals. But we are united in our ambition to achieve a significant reduction in migration to Sweden. We will not leave the protection of the right to asylum. We will not abandon the principle that small children can be reunited with their parents. We will not leave the principle that the person in need and seeking protection should also be given the opportunity to have it. But we are not going to defend this system, which many times exposes people who have tried to do the right thing and allow people who do not have the right to be in the country to be here and behave badly. That's gonna change.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-429	Madam President, I would like If the proposal on market rents is enforced, young, old, families with children and singles will have to live in uncertainty about next year's rent and whether it will increase very strongly. Ebba Busch's predecessor, Göran Hägglund, said that old people should be able to stay until they choose to move, not forced away from their home country because of unreasonable tax rules. He then spoke of Stina, 72, whose fishing cabin would be picked up if the neighbors had sold expensively. Why, Madam President, is it that if Stina had lived in a tenancy, it would have been okay for her to be driven from house and home?
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-432	Madam President, I would like We could, in fact, lease this whole debate to Annie Lööf's previous line shift, which was excellently explained just that. This is a rather fascinating debate. From left-wing politicians as well as some liberals, it still sounds like Sweden has been transformed into some kind of Ayn Ayn novel, and that is not the case. In fact, as has been said, there are relatively limited adjustments to a system which, as no one claims, is working well at present. Does the Left Party mean that it is a well-functioning system that we have today, where so many people do not have the opportunity to buy their own home because it is difficult to scrape together into a cash bet if they do not have rich parents? In addition, the Left Party wants them to be taxed more heavily at one end. In addition, it is already difficult to find rental apartments, as there is too little building because it is expensive to build. In reality, the difference will be very small with the change that will take place.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-436	Madam President, I would like Ebba Busch said many words, but she did not answer my specific question: Why would it be okay that Stina, 72, is run from house and home because Ebba Busch thinks that market rents are good? It's exactly the same for the tenants. Depending on the nature of the area and if the housing shortage increases, rents can go up very strongly. That's what the investigation says. And the investigation does not claim that there will be a lot of new rentals but only very high rents. That is the only effect of this proposal. Why is there so much difference between the m who own their villa and the m who rent? Shouldn't both of these groups feel safe in their accommodation? Why should tenants always be concerned that the housing shortage may increase next year and that they will then get increased rent? The prices for building will increase if you raise rents. That's the connection. It's just getting worse.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-439	Madam President, I would like Now that is not exactly what the proposal looks like. We already have presumptuous rents today. The rents for rentals today are very high and are often in parity with the market value, and it is expensive to build new ones in Sweden, whether they are residential or rental apartments. The answer to the specific question of whether it is okay for older people to be driven from their houses and homes, whether it is a rental or a right-of-occupancy, is no. The solution is neither about freer renting in new production nor about raising taxes on savings. It is about getting a functioning housing market as a whole and facilitating more small-scale building. That would make a big difference.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-442	Madam President, I would like I thought I'd talk about law enforcement. I have just mentioned with another party the importance of our cooperation across borders, and it is incredibly nice for us Liberals to know that the Christian Democrats are warm supporters of European cooperation. It has proved to be effective. Europol works with other police forces around the world on a daily basis. It is not entirely problem-free because of security issues and extensive confidentiality. But at the raid yesterday it worked well, and amazing efforts were made by policemen all over the world. However, police cooperation within the EU needs to be deepened. Liberals would like to see closer cooperation with Europol and Eppo and further cooperation on combating terrorism and serious crime. Do we have the Christian Democrats with us in this joint work forward on reducing crime and increasing security?
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-446	Madam President, I would like If we treat ourselves to a direct answer to the question, the answer is yes. As I have had the privilege of enlightening former liberal representatives, in particular Jan Björklund, if many times, in fact, three Christian Democrats laid the foundations of today's European Union. An important part was to secure peace through freer trade but also to cooperate on cross-border issues. The serious crime we see paralysing so many parts of the countries of the European Union is such a cross-border issue where we want to see enhanced cooperation at European level. At the same time, we want to keep Europe away from issues such as Swedish welfare and labour law. Here, however, we would like to see a deeper cooperation – and preferably a deeper cooperation with the Liberals.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-449	Madam President, I would like I'm all touched. It's great to hear this. The idea of EU cooperation is that together we are strong. Alone, you're just alone. When the EU project was launched by three far-sighted Christian Democrats, the idea was to deepen cooperation. Sometimes we find criticism that things are going too far in certain areas. With the social pillar, it was a hell of a life for Romanians to be paid and for Roma not to be beaten in Bulgaria and Romania. In the police field, cooperation is important, because open borders can only exist if we also have a common law enforcement system. Whether gangs and gangs commit serious crimes or other crimes, such as burglary and theft, cooperation must be deepened. I look forward to this, because here both the Committee on Justice and a new government have a great deal to do.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-453	Madam President, I would like Let us continue with the education of the people. Adenauer, De Gasperi and Schuman were the three gentlemen who laid the foundation. Speaking of the social pillar: it is when we get too far in these discussions that support for a European Union that can hold for the future and future generations risks reducing, because these are issues that the countries manage better themselves or that are within the framework of international conventions. However, when it comes to law enforcement and when we hear such a press conference this week, I believe that support for the European Union and international cooperation is increasing. Then you see that cooperation against the gangs can make a difference. I'll tell you what, can't you finish the separation sometime? For I agree with you that together we are strong.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-457	Madam President, I would like It is exciting to hear that the Christian Democrats seem to want to make the Green Party the main opponent. It is sad that the Christian Democrats' fight against environmental policy and caring for creation seem to continue. One example: Infinite steel forests call Ebba Busch what the new green industry sees as the prerequisite for making investments that provide jobs and confidence in the future far away from both the Riksdag and Uppsala. Without investments in wind power, Swedish industry will have to pull the emergency brake, and the consequences will be unemployment and impoverished rural areas. The Christian Democrats have become Sweden's answer to Don Quijote, you know the novel figure fighting windmills in the belief that they are giants. Don Quijote is fortunately just a fairy tale, and it understands the business community that wants to see more renewable energy. Can we hope that the Christian Democrats' resistance to wind power will also be a fairy tale?
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-461	Madam President, I would like I think the Green Party should see my previous speech on the influence of the Green Party as praise. I am not pleased that the Green Party has such a great influence and, in my opinion, acts as a big brake block in several crucial issues for Sweden, but it was actually praise. However, we were going to change this, not least for the sake of energy supply and for the sake of a green transition. I love wind power, wave power, hydropower, solar power and nuclear power. For me, the important thing is not the technology but that it is delivery-proof, delivers a lot and is emission-free. I believe that there is an over-belief in wind power in the Green Party which means that we will replace beautiful, green coniferous forests with steel forests, and that is not reasonable. We need balance: more nuclear power and some wind power.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-464	Madam President, I would like At least it was clear. Let me point out that no one here claims that wind power should be built everywhere. On the contrary, there are plenty of places where it is not appropriate, and so is the policy we are pursuing. The basic question is whether Christian Democrats' resistance leads to a halt to Swedish industrial investment for the climate. If we want the industry to dare to invest in Swedish jobs, the industry also needs clear information about the investments that will be needed. So far, 100 billion have been invested in Swedish wind power, and the industry wants to invest even more. If Ebba Busch really cared about those who live where wind power is being expanded, she could have supported the Green Party's proposal to let some of the profits return to the district. This would mean that every time the leaves spin, the municipality can start planning for more staff in preschool and better food in the retirement home. It would give faith in the future far away from the speaking chairs Ebba Busch and I stand in. Is this something that Ebba Busch and the Christian Democrats would like to support?
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-469	Madam President, I would like To answer the specific question: yes, we can imagine looking at it, but we do not think it is crucial. Let me turn to those who listen to the debate and ask the question: have you ever been under a large wind turbine, under the fantastic rotor blades mentioned by Mr Bolund? It sounds like something huge when it blows, and you want wind power to do that. But in many places it sounds so bad that it harms animals and nature and drives away businesses and farm owners. Therefore, you have to build in moderation, and then a primary leg of Swedish energy supply cannot be wind power. It must be seen as a complement. What Swedish industry needs to know is that we will give them emission-free, secure electricity in quantities and that we will not steal all electricity from Norrland, which is the strategy right now.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-473	Madam President, I would like The Swedish school can, as I said, be the answer to almost all our challenges. It is about equality, freedom, health, exclusion, security and prosperity. Much has been done, but there is more to be done. I don't know what it looks like this year, even though I'm going to a ninea's graduation later today, but last year 115,000 pupils graduated from primary school. Most but far from everyone went to high school. Last year 15 000 pupils left comprehensive school without upper secondary school qualifications. These young people lack an important prerequisite for shaping their own lives and futures. In order for more people to succeed in school, we need a continued focused reform agenda that can pave the way for an equal school of knowledge. The consequences of the pandemic for the school have both exposed and deepened the shortcomings that existed before. Homesitters need more support to get back to school. Worried and impoverishing students need to meet teachers who dare to be adults who with a warm hand lead them forward. We also need to continue to strengthen pupil health for young people. In the run-up to the new school law, the Liberals pushed on to boost student health and to ensure that all schools, both public and free, have a functioning pupil health. This has improved. We want social services to be linked to the school's student care team, because the school is perhaps the most important for the children who are in the toughest situation. We want inquisitive students to be able to drive over and not just stand on the brakes when they have reached their knowledge goals. More students who need more time should be able to go to holiday school this summer but also coming summers. When we stand behind our teachers, Madam President, we also stand behind Sweden's students and the Sweden of opportunity.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-480	Madam President, I would like Now we are approaching the end of this debate. I have sat and recorded how many times Ulf Kristersson, Ebba Busch and Jimmie Åkesson made concrete suggestions here from the speaker's chair on how to reduce emissions and protect the environment, now that they had the chance. The result is rather meagre: I unfortunately did not get any crow on my paper. This seems to be a blind spot, a non-question, for the conservative parties. Politics is a priority. Everyone who's been doing that more than a few days knows that. We prioritise between different interests. We choose the path in politics. In the election in just over a year's time, the choice will be between different views of our fellow humans. It will also be between very different priorities. This debate has become yet another proof of how the new Conservative bloc in Swedish politics intends to prioritise if, at worst, they form government together. I think this is a good thing because it makes it clear to the voters what is to be expected in that case. But I believe that the conservative parties are deceiving themselves. I think they've mixed up ordinary people with angry trolls with Twitter accounts. I am convinced that in Sweden there is a silent majority for decency, which is not afraid of solidarity, which is not afraid of real measures for the environment and climate and which want us to invest more together in leaving fossil dependence behind. I would therefore like to give the conservative parties the chance to try to gather around something other than their usual meatball lunches. Young people around the world are now calling for a global agreement on fossil fuel disarmament. Our children and young people are demanding that we stop new search for and extraction of the fossil fuels that are poisoning their future. The Green Party has pushed this issue, and we will now work for a stop. I would like to ask Ulf Kristersson, Ebba Busch and Jimmie Åkesson: Can you support such a disarmament agreement, or do you give priority to other things than the future of the planet?
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-500	Madam President, I would like Investigation is an important part of the political system. It is sometimes mocked in the political debate that things should be investigated before they can be decided, as if it were something bad. The investigation system is exactly the opposite. It should ensure, among other things, the quality of decisions that are important for the development of society. Investigations can bring in and benefit from research, thereby improving the quality of government decision-making and the level of knowledge among us parliamentarians, if it is a parliamentary committee. The investigation department will also highlight issues in a diverse and comprehensive manner. An investigation can also contribute to long-term political agreement on difficult and controversial issues. I myself have been involved in a number of different investigations and can testify to the importance of these processes. Madam President, I would like According to 9th chapter. Section 9 The Swedish Government shall report each year in a letter to the Riksdag on the activities of the committees set up on the basis of the Government's decision. The Committee report contains information on the composition of the committees, a description of the work of the committees during the period covered by the report, and information on the costs of committee work and the distribution between men and women in the committees. The letter is handled by those of us who sit on the Constitutional Committee, and the report is called the Committee Report – the Committee's activities in 2020, etc. We in the Constitutional Committee agree in principle with the report, with the exception of a reservation by the Swedish Democrats, which, among other things, does not want a statement on the gender balance within the committees. Madam President, I would like I would like to inform those who follow the debate that the committee has been following the gender balance in the committees for several years during the discussion of the committee report. A yardstick for under-representation is if less than 40% of a gender is represented, as can be seen in the preparatory work on the Discrimination Act. The Constitutional Committee has used this yardstick in previous reviews of the government's power of appointment and gender equality among appointed heads of government and managers of the foreign authorities. Madam President, I would like Statistics in themselves do not solve the problem of under-representation, but it does help us to highlight where the problems lie and look at where there is an unequal distribution and whether there is the possibility of making changes there. The table in the report shows that women in the chair group have been under-represented in the past, but in recent years this group has been virtually gender-equal. At the same time, the table shows that more than 60 per cent of secretaries are women, which, according to the yardstick, means that men are under-represented in that occupational category. The committee stresses the importance of seeking a gender balance in all occupations.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-507	Madam President, I would like The matter before us now, as has been said here before, is a matter that comes back every year. The report deals with the government's letter on the activities of the committees in 2020. Each year, as we heard from the previous speaker, the Government will report to Parliament in a letter on the activities of the committees set up on the basis of the Government's decisions. The summary shows that in 2020 the government appointed 80 committees, which is 26 more than in 2019. I'll say a few words about the committee system, or the investigative services that more people might be able to relate to. The term "comitology" includes many names such as preparatory work, delegations, negotiators, commissions, committees, coordinators, advice and investigations. The Committee is not particularly concerned in the form of government. The reason for this is that the investigation is normally part of the preparation of government affairs, and how this should be done is a matter for the government. According to the preparatory work on the form of government, the fact that the government is ultimately responsible for the formulation and meaning of the proposals presented in the Riksdag should mean that it is ultimately up to the government to decide how the investigation work should be carried out. It is, of course, about producing facts, analysing information and making proposals. But of course, the Riksdag has an interest in seeing how the activities are conducted and how the important investigation system is composed. The letter shows that previous comments from the Constitutional Committee have been taken into account. This applies, for example, to the gender balance in the committees. It is satisfactory to note that as many women as men lead the committees. On the other hand, the men, as we have just heard, are somewhat under-represented in relation to secretarial missions and the like. The proportion of young people in the committees is lower than that of young people in the population, and there have been no significant changes in this respect compared with previous surveys. The average age is about 50 years, and for presidents and special investigators the average age is over 58 years. A personal reflection may be that experience is an important factor in staffing committees. The Constitutional Committee feels that the committee report provides valuable information on the composition and operation of the committees. The majority of the committee does not believe that there is a reason to extend the content of committee reports in the way that the Swedish Democrats are calling for. With this, I urge that the Parliament reject the motion and add the letter to the record.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-514	Madam President, I would like In the report that we are now debating, we are dealing with the government's committee report – the activities of the committees in 2020. According to 9th chapter. Section 9 The Swedish Government shall report each year in a letter to the Riksdag on the activities of the committees set up on the basis of the Government's decision. The Committee report describes all the temporary bodies set up. This applies both to traditional committees, which are responsible for investigating a particular issue, and to other ad hoc bodies. Committees also refer to special investigators. The Committee report contains information on the composition of the committees, a description of the work of the committees during the period covered by the report and information on the costs of the committee's work. A large part of the committee report is also devoted to gender balance in the composition of committees and statistics on gender balance. We Swedish democrats have written a follow-up motion on this. There are many occasions where statistics on age and gender are relevant. However, as far as the composition of the committees appointed by the government is concerned, we believe that the last 50 years of gender equality work have made these statistics quite irrelevant. There are several reasons for this. The committees are composed of members of parliament and outside experts. The Members of Parliament are appointed by the people in free elections and nothing that we can really have views on. The gender balance is also fairly even today. Furthermore, it is unlikely that the parties will elect their representatives to these committees on the basis of gender, without the selection taking place on the basis of which committee the member sits on and which issues the Member of Parliament is considered to be knowledgeable in. External experts are appointed because of their expertise in the field. It may be former judges with long professional experience, persons working in different ministries or authorities, professors at universities' faculties, retired national auditors or former Ombudsmen of Justice. The gender balance of these people reflects the relatively small group from which these experts are drawn. For obvious reasons, the experts generally have a high middle age. They usually have both longer education and experience of a long working life in their field. Often these outside experts are people who have retired. But their knowledge and experience in matters of substance, as well as the fact that they can set aside the necessary time, make them fit to lead these committees. The relatively high average age means that the gender distribution among these experts is a so-called frozen picture of what Sweden looked like a few decades ago. If you go back to the figures in these tables, you can see that there has been an imbalance in the gender of the President in particular. There have been about two thirds of men in the first few years of the early 2000s. But this imbalance has gradually waned. And over the last five years, the gender balance has been roughly fifty-fifty, that is, as many men as women. What we see here is thus a reflection of what Sweden has previously looked like. And the changes we are now seeing are probably a direct consequence of the fact that since the 1970s more women have come to take their place in high positions in the public sector, from which these experts are eventually taken. As the average age of presidents is relatively high, for the reasons I mentioned earlier, this impact is being achieved with a more balanced gender balance only now. In five, ten or fifteen years' time, there will probably be more women than men in office, given that today there are more women than men in these positions in the public sphere. The Committee is an important part of the government's preparatory work. Therefore, we believe it is more important that statistics on... I support the Swedish Democrats' reservation.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-525	Madam President, I would like I tried to listen to what Mr Strandman said about the fact that he no longer considers these statistics relevant. Nevertheless, I would like to ask the Swedish Democrats whether it is such a problem that these statistics are represented in our committees. What would happen if these statistics were removed? Is it not an important parameter to actually review the gender balance in the committees?
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-526	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Ida Karkiainen, for your question! We do not believe that this is important when it comes to the composition of these committees. Those elected to the committees are not elected on the basis of their gender; the Member of Parliament knows that as well. It is quite unreasonable that this should be the case. These experts are collected because they are knowledgeable in their field of expertise. When it comes to outsiders, it is usually older people. If there is a gender imbalance in the relatively small group from which we pick these experts, this will be reflected among the experts elected to the committees. However, as we see in the table of recent years, this is evening out, and probably in a few years' time, women will have an over-representation. This may be very interesting to do statistics on, but it is more interesting to do statistics on the public sector or so and look at why there is a gender imbalance there in this way – not over the composition of the committees. At that level, we are not looking at gender, we are looking at knowledge. Sure, you could keep these statistics. But one should be aware that the offices have a lot of work to do on this. Perhaps it is more important that we get statistics on how much workshop there is in these committees. How many of the reports that come out of the committees come out in legislative proposals, that is, in government proposals? How many of these committee reports generate legislative referrals, and how many are subject to any adjustments by the Law Council? This is of course much more interesting for the legislative work than to account for the gender balance, from which we cannot really influence so much because it is such a small, limited group that we can choose these experts from. This limited group reflects a slightly frozen picture of what Sweden looked like a few decades ago.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-530	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mikael Strandman, for the answer! Actually, it doesn't make any sense to me. For me, it is important that gender equality is integrated into just every aspect of the activities that we are in. The Committee and the investigative services are a very important part of the whole legislative work and the whole process. Not counting and not looking at gender balance, I think, on these aspects, is a very bad proposal. I think that in exactly all the work we do we need to ensure that we have a balanced gender balance, which reflects the population in a good way and reflects the decisions we make. I do not see that it is relevant to remove those statistics, not even for the future. We need to keep it and follow it. Gender equality has not come of its own accord. It has come about thanks to a very conscious policy of changing systems where in the past it has been men who have chosen men to different positions. This is not something that has grown out of itself, but it requires a conscious policy and that you look at the statistics to see what system errors there are that we need to work with and change. I think that the Swedish democrats are consistently ignoring these system errors. There are structural problems which do not make it possible for inequality to be cemented in society. This we need to break.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-534	Madam President, I would like Absolutely! But I think that at this level it is much like when we appoint state epidemiologists or bring out the top experts at a very high level. Then you don't go by gender, but by knowledge and competence. It may also be a gender imbalance among virologists and experts in this field, but it is more interesting to look at why this is the case. Why are there not as many girls or guys who study this at universities and get these positions in society? Well, that's the part you're supposed to do statistics on. When we then select experts from a small group, the experts we choose and the composition of the committee will reflect the composition of the limited group we choose from. There will probably be more women than men as president over the coming decades because more women than men have high positions in the public sector today. If you're going to do a survey like this, it's more interesting to do it at that level-- what's this all about? It is still an under-representation of female managers in the public domain, given that 64% of public employees are women. In other words, there are more women than men in the public sector, and in absolute terms there will also be more women than men who are managers in the public sector. But in percentage terms, in proportion to their proportion, more men are managers in the public sector. Then you can do a survey of this, rather than at this level, where we choose from perhaps five ten experts in Sweden, go by what sex they have. I think it is the wrong level to do these statistics. The experts we bring in, we take in for their skills, nothing else. This is also true in other areas of society. If you are going to do this statistics, you have to do it at a lower level, further down, and look at why there is an imbalance already there.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-538	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the Swedish National Audit Office's report on the review of public services by the Audit Board. In this report we have a reservation which I naturally support and support. Let's start with some background information. The Audit Board is the body where we viewers, the audience, and the broadcasters themselves can report programmes that they consider to be contrary to the content of the broadcasting permits. It's the audit board's mission to review. Today, however, neither material errors nor content are examined with left-wing or right-wing political list or, for that matter, elements that take a stand through their reporting on a particular subject. That is wrong, we believe. An audit body should also be able to examine factual errors and elements that are more inclined to one side. There is also a belief among the population that the Audit Board examines just factual errors and inclinations in reporting in elements or programs. But as I said, this is not true. The Audit Board can only bring down one element or programme that violates the broadcasting licence. We believe that the task of the Audit Board should be extended and should also include the examination of just factual errors and what I have mentioned. This is only reasonable, in our view. For this position, that errors of fact should also be examined, we have received a lot of criticism. It is believed that we are approaching a principle that violates the principle of arm's length and is certainly part of today's mission. We believe that it does not, but should, in fact, be part of the task of the Audit Board. In the Swedish National Audit Office's report we can read that the processing times for the cases are too long. More notifications are received today than before, and some clearance decisions lack justification. These are criticisms that the Board of Auditors should take into account and it should urgently make reforms to maintain confidence. The Board has also increased the number of cases. If human resources are not sufficient to carry out the tasks assigned to them, the principal should review this as well. Madam President, I would like It is good that broadcasters value and take the decisions of the Audit Board seriously; something else would be strange. They do so, according to the report, by disseminating knowledge of the decisions of their respective organisations and by holding specific meetings after each conviction, where the starting point is to discuss what has gone wrong and how the company or companies can learn from this for the future. At the same time, it is expressed that the practice collection Reviewed and clearly updated too rarely. It is a good thing that broadcasters do not take it lightly on incriminating reviews. Madam President, I would like The debate in society on public service is taking place frequently from all sides. This can of course be a factor that has contributed to the increasing number of notifications, i.e. that when a debate is going on about, for example, left-wing public services, you see content from new perspectives, perspectives that have not previously been noticed. I'm not saying that's the case, but it can be a contributing factor. Or the propensity to register has increased because you feel dissatisfied with the content. Or it is too easy to report a program, like the debt adjustment applications that went up when the application form was drastically simplified. It would be interesting to look further at why the notifications have increased, but it will be the next project to take on. Finally, the legitimacy of public service is based on the fact that the content is objective and impartial, a relationship that has become even more important since the fee financing has moved to the tax bill. This opportunity allowed the individual to show his or her dissatisfaction with the system and not to participate in the financing. Although much of the public service content lives up to its mission, we believe that there is improvement potential to ensure its independence, impartiality and objectivity. The public should be able to follow the review board's different assessments at all stages. In this way the individual can form his or her own view of the reasonableness of the assessments. This is an important part of the review committee, we believe, but unfortunately we are the only one who thinks so.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-550	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report and for the Swedish Democrats' reservation to be rejected. Madam President, I would like Now we need to keep our tongue straight, because we are going to talk about the Swedish National Audit Office's review of the Audit Board in this debate. More specifically, this concerns the review of public service broadcasting by the Audit Board, more known as a public service. For democracy, public broadcasting has a particular importance as an independent media with public obligations regulated by agreements with the state. The obligations are about us, the whole of Sweden's people, getting impartial and factual news about what is happening in the country and the world and not just the image that the government or big companies want to convey. People should be able to trust that what is said is the result of journalism's ethical principles and does not have a hidden agenda. In a world where disinformation spreads rapidly, and we soon dare not trust anything, the role of public services becomes more important than ever. But it's not just about news. Through the broad mission, we get access to stories from all over Sweden, not just from the big city and not just from the wealthy. The breadth is about children and seniors, minorities and disabled people having a range of radio and television to participate in. Public service is for everyone and does not opt out of target groups because they are not sufficiently commercially interesting. A broad and legitimate public service also gives credibility as a reviewer. Independent, critical review of politics, authorities, business and other powers contribute to strengthening democracy and social development. That's what public service does. Madam President, I would like This is also why public confidence in public broadcasting is strong and deeply popular. This spring's two new confidence measurements show stable and high confidence in the Swedish media overall, but the highest is confidence in the public service companies. SVT is the highest of all media, and confidence is strengthened for the third consecutive year in the SOM Institute's annual survey. The Coronapandemia has led people to seek information that is independent and reliable. Madam President, I would like One of the guarantors that we have confidence in public service is the Board of Audits. The Audit Board is responsible for monitoring, through ex-post review, whether the content of radio and television programmes complies with the provisions and other conditions applicable to broadcasting, including objectivity and impartiality. The review may be carried out either as a result of notifications from viewers or listeners or on the Board's own initiative. All content can be notified by anyone for review. It is very simple, just as the previous speaker did, and contributes to transparency of the activities. It strengthens legitimacy. How effective is the review committee's review of the broadcasters Sveriges Television, Sveriges Radio and Sveriges Utbildningsradio? The Swedish National Audit Office has investigated this, Madam Speaker. The Swedish National Audit Office has analysed more than 280 of the Board's decisions in 2015– 2019 and interviewed the Board's members, offices and employees, representatives from the Government Office, the Swedish Agency for Press, Radio and Television and the three broadcasters. What has the Swedish National Audit Office come up with? The overall conclusion is that the Audit Board's review of public service functions well. However, the Swedish National Audit Office makes some recommendations: Madam President, I would like In the report, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs notes that it is valuable that the National Audit Office has reviewed the effectiveness of the Board's activities. We believe that this is positive and that it reinforces the legitimacy of the review of public service broadcasting carried out by the Audit Board with high efficiency and transparency and contributes to the good compliance of the three broadcasters, and also that the broadcasters take the audits very seriously. It is positive and also strengthens the legitimacy of the system. Madam President, I would like There is a reservation in the report. The Swedish Democrats want a review of how the review mechanisms work, although the Swedish National Audit Office notes that the system is well functioning. Why is it that the Swedish Democrats want to in and fiddle in something that is not broken? If you read motions on the subject from the representatives of the Swedish Democrats, you find that this is hardly a review. They want the Audit Board to be made up of a parliamentary group in which the parties must be represented proportionately according to their size in the Riksdag. It also wants to politicise the content. Representatives from the Swedish Democrats have stated that they want to give the Audit Board a personalised reprisal opportunity, i.e. opportunities to punish individual employees, and that it should be possible to impose sanctions on programme managers when serious violations of broadcasting permits occur. Madam President, I would like It's not a review. It is a total change that threatens free journalism. This is not unique to the Swedish Democrats in Sweden. All over the world there are the same types of movements where right-wing populist parties have made public service one of their main enemies. Madam President, I would like The monitoring activities of public service broadcasting are extensive and significant for legitimacy. It is gratifying that it works in an effective way, as the Swedish National Audit Office now states.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-568	Madam President, I would like It is easy to say that every word here is about scrutiny. But I'll try to find some synonyms here and there so that it doesn't become so repetitive. The Swedish National Audit Office has reviewed the Audit Board for Radio and Television's review of the broadcasters Sveriges Television AB, Sveriges Radio AB and Sveriges Utbildningsradio AB. The aim has been to assess whether the audit committee's audit functions effectively and whether it contributes to good compliance by broadcasters. As we have just heard, the work has been thorough. RRV has analysed steering documents from the Swedish Agency for Press, Radio and Television and statistics from the Audit Board. More than 280 Board decisions during the period 2015 – 2019 have also been analysed, and add a number of different interviews that have been conducted. RRV has some critical comments. Cases take too long to deal with, and the Board has found it difficult to reach its internal targets for processing times. Moreover, the length of the proceedings leading to a substantive review has increased over time. At the same time, RRV nevertheless notes that the review board's procedures for case management are well managed and that there is a clear order for how incoming notifications should be handled. According to RRV, several different measures have been taken to improve the efficiency of the investigation board's case management and reduce the processing times to deal with an increase in case inflow. Examples of changes introduced in order to improve the efficiency of the processing process are the failure to deal with anonymous notifications, the fact that the previous six-month deadline for notification is shorter than three months and that the opinion period for all broadcasters has been reduced from five to three weeks. RRV considers that the review board's work on the annual assessments of the public service reports is effective given the mission's prerequisites. There are clear procedures for how the work is to be carried out. RRV notes that broadcasters are doing a great deal of work every year to produce as thorough and clear public service reports as possible. They are also working to develop the financial statements, especially on those points where the Audit Board has criticised the companies in previous years' assessments. As we have just heard, the Swedish National Audit Office has made some recommendations to the Swedish Press, Radio and Television Agency: The Authority should develop a plan with a clear description of the objectives and means to shorten the processing times. Decisions taken by the Chair only, without a Board meeting, should also be justified in order to increase the understanding of the Board's decisions with the notifiers and the general public. The practice collections, as we heard, should be updated more frequently to make it easier for broadcasters to do the right thing. The Government agrees with the Swedish National Audit Office's overall conclusions that the public service review works well, although, as has just been mentioned, there are parts of the business that can be developed. The Government also agrees with the Swedish National Audit Office's finding that the audit meets high demands for efficiency and transparency. The Government writes that it intends to follow the Swedish Agency for Press, Radio and Television's work on the recommendations made by the Swedish National Audit Office. With this, I request that the Parliament add the letter to the file and reject the motion in the accompanying motion.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-582	Madam President, I would like In report KU33 An Institute of Human Rights, we are dealing with the Government's proposal to establish a new authority, the Human Rights Institute. According to the Government's proposal, the new authority is to be set up to promote the safeguarding of human rights. The Moderates have long been clear that a new authority is not the solution to protect the individual's rights and freedoms, and we therefore say no to the government's proposal. We believe that effective protection of the individual's rights and freedoms requires other measures than the government's present proposal. Madam President, I would like For the Moderates, a strong protection of the fundamental rights and freedoms of each individual is of paramount importance. It is against this background that the Moderates have been and are pushing for further strengthening the protection of human rights and freedoms. We believe that the most effective way of protecting the individual's rights and freedoms is to strengthen the individual rights of the Constitution, to improve access to justice, including by introducing the right to compensation when the State has violated an individual's rights and freedoms, and to change the cost rules in the Code. This means that the State assumes greater responsibility for the costs of proceedings even in cases where the State wins cases against individuals. Madam President, I would like Although the work on strengthening human rights should primarily be done through the measures that I have just mentioned, it does not, of course, exclude other initiatives that strengthen the impact of rights. Basically, of course, we share the government's view that Sweden should meet the requirements of the so-called Paris principles, but at the same time I would like to point out that the Paris principles can actually be met without the establishment of a new authority. We see a number of shortcomings in the proposal that the government has now put forward. In the opinion of the Moderates, setting up a completely new authority to safeguard human rights cannot be considered the most effective solution for dealing with this issue. This is something we have already mentioned this autumn in our budget motion. Several consultation bodies share our assessment and point out that the need for a new authority is not met by the costs and that the same results could be achieved through a mandate to existing authorities. Other consultative bodies feel that there is no need for an additional human rights interpreter. They believe that awareness and knowledge is already high in Sweden, including through the Ombudsman's system and the Discrimination Ombudsman. Some consultation bodies even consider that the establishment of a new authority risks impoverishing otherwise well-functioning activities. These are serious objections. In the budget proposal for 2021, SEK 125 million was allocated over the next three years for the establishment of the agency. A new authority would therefore entail costs for the state, while it is unclear what added value a new authority will create as there are already authorities working on the issues. Until this is certain, the proposal should not be implemented. We Moderates believe that an institution should rather be set up within one of the existing authorities that already has tasks related to freedom and rights issues. The government should therefore consider a more elaborate proposal setting up a human rights institution that meets the Paris principles in that case within the existing government structure, which also addresses the consultation points put forward. I would also like to take this opportunity to mention the Moderates' proposal for an agency review of all the authorities in Sweden. This issue can be considered usefully in the framework of such an agency review in order to examine which authority is best placed to lead the work to ensure that Sweden complies with the Paris principles. Madam President, I would like Nor do we believe that the Institute should be given the task of proposing that Sweden extend its international legal obligations. The Institute's mission should be limited to promoting the safeguarding of human rights in Sweden on the basis of our constitutions, the European Convention and the EU Charter of Rights. Our view is that a new human rights institute must be effective, fulfil its purpose and create clear added value. Unfortunately, the design that the government now wants to give the Institute does not meet these criteria. For the Moderates, a strong protection of the fundamental rights and freedoms of each individual is of paramount importance. However, effective protection of the individual's rights and freedoms, as I have described earlier, also requires different types of action from the present government proposal. I would therefore like to ask for the approval of reservation 1, i.e. the rejection of the proposal.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-598	Madam President, I would like A debate on a special, independent human rights institute could have been held some 20 years ago. It was at that time that the United Nations decided to urge its Member States to introduce at home a special, independent human rights institute. That is what we are discussing. The fact that this was discussed in the UN so many years back may also mean that we were not quite aware that there was a need for human rights in our own country as well. We may have thought that the advice that came from the UN and other international organisations was actually addressed to other countries but not to Sweden. This attitude has changed. I believe that the Convention on the Rights of the Child has played an important role in this context, as well as conventions on women's rights and on the rights of minorities. All of this has made us aware that we must also look at the situation in our own country to see if we really live up to the expectations we have of ourselves. I also believe that we have been influenced by the fact that our Nordic neighbours have had exactly this type of organisation for several years. These have also been successful in Norway, Finland and Denmark. The purpose of the Institute is to ensure human rights in our own country. That's what matters. I believe, however, that it is also important to establish what tasks such an institution should not have. It should not deal with individual cases. We already have institutions in charge of this work, not least the ombudsmen. The new institute should not enter that area. Nor should it run campaigns against authorities or political parties. It should be above that kind of discussion. Of course, civil society, voluntary organisations, plays an important role here, which we naturally respect and think is important. Although this institute does not take on the roles I have mentioned, there are still strong reasons for having such an organisation, which I will try to argue for in this context. If we really take seriously that the issue of human rights is not actually resolved either in Sweden or internationally, there is actually a role for this organisation in the future – an important role if we value the importance of human rights in our society. The organisation, if it can start, will be an important source of knowledge in society. It could play a very important role in teaching human rights, including in ordinary schools. There is more to be done here, in our view. It could play an important role in research into what methods of human rights work actually works. Such an institute will be important for universities in their work in this field. As an expert body, the Institute will also be an important consultation body on all human rights issues. The Institute should of course be, and become, available to both the Government and the Riksdag when it comes to analysing problems in the field. It is, of course, also the task of the Convention itself to try to find areas to analyse for improvements in human rights. The Institute shall also prepare an annual report on the human rights situation. It is important that such a report is indeed objective, not side-viewed or political, but actually an objective description of the human rights situation in our country. The Institute should relate to the United Nations, the European Union, the Council of Europe and the Court of Justice there in order to identify the best methods for the preservation of human rights. How can this be done effectively? I noted that during the discussion in the KU – we received a light on this a moment ago – some Members expressed concern that the Institute would have the right to express views on aspects of international law. Unfortunately, it has influenced the Constitutional Committee's report on a point on which we on the Socialist side believe that we cannot agree with what was decided. We therefore have a reservation on this point. We believe that this is an important point. Of course, all power when it comes to decisions on our positions on international law should lie with the parliament and the government, and that is also very clear in the bill. However, the fact that such an institute, when created, could not analyse aspects of international law, would, in our opinion, be a meaningless gag and, in fact, a very unfortunate one. Such a limitation could, for example, be interpreted as meaning that the Institute would not be able to monitor developments in the work to ensure that the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities is effectively developed and implemented. This is a very important point and one that is strongly emphasised in the bill. The fact that this has already come out has raised some hope in the disability movement. Now that this independent institution is being set up to monitor human rights and to help ensure that there is a factual discussion on the issues at stake, it would be very unfortunate if certain problems that actually exist, such as the rights of people with disabilities, could not be a subject for the Institute to address. Here I hope that there can be a review by the people who supported this becoming something where reservations must be put forward and that, as far as possible, we can take the decision on this, in my opinion, very important institutions together, with a broad majority behind the decision. It would strengthen human rights in our society. This would support organisations that are specialists in individual cases, for example. It would also stimulate education and research in this area. It would professionalise our work on human rights at a time when there are doubts as to whether we really think that the issue of human rights is an important issue.
i-UCyr63pkbG55A1CrKSzHWB	Madam President, I would like Swedish citizens and others who reside in Sweden have good legal protection, mainly through the second chapter of the government form dealing with fundamental rights and freedoms, but also through the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights. These important rights are realised, among other things, through binding rules for Swedish authorities but also through the public's ability to freely review Swedish authorities through public access to documents and freedom of expression and freedom of the press. In addition, the Swedish Ombudsman and other authorities have access to effective remedies to have their voice heard or their case heard. Of course, everything that is good can be done better. It is important not only to respect human rights but also to inform and anchor them in citizens' minds. The proposed law will introduce a human rights institute. The previous speaker has already explained something about the process that led here and why Sweden needs such an institute. Instead, I intend to say something about how the Institute could be better done. One thing has already been agreed by a majority in the committee, and that is that the Institute should not, as the government has proposed, have a statutory right to propose to the government that Sweden's international legal obligations be extended in the area of human rights. According to Swedish law, this right is granted to the Government or possibly to the Riksdag. Of course, the Institute will still be unhindered to draw the attention of the Government to issues relating to the protection of human rights. Unfortunately, some questions have not gone the way that the Swedish Democrats would have liked. For such an institution to function in the best possible way, it is important that it is regarded by the public as independent. According to the Government's proposal, the Institute's advisory body is one of the nomination bodies that the Government asks when it is time to appoint members of the Institute's Board of Directors. This risks leading to irrelevant loyalty considerations being taken into account in the nomination process. Another problem is that the proposal does not explicitly prohibit the nomination of a member of parliament, minister or employee of the Government Office. Unfortunately, this risks leading the Institute to engage in party political opinion-forming rather than engaging in informing and contributing to increased awareness of Sweden's commitments in the field of human rights. The Swedish Democrats do not support this. Finally, I would like to point out that the independent role of the Institute could have become even more evident if it had been made clear that whoever is on the Board of Directors of the Institute cannot at the same time belong to the Board of Directors or be employed in a civil society organisation that has human rights issues as its watchdog area. As I said, an independent institution should not be suspected of going to private organisations' individual cases. Madam President, I would like I began my speech by saying that everything that is good can be done better, and I am sure that this is not the last time that this institute is being treated by this House.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-622	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 2. Sweden often has a rather high tailings on human rights issues. We want to see and believe that we are the best in the class. We are happy to come with well-meaning tips and advice but also sometimes pointers to other countries that we do not think have come as far. It's sometimes like we have big blindfolds when it comes to our own history. In fact, part of our cultural heritage is racial biology, forced sterilisation and discrimination against those who have somehow escaped from what was then perceived as the norm. There are abuses and violations, and today work is under way with several different truth commissions to settle this story. That's good. But it is not only in the past that Sweden has failed to respect human rights. Even in the present day Sweden has received and receives recurring criticism from, for example, the UN. We simply fail to live up to what we have promised as a country to follow. Madam President, I would like Human rights apply to all people. It is the responsibility and duty of the state to respect and protect human rights, but also to ensure that everyone has access to the rights that exist. The Left Party has high ambitions for the work on human rights issues. It is important to ensure respect for the equal value of all people. We also know that a society that is accessible, equal and where no one is discriminated against because of how they are or who they believe in is a better society for all. The Left Party supports the government's proposal for a human rights institute. But that's just the beginning. An institute itself will not be able to solve everything. It takes a lot more. Not only political will, but also resources and conscious policies are needed in order for Sweden to reach the commitments that we have promised to live up to. There are already similar bodies in other countries that have produced a positive result. It will also enable us to live up to the Paris principles, which have already been mentioned before, which say that the body set up should be independent and have a broad mandate. That is also why we believe that this human rights institution should be set up as a new, own authority under the government. In addition, the committee proposes a number of specific solutions, including with regard to the management of the Institute, in order to ensure full independence. Madam President, I would like As I said earlier, this will not be a quick solution. It will be very exciting to see how this new and independent authority will shape its mission, and it will certainly change over time. There are some concerns among some parties that this institution will take too much of a role and go beyond that of the mission. There is also concern that those who end up in the Institute's management will be Members of Parliament, for example. However, I would like to make it clear that although I do not have the same concerns, I and the majority in the committee share the same view as the government that it is urgent that board members are not perceived as representing different interests. Therefore, appointed board members should also not be party-politically active. I would also like to emphasise that the Institute, like all other authorities, should be able to present proposals to the government. However, whatever proposals are made, it is the government that is preparing for international commitments to be extended. It is also the case that parliamentary approval is required before the government enters into certain international agreements. I therefore do not share this concern of certain parties. I would also like to make one thing clear in this House because Mikael Strandman said earlier that the committee agrees with the point of the Liberals' reservation on international law involvement. It becomes a bit technically difficult to talk about false majority, as we sometimes say carelessly in certain contexts. After all, the situation in the committees as regards Members is not always in line with what the majority of this House looks like. It may be good to know that there is a majority in Parliament's Chamber for reservation 2, to which I called for approval earlier. I also feel that there is a great and broad commitment in the Committee on Human Rights. I feel for myself that the more you work with the questions, the more you see that there is to work with. It is something that may never end. I am therefore convinced that this institute will not be idle.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-635	Madam President, I would like You now feel like a surgeon on the way to surgery when you with mouthguards on go up the speaker's chair to debate. But it's not supposed to be that bloody. Madam President, I would like Liberals welcome the fact that there is finally a proposal for Sweden, like other countries, to have an independent national institution to promote the safeguarding of human rights in the country. In fact, it was my Liberal colleague, then Minister Ullenhag, who already presented the proposal during the time of the alliance government. So long we have turned all the stones around and discussed and debated this issue. However, the bill that is now on Parliament's table is not entirely objectionable. Therefore, the Liberals point to the shortcomings that remain to be adjusted. But please note that we are very happy that we have come here. The most important thing, as we see it, is to ensure the independence of the Institute. In the field of media policy, important steps have been taken to ensure that persons with leading political mandates should not simultaneously sit in decision-making positions where they can exercise ownership control over public service media e.g. grant state financial support to individual private companies. For example, active politicians cannot sit in the ownership foundation for public service media. Similarly, the nomination principles for the Media Support Board have been changed so that active members of parliament cannot be included there. Corresponding principles consider that the Liberals should also apply to the Board of Directors and the Board of Governors of the Institute. There should therefore be an explicit obstacle in the legislative text to being a member of the Board of Directors or a member of the Council, while at the same time acting as a member of parliament, a minister or an employee of the Government Office – all to underline independence. The Institute shall be associated with a Council of representatives of civil society. In order to clarify once again the independence of the Institute, it should also be made clear that those on the Board of Directors of the Institute cannot at the same time belong to the Board of Directors for or be employed in a civil society organisation that has precisely human rights issues as its watch area – again for the sake of independence. According to the draft law, the Council is to be appointed by the Board of Directors of the Institute. The Council, in turn, shall be one of the mandatory nomination bodies to be consulted by the Government when it is time to appoint members of the Board. We therefore believe that an unfortunate circular mechanism is being created in which the composition of the Council affects the composition of the Board, which in turn is directly governing those who may sit in the Council. This is undeniably a less successful construction that risks building loyalty considerations into the nomination process. The easiest way to prevent this is to remove the Council from the list of bodies to be consulted for decisions on new board members. There is, of course, nothing to prevent the organisations represented in the Council from giving the government name proposals on their own. Madam President, I would like In order for people to be able to exercise their individual rights and freedoms, knowledge is required. It is also necessary for the public to live up to its international obligations in the field of human rights. The Liberals therefore share the government's assessment that the Institute, within the framework of its mission, will promote education, research, skills development, information and awareness of human rights. Work to convince and defend human rights must continue at all times. We know clearly that each new generation needs to be won in terms of these values. It's not something we get with our mother's milk. It must be constantly worn in. This is happening in the public discussion. In this work, political parties, as well as parts of civil society and anyone we meet on the street, have an important role to play. It's everyone's role to fill. We say that authorities should inform and contribute to increased awareness of Sweden's commitments in the field of human rights. On the other hand, it should not be a public authority task to conduct an opinion-forming exercise. Madam President, I would like Perhaps the most important point in Liberals' reservations is that the Government proposes that the law include an explicit provision that the Institute may propose to the Government that Sweden's international legal obligations be extended within the human rights field. Like several consultation bodies, the Liberals do not share this assessment. As is clear from the portal clause of the proposed Act, the Institute shall have the task of promoting the safeguarding of the international legal obligations that Sweden has in fact already entered into in this area. What new commitments Sweden could enter into is a political issue that should be assessed in the same way as always in the case of possible accessions to new instruments of international law, i.e. through an overall assessment within the framework of the work of the Government and the Riksdag. The Liberals feel that giving an authority, albeit in the form of an institute, an explicit responsibility to raise such proposals is inappropriate in principle. Note that we are not proposing to ban the Institute from proposing new legislation if necessary. It would have been a strange and rather unusually strict requirement for an authority that would also examine and analyse any shortcomings in the government's handling of human rights if it were not allowed to lift any conventions that could supplement Swedish legislation. Our criticism is that it is inappropriate for an authority to have the task of proposing concrete legislative texts outside of advisory purposes. It is more compatible with Swedish law and the Paris principles to allow but not to require that the Authority may, if necessary, propose new legislation in line with the powers of the other authorities. A majority of the committee – let us see what is happening in this House – also does not believe that the government has given convincing reasons which make it necessary to come forward with the proposal put forward by the government, in accordance with the Paris principles. A majority in the committee therefore believes that this part of the government's proposal should be rejected. Otherwise, I would like to endorse Amendments Nos 3 and 4.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-650	Madam President, I would like Every person's fundamental rights must be respected. In the international work on human rights and gender equality, it is crucial to uphold the principles of the rule of law. Men's violence against women, sexual harassment and honour repression must be combated in Sweden and globally. Racism, xenophobia and hate crime are unacceptable wherever they occur. You should have the same chance of a good life regardless of functional ability, gender identity and expression, sexual orientation, belief, where you live or where you come from. The rights of national minorities and indigenous peoples shall be protected. This applies in Sweden and everywhere in the world. This is from the Green Party election manifesto. After the general description of how we look at these issues, we also have an election promise to set up an independent human rights institution. It's really about time. Madam President, I would like I think it takes two things: to listen to the outside world and to have a bit of courage. I can add a third. It also takes patience. Listening to the outside world is about following the recommendations of the international community and taking on board the criticism that we have not had an independent human rights institute. As early as 1993, the UN General Assembly called on the Member States to set up human rights institutes, and Sweden has repeatedly received recommendations that we should do so. In 2015, Sweden accepted such recommendations within the framework of the UN General Council on Human Rights. With the establishment, Sweden can join its neighbouring countries Norway, Denmark and Finland, which currently have MR institutions in accordance with the Paris principles. It is also a matter of a little courage, for those who tremble on the cuffs do not dare to rig a system that really does an independent review of the work of themselves, of one's party or of a government of which the party itself is a part. It takes courage to open up to independent scrutiny. The Moderates reject the whole proposal because they do not want the Institute in a new authority. It's kind of like throwing the baby out with the bath water. It is difficult to understand how independence can be guaranteed if the institution is part of another authority. The risk is that an institution under another authority would not be approved by Ganhri, which is the accreditation institution that assesses the status of a Swedish MR institution. The bodies considered to comply fully with the Paris principles are granted A status. That means you have the right to vote in Ganhri. An institution with an A-status also has access to the UN system, which means that it can participate and speak in reviews carried out by the UN Human Rights Council and participate in meetings with the various UN Convention bodies. So in principle, the Moderates say no to this independent review of how a Swedish government lives up to its commitments in terms of human rights and risk that Sweden, of all countries, does not reach the highest status of its human rights institute. The Green Party is not willing to take that risk. The Liberals, the Centre Party and the Swedish Democrats are concerned that the Institute will be opinion-forming and that the issues will be politicised. If you think that there is a party political influence, the responsibility falls heavily on us politicians, including us here in Parliament. It is very important that this does not become party politics. However, disseminating information and increasing knowledge of human rights is something that cannot be done too much of. For us in the Green Party, it has been important for the Institute to become independent and sufficiently powerful. These possibilities now exist for the Institute because the Government's proposal is based on the Paris principles, which describe the minimum requirements to apply to an institute such as this. What we are now setting up is a heavy, fact-based authority with broad ties to civil society and political parties at a proper distance. It is regulated by law that the members of the Board shall have expertise in the field of human rights and experience in qualified work in the following areas of activity: civil society, justice and law and research and higher education. The purpose of the Institute is to promote the safeguarding of human rights in Sweden, which we are committed to. These include, for example, our constitutions, the European Convention and other human rights conventions. These are things that already apply in Sweden today, but the Institute should help ensure that the rights are guaranteed. This applies, for example, to the Convention on the Law of the Functioning of the European Union. It is therefore important that the Institute, both in substance and for its status, has the declared opportunity to propose to the Government that Sweden's international legal obligations be extended in the field of human rights. This is opposed to part of the Constitutional Committee. The committee believes that even without such an explicit provision as is proposed by the law, the Institute would be unhindered to draw the attention of the Government to issues relating to the protection of human rights. I interpret the language of the KU as meaning that this means that the Institute should nevertheless be able to present these proposals, but that it should not be made clear in the legislation. However, this is not only about the substance of the matter, but also about the status of the Institute in the eyes of others. It shall meet the criteria for obtaining the highest status. The assessment then is that it is required that the Institute's ability to do so is explicitly indicated, even though, in accordance with our management model, all authorities can make proposals in their areas. As several before me have pointed out, it is the government and parliament that are dealing with the decisions on such commitments, in perfectly correct constitutional order. Madam President, I would like Sometimes there seems to be a notion that human rights are something neutral. It's not. It should not be politicised; it is of the utmost importance that the Institute is politically independent. Each government, regardless of its colour, shall be examined equally carefully. This must not be a party political issue, and it will not be so if the political parties respect the independent scrutiny. Human rights, on the other hand, are very much a political issue. Standing up for the equal and inviolable rights of all people is not neutral. Democracy is not neutral either. There are those who make other assumptions and who want the world to look different. To stand for democracy and human rights are strong positions for the world we want to see, and that is a clear indication of what we do not want to see. With this, I am in favour of reservation 2, and I look forward to seeing the establishment of the Swedish Institute of Human Rights.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-666	Madam President, I would like As far as I understand, I am the last speaker on the KU33 issue. The Christian Democrats alone support the whole report. Hence, it will be a task for me to try to gather it together and stand for a majority view. If it then holds the vote, we do not know, but this is at least the majority view of the KU. I therefore support the proposal contained in the report, as it stands. This issue has a long history, and it has been supported and wet, but not because the different parties have different views on the importance of human rights. The Constitutional Committee's mission is to protect human rights. It's our joint mission. But what would an independent institute look like and how would it be designed? We've been upsetting this for years. Now, however, the KU has made an order to the government, and after legal time the government has now made a proposal in the form of a bill. The KU has looked at this and, with some exception, all parties support the idea of an independent institute. But we are more or less concerned that it could be politicised. I therefore welcome what has now been said by, I believe, the members of the KU of all parties, that is to say that it should not be politicised but should be completely independent. The background is, of course, that we all want to meet the requirements of the Paris principles, and we find that this institute is an important way forward. We want Sweden to have A-status and think that something else does not belong to Sweden. This is a way to seek this. What is the majority opinion that the KU places on Parliament's table? The Government proposes in the bill that a new independent authority, the Institute for Human Rights, be set up. The proposal in the new Act, the Act on the Institute for Human Rights, includes provisions on the Institute's duties, the Institute's management and its appointment, and the Institute's organisation in general. The KU welcomes the establishment of an institution with the mission to promote the safeguarding of human rights in Sweden. The KU supports the proposal as to which sources should serve as a starting point for carrying out the mission, including binding international obligations in the field of human rights. There is reason to repeat the committee's earlier statement that one of the starting points for protecting human rights in Sweden is that this should be done within the framework of the Swedish constitutional order. It is the Swedish laws – and they may contain standards from international conventions and agreements – that should be applied and interpreted. If international conventions or political agreements are applied directly, national democratic processes are circumvented. The KU believes that, in the long term, this may weaken Parliament's position in the areas in question and jeopardise the long-term legitimacy of both national and international standards. We don't want that. The government is now proposing that the Institute be set up as a new authority under the Government. In order to ensure that the Institute is given an independent position in relation to the Government, the functions and management of the Institute, as proposed by the Government, as well as certain fundamental issues relating to the organisation and operation of the Institute, should be regulated by law. Legal regulation means that the government is not able to control the Institute's tasks and work to the extent that normally applies to authorities under the Government. The institution shall be managed by a board of directors. The Institute shall also have an advisory body – a Council – appointed by the Governing Board. The committee believes that it is essential for the credibility of the Authority that it is, and is perceived to be, independent. The activities shall be governed and operated in the public interest. It is important that the Board members meet high standards of independence and integrity and that they do not represent, or are perceived to represent, any special interests. The KU shares the Government's view that the members of the Board should not be appointed from among persons active in party politics. This means, for example, that Members of Parliament, Minister of State and State Secretary will not be appointed as Board members. In order to strengthen the Institute's independence, the Board should, as the Government points out, have a broad composition with experience from different areas of activity. The Management Board shall include members with expertise in the field of human rights and experience of qualified work in three areas of activity: civil society, the judiciary and law enforcement, as well as research and higher education. As regards the nomination process itself, the Government proposes that the proposals for board members should be collected from actors who have an independent role in relation to the government and who have a high level of trust in society. Those actors should have a good knowledge of the areas of activity relevant to the activities of the institution. Against this background, the Government proposes that proposals be obtained from the Institute's Council, the Swedish Bar Association and the universities and colleges. In this respect, the KU notes that the Government is not bound by the nomination proposals and that other actors can also submit proposals for members. However, the KU shares the Government's view that the Board members should normally be taken from the circle of the nominees. The independence of the Board is closely associated with the government's first appointment of nominated members. In any case, however, it is important that the members of the Board meet high standards of independence and integrity. The same requirement for expertise in the field of human rights and experience in qualified work in one of the three areas of activity that I mentioned should apply even if a member of the board has not been nominated by the identified actors. In order to strengthen the independence of the Institute, it is further proposed that the Board of Directors may decide on the appointment as Head of the Authority. The period of employment should also be specified by law. A member of the Management Board or a staff member as Director may not be appointed as a member or head of the Authority earlier than five years after the termination of his or her duties. It is the view of the KU that the Council should also have a broad composition and that the arrangements for the Council's work should be determined by the Governing Board. The members of the Council, as highlighted in the proposal, should be appointed on the basis of their relevant knowledge and experience. In order for individuals to respond to shortcomings in the protection of rights and to demand their rights, they must have knowledge of human rights. The Institute's mission shall therefore include promoting education, research, skills development, information and awareness of human rights. In this context, the KU recalls that for all public activities there is a requirement to observe impartiality and objectivity in the business, and these requirements will also apply to the institution. Information to the public must therefore always be objective and impartial. KU has pointed this out in the past and stressed that it is of the utmost importance that the information provided by the authorities is characterised by good administrative practice. This means, among other things, that a precautionary principle should be observed when choosing the form of opinion-forming activities. The requirement for this form may mean that certain expressions which, in the case of information, would have been desirable from a purely communication perspective may fall back on the requirement for a comprehensive illumination of an issue corresponding to its complexity. Madam President, I therefore support the proposal contained in the report.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-688	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to express my support for the two reservations which the Social Democrats have expressed in this report: number 14 and number 15. Otherwise, I support the proposal in the committee's report. Today we are debating the committee's report number 10. It has the same number every year. This is the report on the activities of the European Union. The starting point is the EU letter that the government, represented here by Hans Dahlgren, gives to the Riksdag every year. This letter describes the activities and actions of Sweden in the EU during the past year. I know from experience that the debate many times slips away not to talk about what has been but about what might come. After all, it is gratifying that the debate on what our choices are in the EU is a debate in which there is a strong majority to stand up, within the framework of the EU, for fundamental democratic values, the principles of the rule of law and human rights and to promote Swedish interests. The letter is a comprehensive text. It describes a particularly eventful year – we can honestly say that Europe has had both successful and less successful days. Of course, the pandemic has left its mark on the activities of the European Union as well, and at times it has been frustrating that cohesion and the Community have not always been as good as we would like. The Covidendem has undeniably challenged the cohesion of the Union. It has reaped many victims and has led EU countries to show both good and bad sides in their contacts with each other. But Europe is stronger after this covid epidemic; I am absolutely convinced of that. From the difficulties of the past year, a new determination and a new understanding have been born that the way forward is not to act alone but to act together. The EU now has a recovery plan and a long-term budget that shows that it is able to pull itself together when it is really needed. I am absolutely convinced that we will ultimately emerge stronger from this crisis situation. Of course, Brexit, the UK's withdrawal from the EU, has marked this year. It has been a long and, in some respects, painful journey both for the European Union and for the United Kingdom. Now it is important that we see a way forward, together, with a new relationship between the remaining EU states and the EU on the one hand and the UK on the other. Our old friends are still our friends, albeit in a new form of cooperation. The Government of Hans Dahlgren will take part in the debate later. I am absolutely convinced that he will give a more comprehensive picture. That is why I am focusing on the two reservations that we Social Democrats support in this report. These reservations relate to EU sanctions legislation against serious human rights violations and violations. That is what is often referred to in these contexts as Magnitsky legislation. One reservation is based on the fact that there is a majority who want to extend the Magnitsky sanctions, on which the EU has decided, by additional elements, such as money laundering and corruption. There is nothing wrong with adding this. But in the EU context, this is a new piece of legislation and a new way of working, and it has been a long process to get this far. We Social Democrats think it is a little strange to start changing these EU rules when they have just started to apply and when they have very recently started to apply. The wise thing would be to evaluate how they work and then to think about how to develop the rules further. These were rather tough discussions to get as far as we have now come within the European Union. I think it's a little premature to tear it all up and try to renegotiate. However, as far as I understand, the government has started work in Council working groups. The government has taken up this opportunity for the future, if I have understood it correctly. So that is not out of the question. It is very much about the timing and the strategy for moving forward. The second reservation that we are part of is also about the rules on sanctions. In that reservation, we point out what we believe is essential for sanctions to work. Sanctions are considerably stronger and more effective if we make them together with other countries. It is because a majority in the committee thinks that Sweden could have its own sanctions. Unfortunately, I do not think they would be very effective, even if they could be well-motivated. I think it is problematic if the EU starts to split up and does not have joint decisions on sanctions. It will be difficult for individual countries that impose sanctions on other countries. There will be counter-measures and counter-sanctions, and they will be very vulnerable to those countries that have imposed sanctions individually. This also applies, of course, to Sweden. Nor will it be the same strength in sanctions imposed by a country or a few countries. If the EU agrees on sanctions together, it is a huge force. The EU is one of the world's largest aggregate economies and one of the world's largest trading areas. It is clear that sanctions on the part of the EU feel – be sure! Madam President, I would like I am surprised, in conclusion, that the bourgeois parties and, above all, the Moderates want to abandon the idea of common EU sanctions. The Moderates often in these debates – we will certainly hear it in this debate – say that EU work should be prioritised, that Sweden should really be at the heart of the EU and that the EU should be the central arena for Swedish foreign and security policy. There's nothing wrong with those ambitions. I think we are meeting them well today. However, Moderates, who seem to have an idea of how we can fulfil them even better, are, in my view, not quite consistent when they want to go a path with individual national sanctions. It does not make sense with the other moderate EU policies.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-703	Madam President, I would like Looking back is the first step towards looking forward. Cooperation between EU Member States has been hard tested during the Corona crisis of the past year, with closed borders and social and economic challenges. At the same time, the EU's ability to ensure the functioning of the internal market and to maintain free flows of goods during the crisis has been crucial for Swedish trade with the rest of the world. The EU is a cooperation for democracies, where Sweden's voice should be clear and strong in order to respect the principles of the rule of law throughout the EU. This is crucial for the EU to be able to give credible impetus to human rights and freedoms in its foreign policy. Member States with governments trying to undermine democracy and the rule of law must face clear consequences through legal sanctions, suspended voting rights in the Council of Ministers, or through the non-payment of EU funds. Therefore, Sweden will continue to fully support the ongoing so-called Article 7 procedures, which may lead to the suspension of voting rights in the EU for the countries concerned unless the situation changes for the better. Madam President, I would like Even with regard to the further enlargement of the EU, it is fundamental to safeguard liberal democracy and the rule of law. We have learned this not only in the past year but also in previous years. That is something we must bring with us in the future. At present, Turkey is no longer living up to the EU's legitimate expectations in an enlargement process, which is why it makes no sense to continue the accession negotiations, which have not been conducted in practice for a few years now. On the other hand, the EU should continue to support civil society, human rights defenders and journalists in Turkey, as well as safeguarding Turkish students' access to European universities. While the evolution of the EU's fundamental values is unfortunately going in the wrong direction in several of the Member States, accession processes are ongoing in the Western Balkans. The EU's internal problem is a signal to pay attention to when new candidate countries can become candidates for membership of the Union. The enhanced examination of existing Member States also needs to be developed in the accession negotiations with the candidate countries. Madam President, I would like The EU is Sweden's most important foreign policy platform. This is particularly evident when the security policy situation is characterised by increased tensions both along the EU's eastern border and in the Mediterranean. Unfortunately, today's unanimity requirement for decisions in the EU's foreign and security policy makes effective European action impossible, as individual Member States can block decisions. It becomes particularly problematic when hostile states try to tie up individual EU Member States in a position of dependence in order to increase their strategic influence on the European continent. A transition to a qualified majority in decision-making on foreign and security policy would therefore significantly strengthen the EU's ability to act on the international stage. The EU's enhanced defence cooperation has the potential to strengthen the defence capabilities of individual Member States and the overall capacity of the Union to cope with a deterioration in the world environment. And effective cooperation between the EU and NATO is crucial for dealing with the deteriorating security policy situation in Europe's vicinity. The changes that have taken place in the world around us are that the US has now got a different focus on its policy and that Britain has left the European Union. We have two countries to which we need to relate as close friends. We Moderates believe that these global challenges will be met by deepening transatlantic cooperation, which, based on the current world order, is both logical and effective. The UK, Norway and the US should have a special position given these countries' important contribution to Europe's security, not least in terms of hybrid threats, strategic communication and cyber security. Madam President, I would like Sweden will also stand up for cooperation within the Eastern Partnership, not least by drawing experience from what has happened in Ukraine. We shall strongly support their reform process and European advances. The tragic developments of recent years in Belarus demonstrate the need for the EU to act forcefully when authoritarian leaders in the neighbourhood commit crimes against their own population. The measures taken against the Belarus regime must be sustained, while the EU's support for defenders of democracy and human rights must be functional. The EU must have the ability to put pressure also on the Russian regime to change its foreign policy action. It is characterised by ruthlessness and violation of fundamental principles of international law. Saying the name Aleksej Navalnyj is enough for a summary. Sweden must also clearly defend a coherent European approach to Russia's policy and that the current principles of policy remain in place over time. It is central to Swedish interest that the Nord Stream 2 gas pipeline project between Russia and Germany, which we have discussed over the past year, be stopped. Therefore, the government must make further efforts to reduce the EU's dependence on Russian gas. It is also of the utmost importance that the EU has a common attitude towards China, preferably consistent with like-minded countries such as Australia, Canada, the United Kingdom and the United States. China's political development and action towards the outside world are characterised by violations of human rights and international law and deviated from international commitments. China's action in Europe shows a tangible ambition to divide the EU Member States through economic pressure. If individual Member States become increasingly dependent on China and its investments, there is a risk that it will be more difficult to agree on EU joint action. We have seen this and do not want to see it again. Sweden should therefore be the driving force for the EU's solidarity to counteract pressure from China against individual Member States. Unfortunately, this clarity has failed as regards developments in Hong Kong, where its self-governing position has been shattered by the actions of mainland China in Hong Kong. Madam President, I would like The EU is also the world's largest donor and provides over EUR 50 billion a year to combat poverty and accelerate global development. Climate is a global concern, and the EU is the most important international arena for Sweden's climate cooperation. We believe that Sweden should work with its credibility on aid issues to ensure that the EU prioritises climate aid in the common development policy. Furthermore, for the Moderates, it is self-evident that decisions to introduce new own resources should require unanimity in the Council. This ensures Sweden's and Parliament's influence and authority over tax issues. What the EU should do more is focus on deepening the internal market and pushing for more prosperous free trade. The single market is an invaluable asset in an increasingly unpredictable world. Madam President, I would like Finally, demand for electricity will increase dramatically as industries and transport are electrified. The EU aims at 32% of its energy supply coming from renewable sources by 2030. We mean that Moderates are too low. Furthermore, the limitation to renewable energy sources excludes nuclear energy, which is needed to ensure both the power needs and the stability of electricity systems. Madam President, I would like You can say a lot about the past year, and the exposé I have done now, I would like to say again in a year's time when we see what the European Union should really do and we can have reason to see whether Europe has the power to move forward. I am in favour of reservation 1 but, of course, I support all our reservations and specific opinions.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-729	Madam President, I would like It is nice to be back among the members of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. A great deal has happened in the European Union this year. To go through all the issues that are important to our party is not possible for reasons of time, so I will therefore stick to a few things that are particularly topical right now. I am in favour of reservation number 2 which expresses our position on a more general level. But, of course, we are in the usual order behind all our reservations. Madam President, I would like The so-called Corona Fund, together with the social pillar, means that the rules of the European cooperation have been fundamentally redesigned while the Swedish Government has remained passive or acted directly against the Swedish interest. The result is a European bureaucracy that consumes more and more resources for less and less use and which, in an imprudent and clumpy way, wants to regulate in detail issues that are at the heart of Swedish welfare and Swedish society and that flagrantly and without blinking the surface of its own regulations. Firstly, it is important to emphasise that the so-called Corona Fund has nothing material to do with the pandemic itself. The Fund is in fact another in a long series of attempts to keep life alive in the Union's most expensive prestige project, namely the single currency. Euro-cooperation, as it works today, locks some Member States into an almost hopeless situation. Without its own currency that makes industry competitive, some Member States simply cannot compete with Germany in particular, and this situation has been made even worse by China's state-aided export sector. The economic medicine of the Union, known as internal devaluation, has had enormous and, in some cases, purely humanitarian consequences, while not having the intended effect on the competitiveness of the affected Member States. Even before the pandemic, we knew with 100% certainty that some Member States are extremely sensitive to an external shock to euro cooperation. We knew that, because that was exactly what happened in 2008. Now that the pandemic is a fact, it is again the same countries with the same unsustainable sovereign debt, the same corrupt institutions and the same chronic inability to manage their own economy that holds the rest of the Union hostage. Madam President, I would like Of course, the solution to the problem is not yet more loans. We already know that today. For what are we going to do in the next crisis in ten years' time if we have just begun to pay off the loans we are taking up today? What we will then hear, if we are lucky enough to still have the confidence of the voters, is that all that is needed is another loan package that is just a little, a little bigger than the previous one. However, this is not a permanent solution. What is needed is the completion of euro cooperation. It is the only viable solution to this problem. The more money we invest in the system today, the more money we will lose when the inevitable happens. Madam President, I would like How will this money be spent? An important area is the so-called social pillar, for which we recently received a plan for implementation with the Porto Declaration and the March communication. The starting point of the social pillar and the Porto declaration are, in themselves, true. The pandemic has affected different countries different and different groups within countries different. Those who spend the days reading or writing reports or counting on numbers and who receive their salary from larger companies or, for example, the Swedish Parliament have managed relatively well, while those who work in tourism or small businesses have been hit considerably harder. The situation is, of course, even more difficult for people who already have a weaker link with the labour market, that is, the long-term unemployed, newcomers and people who are a little younger. The question is how we help them and, above all, how far the responsibility of the Swedish taxpayer and the Union's powers go. That's what this is about. The reasoning put forward by the government is similar to the following: all social problems linked to social or labour market policies are served by intervention at EU level. If something is good for society in theory, it is also good that the EU takes some form of responsibility. In summary, that is how the government sees the issue. It is a big shift from what is the traditional Swedish attitude, where government representatives in any case made some kind of lip service about the importance of subsidiarity and budgetary constraint. Of course, we do not agree with the government in this approach. We think that the social pillar is a bridge too much. It threatens the balance between the Member States and the EU's competences and hence its cohesion and future. We know that the distribution of competences and the budget were crucial issues when Britain chose to leave the Union, but it is a lesson that many seem to have difficulty learning. The number of initiatives mentioned in the March communication on action plans for the implementation of the social pillar is far too large to mention in one speech, but I can mention some of the headings: labour market policies, minimum wages, social security, childcare, unemployment benefits, pensions, health care, housing and, last but not least, essential services, including water, sanitation, energy, transport, financial services, digital communication and more. So there are few limitations. In order to implement the vision, the Commission is planning a number of legislative acts and even more action plans and strategies. The latter are, of course, aimed at tightening the agenda for additional legislative acts and funding. You can see that the softer methods do not lead to where you want to go. The cost is difficult to calculate. The Commission has not presented an overall budget, but the main instrument is the European Social Fund, which currently amounts to approximately SEK 1 000 billion. I think we can count on it to be just a start. I would also like to point out that even now, in other words before the Corona Fund is operational, the President of the European Parliament is talking about the Fund becoming permanent. We all see where this barks, but for some reason only our party dares to put its foot down and say no. Madam President, I would like The principles of the rule of law come back as a mantra when the government seeks support for its positions in the EU Board. And there is absolutely nothing wrong with that – in itself. Some Member States undoubtedly have problems with the rule of law, which to a large extent, I believe, is a legacy from the days of the Iron Curtain where corruption, nepotism and lack of respect for human rights were the rule rather than the exception. However, the government makes a number of mistakes in how to deal with the issue. Firstly, the problem is painted as a purely party political issue. Secondly, it does not ensure that the EU's own institutions actually set an example. The Swedish Government always points out two countries when the principles of the rule of law are on the agenda, namely Poland and Hungary. There are definitely shortcomings in the rule of law in these countries. I totally agree on that. But what you don't mention is a couple of other relevant facts. Let me give an example. If you use The Economist's democracy index, that is, other institutions that measure democracy and the rule of law, these two countries are not the worst culprits in the Union; they are Croatia and Romania. Both countries are led by liberal parties, which is also why they systematically avoid criticism from both the Commission and the Swedish Government. Furthermore, the rule of law in Poland and Hungary was hardly better when some countries were led by left-wing parties not so long ago. The problems that exist are more or less in the walls of the institutions, and they will not be better once the current governments of the two countries leave their posts. It's going to happen at some point. The Social Democratic side of Europe is hardly free from stains. They have their own star shots, such as former Deputy Prime Minister Liviu Dragnea, who has been pointed out by the country's own police as a mafia leader, multiple convicted economic criminal, who remained in place not long ago. A further problem in dealing with this issue is the Commission's own view of the Treaty and the powers it delegates to the Union. There is a great deal to be said about this, for example, that the Treaty of Lisbon explicitly states that the EU should not take up its own loans, which one nevertheless does as soon as one thinks it is necessary. So there is the fiscal framework, the Stability and Growth Pact, which sets limits on the sovereign debt of the Member States, the euro states. This is something that has been ignored in a silent agreement with the good memory of the Commission. The excessive deficit procedures that have been initiated have led nowhere. Perhaps the most flagrant violation of the Union's own rules is, of course, the proposal on statutory minimum wages which is currently being negotiated by the Council. Article 153 of the Treaty expressly prohibits the Union from legislating on wages. The government's position is also that a legislative proposal creating rights for individuals in the policy area is not compatible with the Treaty. There, of course, we are in complete agreement. It is impossible to read the Treaty in any other way. Yet, the facts are facts. A suggestion is on the table. The Commission has agreed that it considers the proposal to be in accordance with EU law. It may be voted through in the Council. If it is voted through in the Council, it will definitely go through in Parliament. If the legislative act is adopted, we can almost expect the Court of Justice of the European Union to uphold the rules. The Court of Justice will approve the act – if it is adopted. Does the Commission, the institution that calls itself the guardian of the Treaty, have any credibility whatsoever when it talks about the rule of law, when one ignores one's own acquis communautaire in the area after another? I'll let that question hang in the air.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-759	Madam President, I would like The EU is Sweden's most important foreign policy arena. The EU is our home plan for peace and development. This is a parliamentary report that we are now discussing on the basis of the government's letter. A number of Parliament's committees have been involved in expressing their views on developments in 2020 as described by the Government. 2020 was the year when Brexit happened. The year 2020 has been characterized by covid-19 and has become covid-19-pandemin's year. But both have demonstrated the need for cooperation and the alternative of non-cooperation. It may be a question of vaccines, a flow of goods or other things. 2020 has also been a year that has shown the dangers of nationalism with closed borders for goods, services and people. Is that how we want it, Madam President? The Centre Party's answer is: No, the EU is not meant to be, and so we do not want to see Europe develop. However, the EU is the structure that was in place and that, despite the challenges, could be used to solve knots and crises so that we could actually help each other forward and help us all get vaccines – vaccines that are approved so that people won't have to hesitate in front of them. Madam President, I would like 2020 was also a year ahead. The climate threat is global and knows no boundaries. It is impossible to stop with never as high walls as anyone might imagine, and that is not something that can be referred to other countries. That goes for all of us. It's global. The EU is a decisive force for results. The European Union has shown it in the past, and the European Union must show it again. Others see and expect the EU to make a difference in order to bring about a green and sustainable re-launch after the pandemic but also to take a lead in a global climate transition. It is important here that each Member State should actually assume its responsibilities. Someone elseism, which is a common phenomenon, should not apply here. It's not a way forward. Sure, we have different conditions, but it is important that we all make ambitious efforts on the basis of our conditions. We cannot hide behind others, because if there are developments, it will help undermine the credibility of the European Union and lead to our going backwards rather than forwards. The Center Party wants an ambitious EU policy in the field of climate change. We want the government to work for the EU to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by at least 60% by 2030. I would therefore like to ask you to accept reservation 29 in paragraph 9. Madam President, I would like As I said, the EU is both Sweden's home court and our most important foreign policy arena. 2020 was also the year when the budget was adopted and the restarting fund was formed – compromises in both cases and not as we wanted, but we are used to doing so. It is important here that the foundations of the European Union – democracy, human rights and the rule of law – have been clarified. We do not want to see us involved in financing the undermining of the values of the European Union, either by Russia's or China's attempts at destabilisation or by the efforts of individual countries to strike, in a national conservative direction, at the liberal values on which the European Union is based. It may be Hungary or Poland or any other country. We have seen restrictions during the pandemic in several countries. It is important that we pay attention to them and ensure that they do not survive, because then we will help to give legitimacy to the actions of Hungary and Poland and other countries. The democratic lock is important and must be used. It goes without saying that the Commission's annual independent report must produce results. The EU's foreign and security policy is important for Sweden. We want to see a stronger role for Europe, for our values, and we want it to be credible. This year, 2020, wasn't the best year. That has already been said. The fact that it took such time before the EU could rally from just condemning with words to also acting in action following the fraudulent elections in Belarus and Lukasjenko abuse of their own population was bad. It was not a highlight of the EU's foreign policy, nor of security policy. This has led us to conclusions on several levels, I believe, and in several parties. As far as we are concerned, we are pleased that the committee has been able to gather together to mark this part, because we know that others have seen and learned and are trying to argue that there is a difference between the words of the European Union and the actions of the European Union and that we do not need to care so much about words when we see that action does not apply. It may be China or Russia or others. We have also seen chemical weapons attacks on EU soil. As far as we are concerned, it is clear that it must be met with clear language and action. In this context, it is also important to highlight the importance of the EU building a close relationship with North America, with the USA and Canada, for the sake of credibility. I note in the report on developments in Europe and the European Union that came in my email today that the image of Russia and China is too rosy among the inhabitants of many countries. It has been able to contribute to creating and putting a different picture of reality than we see here in Sweden, for example, and this must lead to action. Madam President, I would like To conclude, I would like to emphasise the value of the fact that we have Magnitsky sanctions to broaden on the issue of systematic corruption and money laundering. We also want to see it nationally. Here I can only remind you that we have countries smaller than Sweden that have gone ahead and that show that we can also make a difference with national sanctions. They are brave, perhaps braver than Sweden. We don't want them to be alone. We want to build common opportunities with them. It is also about the Eastern Partnership. It is extremely important for us in Sweden that we take it further. We are prepared to look at how we will relate to Belarus after what has happened. Should it be suspended? But it is equally important that we are very clear about the prospect of membership of Ukraine and other countries and to move forward with North Macedonia and Albania. If we do not, we are showing that we are not a reliable force for democracy and human rights in our close neighbourhood, and that is a security and foreign policy risk for Sweden and for the EU.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-779	Madam President, I would like By 2020 was a year of pandemic. The direct and indirect consequences of the pandemic have hit Sweden hard, Europe and the world. All indications are that these consequences will be prolonged and will increase inequalities and gaps globally. We are already seeing an increase in poverty, the most serious among girls and women and in other oppressed groups. Unfortunately, there are developments within Europe that are not supposed to solve these problems, but rather will exacerbate them. Conservative and nationalist countries are becoming more and more aggressive in their oppressive policies and rhetoric. The EU is also driven by such currents, with more focus on protecting the EU's external border than on promoting equality. Many people in the world are fleeing oppression, poverty, war, and persecution. The war in Syria has claimed many lives, and in 2020 over 13 million people were on the run, according to the United Nations Refugee Agency (UNHCR). Most of the refugees are still in Syria or are in one of the neighbouring countries. Around 1 million people have fled to EU countries. At the moment, some 4 million refugees are in Turkey, and there the situation for these people is very difficult. The Left Party believes that it is those who are on the run who should be protected, along with the right of asylum and the rule of law – not the EU's external border. We should jointly take responsibility by creating a humane refugee policy with legal ways into Europe. Europe has never been so rich and at the same time so unequal. The inequality between those who have and those who have not is spreading both within and between countries in Europe. The EU response to the financial crisis was even more of the right-wing policy that had created the crisis. Banks were saved, while the cost was borne by the rest of us. The growing inequality has created a breeding ground for those nationalists and racists who want to restrict our democracy. With the help of the right, they take power in Europe through rhetoric and a policy that kicks down. The Left Party wants new European cooperation that puts people and climate ahead of market interests. A real counter-force against the neoliberal and racist forces in Europe comes from the left. We live in a serious time, but there is also much hope. The Left Party, together with other left-wing parties in Europe, is pushing for cooperation for social justice, gender equality and a strong environmental and climate policy. In the field of foreign policy, we want to see a more independent Swedish voice in the debate, which does not always wait for what the European Commission, France or Germany have said before they speak. An independent voice can also have a greater impact on our environment. The Left Party knows that equal societies provide more freedom and opportunities for all people. Society that is more equal is also better at solving societal challenges such as patriarchy, climate change, racism or inadequate welfare in the pandemic. Being an EU critic is a prerequisite for changing today's Europe. Madam President, I would like The EU Border and Coast Guard Agency Frontex has been accused of stopping boats from Turkey to Greece in order to prevent possible asylum seekers from reaching the EU. This would be illegal under international law. Frontex has received criticism from, among other things, the United Nations Refugee Agency for not having reported in its annual report any use of force through so-called pushbacks at sea. Frontex has gone from being a very small authority alongside EU cooperation to becoming the EU's largest authority, without effective governance. The budget has increased explosively, and now Frontex will have permanent staff of its own. The plan is that this year's force of 6,500 will increase to 10,000 in a number of years. Frontex is an authority not governed by the European Commission but by a management board with representatives from Member States and the Commission. Recently, the criticism of Frontex has been massive. The EU Court of Auditors, which reviews the EU budget and governance, has sawed the Authority at its ankles. The European Parliament has refused to grant discharge to Frontex. But so far it is silent from the Swedish Government, even though the Commissioner responsible is the Social Democrat Ylva Johansson – or perhaps precisely for that reason. In view of the serious accusations made against Frontex and the lack of credibility of Frontex's own investigations, I believe that Sweden should work towards the EU setting up an independent investigation into whether Frontex has violated international law. For the time being, Sweden should pause its participation in Frontex until its house has been put in order. Following the outbreak of the pandemic, 2020 became much of a hunt for vaccine. An intensive and impressive work led to the testing, approval and development of vaccines in less than a year. The main reason why the vaccine could be developed so rapidly was public subsidies, along with governments entering into agreements with pharmaceutical companies to buy a certain number of doses, which guaranteed companies' profits. Powerful leaders in the EU, such as Macron and Merkel, went out and said that the vaccine would become a global public good to which everyone around the world would be entitled. Unfortunately, political decisions within the EU do not live up to these ambitions. Covax is the only international commitment that the EU supports to distribute vaccines globally. It says it focuses on the fair distribution of vaccines, but it is mainly through the donations of high-income countries that vaccines can now be distributed to low- and middle-income countries. So far, Covax has been seriously under-funded even though the EU has been there in relation to others. It is difficult to say that Covax has meant that vaccines have been distributed fairly. The richest part of the world has come a long way in vaccination, plays football-EM and arranges other arrangements, and has ordered doses that far exceed the needs. The Left Party supports India's and South Africa's proposal within the WHO, the World Health Organisation, to lift the patent for covid-19 vaccines during the pandemic to allow more than a few pharmaceutical companies to produce vaccines. The EU, the United States and the United Kingdom have argued against the withdrawal of the patent, before the US administration turned and the EU also opened to change its feet. Today the issue is being debated in the European Parliament. The government has so far been counter-aligned and also at EU level belongs to those who have been to the highest degree. Instead, the government should work for the EU to vote in favour of the repeal of the patent on covid-19 vaccines in the World Health Organisation. Israel's success in vaccination against covid-19 has been a world leader in its own population and settlers in the Palestinian territories. On the other hand, the Palestinians have not enjoyed any of these successes. Israel is thereby in breach of Article 56 of the Fourth Geneva Convention on the duty of occupation to guarantee health care and medicine to the civilian population of an occupied territory, in this case the West Bank. Sweden should work to ensure that the EU requires Israel to assume its responsibility for vaccines also to the civilian population of the West Bank, mainly Palestinians. Madam President, I would like Under the rule of Mr Erdo中an, developments in Turkey have taken clear steps in the wrong direction. Since the failed coup attempt in summer 2016, restrictions on democratic freedoms and rights have increased further. Mass arrests and restrictions on freedom of expression have been recurrent, and thousands of people were arrested and prosecuted in 2020. The Left Party has long criticised developments in Turkey and called on Sweden and the EU to act more strongly. The EU has not dared to act against Turkey for fear that Erdo中an will denounce the shameful agreement that prevents refugees from moving from Turkey to Europe. In 2020, the problems with the agreement became increasingly apparent. When the Turkish regime threatened to send all its refugees to the border with Greece, the EU reacted by keeping people on the run from Europe at all costs. The EU's criticism of Turkey remains cautious, and refugees are being squeezed into a great power game between the EU and Turkey. It is high time for the EU to terminate the agreement and to act clearly against the repression of oppositionists and restrictions on fundamental rights and freedoms in Turkey. At present, it is clear that Turkey does not meet the democratic and human rights requirements of those countries that wish to join the European Union. The government should therefore work to freeze negotiations on membership with Turkey and to withdraw all benefits of the pre-accession programme immediately. With this, Madam President, I would like to endorse reservation 32 on Frontex, but of course we also support our other seven reservations.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-802	Madam President, I would like Let me begin by calling for the approval of reservation 24, while naturally supporting all the KD reservations. It is an important and eventful year behind us in European cooperation, which we are discussing and debating today. Preventing the proliferation of covid-19 and managing the consequences of the global pandemic has been a top priority. In this work, EU cooperation initially showed significant shortcomings, as has been pointed out here in the debate. Closed borders, limited mobility and halted delivery of medical equipment showed poor coordination and disunity. The pandemic is an extraordinary event, with political pressures that fundamentally test the strength and cohesion of the European Union. Fortunately, the EU can cope with pressures. Cooperation between the Member States is working today. Important joint actions and actions are in place. Significant initiatives have been taken with regard to joint procurement of vaccines and vaccination of EU citizens. At the same time, we in the European Union must now draw conclusions for the future, for example in terms of more effective and enhanced emergency preparedness and, not least, improved opportunities to maintain freedom of movement. Madam President, I would like In addition to the pandemic response, important initiatives were taken during the year to strengthen the Union's climate action. The Commission has presented proposals for an EU climate law, a kind of comprehensive framework for the Union's transition to climate neutrality. In addition, the European Council has agreed to tighten the EU's emissions target to minus 55% by 2030, which is of course extremely important. In July, the European Council reached agreement on the EU's multiannual budget for the period 2021 – 2027. The Economic Recovery Plan to contribute to the management of the economic and social consequences of the pandemic has also been adopted. The agreement contains the regulation that makes the payment of EU aid conditional on Member States respecting the fundamental principles of the rule of law. The Christian Democrats welcome this, while pointing out that the recovery fund must not be based on passive receipt of subsidies. With regard to the long-term budget, the Christian Democrats have always been clear that efficiency improvements, re-evaluations and re-priorities in the budget are necessary. Even if this is not now applied to the extent that we would have liked and hoped, greatly increased membership fees and EU tax will not be the way forward in European cooperation, as we see it. Madam President, I would like Indeed, it is gratifying that the European Union, even during the 2020 pandemic year, has delivered important policy proposals in a number of areas, and here I have only mentioned a few. Basically, EU cooperation is based on solidarity, that the one who has a helping hand reaches out to the one who has not. As warm friends of Europe, the Christian Democrats defend this. We safeguard unity and unity, and we realise that without good will and compromise there is no European cooperation. When the EU received the 2012 Nobel Peace Prize, it was emphasised that the EU has transformed Europe from a war to a continent of peace. There is reason to recall the historical importance of the European Union, not least in times such as these when human dignity is belittled, when Islamism and anti-Semitism threaten open society and when liberal democracy is called into question. European policy is essentially about ideology and values. For the Christian Democrats, this means that we highlight the importance of personal freedom, combined with social responsibility and solidarity with the most vulnerable, in other words the human vision that has been the foundation of the European community of values for decades. Madam President, I would like This is also central in relations and contacts with the outside world. Whether it is the war in Syria, the autocrats in Russia and Belarus, the power-hungry China or the global persecution of Christians, Europe has an opportunity to make a difference. The Christian Democrats are working for a Europe that speaks with one voice in foreign policy and prioritises human rights. That is why we welcome a greater proportion of majority decisions in foreign policy. We believe that this is important and necessary for the future. We are in favour of broadening European Magnitsky legislation, and we support and advocate the enlargement of the European Union to include the countries of the Western Balkans. It is a strong, effective and solidarity-based European cooperation that we need and which is central for the coming years – a cohesive and close cooperation with respect for differences.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-817	Madam President, I would like We have this debate every year in Parliament on the activities of the European Union, and it is essentially looking back. It's a kind of business report. Everyone who has been on a board of directors at some point and has attended an annual meeting knows that the report is being discussed, and that is what we are doing in this House now. It has been a rather difficult year for the European Union and for all of us as Europeans, not least with the pandemic and the whole Brexit process, which led to Britain now leaving the European Union, but also with the situation in one of our neighbouring countries. To take a plane from Arlanda Airport to the airport in Minsk in Belarus, which you cannot do right now when it is closed but usually, only takes about an hour and a half. In Belarus, people are completely torn apart. After the rigged elections last autumn, up to 35 000 people have been arrested. Dissidents have been selected and more or less pushed into neighbouring Poland by Belarus. It's horrible abuse, torture and nocturnal raids on critics. Today, the whole of the belarusian leadership of the democratic movement is in practice in Warsaw and Vilnius, where attempts are being made to create some sort of parallel structure to the regime in Minsk. It has not been a secret to anyone what it has looked like in Belarus. Lukasjenko regime has been intact for decades, since the mid-1990s around, but it has exploded now. Why am I bringing this up, Madam President? Well, I'm doing it because I'm very disappointed. I am disappointed that there are so many people in power in the European Union who do not show their solidarity with Belarus. I am disappointed that the issue is not dealt with in sufficient detail in our media. I'm disappointed it's done too little. It is with great sadness that one sees how the people in one of the places where democratisation never took off after the Cold War today are as extravagant as they are. I would like to see a much clearer and more resolute response on the part of the European Union and also on the part of the Swedish Government, a much clearer indication to Alexander Lukasjenko that he has crossed all borders, crossed all borders, and is an unscrupulous, illegitimate tyrant at the moment, and that the people of Belarus deserve something else. Madam President, I would like I would also like to support the Liberals' reservation 25 under paragraph 7, so I will not forget to do so. It is a broader reservation from the Liberals that deals with issues relating to Russia, China and also Belarus. Madam President, I would like European cooperation has gone through a difficult time with different kinds of crises. We had the refugee crisis in 2015, before that, the economic crisis caused by the collapse of the US mortgage market, since the Greek crisis, the various effects of euro cooperation, the crisis that we are now experiencing as a result of the covid-19 pandemic and so on. All those crises are basically always leading to the same thing, namely that when you come out at the other end of the tunnel, new mechanisms, funds, bodies, institutions and so on have been formed. These are banking unions and different types of long-term aid packages. It could be a common asylum package, which hopefully will come to an end in a few years' time. I think it is very dangerous and worrying if Sweden, as a fairly small country, is not geographically at the heart of European cooperation, because when these changes take place, Sweden is ultimately in danger of being outside the euro, the Banking Union, the Public Prosecutor's Office and much more. It is important for our country to be at the heart of European cooperation, and for the Liberals it goes without saying that Sweden should be a very, very active player in European cooperation. This also shows the various trials that the European Union has undergone in the past, not least the refugee crisis and the financial crisis. European cooperation must be deepened if we are to cope with the huge challenges we face. Emissions do not stop at a national limit. They continue to blow, although some seem to believe that they can be stopped, that one can stand with a kind of hair dryer and counter emissions back. I can't. We all know that. Emissions are global and regional. Similarly, we have trade flows and common markets. We have free movement within the Schengen area. We have a crime that is cross-border. We have migratory flows, which of course are cross-border. All this shows that the individual nation state in Europe is not capable of dealing with all these things alone. That is why we need the European Union, and just as the Christian Democrats well pointed out, European cooperation in its basic foundation is a peace project after all that the fascists, Communists and Nazis destroyed in Europe. They destroyed our entire continent, and European cooperation grew in the ashes, rubble, and shards of what existed. Now we are talking about much more in-depth political cooperation, which has gone much further. In the area of migration in particular, Madam President, this demonstrates the need for deeper European cooperation. We have the Schengen area with free movement, and we are strengthening external border protection with Frontex, which is also necessary. But a very important component is not in place, and that is the common responsibility. There are countries in Europe, such as Sweden, Germany and a few other countries, which take a huge responsibility. We also have a number of Member States that take virtually no responsibility at all. Seven eight years ago, we had a discussion in this House about whether all the municipalities in Sweden would accept new arrivals. For the Liberals, it was quite important and of course. We do not think that some municipalities should be able to evade the responsibility of building a device to cope with integration and establishment. In the same way, it should be at European level. All the Member States of Europe should stand together and be prepared to take this responsibility for dealing with refugee crises.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-834	Madam President, I would like The reason why the pandemic has had such severe economic consequences as it has had is because of the euro cooperation. The euro locks up some Member States in an almost hopeless situation. Because they lack their own currency, they are unable to make their own industries competitive. They find it very difficult to compete with Germany in particular, and the situation has become even more tricky with China's state-aided export sector, which makes them even more difficult to compete outside the Union. Euro-cooperation also has the effect of concentrating capital on the more successful regions of the EU, such as Germany, and it also increases inequality within countries, between rich and poor. Despite this, the Liberals are still behind the idea of Sweden joining the euro. The Nobel Laureate in Economics Joseph Stiglitz, writes in his analysis of the euro crisis from 2016 – the book is called Euro, a tip to Fredrik Malm this summer – that one of the reasons why Sweden has managed relatively well in recent decades is precisely that we chose to stay outside the euro. This is a foundation for Sweden's economy right now. So that's his analysis. The question I would like to ask Fredrik Malm is: how is it possible that the Liberals have still not realised that the euro is doomed in the long term? This cooperation cannot last forever. The more money we pump into these systems now, the more money we will lose when the inevitable happens and the euro cooperation breaks up.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-838	Madam President, I would like What I have seen in the last year is a global pandemic and a health crisis. What Ludvig Aspling has seen in front of him with covid-19 is a euro crisis. It's something completely different. We obviously have very different starting points on this, I would say. Above all, what has stifled the economy is the introduction of some ingredients that have been in the toolbox of the Swedish Democrats since the start of the party, namely closed borders and less mobility. Go to the border areas, Ludvig Aspling, in Värmland for example and look at how it has hit! There you have the consequences of the closed borders. There are terrible consequences of unemployment and major problems for the tourism and border trade and broken-up families living on different sides of the border. We now accept such measures in the light of the difficult pandemic, and we must of course also show an understanding in Sweden that, for example, Norway, Denmark and Finland have chosen a different strategy than Sweden has. I would therefore say that it is these radically reduced trade flows in the world, and so on, that are the major concerns about the pandemic, and that strikes a great deal. It is not just about the euro area. Then we can very well discuss both EMU and the functioning and structure of the euro, issues relating to optimum currency areas, internal devaluations and so on, as Ludvig Aspling himself mentioned in his speech earlier. This may well be discussed, but I think it is wrong to blame the euro for the difficulties surrounding the pandemic.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-842	Madam President, I would like I think Fredrik Malm is misappreciating me a little bit. I am not saying that the euro is the cause of the pandemic; I am saying that it is the euro that is the reason why the countries themselves cannot deal with the economic crisis that follows in the wake of the pandemic. Sweden did not need a corona fund. We did not need the help of other countries in this way to borrow money. We could have done it ourselves. The other countries down on the continent would have been much better equipped if they had their own currencies. There is no scientific consensus on this, but there are very strong voices in economic science that speak for that very thing. What I would like to ask Fredrik Malm once again is this: how is it possible that nobody in the Liberals has noticed that the euro does not function as a currency? Inter-evaluations were something that Fredrik Malm himself acknowledged is a problem. Of course it is. That is something that would probably happen to us too if we were members of the euro. At least that's not impossible. It is not an optimal currency area. It's absolutely obvious. It has, even quite clearly, benefited Germany enormously at the expense of other countries. When an external shock is then a reality, be it a financial crisis, a pandemic or whatever it may be in ten years' time, the shock affects different areas differently. This creates huge problems. Part of the Union borrows money and part of it lends money. I simply want Fredrik Malm to answer the question. Has anyone in the Liberals noticed that the Union's currency, the euro, is not working?
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-847	Madam President, I would like This is getting a little tiring. Ludvig Aspling has an interesting way of arguing that if there are 20 different factors that affect a course of events or something else, the Swedish Democrats choose one of them, and then you overfocus on it and ignore everything else. There are enormous advantages to having a large internal market in Europe and being able to have a single currency, not least for trade. In the long term, it can be about interest rates, about economic development and so on. With regard to the reason why some countries are in a difficult economic situation in southern Europe, for example, the euro is a factor – I maintain that. But it's far from the only one. It is about levels of education in society, about how much you work, about how much you do research, about what you have for tax systems, pension systems and infrastructure, about what the overall economic structure of a country is, whether you have many small or large companies and so on. There are a number of factors affecting a country's economic development. So it is not just the currency. With regard to the over-focus on the fact that all the problems are due to the European Union and to the fact that there is a single currency in Europe, I do not agree with those initial values. For me as a Liberal, European cooperation is extremely important. As far as Sweden is concerned, since we became a member on 1 January 1995, it has brought enormous benefits to our country, not least economically in terms of our prosperity, trade and development, and also for Ludvig Aspling, my own and everyone else's standard of living in Sweden.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-851	Madam President, I would like The past year has certainly demonstrated the importance of European cooperation. The pandemic is a cross-border crisis that no single Member State can deal with on its own, individually. The virus takes no account of land borders. The European Union is crucial to Sweden's prosperity and security. This has become particularly evident during the Corona crisis. There are those here in Sweden, also here in Parliament, who argue that we should withdraw from EU cooperation or at least large parts of it and that we are doing better on our own, for ourselves. I mean, it's all wrong. Lonely is certainly not strong. The fact that vaccines have now been rolled out in record time, both within the EU and globally, is only one in a series of examples of the added value of EU cooperation. Madam President, I would like I would like to devote a moment to a theme that has become central to the European debate following the outbreak of the pandemic. That is what is commonly called strategic autonomy. Simply put, it is a question of trying to reduce the EU's external dependence in a number of areas through various policy initiatives. This is an urgent issue to be discussed, because behind the somewhat theoretical concept there are major political initiatives that can have consequences for the everyday lives of many citizens. As several speakers have said before me, the pandemic has exposed both strengths and weaknesses in European cooperation. From various quarters, this has led to the desire for greater self-determination and independence for us in the Union. The same demands have been raised by changes that we have seen in the outside world, such as Brexit, Donald Trumps's four years as President, Russia's provocative action and China's emerging dominance. Some EU countries, perhaps France in particular, have been pushing for quite some time for what they think is the right way forward, namely greater independence from the outside world for the EU. The Swedish Government has had a slightly different starting point in these discussions. We have said that there is reason to review particularly sensitive vulnerabilities and external dependence, but that it must be tried on a case-by-case basis. It must be done in a way that safeguards transparency. It must be done smartly and selectively. Sweden, together with several like-minded people, has achieved a certain success by opening strategic autonomy now being the common concept in the EU discussions. The addition on transparency signals, I think, that the foundations of EU policy are solid, that is, the safeguarding and development of the internal market, a tough competition policy, more free trade, clear openness to the outside world and confidence in multilateralism. This is still the basis of the EU's efforts, and that is a good thing. At the same time, there are areas where tailor-made policies are needed to make the most of our most important strategic interests smartly and selectively. Madam President, I would like I have some of my childhood in Boliden just outside Skellefteå. At that time mining in the area was a symbol of Skellefteås' position as an industrial city. This is still the case, but Skellefteå is now also at the heart of the next step in the development of Swedish industry. There will soon be large-scale production of modern batteries that are crucial for the use of renewable energy sources. We could hear on the news just a few hours ago that additional capital is on its way to Skellefteå to expand production even more. But Skellefteå is not alone. A little further north, in Luleå, there is a pilot project to produce steel without coal. When scaled up, it will mean huge reductions in greenhouse gas emissions. Northern Sweden is now really an engine in the innovation needed to take Swedish industry into the future and to work Sweden out of the crisis. But it is also, and that is why I mention it, part of the wide-ranging work across the EU that is called the green transition – to turn our societies across the EU into climate neutrality so that the generations that come after us have a habitable planet to live on. This transformation requires innovation and a substantial production capacity for certain key products. It can also create new green jobs for Sweden's employees. So yes, the establishment in northern Sweden is an example of activities where the state is involved and where tax money is being spent precisely to achieve an extra push for the green transition where the market has not succeeded. This is done within the framework of the EU State aid rules, but this does not mean that state aid should be a general industrial policy in the Union. It is not the role of politics to choose which companies should be successful. Madam President, I would like In the past year, many of us have learned to appreciate the opportunities of the digital world. Although a video chat can never replace the heat and energy that you get through a personal meeting, the digital tools have really been very helpful during the pandemic. I believe that this digital transformation of societies across Europe can become a strong engine for jobs, growth and prosperity in the future. But for that success to be lasting, it must be shared by all. It is about fair access to both technology and infrastructure, but also about creating security in the face of the changes in the labour market that result from the elimination or complete change in occupations. This was the focus of the recent Social Summit of EU leaders in Porto on the implementation of the principles of the Pillar of Social Rights, where the main responsibility rests with the Member States. The digital transformation creates new conditions for democracy as well as security policy through the risks involved in disseminating disinformation, polarising content and threats and hate speech online. We need to review the vulnerabilities in the digital field, but this must not mean that Europe is closing down to the outside world. The basis of this policy is also openness to global cooperation and trade with third countries. Madam President, I would like A few weeks ago, the Belarus regime was guilty of an atrocious assault when a civil passenger flight was forced down from Athens to Vilnius by fighter planes. The purpose was to arrest two people aboard the plane: Roman Protasevich and Sofia Sapega. The EU response was clear – a strong condemnation from the European Council quickly without further discussion. I think that is an example of how European foreign policy works well. Unfortunately, however, it is not always as easy. About a month ago we saw an escalation of the conflict in the Middle East. Hundreds of people lost their lives, many of them children. It's sad. But it is almost as sad that the EU Member States could not even agree here to call for a ceasefire. One country got in the middle and could block the whole process. And it was almost embarrassing for the whole of Europe. This shows, I believe, that we must continue to push for a stronger European foreign policy. And the unanimity requirements in certain areas of foreign policy should be abolished in favour of so-called qualified majority voting. The EU would then be able to act more quickly and forcefully. However, opening up to this requires a unanimous decision by the Member States. And many of them still oppose such a change. But it is still worth working for. Madam President, I would like During the past year, I have been talking with many young people on a long series of school visits that I have made. What I have heard is that issues relating to democracy and respect for the rule of law – the basis of EU cooperation – are also very important issues for young citizens. That is indeed promising, because it is a prerequisite for maintaining fundamental confidence in the European Union here in the country. It was a great success for the EU when, just before the end of the year, Member States were able to agree on the conditionality mechanism and that for the first time now there is a way to link respect for fundamental rule of law with the payment of money from the EU. Now I hope that we will soon be able to show that our values are not just words but also actions. That we can work in any country we want, live wherever we want and study where we want within the European Union and that goods and services can flow freely across borders may often be taken for granted, but we should perhaps think a little more often that it is something that actually follows from the very membership of our Union. The pandemic has demonstrated the importance of the functioning of the internal market in times of crisis. We believe that there is a need for better coordination and better implementation of existing rules for the internal market. Several trade barriers must be removed, and we are, of course, opposed to creating new ones. The government wants to continue working towards an open and rule-based world trade regime. We want the Union to continue to fight the growing protectionism worldwide. Several trade agreements need to be negotiated, not least in Asia. This also certainly serves our strategic interests. Madam President, I would like It is clear that the EU's ability to contribute to citizens' security needs to be strengthened. The pandemic has indeed demonstrated the importance of emergency preparedness and the vulnerability of some of our supply chains, not least for some socially important goods produced far from the EU and delivered just in time. That is why we are now trying to counter this by building joint EU stocks of, among other things, protective equipment. However, we should not forget that deepening relations and cooperation with countries outside the EU is often a prerequisite also for reducing our vulnerability. Finally, the government is now working to build Sweden stronger after the pandemic. I believe that the same approach is needed with regard to the European Union. We in our country have so much to gain from strong European cooperation that takes care of the citizens' most important interests. I hope that we can continue to contribute to this and actively participate in the construction of a strong and well-functioning Union with openness to the outside world.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-875	Madam President, I would like One of the biggest mistakes in EU policy that this government has made since it took office was to sign the so-called social pillar. The reason why they chose to sign this document and, in addition, to take the initiative, I can only speculate about. My suspicion is that they wanted to put their name on a document that they hoped would be historically important or that they wanted to highlight their own work capacity in some way. The consequences of this plan are partly very serious. They lead to increased expenditure on the European Union, expenditure that is already too high today, and more legislation, among other things, on minimum wages. Here the government has an attitude that is difficult to understand. The government claims that the European Union has no competence to legislate on minimum wages in a way that creates rights for individuals. There we are in complete agreement. We also think that it is completely impossible to read the Treaty in any other way than that the proposal on the table, insofar as it creates rights for individuals, is contrary to the EU Constitution. But the government also believes that the social pillar does not in any way extend the competence of the European Union. These two positions do not add up. If we believe that the Union does not have the right to legislate on minimum wages as is currently happening, and this legislation is now on the table and can be adopted relatively soon by qualified majority, then by definition the Commission has increased the competence of the Union. That goes without saying. I would like the Government to sort out this somewhat odd position.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-878	Madam President, I would like The powers conferred on the Commission are laid down in the Treaty. The Treaty was not amended in connection with the development of the social pillar. These are the same provisions that applied then, before the Gothenburg Summit and before the introduction of the social pillar and the 20 recommendations, and which apply afterwards. So there's no change in skills there. It is clear that we are working on this issue to safeguard the Swedish model. We shall ensure that this is a directive that should not have to apply to Sweden, because we have a different system for setting salaries in our country that is better than minimum wages. The Commission even thinks that this is a better system. We agree on this here in Parliament, and we have no opinion other than the parties. I really want to argue against the criticism that Ludvig Aspling is making of the very content of social rights. Just because we are working towards the scope of the minimum wage directive by Sweden, we do not need to refrain from working with other countries in Europe to promote social development throughout the European Union. For us Social Democrats, Europe is much more than a market. That is much more than simply sending goods and services or capital across borders. These are also things such as equal opportunities and access to the labour market, a healthy working environment, childcare, education, gender equality – a social Europe that holds together, as Porto said, and leaves no one behind. We want to work for this together, but not through legislation in Brussels, but by moving in the same direction through recommendations that we can try to follow, each one in its own direction. The Swedish democrats never say that they would like to contribute to this. I understand that. There is a profound ideological difference here between Social Democrats and Swedish Democrats. I therefore look forward to having a debate with Ludvig Aspling and others in the Swedish Democrats during this election year that is soon before us. Thanks for the chance!
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-883	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for a detailed answer, but not one that is precise enough. What the Government says is that the Treaty has not changed. With the social pillar, therefore, the Treaty has not changed, and the Union's powers are thus established. But that's not what I'm saying. My argument was not that the powers of the Union had been changed in the Treaty. I have never said that, and no one from our party has claimed that. What I am saying is that there are other ways of extending the Union's competence, namely by using the case law of the ECJ, that is, the European Court of Justice. That is how it will be done in this case. It will present a proposal which we both feel is contrary to the Treaty. It goes beyond the competences conferred on the Union by the Treaty. But the proposal, if adopted, will be confirmed by the European Court of Justice and thus become part of its practice and thus become law in the European Union. Thus, the European Union's competence has been extended without any change in the Treaty. I think it is this problem that the Government must now explain. How can it be said that the social pillar does not extend the competence of the Union when a proposal directly originating from the social pillar, the proposal on minimum wages, is contrary to the Treaty but will in all likelihood be confirmed by the Court of Justice if it is adopted? It is therefore not a question of rewriting the Treaty but of the case law of the European Court of Justice pushing forward the Union's competences. Doesn't the government see that's a problem?
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-887	Madam President, I would like I am impressed by Ludvig Aspling's ability to look into the future about how the European Court of Justice will stand in different hypothetical scenarios. I am not at all sure that we can be sure that just because the Commission thinks one thing, the European Court of Justice believes that the Treaty must be interpreted as the Commission does. There I am not at all of the same conviction as Ludvig Aspling. Speaking of discussions on individual rights in the directive, that is very much what it is about, once we have an exception for countries applying the collective agreement model. It is very important for us to ensure that this possibility cannot be used. That is why we are also proposing changes to the text of the directive that can assure us that we will not have to experience any unpleasantness if the matter eventually comes to the European Court of Justice. I heard nothing from Ludvig Aspling about his party's desire to help people have a better life in the workplace, in everyday life, when they grow old and when they need childcare and so on across Europe. But maybe we can discuss that another time.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-890	Madam President, I would like As I pointed out in my speech, the border authority Frontex is accused of implementing pushbacks that stop migrants against international law in force. Frontex is an authority whose budget has grown from EUR 19 million in 2006 to EUR 460 million 15 years later. In addition, there are plans to increase even more in the coming years. At the same time, the criticism of Frontex has been massive, most recently from the European Court of Auditors. However, the European Parliament also refused Frontex discharge, and the European Anti-Fraud Office Olaf has made severe criticisms. The head of Frontex in particular has received a lot of personal criticism. For many things, Frontex is a derailed authority. At this point, the Member States must step onto the track. But the government has so far done nothing. It is also necessary to use the help of EU Commissioner Ylva Johansson to sharpen the tone. That is why I think that Sweden should pause its participation in Frontex until it has put its house in order. I therefore wonder what the Swedish Government intends to do with Frontex. Are you going to demand the creation of an independent investigation into suspected violations of international law and human rights, or will you pause Sweden's participation in Frontex until the chaos is resolved?
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-894	Madam President, I would like I do not know whether it is appropriate to pause our participation in Frontex right now. But I can tell you straight away that we have, of course, read and heard these facts and been concerned about them. Swedish representatives have been involved in the discussion about the board of Frontex to ensure that it is investigated in the most detailed way possible. There has been an investigation that I believe is on the organization's website. But it hasn't been enough, we understand. Further information is needed to find out what really happened in some of the cases examined. We from the Swedish side have argued in these discussions that it is incredibly important for all Frontex staff in all situations to respect fundamental rights and the principle of non-refoulement. It has to happen. I know that Ylva Johansson has also taken this information very seriously. She's been telling me a lot about how to deal with it so you can get a better situation. That's where we're gonna be in the work and not get out and just stand by, I'm thinking.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-898	Madam President, I would like I have no doubt that the government wants to stand up for international law. Sweden has stood up for international law and human rights for a long time in many contexts. Here we have an example of where the EU's own authority is unable to do so. There have been insufficient investigations to establish what has happened. I hope that the words we hear from the Government now also become the position of the Government and that the pressure on Frontex from Sweden as a Member State together with other Member States is increased in order for something to happen. This is a very special construction. I think no one imagined that we would have a giant authority a little alongside the EU system when Frontex was founded more than 20 years ago. Instead, we now have a giant authority that is growing and growing and of which there is no real control. It has a so-called management board made up of representatives of the Member State and where the Commission has two representatives. But the control of the parliamentary system and the European system as a whole is not what it should be. That is why the whole functioning of Frontex and the idea of it must also be reviewed in the long term. In practice, it may be that Sweden is handing over border protection tasks to the Hungarian Border Guard Police through Frontex cooperation. I'm very worried about that. That is why I am not so surprised either that there are now allegations of violations of international law. The Left Party already warned at EU entry that it was in danger of becoming a wall against Europe but free within Europe. Let's see this happen. It is barbed wire, walls and fences that Europe is building up against its surroundings. Those who pay the price are the refugees who die on the Mediterranean.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-906	Madam President, I would like It is clear that Frontex must continue to work. It is an organisation that is really needed in the important part of ensuring that our external border functions properly. But this must be done in accordance with the fundamental values that the Union stands for. If that fails – we will see what the final investigations show – then, of course, action will be taken on that. I'm all in on that. But we need Frontex. Maybe it didn't have to get this big this fast. We had some discussions about it during the budget considerations that perhaps Håkan Svenneling remembers. But now we're with this decision. Now it must be implemented wisely and in accordance with our own principles.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-908	Madam President and the Government. The EU has many good points. The EU acts very well many times. The EU reacts very well many times. We have seen this in the reactions to what has happened over the past year in Belarus and, not least, what has happened in recent weeks. However, the EU is not always as consistent in its response. Of the international events that have taken place over the past year, there has been a difference in the degree of the EU's response. It has been powerful for a small country like Belarus. It has been powerful in other smaller countries. The government itself mentioned here that there was disagreement about what has now happened in the Middle East between Israel and Palestine. One of the truly great events of the past year in the world was China's action in Hong Kong. It is true to say that the EU did not show its best side in the reactions to these abuses that the mainland China People's Republic showed against Hong Kong. It is the province that has an agreement with Britain that their economy and democracy can be independent for 50 years. Here, it was a problem to get the EU free of joint strong statements and strong sanctions. I would like to ask Minister Hans Dahlgren here: Where is the lesson from Sweden to push the EU to be as powerful towards a superpower as one is a small country in Sweden's vicinity?
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-913	Madam President, I would like I would like to say this: of course, the principles that we advocate in terms of the equal value and democratic principles of all people are something that we must stand up for, whether it be a small country or a large country. I know that with regard to the situation in Hong Kong, for example, the decisions to introduce new security legislation are contrary to China's international commitments and international law. Sweden has said so, the Minister for Foreign Affairs has said it, the European Union has said it, and it has been said in the UN Human Rights Council by the EU and Sweden. That's what we're saying. Then we can always discuss in which situations sanctions of various kinds are more or less effective. I am not very familiar with the reasoning on what kind of sanctions could possibly be considered when it comes to China in addition to those we have already had. There have been such things in view of the situation in Shenyang. It may be a case-by-case examination. However, on the principle of equal treatment for all people and for all systems, I cannot disagree with what I just expressed.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-917	Madam President, I would like China is something special. The world has seen empires come and go. We have seen the Roman Empire for over 1,000 years as the great power of the world. Even the Roman Empire waned in its power and moved east before it languished completely. We have seen the Soviet Union as the then largest and most brutal dictatorship under communist mantra. But what we are seeing with China today is something quite different. It is a hybrid – a hybrid that has communist plan economy and communist politics with all its worst sides and at the same time plays market economy. I say that we are playing, because combining communism with a market economy makes no sense. Above all, there will be a great exposé of oppression of people. China has ambitions. It has ambitions throughout the world and also in Europe. The investments made by China in some EU countries also make it a weaker voice from the EU when it comes to reacting to China. These investments in some EU countries have probably been behind the fact that it has been more difficult to have a strong response to the abuses that China has committed in Hong Kong. This is a problem for the world, and it is a problem for Europe. This is something that is also a problem for Sweden and that we have to deal with in the future.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-921	Madam President, I would like As far as Chinese investment in our countries within the Union is concerned, it is also a matter of certainty. I am thinking, for example, of Chinese investment in strategic industrial areas. We have seen reasoning about it in our own country, and we have seen it in other EU countries. There is now a mechanism within the Union in which we should be able to provide much more information to each other about investments that are under way. As a result, we too can become more alert to things that we otherwise might not have been able to stop in various ways. I have to say one thing in addition to what Mr Rothenberg said about developments in China, and that is the terrible way in which the death penalty is handled. We do not know how many there are, but we believe that thousands of people are executed every year. It's a state secret how many people lose their lives in this kind of execution. This is contrary to the most fundamental of our work for respect for human rights – the right to life. We shall continue this work and maintain it in every way, and I know that we are doing so both on the part of the government and on the part of the European Union.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-925	Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats have clearly criticised the government in its action on the issue of the European Pillar of Social Rights. We are concerned about the great transfer of power in important areas to which this could lead. This does not prevent the fact that there are also great points of contact between the views of the Christian Democrats on European cooperation and the views of the Social Democrats and the government. I think it is important to emphasise this, not least in a debate like this in which we hear at least two parties who are fundamentally still hesitant about Swedish involvement in and work within the European Union. They have doubts about the existence of the European Union, which means that those of us who are behind the European idea and the European idea and who see the great impact and importance of the European Union really need to be heard in the debate. Against this background, it is worrying and worrying to see what the effects have been of the failures that have actually occurred during the management of the pandemic. There is a study showing that confidence in the EU has largely collapsed during the pandemic in countries such as Germany, France, Italy and Spain. The study comes from the European Council on Foreign Relations. I want to ask Hans Dahlgren how he views this and what we can do to rebuild confidence.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-929	Madam President, I would like I have seen several studies that do not really show the same dramatic cases in confidence in the European Union. I think it depends a little bit on when they're made. As several speakers have said earlier in this debate, there were both upsides and bottoms over the past year around the EU's management of the pandemic. If the measurement was made in the month – February or at the time – when people's desire to access the vaccine against covid-19 was strong, but when the vaccine deliveries were almost stopped and could be perceived as standing up, I understand that there was dissatisfaction with the Union. But if one were to ask today, when half of the European population is actually already vaccinated, I think the rating would be a little higher. Nevertheless, Lars Adaktusson's question is relevant: what can we do to restore confidence in Europe among our citizens? I believe that it is precisely a question of delivering on things that the citizens themselves see as the most important thing. This applies, of course, to the area of health and that vaccination can now really be carried out so that we do not have any fourth wave of the pandemic. But I am also thinking of the situation of fundamental values throughout our Union. I think people will be very disappointed if we do not take seriously those forces across Europe that question the equal value of all people, who question the democratic rules of the game and who question freedom of the press, freedom of expression and academic freedom. There are such forces, even in government, in some of Europe's countries. The rest of us, who have this responsibility and who fully believe in these values, need to be better at – at least try – ensuring that developments can be reversed in those countries that cannot do this. I think so.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-935	Madam President, I would like I share that view. I also believe that it is an extremely important task and a fundamental prerequisite for building confidence again that we really highlight the values of European cooperation, not least human dignity. The study that I referred to from the European Council on Foreign Relations is recent and contains a large number of respondents in a large number of countries. As I said, it is in the traditionally strong pro-European countries, which are so important in cooperation, that confidence in the Union has been reduced. In Germany, for example, it is a majority of citizens who are now saying that they regard the EU project as damaged – the bridge in English. I believe that it will take more than has been done so far in terms of building confidence to deal with this situation. This is particularly important given the major challenges facing the European Union. Having a strong popular base in what is about tackling climate challenges, organised crime, asylum and refugee policies and so on is a necessity. It's a life condition for the work to succeed. Nevertheless, I would like to insist on repeating the question of whether Hans Dahlgren wants to be something more concrete in terms of what Sweden can do to deal with this situation.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-939	Madam President, I would like In fact, there is an opportunity for the coming year in the so-called future conference, which is now a major project within the Union. It is not a conference that sits in some conference building somewhere and has a weekend meeting, but it is a series of discussions around the Union that should, above all, aim to reach young people and citizens who may not usually be involved in discussing what the Union is doing or knows what it is doing. I have had a number of such European Councils with organisations in the labour market, civil society organisations and the education system to encourage them to take the initiative to really have a more lively discussion this year on the added value of EU membership and what citizens want Europe to do. I think that is a concrete answer to Lars Adaktusson's question.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-942	Madam President, I would like In half an hour's time, this House will decide on the report submitted by the Committee on Foreign Affairs. The report proposes a declaration on Magnitsky sanctions and the desire to broaden them to include systematic corruption and money laundering, which secures the economic basis for misrule in Belarus, but also in Putin's Russia and in other countries. I would like to hear how the Government, represented by the Government, views the announcement that the parliamentary majority will shortly be making.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-944	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Kerstin Lundgren, for the question! We will of course read it carefully, but I have got a preview of it. I can say this: I think it is very good that the Magnitsky Act has come into place. We have also discussed this in previous debates. I think it is wonderful that we in the European Union have been able to agree on this and that the law has already been used as an effective instrument, I hope, instrument. It's taken its time. It took maybe two or three years before it became a reality. Now it is important to ensure that the law is indeed used wisely in the future. I am not opposed to sanctions based on corruption or money laundering, but I am not sure that it is precisely these human rights sanctions that should be used in this way. Maybe we need other instruments. I am open to such a discussion in the future, but I would not think it was time to do so immediately.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-948	Madam President, I would like The Government describes that it has taken a long time to come up with Magnitsky sanctions of the kind we have today in terms of human rights. There are a number of countries where action has been faster. The UK was most recently involved in adding money laundering and systematic corruption to its listing of Magnitsky sanctions. Australia is taking such initiatives. We have our Baltic neighbours, where they have such systems nationally. One of the conclusions to be able to influence the EU's work to move faster must be to work together with other countries – right, Minister? Then you have to dare go ahead and push, especially if you expect it to take a long time. I'm a little surprised when I read the Social Democratic and Environmental Party reservation, which possibly fits with the government's own position – that would be interesting to hear. It is based on the fact that it takes so long to do nothing now. For me, it is a logical hill change, Madam President. If you expect a long time, it should rather be important to start now and act forcefully with like-minded people, as we do in all other contexts. Systematic corruption and money laundering erode the values that the EU stands for, including in our neighbourhood, when Russia clearly acts with corruption and money laundering as a means of destabilisation and countering democracy and human rights.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-952	Madam President, I would like I have no doubt at all that there are individual countries that have taken on this in the way that Kerstin Lundgren describes. However, I see a great value in the fact that all activities and actions of this kind are made together in the European Union, that we have all 27 with us. I have no objection to discussing with other countries what they see as the best way forward. However, I am not sure that we should decide right now that this is the instrument we are going to use to get the best at corruption and money laundering.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-955	Madam President, I would like I'm sorry to be late in the Chamber. I try to follow the rules and have been waiting outside, and I probably lost focus a little bit. Madam President, I would like The report we are now debating is about the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe and is the Foreign Affairs Committee's report number 12. The report is retrospective and deals with the Annual Report for 2020 regarding the Riksdag's OSCE delegation and the Government's letter regarding its activities in the second half of 2019 and 2020. Of course, the delegation, as well as the government, must report their activities to the Riksdag. However, I would like to say that this kind of debate is a bit sad because it is about what happened in the past. As politicians, we would like to look forward and talk about topical issues. At the same time, there is no present and future without history. That is why this debate is important. I would also like to point out that I find this report unfortunate in a way because it concerns two very different activities. It is about the parliamentary delegation to the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly – a delegation active in a parliamentary assembly, a delegation with its own statute, its own budget and its own decision-making system, which in no way resembles a parliament. In the Parliamentary Assembly, where I am a vice-chairman of the Swedish delegation, we make no laws. We do not have the task of deciding on anything that concerns the government side. Nor are we looking at the governments or the government side of the Parliamentary Assembly. The second part of the report deals with the government's letter on its activities. It is, once again, a separate activity with its own area of responsibility, its own budget and its own order of decision. There are very few communication vessels in between. I mention this because it would have been easier in a way to debate each part separately with a separate report for the Parliament delegation and one for the letter from the government. It is my perspective that I wish to convey. What I would also like to say with regard to the OSSE is that the activities of the past year have been strongly characterised by the pandemic. It has affected not only the 57 member states of the OSCE, but also the rest of the world. We have noticed this in the 57 Member States of the OSCE, not least because we politicians in the parliamentary delegation have been strictly concerned with national issues and have often had to prioritise them, which we have found important because we are elected in the parliaments of our respective countries. This has, of course, affected the possibility of being involved in the Parliamentary Assembly, but the activities of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly have also been set aside due to restrictions and difficulties in attending meetings. The positive thing that the restrictions and the reduction in the number of meetings have brought is that the need for multilaterism has emerged all the more clearly, Madam President. The need to meet between parliamentarians from different countries to discuss current problems, to find possible ways of achieving a safer OSCE region has become clearer. I know that there have been similar restrictions on the government side, where Councils of Ministers have been held via web meetings and so on. The last time we had a meeting in the Parliamentary Assembly with personal participation in 2020 was in February when the winter meeting was held. There were lively debates on topical issues, such as the security situation for Ukraine. The Russian aggression has been going on since February 2014, and there is no indication that it has stopped. Another example is the prolonged conflict in Nagorno-Karabakh between Armenia and Azerbaijan, where there has been an open war and now there is a peace agreement, but it is important to ensure that it is maintained. There are outbreaks and departures from this, and that is a great threat. Another example is the situation in Georgia with the Russian annexation of Abkhazia and South Ossetia. I am also thinking of the political situation and the lack of democracy in Belarus, where we have seen an escalation of the situation – it is not possible to say otherwise – after the 2020 presidential election, where prisons and arrests have taken place for civilians who have done nothing but express their will for democracy. I am also thinking of Russia and the imprisonment of Russian opposition politician Aleksej Navalnyj. It is a process that began with poisoning and continued with captivating and a journey to a labor camp. We do not know much about what has happened, because there is no transparency in the process. What I said at the outset about the fact that there is no present or future without history, I said because in February 2020, at the winter meeting, I presented my report which I had carried out on behalf of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly on the murder of Russian opposition politician Boris Nemtsov. Unfortunately, this is still an issue that needs to be clarified. What happened? In my report I mentioned the need for transparency in the Russian legal process, or what it should be called. There's no transparency. What has been added, which I also mentioned in the report and which I am very pleased about, is that there is a Magnitsky legislation at European level. This was something I underlined in the report. There are similarities in these processes, and I think they are important to highlight. There are differences too, but it is important to focus on key issues of democracy, citizens' rights and rights of dissidents and political alternatives to current governments. What I also want to say is that although there has been a pandemic and lack of opportunity to meet, the Swedish OSCE delegation has continued to have its high level of ambition and its high level of activity. It is very nice to be vice-chairman of the Swedish delegation, because we have participated in the election observations that have taken place in Montenegro, Georgia, the United States and Kyrgyzstan. The only election observation we did not participate in was that in Kazakhstan, but it was due to the fact that it was going on at the same time in Kyrgyzstan. We have also participated in web meetings from the delegation. These have been kept at a high pace in 2020. And on-line meetings in all honour, Madam President, they are important, because they provide the opportunity to highlight current policies – but they cannot in any way replace human meetings precisely because the human and personal dimension is lacking. I look forward to being able to start working again in the Parliamentary Assembly on the issues that are important and are included in the OSCE's broad security perspective – I have announced eight minutes' speaking time, Madam President, but I will take a few more seconds – including democracy, human rights, of course, including LGBTQ people's rights and women's rights, religious freedom, ethnic minorities, open and free media, economic development and the environment. As this is the last debate for the OSSE this year, I would like to conclude by expressing my thanks to the secretariat of the OSCE delegation here in the Swedish Parliament, which is the delegation which is helping in a fantastic way with the support and support of our work as a politician. Many thanks to you for your fine work! I would also like to support the moderate reservation in the report, reservation 2. I do this from the perspective that we believe it is important to focus on the main areas of the OSCE and that the OSSE should have a sharper profile. It is not easy, because it is a decision-making system in consensus on the government side, and there are many forces that want to lift the focus away from the main area to less current and burning areas. It is therefore important to focus on the main area.
i-FYYarMktLLX4UxVQndmcpK	Madam President, I would like Today, Parliament is examining a report which includes a report on the activities of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly in 2020 by the OSCE Swedish delegation and a letter from the Government on the activities of the OSCE in the second half of 2019 and the full year 2020. It has been an extremely different year that we have put behind us where much of the activity has been affected by the current pandemic. For the Parliamentary Assembly, this meant that neither the summer meeting nor the autumn meeting could be held. However, the problems in the OSCE area have not stopped. On the contrary, last year was a turbulent year, and it is still very worried. The Russian occupation of Georgian territories continues, and Russian aggression against Ukraine continues. We have the very worrying developments in Belarus. In addition, there has been a new war between Armenia and Azerbaijan. In many cases, one can only regret the way the world continues to view abuse after abuse of both states and people. On 27 September, Azerbaijan attacked Nagorno-Karabakh and Armenia. There is no doubt that the attack was carefully planned. For a long time Azerbaijan had been equipping itself with large arms purchases from Turkey in particular. When the attack took place, both Turkish military and hired IS terrorists from Syria participated. The conflict escalated rapidly, and the world stood and watched war crimes after war crimes. There is plenty of evidence and evidence of Azerbaijan's deliberate shooting at hospitals, schools, residential areas and other civilian targets, resulting in many civilian victims. Azerbaijani soldiers have extrajudicially executed captured Armenian soldiers, using foreign Islamist terrorists, which have been encouraged to beheaded Armenian soldiers. In addition, old Armenian cultural objects have been demolished and destroyed as part of the destruction of all traces of the long-standing Armenian history in the area. Azerbaijan's actions, backed up by Turkey, constitute serious violations of the fundamental principles of international law. Yet they met with great silence. Just as the world stood and watched as the Young Turkish movement tried to wipe out Armenia and the Armenians in the 1915 genocide, the world stood back and watched as a new attempt was made. Those responsible for these crimes must be held responsible for violations of international law. On 10 November, a cease-fire agreement was concluded between the warring parties. Behind the agreement was Russia, which had made a deal with Turkey. The story of 1921, when Moscow decided that Nagorno-Karabakh would go to Azerbaijan, repeated itself. We note that Russia and Turkey have used both Armenia and Azerbaijan as pawns in their great power game and have succeeded in playing out the OSCE Minsk Group as a conflict resolution mechanism. I am concerned about Azerbaijan's destructive attitude towards politicising humanitarian issues and their blocking of access by international organisations, including the United Nations, to Nagorno-Karabakh, which has also blocked the possibility of providing humanitarian aid to the people of Nagorno-Karabakh. Azerbaijan has not allowed and still does not allow captured Armenian soldiers to return home. In April this year we witnessed the opening of an exhibition park in Baku dedicated to the war. The park displays seized Armenian military equipment and mannequins representing Armenian soldiers in a very degrading way. The exhibition violates the memory of the Armenian victims of the war but also the dignity of their families. Personal belongings of killed Armenian soldiers are deliberately displayed, and this will of course cause further suffering to their families. Talk about distasteful! Sweden, which now holds the Presidency of the OSSE, must work harder to get Azerbaijan to return the prisoners. I am well aware that the Swedish Government has wanted to play a certain diplomatic role in the conflict in order not to interfere with the possibility of influencing as the country holding the Presidency. That is also something the Foreign Minister has pointed out in his answers to my many questions about the conflict. But that's not good enough anymore. Obviously, it has not produced any results. Sweden must dare to stand up for what is right, precisely because it is right. Madam President, I would like Politically binding commitments in the third dimension of the OSCE aim to ensure full respect for human rights and to uphold the principles of the rule of law, build and preserve democratic institutions and combat intolerance and discrimination. At the last summer meeting of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly, which we could hold in Luxembourg in 2019, a declaration was adopted as usual by the Assembly. The declaration is a way for parliamentarians in the participating states to demonstrate to the OSSE what they wish the organisation to work with and focus on. I had proposed to the meeting that the OSSE should, in a resolution, draw attention to, condemn and remedy the discrimination against Christians and other religious minorities currently spreading in several participating states. Discrimination is increasing as schools and mosques sponsored by Saudi Arabia are established. Many are experiencing the threat of the rapidly growing wahhabite belief in Islam, centered in Saudi Arabia. Despite the fact that many of the countries have religious freedom enshrined in the Constitution, more and more people are anxious to show other religious convictions. Not infrequently, Christian minorities suffer the most. The resolution was adopted by the Assembly and therefore became part of the Luxembourg Declaration. Through the resolution, the OSSE Parliamentary Assembly expresses great concern that discrimination and repression of minority religions in some OSCE participating states appear to have increased in recent times. It also includes institutional oppression by oppressive acts against various Christian beliefs, which can facilitate and encourage hate crimes against members of these faiths. It is noted with concern that this discrimination includes vague or ambiguous legislation on freedom of religion. This allows authorities to take arbitrary action against certain churches, including raids and closures, including countering the churches in rural regions without officially registered church buildings. It notes repression and arbitrary acts against certain creeds and their clergy in occupied territories and the prohibition of certain creeds to register or renew the registration of their communities or services, carry out missionary work or build new church buildings because of opaque or biased zone standards. Finally, there is the official stigmatization of those who convert to Christianity, including pressure to renounce their faith, the confiscation of Bibles and other religious literature, and restrictions on the appointment of church officials. The declaration calls on OSCE participating states to take account of increased discrimination against Christians and supporters of other beliefs in a minority. It recognizes the full sovereignty of all Christian faiths and their ecclesiastical bodies, their independence from political pressure and their rights to make their own decisions regardless of political conflicts. The OSCE Parliamentary Assembly therefore recommends that the OSSE take action against discrimination. Madam President, I would like Sweden took over the OSSE Presidency on 1 January this year. Now that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is in the Chamber today, I would like to ask her how the Swedish Presidency has been working on the increasing discrimination against Christians in particular. A year ago, I asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs whether she intended, under the Luxembourg Declaration, to place particular emphasis on combating the increasing discrimination against Christians and other religious minority beliefs within the participating states of the OSCE. She then replied that one of the main reasons why Sweden chose to make itself available as Chairman of the OSSE this year – in addition to the desire to contribute to greater respect for the European Security Order – was the important role that the OSSE has in contributing to the broad concept of security, which clarifies the link between respect for human rights, democracy and the rule of law principles for security. She also replied that Sweden would work closely with the OSCE institutions such as Odihr and the High Commissioner for National Minorities, and that the Presidency would have at its disposal three personal representatives to counter anti-Semitism, Islamophobia and intolerance to other religious minorities, including Christians. In view of the fact that Christians are the most vulnerable religious group in the world today, it is strange not to even use the concept of christophobia but to lump this group together with other religious minorities. But how has the work gone? My view is that little has been done on this subject, despite the declaration. It would be a pity if the work that parliamentarians do during their meetings was in vain and the final documents were merely shelf products that the OSSE does not take into account. For this reason, in order to clarify, we have proposed that the Riksdag announce to the Government that, during its Presidency of the OSSE, the Government should actively operate within the third dimension of the OSCE in order to place particular emphasis on combating the increasing discrimination against Christians and other religious minority beliefs within the participating states of the OSCE. That is why we are in favour of reservation 1. I would also like to thank the secretariat of the OSCE delegation, as did the previous speaker, Margareta Cederfelt, for the very good work done and for the good support of those of us who are members of the Swedish delegation. Thank you for that!
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-1010	Madam President, I would like Multilateral bodies are important arenas where Sweden has a gold position to push for democracy that extends beyond free, fair and transparent elections. These are arenas where we can push for peace, human rights, equality and a sustainable world in which even future generations can live. One such arena is the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe, which I will continue to call the OSSE because its name is a heavy drinker. Within the OSSE, it has been made clear that the links between security, respect for human rights, democracy, the rule of law, the economy and climate are fundamental prerequisites for a peaceful and conflictless society. That is why the OSSE works in many different areas, including elections, free media, gender equality, minority rights, arms control, democracy, the environment and education. Today, two letters are included in the report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. One is the letter from the government, which focuses mainly on the OSSE Presidency. The second is the letter from the Swedish delegation to the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly. Margareta Cederfelt highlighted the differences between the OSSE and the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly in her speech, so I will not repeat this here. As a member of the Swedish delegation, I would like to take this opportunity to link some of the things we in the Left Party think are important to work with in the OSSE with what we as a delegation do and what I, as an individual delegate, do – important points that are fundamental to the creation of long-term peace and security so that hopefully we can put an end to the conflicts that exist in the OSCE area, as highlighted in the report. Let me start with civil society, which plays a central role in democratic systems and in democratic development. It acts as both watchdog and whistleblower when abuse has been committed, rights violated or development is going in the wrong direction. It acts as a responsibility for promised reforms and decisions, but also as a source of information for both the population of a country and the outside world. In some cases, civil society offers services and functions that the state is unable to deliver. It is also in civil society that people join forces and jointly demand change and to have their rights met and their living conditions improved. Civil society is thus an absolutely central role and a good counterweight to powerful political and economic interests and is an important arena for smoothing out inequalities and inequalities worldwide. Today, civil society's space is shrinking in many countries, which is why it is so important for us in the OSCE delegation to meet civil society organisations on our travels, both to learn more about the situation in the countries we visit and to show them our appreciation for the extremely important work they are doing. Madam President, I would like The right to health and to their sexuality and the right to decide over their bodies are fundamental human rights. But these are rights that are violated and violated in a great many countries. In large parts of the world, people, regardless of gender, face restrictions on sexual and reproductive health and rights. For example, millions of women and girls lack access to contraception. At the same time, many women and girls die annually from unsafe and illegal abortions and from pregnancy or childbirth complications. The vast majority of women affected live in low and middle-income countries. Moreover, one third of all women worldwide experience some form of physical or mental abuse during their lives. This has worsened during the pandemic. In the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly there are both countries that have come a long way and countries that are far behind with regard to the SRHR. Since resolutions in the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly are adopted by a majority, no single country can compromise when we adopt resolutions on issues on which they do not wish to work. The Left Party will work to ensure that SRHR wordings are included in the annual resolutions adopted in the Parliamentary Assembly. I believe that Sweden, during the Presidency of the OSSE in 2021, should push the issue of the importance of the SRHR as a basis for security promotion and the democratic participation of women. So, Madam President, I would like to endorse reservation number 3. At the moment when Sweden holds the Presidency, it is of course a balancing act without its like for the President to lead and bring with him all the 57 countries that are included. In times such as these, when we see civil society's space shrinking, oppositionists and journalists being imprisoned and ancient conservative and patriarchal forces opposing women's rights, it is difficult to get a multilateral body such as the OSSE to develop in a modern, democratically open direction. I think it is very positive that Minister for Foreign Affairs, Ann Linde, in her priorities and in her opening speech, highlighted the importance of following and defending the principles on which the OSSE is based and that everyone has a responsibility to uphold the common commitments adopted. The importance of gender equality also came into play in the opening speech, as well as the need to increase the role of women in peace talks. The fact that civil society's perspectives and contributions to security must be taken into account and ensured was also good and typically Swedish. How much impact this will have in the OSSE remains to be seen, but it is positive that the government at least has the ambition to try. In the UN Security Council, Sweden managed to gain a better understanding and knowledge of Resolution 1325 on women, peace and security, and nowadays it is at least part of some peace talks and also part of the UN's various peacekeeping missions, although unfortunately more needs to be done. I would like to stay at Resolution 1325. In order to achieve sustainable international peace and security, increased participation by women in the prevention, management and resolution of conflicts, but also in peace-building and post-conflict reconstruction, is extremely important. For women to participate equally, they need to have the right to control their own bodies. That is why this is such an important issue for us in the Left Party, which is why I myself am going to raise it in the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly. I hope that during his Presidency of the OSSE, the Foreign Minister will also press for this. Like the other delegates, I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Office, RIK, for their wonderful work with us.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-1026	Madam President, I would like Sweden shall have a value-based foreign policy aimed at strengthening peace, freedom, development, understanding, reconciliation and human rights. Our foreign policy is an expression of the fact that we all have a responsibility for each other, which is fundamental to Christian Democratic ideology. Human dignity is universal and can never ever be relativised by geographical boundaries. That is why freedom, security and democracy and human rights must be the main objective of foreign policy. In the unstable situation that prevails in the world around us, with wars and conflicts, it is important that Sweden continues to contribute to both established and new efforts within peace promotion, security promotion and conflict prevention activities within NATO, the EU, the UN and the OSSE, which we are talking about today. We have a duty to help people in need, no matter where in the world they are, and we in Sweden must be prepared to defend human rights. In addition, foreign policy should promote trade. Free trade and a market economy are the way forward for increased prosperity and for lifting people out of poverty. Based on these basic principles, foreign policy should promote Swedish interests in the outside world. Sweden should be an active player in the various international collaboration bodies where we operate, from the Nordic to the global. We will help ensure that these collaborations work as efficiently and result-orientedly as possible. This is particularly true in the OSSE, where Sweden holds the Presidency in 2021. The OSSE is an important organisation for security and cooperation, and Sweden will be active during the Presidency. The challenges associated with this are great. Indeed, through its diverse composition, the OSSE does not only have members who, of course, share our values of democracy and human rights. There are also autocracys such as Russia and Belarus, and there are young democracies among the former Soviet states. But it also offers opportunities. By virtue of its fundamental purpose, to work with early warnings, conflict management and reconstruction, it is necessary to continue to assert that it is totally unacceptable in Russia's occupation of Abkhazia and South Ossetia in Georgia, as well as Crimea and other parts of Eastern Ukraine. Sweden and the rest of the Western world cannot and must not resign and see the areas as annexed. We must continue to work for the full right of Georgia and Ukraine to their international law territory. We stand up for the sovereignty and territorial integrity of these states. We, from the Swedish side, must push for peace monitoring in these areas, in order to prevent Russia moving forward its positions piece by piece. Madam President, I would like The developments in Belarus, with the election fraud in October, the indiscriminate violence against peaceful protesters, the imprisonment and torture of dissidents and the illegal aircraft creation of Belarus airspace, bring us back to the days of the Cold War and must be condemned in the strongest terms. Sweden must continue to use its Presidency to do this. At the same time, we need to work in every possible way to provide support to the opposition and the civilian population who suffer both from repression itself and the consequences of the isolation caused by the sanctions imposed by the Western world. Madam President, I would like We are following events in Nagorno-Karabakh with great concern. The war last autumn was a setback of great magnitude. A new geopolitical situation has been created in which Russia and Turkey are strengthening their presence in the region. The Armenian population was left to its fate, large numbers of people were driven away from their homes and have not been allowed to return and prisoners of war have not been released. Sweden must push for peace and reconstruction. The development in Turkey is very disappointing, with less democratic space. Turkey is said to be the country where it is most dangerous to be a journalist. After all, the OSSE has a representative for media freedom, who will monitor and give early warnings of violations of freedom of expression in the Member States. The principles and intentions of the OSCE regarding freedom of expression and the free media must also be emphasised during the Swedish Presidency. Moreover, it is ironic that Turkey has recently withdrawn from the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Control of Violence against Women and Domestic Violence, commonly referred to as the Istanbul Convention. This area is also close to the mission of an OSCE institution, the OSCE Office for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights, which is active in the areas of OSCE countries' democratic development, human rights, tolerance and non-discrimination. Here I expect Sweden to be involved. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to mention another area in which I miss Sweden's vote. As eagerly as we stand up for women's rights, we should stand up as defenders and promoters of religious freedom and the right to exercise their faith, to change religion but also to renounce religion. In a wide range of OSCE countries, these rights are violated. At a meeting with the Swedish OSSE ambassador on the Foreign Affairs Committee some time ago, it was mentioned that the human rights dimension, including freedom of religion, is being planned. It's high time, Minister. Only six months of the Swedish Presidency remain, and there are extensive and serious human rights violations going on here. In the United Nations Declaration of Human Rights, freedom of religion is first mentioned of all freedoms and rights. In many countries religion is one of the deepest identities of people. It can be difficult to understand in our secularized Sweden. But even if the government finds it difficult to take this on board, Sweden, as the great defender of human rights we are known to be, should react with the utmost force against the persecution, harassment, ill-treatment and sometimes the death penalty that affects individuals for whatever reason. In this case, it's religion. Christians are the group that suffers the most discrimination and persecution for the sake of their faith. Here Sweden needs to change its attitude and actively stand up for persecuted Christians around the world, but in this context in all the OSCE countries where their rights are violated. With this, Madam President, I am in favour of reservation 1.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-1042	Madam President, I would like We are now dealing with the Committee on Foreign Affairs' report 2020 21:U12 on the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe, the OSSE. As chairman of the Swedish OSCE parliamentary delegation, I am proud that Sweden, headed by Minister for Foreign Affairs Ann Linde, is chairing the OSSE this year. The Swedish delegation in the Riksdag, of which I am a member and lead, consists of the five largest parties and is a committed delegation. Before returning to both the Swedish Presidency and a little on the work of the Swedish delegation in the past year, I would first like to ask for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report we are discussing today. Madam President, I would like The OSSE is the world's largest regional security organisation with 57 participating states in Europe, the Caucasus, Central Asia and North America. The OSSE is working to promote security and stability in the region on the basis of a broad-based approach to security covering three dimensions: security policy, economic and environmental, democracy and human rights. The organisation's particular strength lies, among other things, in its wide range of participating states, conflict prevention activities, the wide range of institutions and instruments that allow for rapid and flexible conflict management and the widespread presence in the field. The OSSE is an organisation that, like the UN, works in an inclusive spirit. This places special demands on us who protect freedom and human rights. As long as freedom, oppression, persecution, conflict and corruption are a tangible part of everyday life in many of these countries, the tough discussion but still respectful dialogue must be ongoing at all parts of the OSCE Assembly meetings. Madam President, I would like In the past year, despite the worldwide covidpandemine, a number of election observations have been carried out, and the Swedish delegation has participated actively with a number of members of parliament. For my part, I attended the elections in the United States, Kyrgyzstan and Albania. In just over a week, some of us will travel to Yerevan to make an election observation in Armenia. That is something I am very much looking forward to. The work on election observation is an important part of the OSCE's activities. Not least in the presidential elections in the United States last year there was great interest from the Swedish media, especially after the then President Donald Trump went out with accusations – wrong ones, to be said – about a widespread electoral fraud. In response to this interest, the OSCE delegation organised a seminar on our election observation in the United States and on our conclusions, which were sent to the SVT Forum. Of course, the election observation carried out by the OSCE's long and short term observers also plays a role in many other states, not least where democracy is still relatively new or where there is widespread corruption. Perhaps media freedom is limited or voice purchases are commonplace. In such situations, it is particularly important, for understandable reasons, for election observers to be present to testify to the situation and to provide conclusions and recommendations for the future, and whose presence on the ground will hopefully also contribute to a better conduct of the respective elections. Madam President, I would like The last year of activity has obviously influenced the work of the Parliamentary Assembly within the OSSE. A lot of the regular business has had to be cancelled. But as in so many other organizations, digital meetings have replaced the physical ones. On the other hand, formal congresses and sessions with resolutions and personal elections have not been able to take place. This year, at least, our summer meeting will finally take place in a few weeks' time, and both I and the Vice-President of the delegation, Margareta Cederfelt, hope to be able to travel to Vienna and participate on the ground. In addition, we both run for office as President and rapporteur in the Third Committee with a focus on human rights and democracy. Madam President, I would like Many of the OSCE countries have been severely affected by the co-vidpandemic that is currently under way. We will have to live with its consequences for the foreseeable future. At the same time, issues relating to democracy, state sovereignty, freedom of expression, human rights, gender equality and climate must continue to be the focus of discussions within the broad concept of security. Unfortunately, as has already been done in this House in today's debate, we can see that Russian aggression in Ukraine is continuing. During the year, new fighting in the region of Nagorno-Karabakh in the region of Armenia and Azerbaijan has again flared up. In Belarus, democracy fighters are being knocked down, and the government does not even shy away from directing and forcing aircraft into the air space. So they are forced into a new destination, and that then means the imprisonment of opponents, as we have seen recently. The challenges within and between the OSCE Member States therefore remain great. The free press, the judiciary, freedom of expression and a lot of other principles that we sometimes see as self-evident are being challenged. We see examples of everything from LGBTQ people to ethnic and religious minorities that are discriminated against and oppressed. The protection of women, and particularly women exposed to violence, is deteriorating. The Istanbul Convention, which came about precisely with the aim of protecting women from violence, has recently been ironically abandoned by the State of Turkey, as an example of this destructive development. Madam President, I would like The current Swedish Presidency of the OSSE plays a role. The Swedish stated priorities are about strengthening security and democracy, not least in our neighbourhood. The broad concept of security and the European security regime are safeguarded and work links the link between security and human rights, democracy and the rule of law. Both the government's efforts to promote democracy and the feminist foreign policy will play, and play, important roles here. This work continues tirelessly and is incredibly important for our common future. I would also like to take this opportunity, on behalf of the OSCE delegation, to thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who also participates in this House in today's debate. I would like to thank her for her good cooperation. During the Presidency's year, the Foreign Minister has met with the delegation bureau and members on several occasions and we look forward to more. I would also like to express my thanks to the members of the OSCE delegation, who have participated in both meetings and election observations, and to the OSCE Secretariat at the Parliamentary International Office, which always supports and backs up. Madam President, I would like To conclude, I would just like to say that later this year there are more interesting choices to be made. Closest to hand are Armenia, Moldova, Russia and Germany, all of which are countries that go to the polls within the next few months and where I hope for Swedish presence during these elections. Now only a few weeks remain before we have the formal summer break of Parliament, but the work for a better and safer world with international solidarity in focus is constantly moving forward.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-1061	Madam President, I would like The activities of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe are, of course, an important base for us in Sweden. We have almost 50 years of experience in the organisation since the Helsinki Agreement was signed in 1975. The Center Party is one of the parties that affirmed that Sweden took on the chairmanship of the OSSE and thought it was important for Sweden and for the organisation. It is also a unique opportunity to gain a deep insight from the Presidency's position into how the organisation works and in opportunities and challenges. There is a fundamentally built-in rivalry in the structures. It also existed before 1975, and so it still exists. Russia has never really been on the ground as we have seen them. The OSSE was rather seen as part of securing the Soviet Union and its policy of interest. Since the dissolution of the Soviet Union and the resurgence of new independent states in Eastern Europe, this tension has become increasingly evident. We have been able to see how Russia is trying by all means to destabilise the new states, to break rules, to annex illegally and to ignore agreements made. It simply does not interpret the rule book in the same way as the rest of us have thought it should. As the organisation itself is a consensus organisation, this poses the same challenges for us as we have in the UN Security Council in terms of developing the organisation and security. We have been able to see this picture also in the case of Moldova, which never got its entirety. There we got the Russian so-called peacekeepers, as we know is a Trojan horse to keep life in a conflict so that you also have a safe chance to influence. We have seen it in Nagorno-Karabakh with Azerbaijan and Armenia, where not only Russia but also Turkey has a finger in the game. This, too, is clearly an old conflict in which these two have an interest in trying to cultivate their ambitions from their perspective. We could see it clearly in Georgia in 2008. There, the OSSE was given a travel pass following the conflict and Russia's entry into Georgia. In principle, it must be said that it was an occupation of South Ossetia or Zj invali region and Abkhazia. It is a development that has also been going on crawling since 2008. The OSSE has not been given any role in resolving the conflict, one might say. And so came Ukraine, the illegal annexation of Crimea and the ongoing war in eastern Ukraine with Russian presence and clearly Russian interest. The OSSE is there as part of the field presence that exists, but it does so in well-defined areas. It does not have full access to the territory of Ukraine. It is again Russia that has the right of veto. Nor is it the case that the OSSE is the player in resolving the conflict in eastern Ukraine. No, there has been another way along with the OSSE, which would be the structure that solved conflicts. This was also seen in the last Nagorno-Karabakh conflict last autumn. It was not the OSSE that was called in to resolve it; it was a different type of agreement in Moscow. Russia has thus demonstrated by all means how it views the structure it has signed up to. We can see that, of the three dimensions mentioned earlier, military policy works like that, one must say calmly. Russia has refused to proceed with updating the Vienna documents. The CFE agreement has been abandoned. They are not involved, except sporadicly, in discussions. The second dimension of the economy and the environment is not the one at the forefront. I don't notice much of that part. On the third, Russia has a clear finger, Madam President: the human dimension, in which we have democracy and human rights. Alas, Russia thinks it is so bad that it wants interpretation in its own way. The broad concept of security that we stand up for together from this House is not something that Russia accepts. Rather, it wants to work to ensure that that part is completely removed from work. We say, like the government, that well-functioning democracy and human rights are a prerequisite for long-term and lasting security and that it requires a functioning rule of law. That is something Russia is constantly trying to undermine. I note in the Government's letter on the OSCE annual review conferences on the human dimension that this has also, if I may say so. Turkey is a good partner of Russia in this context. But there are many of the states we are talking about here where civil society is being shut down. One organization after another is shut down. There is hardly anything that can be called free civil organisations, but it is government-approved civil organisations. This is also an attempt to undermine this. It is therefore important that we have an evaluation. The Moderates have a requirement to evaluate the organization. We did not support it, but we support the report from the committee. However, it is important that we make an evaluation after our Presidency is ready to think about how we are moving forward in the work of this organisation. With that, Madam President, I would like to express my thanks and support for the committee's proposal.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-1079	Madam President, I would like At this very moment, when we are debating this report, the trilateral contact group in Kiev concludes its 163rd negotiating meeting under the leadership of the OSCE's special representative of the Chair in office with Ukraine, Russia and the Russian-sponsored separatists as participants. It is this group that is negotiating the implementation of the Minsk Agreement. Moving forward, Madam President, is the given question. I'm afraid the answer is no. Certainly, the immediate conflict is frozen by the Minsk Agreement 1 and 2 and by the SMM's monitoring. But there is a big difference between a frozen conflict and a settled conflict, Madam President. Over these years, the peace process has always taken two steps forward and one step backwards. The last year is illustrating. Last summer, there was agreement on reinforced measures for a cease-fire. It was maintained relatively well in the autumn. At the same time, only the symptoms were treated; the root of the problem was not treated. Then, during the winter, the violence increased and culminated with the increased violence along the line of contact combined with the Russian force building along the Ukrainian border. Today the tension has fallen again, but unfortunately it is temporary because the basic conflict persists. As we have heard, it is a structural problem with the OSSE that Russia, as part of the OSSE, is part of the conflict. It is part of the OSCE's special monitoring mission, the SMM, to Ukraine and has staff at the secretariat in Vienna. This means that at the same time a party to the conflict is the one to monitor if the ceasefire is violated. It goes without saying that this creates problems. Madam President, I would like We have discussed the Russian information war many times. It is a war that takes place in social media, on YouTube, on television and so on. It aims to create space for the Russian definition of truth, to formulate the Russian narrative. What is a Russian narrative, you might wonder. Let me give you an example. In the Russian story, the conflict in Ukraine is an internal conflict in which Russia is an external party trying to mediate. We all know in this House that this is not the case. It is an international conflict between two states, Russia and Ukraine, where Russia is an aggressor. It is gratifying that the report pays particular attention to the fact that Russia's role is to be seen as an actor in the conflict and not as a mediator. Madam President, I would like There are a number of common denominators between Ukraine, Nagorno-Karabakh, Abkhazia, South Ossetia and Pridnestrov je in Moldova. It is Russia that has identified a method of fomenting a conflict, freezing the conflict and then stepping out of the conflict and by all means trying to appear as a mediator. Why? It is probably, as we have heard earlier from this House, a question of controlling the development of states in the so-called near-foreign countries. Russia wants to create a number of states in which it has influence, controls development and ensures that states such as Moldova and Ukraine are not drawn too close, for example, to the EU. Madam President, I would like The OSSE must never fail in the defence of the European security regime. Madam President, I would like Belarus is one of the 57 OSSE countries. Repeated condemnations have been made of the brutal repression used by the illegitimate regime against its own population. In this situation, which is getting worse week by week and where Belarus is soon a gigantic North Korean prison in the middle of Europe, the question is what multilateral organisations can and should do. What can the EU do? What is the EU going to do? What can the OSSE do? What should the OSSE do? Condemnations will not help the Belarus opposition. Madam President, I would like We have heard and we know that the OSSE is not only a security organisation, but also an organisation that cooperates on human rights and democratic institutions. I would like to dwell on the importance of some of these areas with the hope that they will develop even more during the Swedish Presidency. One is the situation of Roma and Sinti. For 20 years, the Odihr has been tasked by the participating States to encourage and work for Roma inclusion in all parts of society and towards all OSCE states. We're not there. In many cases, OSCE Member States have a very long way to go to ensure Roma inclusion on equal terms and with equal rights. There is widespread discrimination and vulnerability. Our hope is that, during the remaining period of the Presidency, Sweden will shed light on this issue. Madam President, I would like It is very gratifying that the report states that Sweden will focus on SRHR issues not only in the area of gender equality but also in the context of work in conflict areas where abuse of women continues to be common. We know, Madam President, that a society that is in armed conflict is particularly dangerous for women. We have seen reports from Ukraine that men returning from the front line are increasingly using violence in close relationships. A militarised society that rewards macho cultures limits equality. We know that perhaps even more so with regard to the war in Nagorno-Karabakh. Work on SRHR issues must continue. With this, I call for the proposal in the report to be approved.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-1094	Madam President, I would like I am pleased to present here today the Government's letter on the activities of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe during the second half of 2019 and the full year 2020. The activities of the OSCE are of central importance for the security of Sweden and Europe. Its commitments form the basis of the security regime that has contributed to security in Europe for almost 50 years. The Helsinki Final Act of 1975 and the Paris Charter of 1990 confirm the principles of our common security. Sweden has a strong interest in this rule-based regime, based on international law and the UN Charter, still being respected. The OSSE is unique in the broad perspective of security on which the commitments of the 57 participating States are based. This includes the recognition that security also depends on respect for human rights. It is also important that the Participating States have agreed that human rights issues are not only considered to be part of the internal affairs of the States. Madam President, I would like In 2020, intensive preparatory work was under way to develop, together with key stakeholders, the priorities that are now guiding the Swedish Presidency. It was vital for me that the Parliament was well informed about the preparations and I appreciated the opportunities that I and colleagues at the Ministry for Foreign Affairs had to inform the Foreign Affairs Committee and the delegation to the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly and have a dialogue. Madam President, I would like The most serious challenge to the European security regime was, during the period covered by the letter, continued Russia's aggression against Ukraine and the illegal annexation of Crimea. Although a ceasefire entered into force in July 2020, the situation deteriorated in the autumn. We know that a long-term and sustainable solution to the conflict can only be achieved by its parties, in particular Russia, fulfilling their commitments under international law and in the so-called Minsk agreements. The OSSE has a particularly important role to play in monitoring the situation on the ground in Ukraine through the special surveillance operation SMM, but also through the work of the Trilateral Contact Group and border surveillance efforts at the two Russian border controls in Gukovo and Donetsk. Other conflicts have also had a major impact on the OSSE during the period covered by the letter. In 2020, new battles flared up around Nagorno-Karabakh, resulting in thousands of deaths. It shows that as long as conflicts remain unresolved, they represent a major threat to peace and security. For the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict, the OSSE has exercised a clear mandate for conflict resolution through the Co-Chairs of the Minsk Group and the Personal Representative of the OSCE Presidency. It is also important that the conflicts in Georgia and Moldova can be resolved in accordance with international law and the principles of the European security regime. The OSCE's involvement in the Geneva International Discussions conflict-solving format, which deals with the conflict in Georgia, and the so-called 5+2 process, which deals with the conflict in Moldova, make important contributions to international peace and security. In Belarus, we have another type of crisis following the falsified presidential elections. We have clearly criticised the repression of oppositionists, journalists and civil society and call on Belarus to live up to its commitments through the OSSE, including media freedom and human rights. As incoming Chairman of the OSSE, I, together with the then Chairman Rama in August 2020, offered to facilitate a genuine dialogue between the regime and the opposition in Belarus. While the Belarus opposition welcomed the initiative, the regime has not yet responded to the offer. It can be noted that the conditions for genuine dialogue are currently lacking. Madam President, I would like Even in contexts that are not characterised by prolonged conflicts, the OSCE's broad concept of security plays an important role. In Central Asia, there are several examples of how democratic and security policy developments are threatened, and in the Western Balkans there is a need to support reform efforts. In these geographys, the OSSE has an important presence in support of the countries. In addition, the OSCE's autonomous institutions, the Odihr, the Media Freedom Representative RFOM and the High Commissioner for National Minorities, have the mandate to support the implementation by States of the commitments they have. The Presidency also has special and personal representatives working on both conflict and thematic issues. The OSSE is also the home of the confidence-building and security-building measures in the field of military policy: the Treaty on observation flights, Open Skies, and the Vienna document. These instruments contribute to the transparency and predictability of state defence planning and expenditure. Sweden actively contributes within the framework of both measures and sees great value in maintaining and developing these functions. It was therefore worrying that last year the US chose to leave Open Skies under the pretext of a lack of Russian compliance. In this context, Sweden actively contributed to the work to try to solve the challenges of Russian compliance. Sweden regretted that the US had left the Treaty. Madam President, I would like Since the founding of the OSSE, Sweden has been a driving force to respond to violations of the security regime and human rights. We do so on the basis that democracy and human rights lie at the very heart of the broad concept of security. We therefore strongly support the important work of the autonomous institutions. Our commitment is also matched by extra-budgetary support, not least to the autonomous institutions, as well as seconds to important positions in Vienna and OSCE field operations. Sweden also participates with seconded personnel in several of ODIHR's election observation missions. Madam President, I would like As incoming Chairman, we were part of the OSCE Troika with insight into and opportunity to influence the organisation's leadership. The Troika played a particularly important role in the appointment of new Secretary-General and Heads of Odihr, RFOM and HCNM at the Tirana Ministerial Council, which was held for the first time in the history of the OSCE with gender balance. In 2020, we also chaired the OSCE Mediterranean Partnership and took over the chairmanship of the organisation's Budget Committee. Madam President, I would like The pandemic has also had a major impact on the OSSE. Having initially led to a break for the meetings of the Permanent Council, it was gratifying that the OSSE was one of the first international organisations to use digital meetings. However, there were undue restrictions on human rights in several participating states on the pretext of the pandemic. Here we have actively followed and supported, among other things, the ODIHR's efforts to follow up the restrictions imposed and how they relate to the OSCE commitments of the participating states. For this reason, it would have been particularly important to be able to implement the large and broad civil society participation unique implementation meeting in the OSCE's human dimension, the so-called HDIM, in 2020. Despite the active involvement of several participating states, where the United States took a special position in support of the holding of a conference, it was necessary to cancel the conference at a late stage because of the risk of transmission of infection. Another worrying aspect has been the impact on OSCE activities in the field. Not least the SMM in Ukraine has seen its freedom of movement restricted even more than in the past. The Pandemine also strongly influenced the possibility of carrying out activities under the Vienna document and Open Skies through restrictions imposed by many participating States to limit the risk of infection. Madam President, I would like As Chairman of the OSSE, I can see that almost all the issues raised during the period envisaged by the letter continue to affect us today. As President, we continue to work actively to support the European Security Order and the broad concept of security with a particular focus on gender equality and to contribute to conflict resolution. I look forward to the opportunities I have to inform and have a dialogue with Parliament on the progress of our Presidency and to return next year with a letter describing the Presidency work that has been carried out this year.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-1118	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister for Foreign Affairs, for participating in the debate. I am a little curious about the foreign minister's assessment of the Russian interest in developing the OSSE on the basis of the agreements made. Is there a genuine interest in sticking to the acquis which builds the common and broad concept of security in the OSSE? I am also curious about the image of the Moscow mechanism, which was part of dealing with Lukasjenko devastating actions in Belarus and electoral fraud. Has the Moscow mechanism been taken forward from the Presidency in the past, if we consider 2020 to be the framework for the discussion? The third question concerns evaluation. The Foreign Minister mentioned that a letter about this year's work will therefore come next year. Could such a letter also involve some form of evaluation of the work of the OSSE as a whole and the operation of the OSSE? Because there is a risk that it will become a Potemkinskuliss if it does not really have a bearing on our safety. Most countries that have open conflicts have it thanks to Russia, and there is no solution through the OSSE.
i-FLrwYgn9oTSqiBS1mYk5w9	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Kerstin Lundgren, for the questions! I will begin with Russia's role. It is a bit different depending on the conflict and the thematic area. If we look at the biggest and most serious conflict, the one in Ukraine, we can see that Russia there wants to distance itself from even being a party to the conflict. They keep saying that it is a domestic political conflict and that Russia is not a party. However, it is contradicted by the Minsk agreements, which say that the trilateral contact group is made up of the parties Russia and Ukraine and the OSSE as mediators and that the two separatist-supported Donetsk and Luhansk regions should be involved. Russia wants to move itself away as a party and be only a mediator. That is not something we can accept. It makes this extremely difficult. I think it was Maria Nilsson who said there have been 163 or 173 meetings. I am well aware of that, because I have a lot of contact with Heidi Grau. But these meetings do not lead anywhere, because you are destructive. There are other parts, for example in Moldova. There I last discussed with my Russian counterpart two weeks ago that we need to move forward in the so-called 5+ 2 format. It affirmed Russia and said that it really is time to have a new meeting to try to move forward there. I will return to the other two questions in the next line.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-1128	Madam President, I would like The image of Russia's actions must be analysed on the basis of the meaning of the association. The starting point, which I wonder if the Minister for Foreign Affairs agrees, is that it wants to use the OSSE as a means of creating its sphere of interest, in order to achieve its objectives – just as it does in all other contexts. We must realise that, regardless of whether we are talking about Moldova, which has received a new leadership that is not appreciated by Moscow, or whether we are talking about Ukraine or Belarus, Russia has an interest in breaking up the existing structures in order to maintain and create its sphere of influence. It is an important, fundamental analysis which I hope the Foreign Minister will take as a starting point when considering Russia's actions. I will come back to the other questions, which relate to the Moscow mechanism, the work of the Presidency and the evaluation in the forthcoming letter. I hope that, when the Presidency is over, we will have the opportunity for a more critical analysis of the whole work and process. I am fully aware that the Presidency requires special consideration.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-1131	Madam President, I would like I will take the first two points quickly. The Moscow mechanism is one of the sharpest tools available to the OSSE. The report submitted by the rapporteur for Belarus had over 80 different proposals and recommendations, and we are now trying to help follow them up. They were specifically addressed – some to countries, some to the OSSE as an organisation and some to the autonomous institutions. As the country holding the Presidency, we are involved in ensuring that these recommendations are taken into account. Some recommendations were to the regime, and they will not be followed up as they stand at the moment. The recommendations are therefore very disparate, but we are in this work. I move on to the question of evaluation and how it should be done. We will, of course, evaluate the Presidency. I think we will have to come back after dialogue with Parliament on how to do all this, but of course it is important. As far as Russia's role is concerned, I believe that what Kerstin Lundgren says to some extent is right – the organisation is used for its own purposes. However, it is also the case that we take part in, for example, the weekly meetings, which are the PCP, i.e. the permanent Commission in Vienna, and there we have to answer for every thing that has happened. If they had chosen not to be involved in the work of the institutions, they would not have had this accountability, which is one of the most important things in the OSSE and which has dampened a very large part of the conflicts that exist. I know how many times I have had to call Foreign Ministers only during this six-month term as President because there have been border conflicts or flared up various problems and used the OSCE cape to dampen the situation.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-1137	Madam President, I would like On a number of written questions to the Foreign Minister, I have asked why she does not condemn Azerbaijan's actions. The third question has not yet been answered, but I note that there has not been a proper response on the two previous occasions. Azerbaijan continues its aggressions and provocations along the border. It has also entered and violated sovereign Armenian territory on a number of occasions. Armenian victims are being mocked, for example, through the exhibition park to which I referred in my speech. It also continues to refuse to return Armenian prisoners of war – completely contrary to the agreement it concluded and signed last November. The Armenian side, most recently from the President, has appealed to the international community to be fully intolerant and to take tough steps to make adequate assessments and to condemn Azerbaijan's provocative measures. Madam President, I would now like to give the Foreign Minister the opportunity here and now to condemn Azerbaijan's actions, recurrent violations and aggressions.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-1141	Madam President, I would like I can only say that I answer all the hundreds of questions asked by Björn Söder. I regret if Björn Söder is not satisfied with the answer, but we answer the questions fully in accordance with all the formal rules that exist. With regard to the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict, it is very important that we try to find a solution to the conflict itself and that we do not, in the name of the OSCE President, devote ourselves to condemning one or the other party. It is important to get both parties to sit down and come up with a sustainable peace agreement. Different types of condemnations would not help. It's a matter of getting the parties to sit down, starting from the peace agreement that has to exist and saying, "Now we have a cease-fire but no peace agreement."What are we going to do to get there? ..................................................... There have been violations on both sides. We had a 44-day war in which more than 6,000 people died and where lots of people lost their homes. What is important is to see whether we, as the Chairman of the OSCE, can contribute to a solution to this terrible conflict, which has been going on for so many years. This is much more important than condemning one or the other on each occasion, whether that is the case – and what Björn Söder says is true – that there are violations. There are violations on both sides.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-1144	Madam President, I would like I can once again say that the Minister for Foreign Affairs refuses to condemn. After all, the Minister for Foreign Affairs is not only Chairman of the OSSE, she is also Minister for Foreign Affairs of Sweden. This conflict and this situation have gone so far that one must in some way be prepared to make a statement in the form of condemnation. There is a constant repetition of violations by the Azerbaijani side. It violates sovereign territory. You mock victims. They violate prisoners of war and refuse to return them. The OSSE has not been successful in this area at all. Then perhaps it is time to act as Sweden's Foreign Minister and condemn this. It can be noted, Madam President, that the Minsk Group's relevance to this conflict is currently nada– it is non-existent. It is even the case that relatives of captured Armenian soldiers have instead turned to Russia to try to find a solution to this and to get the Azerbaijani side to live up to the agreement it has entered into by returning prisoners of war, which is proof that the OSSE has failed. It would be interesting to hear the Foreign Minister's view on how to resolve this with Azerbaijan continuing to refuse to allow prisoners of war to return even though Azerbaijan has signed an agreement on it. The functioning Prime Minister of Armenia, Mr Pasjin jan, recently proposed the establishment of an international observation mission along the border, including participants from the Minsk Group. Russia would also participate. Sweden is part of the Minsk group. My question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is, Madam President, whether the Minister for Foreign Affairs is prepared to take the initiative for Swedish observers to take part in such a mission.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-1151	Madam President, I would like When I met the AZAR Foreign Minister in March, I expressed a strong desire to comply with international humanitarian law and respect human rights and the importance of women's participation in the peace process. It is now the case that since the first Karabach war, which was already in the 1990s, the OSSE has been offering a multilateral forum for resolving the conflict. As Chairman of the OSCE, I have shown support for the joint chairmanship of the Minsk Group, namely Russia, the United States and France, and the personal representative, who has been personal representative of various presidencies for 25 years. That is where these issues are to be dealt with in this drawn-out conflict. I believe that there is a chance that the OSSE will eventually be able to play a role again, and I will continue to work for that. It's not good as it is now. The cease-fire agreement that has been signed has been written by Armenia, Azerbaijan and Russia, which means that there are only Russian peace troops there – over 2 000 people. There are no international peace troops there, which I think it should do.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-1154	Madam President, I would like In my speech, I referred to the human rights violations suffered by people in certain countries, particularly Christians, but also believers from other religions and those who renounce their faith. For us Christian Democrats, it is a self-evident common duty to stand up for them as eagerly as we stand up for other people who are subjected to oppression and violations of human rights and freedoms. The freedom of religion and the right to exercise faith freely, to change religion and to renounce religion must be defended. And all abuses must be criticised, as well as we criticise countries that violate freedom of opinion and assembly in general. There are now six months left of Sweden's presidency. It is reported that work on the OSCE dimension of human rights is being planned. My question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is whether the government intends to seize the opportunity to break its usual fear of touching religion and also to address the persecution of Christians in OSCE cooperation.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-1157	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Gudrun Brunegård, for the question! The government does not have the slightest fear of touch when it comes to questions of religion — nothing at all. I, who was at the Ministry for Foreign Affairs back in the 1990s, know that we already had religious dialogues at that time, and that has continued. Now that I am a foreign minister, I often get reports from the religious dialogue, for example, in Cyprus, which is one of the successful religious dialogues we have. Freedom of religion and belief is a human right that applies to all. Now we have seen an increase in many countries in discrimination, harassment and violence linked to people's religious and non-religious identities. Unfortunately, this is also a problem in many of the OSCE participating states. As President, we always point out what commitments we have as a member of the OSSE, and the starting point is human rights. The Presidency also has three personal representatives whose mandate concerns tolerance and non-discrimination. One of these is Regina Polak. She works specifically to combat racism, xenophobia and discrimination, including intolerance and discrimination against Christians and other religions. She then collaborates with the other two representatives, with mandates linked to anti-Semitism and to discrimination against Muslims, to highlight these issues within the OSSE. She also cooperates with several regional organisations, such as the Council of Europe, in the protection of Christians and in promoting interreligious dialogue. For example, you can go into the internet and see what fantastic work Regina Polak is doing.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-1160	Madam President, I would like In Turkey, ancient churches and monasteries are run. One of Christianity's largest shrines, Hagia Sofia in Istanbul, was recently converted into a mosque after many years of being a museum where both Christian and Islamic history has been reflected. I've been there myself, and it was incredibly impressive. It is tragic that the Turkish State has felt that it can do this, obviously without the outside world reacting and saying: stop violating common values like this! In several countries of Central Asia, being actively practicing Christian is a danger to life – or at least there is an imminent risk of summary imprisonment and torture. I would like to hear more about how the Swedish Government is using the OSSE Presidency to highlight this situation and show that these people are not forgotten, as the Foreign Minister told the Foreign Affairs Committee the other day about how to engage with oppositionists in Belarus. After all, these oppressed and persecuted groups have just as much need to feel that they are seen by the West, that we speak for them and that we stand up for them. How does Sweden work for this?
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-1164	Madam President, I would like I must say, I am a little surprised that Gudrun Brunegård is now again taking up a strawman to fight. First, we have a fear of touching religious matters, which is completely untrue. Then it was that we should not have reacted to what happened to Hagia Sofia. It was a powerful international reaction to what happened. I personally reacted. Any number of foreign ministers reacted. Organizations reacted. There was a lot of reaction to this very thing. It is not true that there were no reactions. When it comes to addressing the issues as such, there is an opportunity to do so in the OSCE context. I personally spoke to my Turkish colleague in Ankara and raised precisely the OSCE commitments which it has as a participating state. It is obliged to follow the principles and commitments that it has, which include respect for human rights and tolerance as regards Christians and other religions. It is about the possibility of practicing one's religion, having one's religion or not having one's religion. On all the trips I make within the OSCE Presidency, I have the principle of always meeting representatives of civil society. It can be religious representatives, women's organisations, human rights organisations and so on. I am doing this precisely because, as Gudrun Brunegård says, they are there and they are important.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-1167	Madam President, I would like I won't ask if it was 173 at the time of the hearing or if it was 163. I think it's pretty insignificant in the big picture. On the other hand, Madam President, I would like to ask a question about how the Swedish Presidency will work forward. Before the Presidency, I listened to a podcast from the Institute for Foreign Affairs. There, among other things, Martin Kragh spoke. It was noted that Sweden would not be able to reach a solution in all the conflicts on the table of the OSCE. The Swedish Presidency should rather concentrate on identifying small opportunities for progress. This applies to the Ukraine-Russia, Georgia, Russia, Transnistria conflict. Then my question, Madam President, is to the Government: Is the Council thinking along the same lines? Have small targets been identified to make little progress towards a greater breakthrough in these conflicts? If so, what are those objectives?
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-1170	Madam President, I would like Yes, we immediately realised that during our presidency year we will not be able to resolve these conflicts, which have not been resolved. In Ukraine it has been going on since 2014 and in Nagorno-Karabakh since the 90s and so on. But there are little things we can do. There are some big things we can do. The important thing is that, when we agree, it can be improved living conditions for people affected by these conflicts. When I was in the Council of Europe, I was asked about the same question: why can't you solve this? You always have to see that this is about people. It is about building trust, it is about contributing to small progress or in any case not having setbacks. It is a question of opening up more border crossings on the conflict line in eastern Ukraine or maintaining transparency on the land border itself between the non-government-controlled area of Ukraine and Russia. It is in Moldova and Transnistria such things as trying to get a trolleybus so that people can get to and from the different parts and greet family and friends. It is about being able to use your cars to travel further than just in Transnistria, for example. It's about being able to use payment cards. It is a question in Georgia of having a more humanitarian situation in Abkhazia and South Ossetia. This is about improving the situation for people too, not just resolving the whole conflict.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-1175	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I think that was clarification, and it also shows that this is exactly what the Swedish Presidency is doing: little progress is being made to get a little further into the root of the problem if possible. Of course, there is nothing against which we object, but it is a perfectly natural way to walk. If you look at these small advances, such as the trolleybus in Moldova, or Pridnestrov je, the opening of the border crossings in eastern Ukraine and so on, how is it now six months into the Presidency? Does the Government see that these advances are taking place, or are they not? Where are they not taking place, and what more could the Swedish Presidency do to reach them?
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-1177	Madam President, I would like To begin with Moldova – I note that Maria Nilsson uses the name Pridnestrov j e which is the name of the separatists for Transnistria; I choose not to use this – I think it is somewhere you can feel a little hopeful, it is precisely there, not least because Russia shows a kind of constructiveness that we could have a meeting in Stockholm this autumn to move forward. I really hope so. No meetings are ready until they have actually been held, but there is an opening, I would say. As regards Georgia, we have Annika Söder, former Cabinet Secretary, as special representative. It has again started what is called Geneva International Discussions, which has not been fully active for a long time. There are quite intense talks now, and I know that Annika Söder and OSCE Secretary General Helga Schmid will go to the area next week. I also believe that a little progress is being made, not least in Abkhazia. It is more difficult in South Ossetia, but we have taken a small step there too. It's not least about increasing people-to-people contacts. The longer an area – Transnistria, Abkhazia, South Ossetia and now also the two non-government-controlled areas in Ukraine – is away from the country to which it actually belongs, the more they get away from that country, which is a problem in itself. I therefore believe that trying to develop these contacts is a very important step.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-1180	Madam President, I would like As I said in my speech, we see civil society's space shrinking. Oppositionists and journalists are imprisoned, and ancient, conservative and patriarchal forces are opposed to women's rights. This means, of course, that it will be difficult to get a multilateral body such as the OSSE to develop in a modern and democratic, open direction. I also pointed out that I think it is positive that Minister for Foreign Affairs, Ann Linde, in her priorities and in her opening speech, highlighted the importance of following and defending the principles on which the OSSE is based. In the UN Security Council, Sweden managed to gain a better understanding and knowledge of Resolution 1325 on women, peace and security, and now it is at least part of some peace talks and also part of the UN peacekeeping mission. Madam President, I would like I wonder how much impact Secretary of State Ann Linde believes that the Swedish priorities will be able to get in the OSSE to ensure that some of the 57 countries actually counteract civil society and women's rights, for example.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-1183	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Yasmine Posio, for once again raising these important issues! Feminist foreign policy also permeates the work of the OSSE. We see it as part of the broader concept of security and that it will go through all three dimensions of the OSSE. I share Yasmine Posios and Left Party's view that SRHR is a basis for the security promotion work and women's participation in various democratic and peace processes. The lack of consensus in the OSSE, because it does, is an obstacle to the possibility of actively pursuing the issue as we would like to do. But we try in different ways to strengthen gender equality through, for example, the agenda for women, peace and security. It is a little easier on that side, because it is so concrete in the work that the OSSE is doing. It is also about strengthening women's participation in conflict-related and peace-building processes. I can say, for example, that I and Åsa Regnér, Assistant Secretary-General of UN Women, are going together to Kosovo. The theme is gender equality and women's participation in peace processes, which I discussed with the new female Kosovan Foreign Minister today. So we're trying in every way to bring this in, but I'd lie if I said there's no strong resistance, too.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-1188	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Foreign Affairs Ann Linde, for the answer, which was so very effective! I did not include the SRHR in my first post. I'd save that for now, but now it's already answered. I'm just gonna have to wish you a nice summer, and I'll see you in the fall again.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-1190	Madam President, I would like I wish you a nice summer!
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-1191	Madam President, I would like I would like to ask the Foreign Minister about Belarus. Belarus is a country in which the OSSE has observed the elections since 1994. In 2019, when it was parliamentary elections and I served as the Special Coordinator, one thing was striking, and that was that the OSCE recommendations since 1994 have been about the same. A single improvement has been made by Belarus: the accessibility of polling stations for people with disabilities. Otherwise, there is no change whatsoever. When I spoke to the public, ordinary citizens, about the elections and what their expectations were: Wait and see! This election will go calmly and clean up, for Lukasjenko does not care about the election. Wait till the presidential election! And that's exactly what happened. Change would be needed here. The OSSE would have to act here. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs what measures she has taken during the Presidency. Is she trying to bring about a change for democracy? An election observation should reasonably lead to some changes, especially as it has been going on since 1994 without results. What we can now see are tougher conditions; a terrible situation for the opposition. Are there any attempts to get an OSCE mission in Belarus, for example? It could be a way of working on it.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-1197	Madam President, I would like I thank Margareta Cederfelt for the question of Belarus. The OSSE can hopefully play a role that will eventually lead to a solution to the crisis in Belarus, but not right now. The situation is completely locked. The massive violence and torture that have been used in prisons against all the opponents and ordinary people who have gone out and demonstrated, or just waved a flag, the indiscriminate violence, makes it very difficult at the moment to come up with any initiatives at all. However, the OSSE has made use of one of the most powerful instruments it has, namely the launch of the Moscow mechanism. The country that was subjected to such an examination did not want to be involved, but the rapporteur got into the country anyway and found that there have been serious abuses and violations of human rights and freedom of expression and so on. The rapporteur then made over 80 different recommendations on how to improve the situation in Belarus. This applies both to the regime itself, which has done nothing, and to concrete proposals on how the OSSE and the autonomous institutions of the OSCE can contribute to a better situation. I said in my speech that from the outset we had an offer to facilitate dialogue, to which the opposition was in favour, in order to bring about a solution. However, the regime has not taken that proposal into account at all.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-1200	Madam President, I would like I thank the Foreign Minister for his reply. The response given by the Foreign Minister here shows many difficulties within the OSSE. It is in this perspective that the moderate reservation should be seen. We state the need for a review of what the OSSE is doing and how the OSSE is acting. It is not about individual presidencies, people or functions; it is about the ability of the organisation to achieve results and improvements. Somewhere, too, the OSSE's work must aim to improve the conditions for the citizens of the 57 OSCE Member States. The mission is very difficult with consensus decisions and so on. In order to move forward, a review would be to the fullest. I am fully aware that among these 57 Member States there is at least one country that says that there is no need for a review. Finding a way forward in this complex matter to achieve better results and compliance with the Helsinki Agreement would be good. Here, Sweden as the country holding the presidency could work actively, not only to say that we have now done this and there was no review, but to ensure that the baton is handed over to the next presidency. A review is important for achieving results, for achieving peace and security in the broad perspective of the OSCE – including a large number of dimensions.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-1204	Madam President, I would like The primary follow-up mechanisms concerning the commitments made by the countries in the organisation's activities are the weekly meetings held in Vienna. People don't really know how tough these meetings really are. There are topical issues raised. They may include breaches of joint commitments, executive structures, autonomous institutions, field missions and so on. In addition to these meetings, the three different dimensions of the annual review meetings address issues relating to each individual dimension. There is also an opportunity for each individual state to address issues to be reviewed and monitored. There is also HDIM, which invites civil society to highlight shortcomings in participating states. We also have economic governance systems led by the Secretary-General's office, which follow the work of the Permanent Council. There are extensive existing monitoring and control mechanisms. If we look at the difficulties the OSSE is facing in reaching a consensus, I think it would be difficult to get an acceptance for the establishment of even more control mechanisms and meeting formats. I believe that the Presidency's efforts are more useful in other areas. Then it is quite another matter that we should, of course, evaluate our own Presidency. But I think it is better to work more effectively with the mechanisms and meeting formats already in place for monitoring and monitoring.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-1208	Madam President, I would like My colleagues Johan, Margareta, Yasmine and others have been creditably telling us what we are doing within the OSCE delegation. I was going to maintain myself on something else, namely something that the Foreign Minister has told us in detail about but from a slightly different perspective. This concerns the importance of Sweden being the country holding the presidency of the OSSE. It is not every year that Sweden holds the presidency of the OSSE. The last time it went was 1993. It was precisely the year I came to Sweden as a refugee from Bosnia and Herzegovina, from a conflict area that several of my colleagues have talked about, from the war. The war has definitely affected not only my life but also my mother's, grandmother's, grandmother's, and sister's life. My entire generation's life changed fundamentally. All of us who were then young had to move from dreams of the future to the front line. We had to move away from being neighbors and friends to becoming enemies of war without our being able to influence. Often in these conflicts, such as Yugoslavia, there are deep conflicts in the background. They have not arisen as lightning from a clear sky, but have existed in Yugoslavia since 1389. These are conflicts that are actually difficult to describe. I usually describe that my grandmother lived in three countries but always in one house. My grandmother experienced three wars during her life. The longer a conflict goes on, the more civilians lose hope of the future. The hope that the international community will achieve something good. Everyone involved is aware of this – those who are in the conflict, combatants and civilians, and we here. My hope then, ‐ 93, disappeared when my mother was forced to spend 10 of her last 14 days of life in a refugee tent between two fighting sides, just because the international communities were not stronger than the combatants. Every day a war goes on, the human dignity of women, children and older people decreases. It is therefore important that countries such as Sweden, which have a democratic tradition, are involved in dialogue and set the agenda. It is important for the fight for peace. This is important for the security of civilians. It is important for human rights. To highlight and highlight women's situation and rights in a conflict, to push the right to education for children in the conflict and to make sure that young people get their voices heard – what I and my generation did not get then – all of this will not stop any war. We all know that. But it will arouse hope in people in the midst of the conflict, and good will grow. That is why I think it is important, Madam President, with Sweden and with Sweden's Presidency in the OSSE today. The issues we will not have the strength to push this year, I hope, will have the strength to come back and push next year and the following year, for the mothers who are in the conflicts now and for the sisters who are in the conflicts now, around the vast area of the OSCE – for their sake and for their future. For these young people who are in the conflict and are losing hope. That is why we shall continue this fight.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-1217	Madam President, I would like It's not easy coming after Jasenko. Thank you for a very powerful speech! The OSSE is not a perfect organisation, I would like to start by saying, but it is perhaps the best we have. That's why it's very important. The Centre Party believes that the OSSE has a very important role to play in the future. We all know about the problems we have with the decision-making system that exists. It's kind of just to handle. But you always have to ask yourself what the alternative is. I really believe in the OSSE as a dialogue organisation that works. The weekly meetings, which the Minister has highlighted, are an ongoing discussion and put pressure on the participants. One should be able to look each other in the eyes also the following week. Conversations are always better than war, and just as my colleague Mr Jasenko so well described, it is a way of giving hope to future generations. So the OSSE has a very important role to play. And in fact, I think it can be said that 2020 became a pretty good OSCE year, strangely enough, despite the pandemic. It is because the OSSE has been very active during the pandemic as one of the few election observation organisations that have been able to fulfil their role. We've handled the pandemic fairly well, I'd say. Not least the effort we made to observe the presidential elections in the United States gave a big breakthrough to the organisation as such. We were there almost alone to monitor the election on the spot and got a very big media impact, not least in Sweden. When we measured the media impact we saw that we had up to 1,000 impacts for the four of us who were away. I don't think this has happened for a very long time in the history of the OSCE. I sit in the delegation and have always felt, every time we're away, the very meaningful thing about election observation. It's useful. We'll be visible, we'll see each other, and we'll get a good response. Last time I was in Albania, I was with Margareta, among others, and we felt clearly how much we are doing for democracy. So I think it can be said that this was a good year for the OSCE. It is also exciting to see that the delegation in Sweden, the Swedish delegation itself, works very well. We have good cooperation across party boundaries. The President works well, the Vice-President works excellently and everyone is committed and is moving forward. We know that the pandemic has been a challenge for the OSSE, too, organisationally. There haven't been proper statutes in place. Choices have not been made. Leading functions have not been added. But it has actually been dealt with and is now in the goal of those pieces, so I think that the OSSE has also managed the organisational challenges of the pandemic quite well. The year of the Presidency – it is of course amazingly exciting to be there just when it happens, but it must be acknowledged that it is a challenge. It's a real challenge. I would like to thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the Foreign Affairs Committee and the delegation for their good cooperation, who are really trying to pull in the same direction. But of course it is obvious that there were so many major conflicts that flared up just when it was our turn again – Nagorno-Karabakh, of course. Ukraine, constantly ongoing but with a strong escalation and power demonstration from Russia. Belarus has many of us talked about before. A sneaky conflict between Greece and Turkey that has not flared up but still lies there. Behind all this lies the great geopolitical game of Russia's actions. We are all familiar with Russia's ideas of its own sphere of interest, where no means are avoided. In spite of this, I believe that the OSSE will play an important role in the future in counteracting the trend to divide the world between major powers and in moving away from the world order set up after the Second World War. Finally, I think it's nice to see that Sweden takes care of itself. Now we have one of two strong candidates to chair the entire OSSE. I, Margareta Cederfelt and Johan Büser also run for a heavy post. It promises well for Sweden's commitment to the OSSE, and I believe that the OSSE will play a central role in the future. With this, I call for the proposal in the report to be approved.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-1235	Madam President, I would like Within the export control, there is broad agreement on several measures that have been taken to ensure that Sweden has effective control over Swedish-produced war material and dual-use items. One such measure, on which there has been agreement among the parties in the Riksdag, is to introduce post-controls of war material, i.e. that Sweden should be able to check that delivered war material is in place and has not been diverted to states or organisations to which it is not permitted to export war material. Unfortunately, the introduction of post-controls has been a complete failure of the government on an issue where failure has to be said to be difficult. When the government has a united parliament behind it when it comes to introducing post-controls and the responsible authority, the Inspection for Strategic Products, announces that they may be introduced on 1 January 2019 but they are still not introduced it is nothing more than a major failure. And it is a failure that risks undermining Swedish trust internationally and which puts Swedish weapons at risk of going astray. Madam President, I would like Why, then, is it so important that post-controls are introduced? Why do we need to check where the Swedish armaments end up? Here, the starting point needs to be the same as in, for example, legal policy, where it is very little useful for many new laws to be introduced if we also have areas where these laws cannot be enforced. The same is true of post-control of weapons of war. If we do not have effective instruments to check where the Swedish weapons end up, it does not matter if we have a well-developed regulatory framework for control before they are exported. Post-controls also tend to become increasingly important as arms exports have increased. Increased exports of these goods need to be accompanied by increased controls so that they do not fall into the wrong hands. Here the government has failed despite a unanimous parliament, although the proposal has been examined and although the responsible authority felt that such a post-control system could already be in place on 1 January 2019. Madam President, I would like Let me also point out that increased exports of armaments are not the only reason why post-controls need to be introduced quickly. Another important reason is that the material exported by Sweden is mainly high-tech armaments, the equivalent of which cannot be obtained on the international market. That is why it is so important that these systems do not fall into the wrong hands. The systems that Sweden exports abroad include grenades and armor shots that can fight armored vehicles and pose a threat to our allies and also to Swedish troops in international efforts. In addition to these systems, Sweden also exports portable anti-aircraft missiles that can be used to shoot down civilian passenger planes should they fall into the wrong hands. As a result, hundreds of innocent civilians may be killed by air passengers. Since Sweden exports such advanced systems, there is also a risk that these weapons may be misused so that the technical solutions come to states and groups that would not otherwise have been able to access such advanced armaments. The long-term impact of technology diffusion should not be underestimated. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats are in favour of a strong Swedish defence industry and the export of war equipment and dual-use items that can contribute to our having an advanced defence at home and that we can help strengthen the defence of other democracies. There is much to be gained from an effective policy in this area, and there is a great deal of agreement in Parliament on this, which is very gratifying. But such a policy must be implemented by a government that is capable of implementing the decisions taken by the parliament, and post-control of war material is a clear example of the government's inability to do so. Madam President, I would like In addition to armaments, today we are also debating dual-use items, that is to say those which are essentially civilian but which have military uses. Such a category of products are, for example, different technical systems that can be used for the monitoring and identification of people on the internet. Today's News highlighted some time ago these systems in an article entitled Svenska censoringfabriken became the court supplier of dictatorships. The article described that a small company in Sweden manufactures technical systems that can be used by different regimes to actively censor its own population. It was also stated that this equipment was exported to some of the world's worst oppressive states. That Sweden becomes a country that develops systems that dictatorships then buy from us and use to oppress their own population should not occur and is something that we must take responsibility for actively counteracting. It is easy to stand here in the Swedish parliament and declare support for various democratic movements around the world. On the other hand, it is more difficult for many in this House to really have an active policy that makes Sweden a force for democracy and human rights and not the other way round. I therefore call, Madam President, for greater focus from the government on dual-use items as well, and for the debate on strategic export control not to be exclusively about armaments. Furthermore, this also demonstrates the importance of allocating sufficient resources to the agency that has this mission and, not least, of organising the work effectively in the Government Office so that each tax chandelier invested gives the highest possible dividend. We therefore call on the Swedish democrats to review whether it is really most effective that the controlling authority, the ISP, formally falls under the Ministry of Justice while the real governance takes place from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It is very difficult to see that this would be an effective way of controlling export controls, especially since ISP has previously only been managed from the same department and that is how the management of most authorities is done. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to give a few words of thanks to all the tens of thousands of people in Sweden who are directly and indirectly engaged in the production of materials that benefit Swedish defence capabilities and that can be used by other states to defend the values on which democracy rests. Sweden has a very proud tradition of armaments manufacturing, which stretches back several decades and where Swedish ingenuity and Swedish entrepreneurship have been expressed. Thanks to Swedish arms exports and Swedish know-how, democracies have been able to defend themselves historically against the aggression of dictatorships on several occasions. Today, Sweden has an armaments industry that stands very well in international competition. The industry produces everything from unmanned submarines to advanced fighter planes. The activities are located in many locations in Sweden and contribute to both growth and development in large cities such as Malmö and Gothenburg, as well as in smaller communities such as Karlskoga and Docksta. It is also gratifying that it is an industry that continues to develop and take market shares internationally. Swedish armaments exports are and remain a success. Madam President, I would like I ask you to accept reservation 1.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-1250	Madam President, I would like In today's debate on Swedish arms exports, I thought to start by talking about the gaps in Swedish arms export legislation. After that, I thought about a number of countries where Swedish arms exports contribute to increasing the levels of conflict or directly contribute to war or domestic oppression, often in direct contradiction to the government's so-called feminist foreign policy. It is right that Swedish arms exports are often the dark side of Swedish foreign policy, for which no one really wants to take responsibility. Madam President, I would like Despite the fact that 2020 was a year marked by a pandemic whose effects seriously damaged large parts of the economic growth of all the countries in the world, the trend continues with strong rehabilitation. Increasing poverty, restrictions on human rights and, in particular, women's rights, hunger and economic inequality, but also increasing make the world's total military spending. Sweden is, in an international perspective, an important player in terms of our responsibility in terms of the size of our arms exports, both in absolute terms and per capita. The Government's letter shows that Swedish arms exports continue to be at a historically high level. Swedish companies exported war equipment to a value of SEK 16.3 billion in 2020. From a longer perspective, a compilation of the Swedish Peace and Arbitration Association shows that Swedish arms exports are more than five times as large today compared to the early 2000s. The buyers of Swedish weapons in 2020 include a wide range of dictatorships, belligerent states and countries that commit gross and extensive violations of human rights. We also find countries which are taking major steps back in their development of democracy and where we see an increase in violence and persecution of minorities and political opposition. The Left Party wants Sweden to be a country that consistently stands up for democracy and popular rule, a country that works actively for peace and disarmament, and a country that condemns any violation of human rights, regardless of where, by whom or with what motives the crimes are committed. Sweden has every opportunity to be such a voice, but that requires us to stop arming authoritarian regimes, countries that are in war and states that commit gross and extensive violations of human rights. Already for ten years see da n, 2011, in the light of the repression of the democrats during the Arab Spring, the government was given a mandate by the Riksdag to develop a new armaments legislation in order to tighten the rules against arms exports to dictatorships. Only seven years later, on 15 April 2018, the new legislation entered into force. Unfortunately, the result of the new legislation is very disappointing. Swedish exports are increasing to dictatorships, and exports to dictatorships today account for one third of Swedish arms exports. It can be seen without great difficulty that the new legislation is a failure in relation to what it wanted to achieve in 2011. Then how did this happen? It is above all a question of the fact that the new legislation has two major gaps. The first is that the new regulatory framework only applies to permits for new business concluded after 15 April 2018. All transactions that are considered to be linked to a deal that was granted before the democratic criterion came into force can be classified as consequential deliveries and thus escape the new legislation and a new test. Successive deliveries in the legislation are a Swedish invention. Successive deliveries can range from spare parts, ammunition to completely new systems of the same type as previously delivered. Follow-up deliveries have no time limit and can continue indefinitely. There are, for example, successive deliveries of systems that were originally delivered from Sweden 30 to 40 years ago. Successive deliveries have long been one of the biggest loopholes in Swedish arms export legislation and mean that exports continue despite the fact that new deals should not be allowed. The second gap in the new legislation is that it does not stop exports to non-democratic states, but shortcomings in democratic status should only affect the assessment and constitute an obstacle to exports. If there are then significant national defence and security interests, export may nevertheless be granted. The position not to support and legitimise undemocratic and oppressive regimes can thus be overridden by other interests that are considered to weigh more heavily in the assessment. The fact that Sweden's policy on arms exports and foreign policy is filled with double standards has been known for a long time. In the report on exports last year, it becomes clearer that Sweden likes to use beautiful words about peace and human rights, but at the same time provides different conflicts with weapons. It is under all criticism that the new legislation one has not contributed to the reduction of Swedish arms exports to warring and undemocratic countries, which were the aim, but it has become exactly the opposite. Therefore, a thorough evaluation of the changed regulatory framework needs to be carried out. Parliament should agree on this as soon as possible. By far the largest recipient country for Swedish armaments in 2020 was the dictatorship of the United Arab Emirates. The United Arab Emirates is part of the Saudi-led coalition that has been fighting in Yemen for six years. The war in Yemen is still ongoing and described as the world's worst humanitarian crisis, according to the UN. Over 24 million people, 80% of the population, need humanitarian aid. Of them, over 12 million are children. Sweden has long been an active party in trying to mediate and take responsibility for providing aid to Yemen. But Sweden also exports weapons to six of the states participating in the war. The recipients of the 2020 exports include four of the warring parties, namely the dictatorships of the United Arab Emirates, Saudi Arabia, Qatar and Kuwait. One fifth of Sweden's total arms exports are now going to these countries. All of the countries participating in the war in Yemen that receive Swedish weapons are to be regarded as authoritarian states that violate human rights. These are countries that are obviously also involved in an armed conflict. Thus they meet all the criteria for not being granted export of Swedish armaments. In the January agreement between the Social Democrats, the Green Party, the Center Party and the Liberals, there is also a deal whereby the principled attitude of the four parties is not to approve arms export transactions to specifically the non-democratic countries involved in the Yemeni conflict as long as the conflict continues. However, with new legislation and drafting in the January agreement, arms exports to the dictatorships of the Saudi-led coalition continue. Before the January agreement was signed, Sweden had exported for 700 million. After the ink had dried, arms deliveries increased to double, 1.5 billion in 2019. Last year, arms exports rose by more than double again to 3.3 billion and represent almost ten times more than last year's aid to Yemen. If there is any effect that we see from paragraph 70 of the January Agreement, it is that it has increased arms exports to the warring parties in Yemen. However, there are also examples of new permits that have been granted. Table 9 of the letter's first annex shows that new exit permits have been granted to both Saudi Arabia and Qatar, which is contrary to the government's own interpretation of the new regulatory framework and the January Agreement. These new exit permits are categorized precisely as international cooperation without further explanation. Well, we can't know what it is, because it's confidentiality. What can be such an important military cooperation that we must continue to send weapons to the dictatorship of Saudi Arabia? I wonder. The double standards of Swedish arms exports are most evident in arms exports to the states warring in Yemen. While the government talks about the importance of democracy, peace and women's rights, Sweden armes warring dictatorships that systematically violate women's rights and bomb the Yemeni people. Sweden, the government and the January parties will not with any credibility be a vote for human rights anywhere on earth as long as this arms export continues. Madam President, I would like So then some impact in some other countries that Sweden has arms deals with. The day before yesterday, I debated with the Minister for Foreign Affairs the violence from the police and military that has been faced with the recent mass protests in Colombia. Colombia is considering buying Jasplan from Saab in what could be a billion-dollar deal. Peace in Colombia is still fragile. The Colombian government is currently undermining the peace agreement. The situation of human rights defenders is among the worst in the world, and every three days a social leader is killed. In this situation, Colombia needs peace and democracy, not Swedish Jasplan. From earlier being for a sale based on the statement by both Hultqvist and Linde, Sweden has become more cautious. But the Swedish government must be clear that peace agreements in Colombia are more important to protect than to sell any Jasplan. However, Sweden has sold Jasplan to neighbouring Brazil. Brazil is the worst country to manage the pandemic under right-wing populist Jair Bolsonaro. The Swedish-Brazilian contract for the aircraft Jas has linked the governments of Sweden and Brazil to each other for a long time in an interdependency. The Swedish government has accounted for as much as SEK 40 billion that Brazil has received in loans in order to be able to afford to buy the JAS plan and also weapons from South Africa and Israel. The Left Party is very critical of the government's support for the affair. In the light of developments in Brazil, we believe that the government must now closely monitor the continuation of the deal. There is a risk that Swedish weapons will be used to violate human rights and create instability in Latin America. Part of the Swedish arms export legislation is so-called dual-use items, called PDA, which means that a product can have both a civilian use and a military use. Right now in DN there is a review of a Swedish-based company that helps dictatorships around the world to monitor opposition through digital surveillance. Another example during the year is Myanmar. There was a brutal military coup here as late as 1 February this year. The Swedish company Micro Systemation AB, MSAB, has sold forensic technology to Myanmar police to read the contents of seized mobile phones. With the sale made to the police and not to the military, no authorisation was required for the sale. Concerns and violence against demonstrators in Myanmar have continued to escalate since the military coup. Now 849 people have been killed, and at least 6,000 people have been arrested. In addition, in recent days we have been reached with information that 100 000 people have been forced to flee the Kayah area in North-East Myanmar. MSAB has sold its technology to Myanmar police by 2019, and the police have, as we know, previously committed crimes against the Muslim population rohingyer. In Myanmar, the police and the military have spent a long time together. For example, the UN no longer refers to the fact that the military is responsible for the violence, but describes it as the fact that it is the security forces that are attacking people, which therefore includes both the police and the military. It is therefore impossible to ensure that the technology has only gone to the police. At a military disposal, ISP authorisation had been required under export control for dual-use items. In addition, the EU has had export restrictions on Myanmar since 1996 with reference precisely to internal repression. There is a risk that Swedish exports are now being used by the military junta for domestic repression following the military coup. The Left Party is critical of these shortcomings in Swedish export control. The government should initiate an investigation to assess whether export controls in dual-use products should be strengthened. With this, Madam President, I am in favour of reservation 3.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-1280	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 4. I would also like to say that it is regrettable and bad that the responsible minister is not in place when we are discussing this important subject. It is an important subject for us to take part in the debate, and it should also be for the government. Christian Democrats support a viable domestic defence industry. Over the years, the Swedish defence industry has been a prerequisite for our country's security and military capabilities. It is likely that this will continue to be the case. The fact that this requires some export of arms is agreed between industry and most parties. Similarly, over the years, there has been a strong commitment to the restrictions that apply to Swedish arms exports. The Christian Democrats have long been opposed to the export of arms to dictatorships and countries that systematically violate human rights. For this reason, the party was the driving force behind the agreement on new legislation in this area which was concluded a few years ago and which Håkan Svenneling talked about. The agreement clearly states that respect for human rights and the democratic status of the recipient country shall be central to any authorisation process. The writings are, among other things, the result of Christian Democrats' efforts and mean that the need for defence exports should always be weighed against a democracy criterion. Madam President, I would like In spite of this, in this debate today we are forced to note that Swedish weapons are being exported to countries such as Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates. None of the countries are democracies. Both countries are deeply involved in the horrendous war in Yemen. The civil war in Yemen – considered by the UN to be the world's worst humanitarian disaster – has been going on since 2015 and has reaped the lives of more than 230 000 people. Today there is a shortage of food, medicines, and other supplies. Over 80% of the population, or just over 24 million people, are in need of humanitarian aid. The children are the most severely affected. In a broader perspective, what is happening in Yemen is part of the power struggle between the major regional powers of Saudi Arabia and Iran, which wage war by proxy in order to strengthen their influence throughout the Middle East. In spite of this, the volume of Swedish arms exports to the United Arab Emirates increased between 2019 and 2020. The increase, from SEK 1.3 billion to SEK 3.2 billion, means that the country is the largest recipient of Swedish arms exports. A significant part of the exports is about reinforcements of the Saab manufactured airborne radar system Global Eye. The Peace Research Institute Sipri notes that this particular type of system can be used to maintain the blockade that prevents food and supplies from reaching Yemen's severely tormented civilian population. In Saudi Arabia, too, exports of Swedish war material that can be used in combat have been approved. Madam President, I would like It is clear that the strengthened Swedish export legislation and the democracy criterion are being circumvented today, mainly through successive deliveries to previously concluded agreements. Under the current guidelines, authorisations should be granted for consequential supplies unless there is an unconditional obstacle. In other words, subsequent deliveries should be assessed on a case-by-case basis in accordance with the guidelines. In spite of this, the fact that the government in practice chooses to look the other way in the Yemen case is directly offensive. The Swedish Foreign Minister talks about her being a mediator in this conflict. Last year, Sida paid out SEK 300 – 400 million in humanitarian aid to Yemen. With one hand to broker peace and distribute aid and with the other to export weapons that kill innocent civilians, there is a word for it in Swedish. It spells double standards, Madam President. If the political will exists, the government can push for export bans to belligerent countries within the framework of the Strategic Product Inspection. It was excellent in the case of Turkey in 2019 when President Erdo中an attacked Kurdish-dominated areas in north-east Syria. And that is now also possible with regard to Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates. Although it is not the government that decides on individual affairs, there is room for political action in cases where it is justified. Madam President, I would like Armaments exports are an issue of clear ethical dimensions that must not be relativised or negligated. The democratic criterion and the requirement for human rights to be respected must always be guiding.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-1293	Madam President, I would like Sweden has a long tradition of being very open with the scope and focus of arms exports. The letter on arms exports that forms the basis of the report that we are debating today and on which the Parliament will decide tomorrow is the 37th that any Swedish government has made and presented to Parliament. The first came in 1985, and when it came Sweden was quite alone to relatively openly account for arms exports. Armaments exports are often surrounded by a lot of secrecy. For safety reasons, of course, this is very justified, but it also opens up speculation, misunderstandings, rumours and even lies. Today, there are a number of countries in the world that have also come a long way in their openness to arms exports, and that is very good. Although several countries have caught up with Sweden on various points in terms of transparency in their accounting, it is probably still Sweden that has the most complete accounting. The demands we make and the transparency we have give us a normative effect that leads to a healthier operation not only in Sweden but also in other countries. Strategic export control is about the export control of war equipment and dual-use items. "Dual-use items" means objects which are made for civilian use but which can also be used for the manufacture of weapons of mass destruction or war material. Under Swedish law, war material may only be exported if there are security reasons or defence policy reasons for it, and this does not conflict with Sweden's international obligations or Sweden's foreign policy in general. On 15 April 2018, a strengthened armaments legislation began to apply. It applies to new business and involves the introduction of a democracy criterion in which the democratic status of the recipient country should be taken into account in the overall assessment with other factors that speak for and against exports. The democratic status of the recipient country shall be a central condition and assessed on the basis, inter alia, of the existence of democratic institutions, the possibilities for free expression of opinion and respect for fundamental democratic principles. The worse the democratic status, the less space there is to grant permission. In cases where there are serious shortcomings in democratic status, this constitutes an obstacle to authorisation. The human rights criterion was strengthened in 2018 from a serious and widespread violation of human rights, to a serious and widespread violation of human rights, in accordance with the proposals of the Swedish Military Material Export Investigation (KEX). In cases where there are serious or widespread violations of human rights, this constitutes an obstacle to authorisation. Respect for human rights and the democratic status of the receiving state are key conditions in the licensing process. The meaning is that these circumstances should always be assessed and taken into account in the overall assessment. It stresses in particular that there should be an assessment of the degree of democratic status and that the worse it is, the less room for authorisation is available. The licensing process in Sweden is carried out in accordance with the Swedish Guidelines on Armaments Exports, the EU's common position on establishing common rules for the control of exports of military technology and equipment and the UN Arms Trade Treaty. The inspection of strategic products, ISP, is the authority that reviews all transactions and grants or rejects export authorisations. As part of the efforts to increase transparency and transparency in the field of export control, this year's letter from the Government presents, among other things, more detailed information on refusal decisions, the historical development of arms exports and agreements on cooperation and licensing. Further information has also been added for a better historical comparison of arms exports. In addition, more detailed information on granted and valid cooperation and licensing agreements is provided. With this, Madam President, I am in favour of the Foreign Affairs Committee's proposal as a whole.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-1300	Madam President, I would like Yes, then we are here for the third time, Kenneth Forslund, debating arms exports and paragraph 70 of the January agreement. For the third time, I have tried to find out when and how the government will ensure the implementation of paragraph 70. Unfortunately, it seems that it is only me and Lars Adaktusson who are passionate about the January agreement's point 70– at least that. When you read this year's letter from the government, you can only see that arms exports to the warring parties in the Yemeni war are not only continuing but increasing. Swedish arms exports are now almost ten times as large as Swedish aid. By far the largest recipient of Swedish armaments in 2020 was the dictatorship of the United Arab Emirates, which is one of the warring parties in Yemen. In addition to that, this year's report shows that Sweden has started two new, secret military collaborations with Saudi Arabia. The government has beaten its chest and said: No arms exports to Saudi Arabia anymore! It's a closed chapter! Two new collaborations have now been launched. They don't show up in the money figures in this report. They'll be here in a few years. How, Kenneth G. Forslund, can we have increased arms exports to the Saudi-led coalition? How can new arms deals with Saudi Arabia be compatible with paragraph 70 of the January Agreement? Is it even the case that paragraph 70 is deleted from the January Agreement?
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-1304	Madam President, I would like No, paragraph 70 is not deleted. In addition, it is stated in the letter on paragraph 70 and how the Government considers it to be fulfilled. Håkan Svenneling had 17 seconds left of his speaking time just now. It was a bit of a pity that he didn't use them to tell us what kind of weapon he thinks Sweden is exporting to the United Arab Emirates. I think this debate benefits from honesty about what the exports actually consist of, so please tell me, Håkan Svenneling! Håkan Svenneling represents a party that does not want Sweden to have any arms exports at all. Of course, that view can be held. It can even be quite sympathetic in a way. But then you must also be prepared to take the consequences of it. The reason why we have arms exports is our own security policy interests, that we should be able to afford a Swedish defence. Without arms exports, we can either spend more money ourselves on the Swedish defence or join NATO to get help with the Swedish defence. I remember that Håkan Svenneling just as I do not want Sweden to join NATO. The third option is that we may have to make a combination of spending more money ourselves and joining NATO. What alternative does Håkan Svenneling advocate?
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-1308	Madam President, I would like It is well known to me, to Kenneth Forslund and to everyone in this House, and it has also been up to the debate, that it is largely about Global Eye. We also know that the deal between Saab and the United Arab Emirates is probably in the order of SEK 20 billion, so if we count of 700 million, 1.3 billion and 3.3 billion we know that it will go as high as any in the coming years – the sky is the limit. We will read about this in the letter from the government, regardless of what is or is not stated in paragraph 70. Why is it so serious for the war in Yemen? Because Global Eye is being used by the Saudi-led coalition to identify military targets that are being bombed, making Yemen's people suffer. It is used to maintain the blockade that Saudi Arabia has held against Yemen, sometimes hard, and then Sweden has been inside and negotiated it away, but it still retains a lot of control over deliveries to poor Yemen today. We also know that the Swedish Civil Aviation Administration has been involved in air traffic management operations on Saudi soil and has helped the military with air traffic control. We also know from revelations that there are Swedish cannons on boats that the Saudi-led coalition uses in the Gulf of Aden. We also know that there are military fast-tracks that are also from Swedish arms exports. It is Sweden's historical heritage. Not all of this has happened during the war in Yemen, but it has been happening for a long time when Sweden has been involved in arming the dictatorship of Saudi Arabia and its dictatorship buddies who are now fighting in Yemen. Why do we have arms exports? I believe that rearmament leads to rearmament, and that is why I am trying to break the rearmament spiral that we are now seeing in the world. All the time people are burning for more and more rearmament. That is why, like Kenneth Forslund, I think it is an unwise idea to join NATO, to join a military alliance which says that it should increase defence appropriations and invest in the military. I think we should work for peace and disarmament in the world.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-1313	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Håkan Svenneling, for saying as it is, that this is not about guns, cannons and rockets, but about a radar reconnaissance plane. It often sounds in these debates like we're selling weapons with firepower– I don't remember the exact technical description at the moment – that is, weapons with explosive effect. It's not when you sell a radar plane. Radar reconnaissance planes are extremely expensive. There will be an extreme amount of money, and it is precisely because they are extremely expensive that we need to have an export of them, because otherwise the Swedish defence budget would have to look in a completely different way. Or we should refrain from buying more planes like this in the future, and we intend to buy more. The use of Global Eye in the way Håkan Svenneling says in the war in Yemen is something that researchers at Sipri have said you can suspect, but there is no evidence for that. The question is how solid land Håkan Svenneling finds himself in when he expresses himself as he does. I think it is important that we have an open and honest debate on Swedish arms exports where we say what we are actually exporting and do not make it sound like something entirely different from what it is. Then we may have completely different views as to whether it is wise or not to export radar reconnaissance aircraft. I think it is wise that we have the financial capacity to supply the Swedish defence with technical equipment that we need. I think it is good that we have tightened up the legislation, and it will gradually have an increasing impact on Sweden's future arms exports.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-1318	Madam President, I would like Every year between the parliamentary debate on strategic export control, the world changes and, unfortunately, in this context, it does not change for the better. Sweden's surrounding world offers a stronger security situation where the balance between high defence capabilities and good preparedness based on trust and adherence to necessary values is put to the test. To only hope that the outside world respects and follows Sweden's position is naive and can also be directly dangerous. The ability to defend ourselves against malicious attacks is the duty we have to ourselves, our loved ones and even people living in other parts of the world. Independence in the capacity to defend our country also means that we have a responsibility to provide ourselves with the necessary equipment and equipment. It keeps costs down, and it means that we have control over the equipment that will then be used on the day it is required. In order to fulfil this task, it is necessary that Sweden, as a small and independent country, also shares its defence capabilities. This means that the export of military equipment must be possible in order to strengthen our independence and also strengthen our defence capabilities. Sweden's arms industry must have access to other markets than the Swedish industry alone for this model to work. It must be done with responsibility, and it must be done in a well-thought-out way. Madam President, I would like Therefore, the defence industry has long been a central part of the Swedish security and defence policy, and arms exports strengthen the Swedish defence industry's ability to also maintain a high and competitive level of technology. An internationally competitive technology level also contributes to Sweden remaining an interesting country to cooperate with. It is in Sweden's security policy's interest to safeguard long-term and continuous cooperation on material matters with a number of traditional partner countries, which means both exports and imports of war material. This also means better opportunities for Sweden to influence international export control cooperation. It is therefore for foreign, security and defence policy reasons that Sweden has chosen to allow to some extent the export of armaments. Ultimately, the aim is to safeguard Sweden's long-term security. Madam President, I would like Sweden's defence capabilities are linked to our ability to have a high degree of self-sufficiency in war material. The ability to defend oneself in the best way presupposes that Sweden as a country has the necessary material and is needed to fulfil that task. After the parliamentary review of the Swedish export control of armaments was resolved in broad political agreement, there is now legislation in place where an important democracy criterion has been introduced. As a result, there are long-term conditions for industry and clear rules for countries and companies trading with Sweden. Export control means that war material can only be exported to recipient countries that are acceptable to Sweden. Madam President, I would like The Moderates believe that Sweden should have strict export control legislation with rigorous control and follow-up, as we have now, and we believe that the best would be a universally legally binding treaty that globally strengthens the control of conventional arms trade. This would be the most effective way to combat the cross-border illegal arms trade, which in many parts of the world breeds armed conflict and instability. We also want to see demands on the world's countries to make the necessary laws, create adequate control instruments and establish or strengthen the authorities of the countries responsible for that control. It would be beneficial to safeguard Sweden's long-term security. Madam President, I would like With this, I support the proposal in the committee's report.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-1330	Madam President, I would like What we are now discussing is, as has already been shown, the 37th in the order of letters telling us about arms exports. If you follow the 37 letters, you would see that there has been a clear development in order to make readability greater and to seek greater transparency and transparency. In previous reports, the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Riksdag has stressed the importance of continuing this work. We can note this year that there are new elements in the reporting that increase transparency and transparency. Basically, we have a ban law in Sweden. It is not permitted to export arms or munitions. Authorisation can only be granted if there are security or defence policy reasons and if it does not conflict with Sweden's international obligations or Sweden's foreign policy in general. But basically, defence or security policy concerns reasons. Madam President, I would like There is no doubt that Swedish security policy goes first. Swedish security policy is crucial for the management of that legislation. This also applies to the new legislation that applies after 2018 and that we have had for three years. This means, of course, that we are gradually strengthening or clarifying it. As has already been said, the Swedish guidelines are now clear that the democratic status of the recipient country should be a not unconditional but central condition for the licensing process. The worse that status, the less space there is for authorisation to be granted. If there are serious and widespread violations of human rights or serious shortcomings in the recipient's democratic status, this constitutes an obstacle to the granting of permits. It is not unconditional, but it is an obstacle. Madam President, I would like I am part of the Export Control Council, as the letter shows, and during the journey I have had the opportunity to see how progress is being made and how this is being transformed in reality. The Export Control Council is not an open body. It is an issue on which the Center Party felt we should have worked longer, because we would like to have the opportunity at this stage to tell us what political position we have taken and what advice we have given to the Director-General of the ISP, who is taking decisions. But we do not have that possibility, because confidentiality is also there. In any case, I can say that I am following this work closely, and I stand up for the agreements we have made, including with regard to the January agreement. Different parties may have different views. But that is something that each party will have to discuss internally, if that is the case. Madam President, I would like It is a very responsible business, because it is basically about our safety in Sweden. When we started with the Swedish weapons production, it was based on the attitude that Sweden had at the time. We were neutral and had the ambition to make almost everything ourselves, so that we could manage our own defence. Today, reality is so different. Today, this is very much a collaboration with our friends, both in terms of research and development and in terms of manufacturing. For our Japlanes to fly, the efforts of many countries are required. This is the case in a number of areas. In d ag we really have a very integrated production. When we look at defence cooperation in the EU context, of course, we look at enhanced cooperation also in the field of defence industry development. We work with Britain in many ways. It affects when you read this report. About two thirds of exports in 2020 went to the 39 countries that are Sweden's most established partner countries. Only supplies in the category of other armaments have been made to countries in the Middle East. These exports have been destined for secondary supplies and for supplies in the framework of international cooperation in the field of materiel. That's the reality. The follow-up deliveries have been up for discussion. It's a special situation. Many countries, including Sweden, make system choices. And they have a long-lasting effect. It costs a lot to completely change systems. As a result, subsequent deliveries are also a matter of credibility when exporting or buying. The new legislation has also tightened up the concept of downstream delivery. Not everything can now be consequential deliveries. There is a much stricter control, and it is done uniquely, in each position. There, too, I think we can see an improvement in the management. Madam President, I would like In doing so, I call for the proposal of the Committee on Foreign Affairs to be approved in the report and for reservations to be rejected.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-1342	Madam President, I would like Co-debaters! This is a moral question. Therefore, it is often loud tones and big words. There are great values at stake when we are talking about arms exports. Weapons can be a means of the worst that exists, of the worst crimes that people have committed and will commit, of the worst crimes that dictators will commit. Weapons can cause a great deal of suffering and tragedy. But weapons can also be important means to the contrary, Madam President. Weapons can be one of the most effective tools for a feminist foreign policy, in which we safeguard women's rights or in which other countries safeguard women's rights. Weapons can be an extremely important and fundamental guarantor of democracy and of human rights. From that point of view, it must be concluded that we should have arms exports, that it is good that we have arms exports – as long as it is done to parties who share our values in terms of democracy, human rights and other elements. Madam President, I would like Earlier in the debate, we have noted that Swedish arms exports are part of Swedish security policy. The main defence that Sweden and other democratic countries can have is, of course, to spread and protect democracy in the world. But, of course, we also need weapons ourselves, in case the worst happens. And then we need a weapons industry. Madam President, I would like The new rules that have come into force have come partly because the Liberals have pushed ahead. They also make tougher demands on democracy than before. As a liberal, in the context I have described, I am the first to say that these rules and how they fall out must be followed up, examined hard and possibly tightened up. Liberals want a very clear and strong demand for democracy. As it is formulated now, with a central condition, we need to follow this and see how it goes. It may be a little early yet, but we should not close the door to tighten this legislation further. We have taken great steps along the way, but there may well be a need for further tightening up later. Madam President, I would like I would like to underline a few points. I think we will have to come back to the issue of dual-use items. We in Sweden will need to take greater responsibility for which products or innovations are sent out of our country and how they are used in other countries. I think we need to come back to the issue of greater transparency about these decisions and business. In democracy Sweden, where the transparency of the people and that of politicians – the main representatives of the people – need to be very good, we will need more transparency in these matters. I also believe, Madam President, that we will need to have a rather tough debate, even between the parties that are now behind what we are debating here today. We listened earlier, for example, to the Social Democrats, who, in a change of line with the Left Party, underlined their position on the NATO issue. With ideological blind spots, they fight against Sweden's further approach to NATO and become a member. Because of these ideological blind spots, they see an even greater need for Swedish arms exports, sometimes even to countries that it is doubtful whether Sweden will export to. Against this background, Madam President, we will certainly have to return to the issue of arms exports, put it in a broader perspective and ask ourselves how we in Sweden can contribute to democracy, the protection of democracy and the protection of human rights through our arms exports. We will also have to ask ourselves how Sweden can become less dependent on an industry that needs to export to dubious countries, if I put it mildly, through enhanced cooperation with other countries. It is clear that the important thing here is that we keep a consistent line – that we cooperate with democracies and do not cooperate with non-democrats, whether they are cooperation in the form of trade or deepening defence cooperation. I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-1355	Madam President, I would like By now, we have already looked at several aspects of the Inspection of Strategic Products' Annual Report for the previous year. This is therefore a report that – almost – covers the second full year after the Parliament decided soon three years ago on stricter legislation for arms exports. I note that the ISP itself says that changes made then, in 2018, concerning the democratic status of the recipient country have affected by fewer export transactions to certain countries having been approved. The letter is important because it is part of the necessary transparency and transparency in the arms industry in Europe and in the world. It is also possible to see which countries are not authorised to export. This is something that is also communicated within the EU, which increases knowledge of what arms exports look like. We in Sweden should not arm dictatorships; it strengthens neither our security nor the security of other people. We should not export weapons to countries that violate human rights or turn weapons against their own people. That is why we have legislation with a presumption of a ban on the production and export of weapons. This is the basis, and I think it is a signal of how we view the manufacture and export of weapons. Permits can therefore only be granted if there are security or defence policy reasons for this and if it does not conflict with Sweden's international obligations or Sweden's foreign policy in general. This is the basis, and it is on that basis that the ISP grants authorisation and supervises. Fewer export transactions have thus been approved for some countries, based on their democratic status. That is good, but what I think the outside world expects of us in Sweden is that we actually live up to what is said to be one of the stricter arms export laws in the world. It is unreasonable, then, for consequential supplies to last for decades to go on to countries if one could not envisage granting a new authorisation for delivery to these countries on the basis of how we view arms exports combined with democracy and human rights. There are those who say that it would be unclear or unreliable for Sweden to end up with consequential deliveries when countries no longer measure up to be a country to which we can export war material with honour. The Green Party believes that it is the other way around – it would be clear and a logical consequence of the legislation we have to end the supply of consequential supplies to countries involved in war and where human rights violations are taking place. That is also why the Green Party insists that the position of principle on paragraph 70 of the January Agreement does indeed mean that arms should not in any way be exported to warring parties in Yemen. For those of us who have concluded this agreement, this is an important point to implement, as is all other points. I now take the liberty of reflecting on the debate. We move on an abstract level; it is about the number of crowns, the number of shops and different types of weapons. What I fear is that one loses is that this is not just about us sitting in this Chamber, in a very favourable situation compared to what it looks like in the world. It is not just about our defence and security policy needs. It's also about ordinary people who live in the world and who have drawn a lot in the lottery of life that isn't sitting here on a presummer night. These are people living in Yemen, for example, on whom much of the debate is focused. I imagine that for all of us here there is someone there who is about our age and has family and children. Someone's new in love. Someone just got pregnant. People try to live their lives in one of the worst places in the world. Children grow up in starvation and sheep but for the life of the famine they experience. Young people grow up without seeing hope and confidence in the future. The country that Sweden will export in such situations is helping to build a country. It is about support for peaceful development and support in mediation. What we're going to export is peace brokering and diplomacy.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-1366	Madam President, I would like Point 70 of the January Agreement was the Green Party's point. I simply wonder if Camilla Hansén is satisfied with how things have gone.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-1367	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question, Håkan Svenneling! The Green Party will be pleased when we do not export any weapons at all to Yemen. That's a short answer.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-1368	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much for your answer, Camilla Hansén! The problem and the challenge we have – as we have heard in this debate – is that we will hardly see it. We have seen a monumental increase in exports since the signing of the January agreement. And the risk is, based on Saab's press release, that this will continue to increase for a long time. What really worries me most is the reversal of government policy. It has gone from being very clear that no weapons were to be exported to Saudi Arabia, to the fact that two military collaborations with Saudi Arabia have now been approved by the ISP or the Government. We don't know anything about what this is all about. We don't know what kind of weapon it is. In principle, we know nothing more than what is in the annex to the report. This raises the question: what has been the effect of paragraph 70 of the January Agreement? Above all, I wonder: what will it say in the government's accounts next year, year after that, and so on? I wonder what Camilla Hansén thinks about it.
i-5eeb11fb522aa205-1371	Madam President, I would like I do not believe that causality is in the sense that we have a point in the January agreement that is why arms exports have increased – thankfully. On the other hand, I would have liked to have seen it as a reverse causality. I understand and share the view that it may be difficult to see the future developments that we wish to see. What I'm thinking about here is you get to keep working. You have to keep your eyes on the target. We're not going to export weapons to this type of state. It is a question of breaking the upward trend in the world's armaments at some point and going down. It is not a question of something irresponsible or unconvinced. It's about us building a world that makes it possible to disarm.
