i-2ef7ead3e5141f6c-1	Madam President, I would like During a crisis, broad political solutions – consensus – are wise. The Parliament has sought it throughout the pandemic. We have repeatedly called the Government, the Public Health Authority and other authorities to the Social Affairs Committee in order to be able to access information and ask questions. We have acted flexibly and quickly when necessary. When proposals have been put on Parliament's table, we have endeavoured to find broad solutions for pandemic-related issues, covering all parties. It is a wise strategy during a crisis. Madam President, I would like The Covid-19 Act was finally chiseled out during the Christmas season 2020. All parties were involved and contributed to what then became the bill, and it could be adopted with broad support in the House. When the law is now to be extended, the government did not think it necessary to gather behind a broad solution. They presented the bill in August without talking to the parties in the Riksdag. This is particularly remarkable since the government is now based on fewer mandates than when the Covid-19 law was drafted. It is therefore essential, regardless of the crisis, that the government anchor its proposals and seek a common understanding. But instead of listening to and seeking consensus, the government presented the covid-19 law on its own. When the follow-up movements then came in from the parliamentary parties, it became clear that there was no support for extending the law for four months without control stations. Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats believe that the Covid-19 Act, as well as the Temporary Serving Act, have been necessary to manage the risk of infection due to the Corona virus in a reasonably accurate manner. But we are equally confident that such a powerful tool must be handled with caution. Parliament must regularly test whether the government has reason to have such a powerful tool that can be used to restrict rights and freedoms. When the government is unable to find broad solutions, the Social Affairs Committee does. We are gathered around the fact that, in two months' time, Parliament will have to examine the validity of the laws currently in force. No later than 12 November, the Government shall send a letter to the Riksdag explaining how they have used the laws and what assessment they make forward. Are the laws needed, or can they stop? When the committee in November has taken note of the Government's letter and in particular received information from the Government and the Public Health Authority, we will examine whether the laws are still needed or whether the Covid-19 Act and the Temporary Serving Act can be terminated. If we consider in November that the laws are no longer needed, then we will propose to Parliament that the laws be repealed. Madam President, I would like I am very pleased and happy that we have been able to reach a consensus in Parliament. What the government can't do, we do. We therefore approve the extension of the laws. We will receive a letter from the government no later than 12 November. Then we will examine whether the laws will continue to apply or whether they will cease. The parliamentary committee's proposal gives the necessary control post. We also agree that the government must continue to keep up the pressure on vaccination against covid-19. If a higher vaccination rate is not reached than today, different kinds of restrictions and restrictions will be needed. It is through vaccines that the risks of covid-19 can be reduced so significantly that restrictions can be phased out. We also have a majority in committee which once again highlights the importance of financial compensation being given to those affected by the restrictions. It is true that huge amounts have been set aside for various types of aid. In practice, however, many of the aid has been handled slowly by the authorities. Late information has been received, and when errors have been made by the authority and a court has established that it has not yet received financial support from companies. Lifeworks may be lost because of the poor management of decided aid by the public authorities. We cannot afford to be careless with the management of decided aid, either in this case or in other areas of the public sector, because people are financially affected as a result. I am therefore pleased that the majority of parties once again remind the government of the consequences for all those who are economically affected by the consequences of pandemic laws. Madam President, I would like Finally, the Christian Democrats would like to endorse reservation n umme r 7, that we must have order so that we know how to use covid passports. Rules on how to use them must be presented as soon as possible so that they can be used on the date they are needed. If restrictions can be phased out completely, it is obviously better, but if some form of restriction is needed later on, covid-pass is an opportunity that must be ready.
i-2ef7ead3e5141f6c-12	Madam President, I would like Acko Ankarberg Johansson has explained in an exemplary way what this debate is about: an extension of the Covid-19 law, the temporary law that came into force in January this year and will expire at the end of this month unless the Riksdag takes a different decision. We're still in the pandemic. Although we are beginning to see a light in the dark and a good effect of the vaccinations, our country and the outside world are in a pandemic. I think of everyone who has unfortunately passed away, more than 14,700 people. Behind each figure is a person, a loved one, a dear friend, and much sorrow and suffering. We will have that with us when we consider how the law will be designed in the future. This law is about saving lives. The virus is extremely potent. Madam President, I would like This is a virus that we now have better knowledge of than before the pandemic, but there are still major gaps. The Public Health Agency, our expert body, which is in close relationship with the Government, assists with analyses, recommendations and advice. They have said that the risk of transmission during autumn and winter is significant, especially when many people gather in tight spaces and have close contact. We are likely to see cluster infection, i.e. local infection in a workplace or in a living environment. Unfortunately, at the beginning of the autumn, we have seen cluster infections in a lot of retirement homes with serious consequences, Madam President. I can take an example from my municipality of residence in a retirement home that has recently had cluster infection. So far, three are dead. Then let's remember that everyone was double-vaccinated. However, it has been quite a long time since the first vaccination. The government has always said that the pandemic should not be about money. Neither has it. Historical efforts have been made in regions, in municipalities, in business and so on. Thousands and thousands of jobs have been saved with an offensive pandemic economy, Madam President. Nevertheless, the government is now proposing to Parliament, the forthcoming state budget. This means another historic initiative as a fresh start for Sweden on the way out of the crisis. There, priority is given to health care, as well as to the elderly care of municipalities. We know the effect of the pandemic. Today we are going to consider an extension of the Covid-19 Act and temporary anti-infection measures at serving points. In committee, we have come up with a good alternative solution. Acko Ankarberg Johansson, Member of Parliament, has carefully explained this. The Social Democrats, of course, support this solution. Above all, I would like to thank the members of the committee for their extremely good cooperation. The question is very difficult, because a restriction on people's rights and freedoms is being placed against the protection of life and health. The balance between the different laws is difficult. This means, in concrete terms, that the Government will submit a letter by 12 November at the latest, explaining how it sees things and what has happened in connection with the Temporary Covid Act. In conclusion, I would like to endorse our reservation 6 on financial compensation, and otherwise I would like to support our proposal.
i-2ef7ead3e5141f6c-21	I would like to make it clear that, in this kind of debate, a reply can only be requested after one has spoken.
i-2ef7ead3e5141f6c-22	Madam President, I would like Initially, I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 7, although I naturally support our other reservations in the report. In a week, Sweden will open up. Finally, we see the light in the tunnel. At last, freedom seems to be coming back. We can go to the movies, travel and eat together – all that we took for granted a year and a half ago. In a few weeks the world was no longer what it was. The situation was totally surprising, even shocking. The leadership of governments in crisis became crucial to dealing with the situation. Of course, this also applied to Sweden. But in Sweden we have had to get used to the fact that we have been late and not infrequently among the last in Europe in terms of everything from testing, infectious detection and vaccination to accurate restrictions. The government has received stinging criticism in not least the first interim report of the Corona Commission that came in December. In a crisis, the government is leading the country. It has been difficult for this government to do. Instead, they have hidden behind the authorities. Madam President, I would like When the pandemic began, Sweden was one of the few countries that lacked laws for civil crises. In Norway, Erna Solberg's government got such a law in place already in April last year. At Easter last year, the Swedish Red-Green Government tried to achieve a first pandemic law that would last for three months during a few turbulent and, in my opinion, difficult days. Without particular clarity, a mandate was sought to implement a law that gave the government far-reaching powers with great potential for influence in the lives of individuals. We Moderates ensured that the important principle of subordination mechanism was included in this law, i.e. that the government could not decide on something that the Riksdag could not repeal. That law was never used. Autumn came and with it a new large spread of infection, and more and more parties wondered why the government did not prepare a temporary law that could provide opportunities for more accurate restrictions. Sitting eight people on a sports relative built for many thousands and under the sky felt just as absurd as it was. But the government was on its hands, and November and December came with increasingly alarming infection and an increasing number of deaths. The vaccine was not yet in place. However, on Friday before Christmas, twenty past eight in the evening, an email came that said that the government now woke up and wanted to fast-track the law over Christmas and New Year so that it could be in place until January 10. It is no wonder, Madam President, that there were many of us who wondered what the government had spent the summer and what it had done throughout the autumn. Madam President, I would like The government is now asking for the temporary law to be extended. I wish we didn't have to do it. But not least last autumn we learned that the situation can change rapidly, and this diabolical virus seems to find new ways as it has been shown to mutate stronger and more contagious. The pandemic is not yet over. However, we Moderates do not want to extend this law any longer than is absolutely necessary. We therefore proposed two months' extension and that the law be reviewed every two months to be removed when it is no longer needed. We also demanded that the government return to the Riksdag in November to report how the law was used. It is therefore very gratifying that the proposal for a decision is now that the Government should return to Parliament by 12 November at the latest, with a letter describing the measures taken in relation to the laws and its attitude towards the continued validity of the laws, i.e. if it is considered that the laws still need to exist and why. Madam President, I would like If Parliament finds that these laws are no longer needed, we Moderates will forcefully push them to be repealed and removed with the support of the committee's right of initiative. On 29 September, the next step will be the reopening of Sweden, and there are many of us who welcome it. At the same time, there are a number of concerns. Although the vaccine coverage is relatively high, we have groups in Sweden where it is alarmingly low. In our follow-up motion, we pressured Moderates on the importance of measures to reach out to more people. You have to find more roads. One example that has proved successful and that several regions have taken after is Region Uppsala's mailing of booked times to, among other people in alienation areas. There was a direct positive effect of more people coming to vaccinate themselves. On 15 September, an additional agreement was finally reached between the Government and the Swedish Municipalities and Regions regarding efforts to increase vaccination coverage. However, this issue needs to be maintained until a completely different result has been achieved. Madam President, I would like Many of us have long wondered why virtually all other countries have begun the possibility to vaccinate 12 to 15-year-olds. The vaccine has been approved from 12 years of age for a long time, and that assessment has been made by medical experts. Medical expertise in other countries has made the same assessment. A reasonable question is why, for example, countries such as Denmark, Finland and Norway offer this but not Sweden. This could have been in place before school start and thereby prevented a great deal of contamination. Now, however, the Swedish Public Health Agency – as usual last in the class – has announced that it will also be implemented in Sweden, and I am pleased about that. Madam President, I would like On many issues, we Moderates have pushed this government before us in this crisis. These include issues such as testing, contamination detection, protective equipment, vaccines, vaccination and compensation for victims and traders. Compensation for risk groups we moderated committee initiatives, and we were pleased to have the committee and the Parliament with us. Now the vaccine passports also need to be investigated and designed, so that they are clear based on different aspects that make them as well adapted as possible to Swedish conditions. Not least in the rest of Europe, they have provided an opportunity to open up to those people who have been fully vaccinated or who have been able to show negative test results. The government has given the assignment, and this is now out for a referral. However, we Moderates will follow this issue closely. The lack of accurate restrictions has been the signature of this government. Not least has the cultural industry felt it. They have been requesting vaccine passports for a long time and must be confident that there is a long-term perspective in case the situation worsens and restrictions are reintroduced. A new stop for them and for many other industries would actually be a disaster. Madam President, I would like Much of what we moderated for a long time, even in our follow-up motion on the government bill for this law, has been heeded by the government in the weeks that have passed. Throughout the pandemic, we Moderates have been a constructive opposition that has done our best to push forward where we have considered it important and at the same time done our utmost to ensure that Parliament is flexible and constructive in a difficult and extraordinary time. Our hope is that we will be able to continue to open up and that development will continue in a favourable direction. But the experience of not least this pandemic has taught us that one should hope for the best but plan for the worst. My last words in this speech will be a warm and heartfelt thank you to our health care professional. Words are not enough for what you have meant and what you mean.
i-2ef7ead3e5141f6c-41	Madam President, I would like Of course, I support all of the Centre Party's reservations, but I only support reservation 8 in paragraph 9. Since we debated the introduction of the Pandemic Act here almost ten months ago, a lot has happened. The Covid-19 pandemic has shone off but is not yet over. Although the rate of vaccination has steadily increased during spring and summer, the spread of infection has again accelerated in late summer. The new delta variant represents a further challenge and continues to require certain restrictions and measures. The infection situation can still change, which requires continued preparedness with appropriate tools. It is therefore important that the government is well prepared to take action and to deal with any deterioration in the situation. In six days' time, as mentioned here in the debate, the government, following the overall assessment by the Public Health Authority, will take stage four of its plan to phase out restrictions. This means that several of the restrictions announced under the Pandemic Act to reduce the spread of covid-19 disease can be removed. The Swedish vaccination campaign has been a success. For example, 75 percent of the population aged 16 and over are vaccinated. Thank you all who have vaccinated and chosen to do so! You have taken responsibility for yourselves and shown care to each other. You have helped Swedish health care, which for a very long time has been making heroic efforts against this deadly virus. In Sweden vaccination has always been based on voluntaryism, and this has proven to be a successful path. Let us in this House today, together, call on those of you who have not yet been able to vaccinate you to do so as soon as you can! Madam President, I would like When the Center Party and Anders W Jonsson demanded a pandemic law in the spring of 2020, the starting point for restrictions based on such a law was the risk of infection spreading and that the law would be accurate, effective and fair. Just in time for Christmas, the government finally returned to the Swedish parliament with proposals for such legislation. After the Swedish Parliament has dealt with the Government's proposal quickly and effectively on 8 January, the covid-19 Act entered into force a few days later. The Center Party has invested considerable energy in the follow-up to the Pandemic Act as well as in the follow-up to this extension act to dwell on and discuss the constitutional aspects of these legislative products. Let me therefore state straight away that the Center Party has been and continues to be critical of the way in which the government deals with this kind of legislation, which in its nature is very intervention and extraordinary. The government's handling of the matter is worrying mainly in four respects. It is a question of the government not obtaining the Council's opinion, on the government's delegation of norm-making competence, on the government's lack of analysis of the effects on rights protection and on the law's accuracy. I will now focus mainly on the lack of review of the Council of Law and the lack of analysis of the effects on rights protection. Of Chapter 8 Section 21 of the Government form states that the Government must obtain an opinion from the Law Council before the Riksdag decides on, among other things, burdensome public law legislation and free and rights-restricting legislation. Despite the fact that the Pandemic Act involves a far-reaching delegation of regulatory competence in several stages, while the limitations that both the Pandemic Act and the Serving Act allow constitute fundamental interference with a number of constitutionally protected rights and freedoms, the Government has chosen not to obtain the Council's opinion on the bill. This is justified by the fact that the legislative proposals are neither constitutionally nor otherwise of such a nature that it is important to hear the Law Council. Madam President, I would like The Center Party considers that, in the light of the extraordinary and intervening nature of the laws, it is clear that the opinion of the Law Council should be sought, particularly in the light of the heavy criticism of referrals that has been put forward. Both the Ombudsman for Justice and the Chancellor of Justice and the Swedish Bar Association highlight the intervention nature of the legislation and emphasise the negative effects of an extension on individuals, companies and civil society. The Swedish Bar Association points out that there is no consideration regarding the need for changes or clarifications of the laws and the need for a broader review of constitutional issues in peacetime. Property owners, Visita and Entrepreneurs are strongly critical of the lack of clearer justification for the need for extension. It is therefore clear that, although the legislation is merely an extension of the duration of the law, it cannot be considered either so simple or so urgent that the review of the Law Council is not called for. Madam President, I would like The time limit of the legislation was also one of the reasons why many bodies, both the referral bodies and the Swedish Parliament, considered the restrictions it imposes to be acceptable. Although an extension is justified, a careful evaluation and analysis of the impact of legislation is justified, especially now that it is possible to address any shortcomings. It is remarkable that the government does not recognise the importance of the issue and has therefore not obtained the Council's views. Madam President, I would like The Center Party also does not share the government's view that there is no need for changes or clarifications of the laws in question from a constitutional point of view in view of the extended period of validity. As has already been pointed out, the majority of consultation bodies have made sensible assessments of the intervention of legislation, with particular emphasis on the effects of an extension on individuals, businesses, civil society and the general public. The government's assessment of the impact of legislation is, if possible, even more poor now than at the time of its creation, despite the fact that it has now had more time and opportunity to evaluate the consequences. This is particularly clear when it comes to the protection of the rights and freedoms of our constitutionally protected rights. The Pandemic Act allows for extensive interference with some of our most fundamental rights and freedoms, such as freedom of assembly and demonstration, freedom of association and, not least, freedom of religion. The bill completely lacks analysis and discussion worthy of the name of what the consequences actually were. It seems almost that the government can see no consequences of the most interference and far-reaching legislation in terms of freedom and rights that Sweden has had since the Second World War. Madam President, I would like That being said, the Center Party nevertheless supports the extension of the Pandemic Act by another four months with feedback from the government to the Riksdag in a few months' time. I apologize for exceeding speaking time.
i-2ef7ead3e5141f6c-53	Madam President, I would like Ladies and gentlemen, all of you who have worked hard with the pandemic in health care and in the care and viewers! Now we're going to discuss the Pandemic Act Part II, if you can put it that way. It would have been very good if the government had called in the opposition, all the parties, for a deliberation before the bill landed on our tables. The left is always open to cooperation. A law of this magnitude, which means that the lives of the inhabitants can be greatly affected, requires careful consideration. We protect the lives and health of the population, and out of respect for all those who have carried out health care and care for the elderly through their work during the pandemic, the Left Party believes that an extension of the law is justified. Madam President, I would like In the version we submitted in the motion, we demanded two months' probationary period, that is to say, that this should be retested after two months. Now a unanimous social committee has announced to the government that it will return to the Riksdag by 12 November at the latest with a letter that we will examine after having received comments from the authorities and the government. Only then will it be decided whether or not the law should be extended. For the Left Party, it is extremely important that the law be used with great caution. Any proposal to restrict people's freedom of movement must be time-limited and proportionate. The more society shuts down, the more public health is affected. This shows several studies that have been carried out. Especially children and young people suffer from closed-down parks, swimming homes, football fields and schools. Children who are having a hard time at home are particularly affected, Madam President. People who live and live cramped are more affected when activities and social meeting places are closed down. It is important that the regulations and decisions made pursuant to the law do not go beyond what is absolutely necessary. The Left therefore wants the validity of the regulations and decisions made pursuant to the law to be regulated and reviewed continuously and promptly. According to the Act, the Government is required to provide for a ban on gathering in a society of a certain size in places to which the public has access. However, such provisions shall not prohibit the association of the same household. In view of the fact that the regulation cannot be appealed and that the paragraph may impose far-reaching restrictions on personal freedom, we believe that Section 12 on the prohibition of gathering in a society of a certain size should be deleted. I therefore highlight reservation number 2. It has been a long journey with covid-19, and it continues in part. In 2020 almost 1 million travellers returned to Sweden during the winter holidays. They came from Italy and Austria, from London, Paris, Barcelona and other major cities in Europe, from the United States and all over the world. What happened was that, together with Belgium, the Netherlands, France and Spain, we received a great deal of infection from various sources. It also came under radar from countries that had not even seen that they had covid ‐ 19. You have to be absolutely clear about that. Many came back by air and landed at various airports in Sweden. Many got coughing in the taxis and took covid-19 on to the taxi driver who carried it home. Nearly 15 000 people have died of covid-19, and so many elderly people in care for the elderly and in nursing homes. The macabre was that there was initially and for quite some time not enough anti-infection equipment. It wasn't national. It disappeared when the Alliance sold out Apoteket AB. There was also no anti-infection equipment in store in the regions, although they would have it. It is distressing that regional politicians have been able to ignore the obvious. It's only now that we've learned. There must be stocks at national and turnover levels in the regions. That goes without saying. Because of the spread of infection, but also because of political omissions nationally, in regions and in municipalities, the elderly could not be protected. That is our picture of this. Madam President, I would like It's the vaccine that's gonna get us out of this. I am Stockholmska, and I represent Stockholm. The areas with the highest vaccination coverage in Stockholm are in the region of Vaxholm with 75.1 per cent and Täby with 74.6 per cent. The lowest share is Rinkeby-Kista with 43.7 per cent and Skärholmen 48.5 per cent. This is also the case in Västra Götaland, Gothenburg and Malmö. That it would be like this, you should have known from the beginning if you work with public health. It is only to compare differences in which make, for example, mammography. It is about class, and it is about public health. It seems that a lot of politicians around the country and also nationally should take a quick course in how to work with public health. For example, it is about standing in the square with a vaccination bus that does not close at 5 p.m., being out in the community talking about vaccines and working through those who have high confidence in the resorts. In February 2021, I wrote in an article like this: a broad campaign that motivates as many people as possible to take the vaccine must not take longer, but must get started as soon as possible. Educating local vaccination ambassadors who can operate in areas where public health is particularly poor and the motivation for vaccination is at risk of being low. For people with low confidence in authorities, the personal recommendation of someone in one's own area can play a major role. It is and should of course remain voluntary to vaccinate, but it is in the interest of the whole community that as many people as possible are vaccinated. ..................................................... Madam President, I would like I think it was good that the Public Health Agency was waiting for reports from the countries that had previously started to vaccinate children from the age of 12. The vaccination with Pandemrix against swine influenza in 2009-2010 contributed to an increased risk of narcolepsy in children and young adults. With that in mind, it is good that Sweden took a long time to keep track and to be able to face parents' concerns. Covid-19 vaccine is not initially tested in children. Let's not forget that. There are now several studies, Madam President, which show that it is working well. We believe that schools in socially vulnerable areas should be given priority in vaccination. We know that the adults in those areas have a lower vaccination rate. If the children can get a good vaccination coverage, it reduces the risk of infection in the whole population. With a well-functioning work between health care and school, you could fix it. Madam President, I would like The restrictions will be lifted on 29 September. It's up to all of us to decide how it goes. Vaccinate! Stay home if you're sick! But it is the vaccine that will take us out of this in Sweden and also in the world. Don't forget that! We're not in an isolated bubble. But equal vaccination is the prerequisite for us to get out of the pandemic.
i-2ef7ead3e5141f6c-67	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. We have been in an extraordinary time of infection, death, anxiety and illness where employees have become exhausted. Extraordinary situations sometimes require extraordinary laws, Madam President, even if they restrict people's freedom of movement, business and assembly. The laws that we are now debating and deciding on later today came into being at a time when we must save lives. It was about the lives of covids, but also the lives that could be spilled if the people in the health care system had to carry so heavily that they no longer took advantage of it. Now we're in a different time. It's not over yet, but it's a better time now. Vaccinations must continue. It's absolutely crucial. It is also a good solution, we believe in the Liberals, that the temporary laws provide for rapid action even in the autumn, but that the laws can be repealed in two months' time if that preparedness is no longer needed. We in the Liberals think that it is equally important what the law contains. We have now spent a year and a half, all of us in Sweden and a great many people all over the world, living in a state of mental emergency, Madam President. For many months we have had restrictions and limitations in our freedoms that we would never accept in ordinary times. Of course, it has not been the purpose of the laws to restrict us, but it has been the effect of them. But these have not been normal times, nor should these be regarded as ordinary measures. Any possibility of restriction, Madam President, must be proportionate to the risks and the dangers. The vaccinations must continue, as I said earlier, but nothing indicates today that new viral mutations will lead to consequences that are even close to as fatal as before the vaccinations took off. We have a new situation. We're not back yet, and we're not in normal mode yet. But we have a new situation, and a better situation. And a new situation, Madam President, calls for new legislation. Liberals believe that now is the time for the laws to insist that we keep our distance – nothing else. It should not be about the number of participants, not about the timing of demonstrations, not about how many people can meet, regardless of the size of the room, and not about the timing or other measures that the laws today allow for when people should have finished eating and gone home. Madam President, I would like Restrictions of this kind in terms of being able to meet freely, to exchange goods and services, to reside in society and to move within the country are major interventions in people's everyday lives, in our economy and in our freedom. That is why, Madam President, we Liberals believe that we need preparedness. We need the readiness to say: now you must keep your distance! But we also think it is high time we got our freedoms back in all other ways. People must now be sure that in the autumn they will be able to meet, demonstrate, hear concerts, roar at hockey games and watch theatrical performances – provided that distance can be kept. People need a job to go to. They must be able to get paid to pay the children's frits, if distance can be kept where they work. No one should have to go to a funeral via a link, if distance can be kept. No one should have to close their restaurant until the guests have eaten. Madam President, I would like Restrictions on freedom must never go beyond what the danger requires. Now we think it is time to reformulate this law. I therefore support the Liberals' reservation 1.
i-2ef7ead3e5141f6c-77	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 5 on financial compensation. Madam President, I would like Two years ago, a small virus spread in Wuhan. Many believed that there would be another regional outbreak that we could read about in the news report. It's happened a number of times before. But this virus obviously had completely different plans. Soon borders were closed, and governments around the world implemented draconian measures to reduce the spread of the deadly virus. In many places we could see how regimes used the pandemic to restrict human rights in a way that we have never seen before. Having said that, and in contrast to what has been said in this debate before, my picture of pandemic management in general in Sweden is that the government and parliament have handled this in a balanced way and found consensus, in fact in the same way that we usually handle things in Sweden. During most of the pandemic, I have not been a Member of Parliament, but a regional politician. What I think characterized this work can be referred to as a kind of bourgeois peace, where we jointly found solutions and worked together. Everyone contributed well, and we were able to put aside ideological differences in order simply to create the conditions for care, not least for staff, to tackle the pandemic. They were the ones who had to take the big hit. Thank you from this speaker's seat to the health services, and we can continue to do so. It is still a heavy burden on many departments in many parts of Sweden. But it is clear that we often had views on how the state acted or did not act, much as we often have views from this House on how the regions act or do not act and what they do or do not do. With respect for our differences and our different missions, at least my view is that Sweden's pandemic management has been far from perfect; it should be acknowledged. But to be honest, what's perfect? It is always easy to stand back and judge individual decisions or analyse historical results. My picture is that the pandemic should be assessed on the last row. And it's not written quite yet, but we're still in a pandemic. Madam President, I would like Sweden is one of the countries in Europe with the highest vaccination rate. In my view, this success story is largely based on trust. Trust is perhaps one of Sweden's most important assets. It's more important than the ore, the forest and Spotify. The trust we have in our society is one of our absolute core values. It is important that we establish and protect the trust that exists so that we can continue when society is under great pressure, such as a pandemic. Then trust is the important thing. The Pandemic Act is a tool – a tool to use with reason. That is something I think the government has done so far. At the same time, it is important, as has also been said from this pulpit, that the legislature has control and dialogue and that we do this in agreement. That is why I think it is a good thing that there is a common approach between all parties and that we support the proposal that is now before us. I call for the proposal and for reservation 5.
i-2ef7ead3e5141f6c-86	Madam President and Mr Nicklas! I fully agree that we cannot make the final assessment of the pandemic yet. Perhaps it will take many years before we can draw conclusions. The Corona Commission has in itself already submitted its first interim report, which states that the general spread of infection, the spread of society, caused the elderly to be severely affected. We already have that assessment. But what the honourable Member and we are discussing today is something else, which I touched upon in my speech. I was very critical that the government on the matter at hand did not seek a consensus but submitted a proposal and then hoped that it would go through without talking with the parties in Parliament. I note that the honourable Member thinks that the government is good at agreement all the way. That is why I have to ask: does Mr Nicklas think that the government has handled the matter we are discussing today wisely? In a crisis you need to listen to each other, find common ground and find what is common in difficult laws that affect a crisis. Everything else we're gonna fight about. It concerns the budget and many other things, and we shall show ideological differences. But in a crisis situation, you need to find common ground. Does the honourable Member actually mean that the government has handled this matter well?
i-2ef7ead3e5141f6c-91	Madam President, I would like Member Johansson asks me if I think the government has anchored this part in a good way. I guess you'll see the big picture. The original legislation – now we are talking about an extension; that is the decision we make here – was nevertheless very well grounded, as I understood it. It was developed in a collaboration where all parties were involved. They listened, and it was given and taken. What we now have is an extension. I'm sure it could have been done better, with that turn again. I am not a government but part of the government base, but as a government you get criticism because you are meek and because you do not anchor. Somewhere there are two sides of that coin. But I think that there was a consensus on the law. Nor was there any great criticism of how the government applied the law, at least as I understood it. Apparently it was then considered that it could be extended without doing this extensive anchoring work.
i-2ef7ead3e5141f6c-93	Madam President, I would like I thank the honourable Member for his reply. In my speech, I was very clear: when we jointly drew up the Act of Christmas 2020, it was a broad anchoring. All parties contributed to how it turned out. We were then able to make a unanimous decision about the law itself, even if there were any announcements. This time the process was that the government wanted to present the law again this spring for extension early, before we knew the situation. Then we said quite coherently: No, that is not possible. We must be able to follow the situation before we assess how long it will be extended. The government then listened. But then in August, when we had decided that we would first meet in August, talk about the situation, hear the assessment of the government and the authority and then decide how long it would be extended, the government did not. Then the bill was sent out without talking to the parties. It is rather insolent to depart from a process that we have agreed on and to send the bill a week before coming to the committee to discuss it. It kind of shows you don't want this consensus. Now we have solved it in committee anyway so that we get the control station Parliament needs. But the reason for my reply was that the honourable Member said that the government is good at consensus, also on this matter. I don't think so.
i-2ef7ead3e5141f6c-98	Madam President, I would like Well, I guess I'll just have to adjust what I said. Or not to adjust, but what I'm talking about is pandemic management in general. There I think that opposition, government and parliament have found ways to deal with major and important issues that go right into the skin of all citizens of the country. That's where it's important that we work together. I stand by it: on the whole, the government has taken care of this. With regard to the last roll-over of the Pandemic Act, there is clearly more to be desired. It was a pity that the government did not take the opportunity to anchor important legislation in every aspect of the management of the pandemic, although it was done at an earlier stage.
i-XV2aiju2URmoN7X2SVKC2L	Madam President, I would like The Government has proposed an extension of the Act on Special Restrictions to prevent the spread of the disease covid-19, the so-called covid-19 Act, and an extension of the Act on Temporary Disease Control at Serving Sites, also known as the Serving Act. Both expire on 30 September 2021. The proposal means that the laws will apply instead until the end of January 2022. These are laws which, to say the least, are extraordinary and which impose far-reaching restrictions on our constitutionally protected freedoms and rights. For the Swedish Democrats, it is absolutely central that disruptions of the protection of freedom and rights and the balance of power between the parliament and the government must not occur routinely. They must also not risk being permanent in a new normal mode. We therefore believe that the extension of the Covid-19 Act and the Act on Temporary Disease Control Measures at Serving Sites should not be longer than is strictly necessary. That is why we have also chosen to include sharp proposals to shorten the extension of the validity of the laws in our accompanying motion. However, following discussions in committee, all parties, including the Swedish Democrats, have happily agreed on an alternative solution that goes in the direction that the Swedish Democrats have asked for. This kind of interventional legislation should never be allowed to normalise. That is why we are very pleased that all parties have reached a consensus on this very important issue. Madam President, I would like Things are slowly but surely starting to go back to normal, which of course is very much awaited. The Public Health Authority is now assessing that the plan to dismantle the restrictions imposed by covid-19 can be continued. Therefore, the authority has now chosen to recommend to the government to take the next step in this phase-out, which includes removing the restrictions that have been in force for the restaurant sector, for example, and which have also involved audience restrictions, as they are no longer considered to be justified from a disease-protection perspective. The Swedish Democrats attach great importance to the fact that Sweden's preparedness for a possible new wave must remain high. The infection remains, and the delta variant of covid-19 will, according to the Swedish Public Health Agency, dominate completely in Sweden in the coming months. Happily, we can see that the rate of vaccination in our country is generally high. On the other hand, vaccination coverage is unequal and differs between different groups. For example, we can see that vaccination coverage is much lower among foreign born, younger and people living in vulnerable areas. There are also differences between men and women, where women more than men choose to vaccinate. The most important protection against covid-19 is that as many people as possible in our society actually vaccinate themselves. For this reason, we believe that it is crucial that we can reach out to unvaccinated groups through specific efforts. The Government and the Swedish Municipalities and Regions have recently presented an additional agreement on efforts for increased vaccination coverage, which is good and absolutely necessary. The Swedish Democrats are pleased that the issue of vaccination coverage, which we raised in our follow-up motion, could result in an announcement. It is important that we are able to ensure a good level of preparedness for the fact that further measures may be considered, in order to achieve a high level of vaccination coverage in all groups. Madam President, I would like The issue of financial compensation for activities affected by the government's regulations issued under the laws we are debating today remains an important issue. Despite the fact that Parliament has already announced to the government on the issue of financial compensation, we can see that the rules are still vague. We therefore share the view that the Government has failed to provide sufficient grounds for not clarifying the right to compensation. That is why the problem description remains. We also see that there is now a need to raise the issue by a further announcement to highlight the importance of clarity on this issue. The Coronapandemia is not over, and the epidemiological situation may change. An extension of the term of validity continues to allow the government to reintroduce restrictions. Therefore, the government must also be able to deliver the clarity required in terms of financial compensation for activities that may be affected. The future certainly looks bright. At the same time, this pandemic has taught us not to take anything for granted. Therefore, it is important that we do not make hasty decisions or decisions based on assumptions. For this reason, the Swedish Democrats support all the committee's proposals for announcements, which we believe are both balanced and necessary for better management of the laws in question.
i-2ef7ead3e5141f6c-111	Madam President, I would like I am not going to make a speech, I am just going to make a correction. I should like to apologise for proposing the wrong reservation in my speech earlier. It is reservation number 5 I would like to approve and not reservation number 6. So number 5 is the reservation that I would like to endorse. It was just that.
i-2ef7ead3e5141f6c-113	Madam President, I would like The honourable Member has described here today in his speech the way in which the government has worked during this pandemic. I noted in my speech that Sweden has been very late at almost every point in this pandemic. It has been about testing, it has been about infectious detection and it has not least been about when we closed our retirement homes. As has already been mentioned, a report from the Corona Commission has so far pointed out this very point about care for the elderly. These are very serious points where the Corona Commission has just stressed the importance of a government leading the country in crisis. In view of the fact that we have seen the effects of the late management by the government, which has led to an increase in the spread of infection that we would not have needed to have, I would like to ask the honourable Member whether he is satisfied with the government's handling of this. It is not often a man who is allowed to promote another Social Democratic government. But it has been very clear during this pandemic that there is a big difference between a Social Democratic-led government in Denmark and a Social Democratic-led government in Sweden. My question to Mikael Dahlqvist is: How much could we really have done much better during this time?
i-2ef7ead3e5141f6c-118	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question, Camilla Waltersson Grönvall! The honourable Member asks me if I am satisfied with the management of coronas. I note that, in her speech, Camilla Waltersson Grönvall was extremely critical of how the government has acted during this pandemic crisis. Perhaps a little humility would be appropriate. It is very easy to have comments in hand. Consider that this is a virus that none of us had experience with. It's a virus that still behaves insidiously and strangely. I think that the government has done what we have as a tradition to do in our country and listened to experts and our expert authorities – they have had some ice in their stomachs and analysed so as not to make mistakes. Then, of course, Madam President, I also note that we, the government, have not done everything right. However, Mrs Grönvall must also bear in mind that a large part of the responsibility falls on the regions, and in many of the regions the Member's party is actually in charge, for example, of the elderly. I also note that before the pandemic, the government started to develop a basis for a new crisis management in Sweden. This shared headship has been a difficulty during the pandemic.
i-2ef7ead3e5141f6c-123	Madam President, I would like Humility doesn't save human lives. Ice in the stomach doesn't save human lives. Blameing others certainly does not save human lives. It doesn't raise respect either. Is it something that we, as citizens of Sweden, have been given access to during this time, it is that the government and government representatives always blame others. I think it's one of the most remarkable parts of this pandemic. We have had a government that has been sitting in the back seat, hiding behind its authorities and, above all, always blaming others. It may be regions, it may be municipalities and it may be many other things, but it has not taken on the responsibility that actually falls on a government in a crisis. How can I say this? Well, there's plenty of governments around us to watch. I mentioned earlier, among other things, Erna Solberg's government, which, like Sweden, lacked a law for civil crises but which in April last year had one in place. What we learned was a, to put it mildly, skilful action that led to a law that was in force for three months and was never used. The opposition was also blamed for this. No, Madam President, I think Mikael Dahlqvist needs to review again what his government has done. And I would like to turn the question back again: have there not been major shortcomings in this approach?
i-2ef7ead3e5141f6c-127	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much for your question, Camilla Waltersson Grönvall! This has been and is still an extraordinary event that has affected Sweden and the world extremely. No, I do not think the government has acted wrongly. I think that the government has acted on the basis of the knowledge it has had in every step on what our expert authorities and so on have proposed. Madam President, I would like I do not think that we as politicians and laymen should go into certain details. You refer to our dear neighbour Norway, Camilla Waltersson Grönvall, and to Denmark. Let's see what happened when the corona is over. I think we have had a nice tradition here in Sweden all these years, and it is a good collaboration with our authorities. I think, therefore, that, on the basis of the knowledge at the time, the necessary measures were taken. Then I also note that it is clear that if one had had this experience today, one would have looked at crisis management in the past and at the main issue of crisis and what is the responsibility of regions and of the state. Nevertheless, I think, humbly and on the basis of what has happened, that we have done what we have had the opportunity to do.
i-2ef7ead3e5141f6c-133	I would remind all Members that we always speak through the President and do not speak to the other speaker. So we don't use you and yours or anything like that.
i-2ef7ead3e5141f6c-134	Madam President, I would like When you read the bill that forms the basis for today's debate, you think about what conclusions the government has drawn from the spring review in the Constitutional Committee. When, during the debate, I hear Mikael Dahlqvist and his colleague Nicklas Attefjord speaking in rosy terms about the government's pandemic management, I must return with certain questions to Mikael Dahlqvist. I and the Center Party claim that the government has learned no lessons from the KU's review. In any case, it is not clear from the bill. During the KU hearings, the ministers referred notoriously to the Public Health Authority instead of explaining their own considerations and balanced assessments. The Public Health Authority has no formal mandate to take civil liberties into account in its balances. They are based solely on epidemiology. The Swedish administrative model is based on the government taking overall responsibility. As it says in the Constitution, the government governs the kingdom. In this way, a balanced assessment is made based on an overall picture in order to combine different perspectives and interests, especially when difficult interests stand against each other. That responsibility can never be delegated to the authorities. It is therefore remarkable that the government has such a lack of analysis and evaluation when extraordinary legislation is not only introduced but is now also extended. I would therefore like to ask Mikael Dahlqvist what he and the Social Democrats in the Swedish parliament think about the government's governance of the kingdom and whether the government has been in the driver's seat or in the back seat and allowed the Public Health Authority to hold the steering wheel.
i-2ef7ead3e5141f6c-139	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much, Linda Courage, for your question! Madam President, I would like I get views on how the government has acted and handled the pandemic. As I said in my last line shift, it is an extremely difficult situation that the government and Sweden have been through. We had no experience. We had no idea what was going to happen. I think Linda Modig should consider it a good tradition we have in our country to have good collaboration with our authorities, listen to experts and analyze. Or do you think, Linda, that we as politicians should politicize this issue? I don't think so. On the basis of the situation we had then and now have, I still think that the government has acted in a way that is acceptable.
i-2ef7ead3e5141f6c-143	Madam President, I would like Mikael Dahlqvist has completely missed the target. I haven't discussed how the government has handled the pandemic. I am discussing the Constitutional Review of the Pandemic by the Constitutional Committee. The Corona Commission will shortly come back with a new report on 31 October. If we are going to draw conclusions from the first report it has delivered, we should have been prepared by legislators and decision-makers! Mikael Dahlqvist tells us that we have a good tradition of collaboration between authorities and government. It's true. But the good thing is that we have a constitution, a form of government, to stand on which the government governs the kingdom. Freedom and rights cannot be dealt with by dumping them on an authority and hoping that it will concern itself with religious freedom, freedom of assembly, freedom of demonstration and freedom of association. This is not how a worthy government handles fundamental rights and freedoms, even in times of crisis.
i-2ef7ead3e5141f6c-146	Madam President, I would like No, Mrs. Linda Modig, I haven't missed the case. What I meant, Madam President, was the method of cooperation that we have between the authorities and the government in this case. It is the same there: the government takes in the views of its legal experts when designing a new bill. You send it according to the order of preparation to the Law Council, for a referral and so on. Then this is an extremely difficult issue, and I have respect for it. It balances our constitutionally protected human rights with saving lives and health. I assume that the government, Madam President, has made the assessments and balances that were deemed necessary to bring legislation forward.
i-XGBZErznUvhDDFFwA6PZKn	Madam President, I would like The Centre Party has presented a so-called committee initiative in the Parliament's Environment and Agriculture Committee on the implementation of the EU Water Framework Directive. We Social Democrats are calling for the committee initiative to be rejected and for the proposal in the MJU5 report to be rejected and for reservation No 1. The purpose of committee initiatives in the Riksdag is to correct minor things in the government's work or to have a very broad majority to do something about which there is a need for time. None of this, Madam President, is included in the Committee initiative of the Center Party, and it is drawing on the wave of committee initiatives that we are currently witnessing in the Swedish Parliament. All legislation should be subject to the same high-quality preparation and referral. Misuse of the use of committee initiatives, there is a clear risk that some legislation will be implemented in summary and unprepared form. I understand that in the committee initiatives there is the desire and the will of individual Members and parties to present themselves in a slightly better light. But in the long term, Madam President, this undermines public confidence and trust in legislation. Already half a century ago, the Parliament's Constitutional Committee stated for the first time that committee initiatives should be used with caution. In addition, political agreement should be sought. Unfortunately, it was not unexpected that we were able to follow the Center Party's proposed committee initiatives in the media and on digital platforms before we in the Riksdag's Environment and Agriculture Committee had the chance to work on the issue. Here another important practice was broken: that in our committees we wait to make various moves before the committee has decided what we want. This is of course in order to respect democracy, participation, the importance of the issues and relevant stakeholders such as the will of the people. Several issues in this committee initiative also do not concern the primary responsibility of the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture. The Swedish Parliament's Committee on Economic Affairs deals with Sweden's electricity production and energy type, including hydropower, which has been the main focus of this committee initiative. In addition, the Parliamentary Civil Committee handles a large part of our water legislation. Madam President, I would like The EU Water Framework Directive is broad, deep and relatively complex matter, which was first established in 2000 and adopted in Swedish legislation in 2004. The aim is to preserve and improve the aquatic environment in groundwater and surface water. The directive justifies the fact that water is not just a commodity but an inheritance to be protected, defended and treated as such. Pressure on water resources is constantly increasing, with greater demand for good quality water for all our societal purposes. The Directive requires EU countries to shape water management in order to reduce pollution, promote sustainability and improve ecosystems dependent on water. The basis of the WFD is that water quality must not deteriorate. Half of Sweden's 16 environmental quality targets are about our waters in one way or another. We have, or have at least had, broad support for these goals in the Swedish Parliament. Many of the targets often involve conflict of objectives, and water use is a key issue for our food strategy and energy production, for example, and the environmental objectives set by the Riksdag, which are to harmonise. Madam President, I would like The majority of the lakes and watercourses in Sweden, about 60 percent, do not reach the quality we want. In other words, they do not have a good ecological status according to the assessment of the situation of plant and animal species. The number of water bodies in Sweden is around 27 500. Sweden is the third largest country in the EU. Sweden is rich in water and the EU's single most sea-rich country – over 20% of the EU's water bodies and almost 40% of the EU's lakes are here in Sweden. Madam President, I would like Many works in Sweden, such as government public investigations, have concerned water, water management and its organisation. We Social Democrats, like the government, believe that ongoing balances between effects on the environment and social objectives are important in the work on water management. Common to all measures is that they contribute to compliance with the environmental quality standards for water. The WFD also allows Member States to classify water as highly modified and to make use of the possibility to decide on less stringent requirements. This has been implemented in Swedish water management. In order to review and highlight the entire current organisation of water management, the Government also set up an investigation, the report of which is currently being prepared in the Government Office. The Energy Agreement constitutes a common policy roadmap for a controlled transition to a fully renewable electricity system. When it comes to hydropower, the agreement means, among other things, that Sweden must comply with EU law and its requirements for water activities. The regulatory changes concerning the greening of hydropower entered into force on 1 January 2019. Since then, water management will make full use of all the possibilities provided by EU law for the exemption and explanation of water as strongly modified and will make use of the possibilities to decide on less stringent requirements. It is the responsibility of the water authorities to develop action programmes for Sweden's five water districts. The Government has also had the opportunity to examine the action programmes. The outcome of the preparatory work in progress should therefore not be pre-empted by a committee initiative. It is highly reasonable for the government to examine the action programmes in good order and on the basis of the views of consultation bodies. A government review can take into account policies, such as the Energy Agreement and the Food Strategy. Our expanded hydropower is fundamental to our energy system. There is ongoing work to modernise environmental conditions and streamline permit processes linked to hydropower. Another announcement from the Riksdag to the Government only last year highlights the continued work on reforming water legislation and water management. It needs to focus on safeguarding small-scale hydropower, reducing regulatory constraints and respecting property rights, and on efficient and affordable environmental measures. The government has taken many steps in response to the announcement of last year. Work is continuing. The directive does not require the closure of hydroelectric power stations, but research and adaptation if the negative impact is significant. Greening and contribution to energy supply shall be taken into account. The purpose of the hydropower environmental fund is to combine hydroelectric power production with modern environmental requirements. The Environmental Fund manages SEK 10 billion to finance environmental measures. This follows the national re-evaluation of hydropower, with the greatest possible benefit for both the environment and the national supply of electricity. Owners of hydroelectric power plants can apply for money to investigate, adapt and modernise their hydroelectric power plants in accordance with environmental legislation. Madam President, I would like The widespread abuse and the new swamp of committee initiatives are clearly in danger of giving us worse legal texts. This undermines public confidence in the legislative process. Our regular route and the established order of processing have served Sweden well, and any other legislative process should not be used in Sweden. We Social Democrats want to see thorough and balanced proposals and work for more jobs, for climate change, for sustainable watercourses and for smart energy and food production. We Social Democrats want to see living lakes and streams. Lakes and watercourses should be able to be healthy and exist in parallel with forestry, agriculture, industries and hydroelectric plants. It is important that all of us who use land and water do so in a sustainable way. Against this we can contrast the proposal of the Center Party, which is substandard and forced, takes time from other important work, violates practices and, unfortunately, will probably not have any effect at all. Once again, I call for the committee's proposal to be rejected in the report and for the vote to be taken on reservation number 1.
i-2ef7ead3e5141f6c-170	Madam President, I would like When a new Member of Parliament is allowed to make his debut in the Chamber, what could be more appropriate than talking about water? What could be more important than water, the water of life? Without it, we wouldn't be here. Therefore, I shall begin by calling for the rejection of this committee initiative and for the approval of reservation number 2. The water is all we have; we have nothing else. Without the water, we don't exist. I easily become a bit existential when I think about and remind myself of the importance of water for our lives. The water is a fantastic resource that must be used long-term and sustainable and managed responsibly. Anything else would be unthinkable. And I know that we all agree with this and do not think anything else, but can join in a resounding chorus of tribute to our water. That is why, Madam President, I was concerned and puzzled when, as a new member of the Committee on Environment and Agriculture, where water is so highly valued, I read this committee initiative. Instead, we want to exempt measures from protecting our vital water, the water I just drank here. The environmental situation of the seas, lakes and watercourses is critical due to emissions, eutrophication and exploitation. If everything were peace and joy, we would not have needed the Water Framework Directive. If we had already come to a conclusion with the objectives of good status for our Swedish waters, it would not have been necessary. But now we need it. This is not just about a goal, but when we have achieved it, we shall also protect and preserve the quality of water. This will be an extremely important battle to fight in the future. That is why, Madam President, I have tried to understand this committee initiative. I have read and read, and I find it hard to believe that we would not want our water well. And yes, no rule without exception. There is room for exception. There are possibilities for water authorities to make exceptions in the form of extended time limits or less stringent requirements. But here I feel that the committee initiative, instead of moving towards the target, wants to draw to the edge, get as close to it as possible and stretch until you almost fall into the lake, literally. Even if an exception is made, it must not impair the water. We should not push the borders – we should strive for a goal that we have set ourselves. I myself have wondered how cumbersome and expensive each exceptional process is. That is not what our country should be known for in Europe. We shall not be known for exceptions to the obligation to preserve and protect our water. In our country, with all the fantastic lakes and our fantastic right of public access, we should not become European champions of exceptions to the Water Directive. Instead, we need to get used to harsher demands. We haven't been used to that before. It's new to us. It's no stranger than that. Without clear objectives and requirements, we do not achieve improvement. And yes, it costs to change and improve. We'll never get away from that. The problem will then be that we are not willing to pay the costs. Then I wonder: Have we lost understanding of the value of water when we want to make exceptions all the time? Thankfully, there is support to apply for 85% of the cost. Okay, it's not 100%, but it's close. 95% of production is very close to 100%. I, a farmer boy raised in Småland forests, have a big heart for small actors. Their work is almost nonprofit and a hard fight. I can understand why we are thinking of these smaller players in the committee initiative, but it should be turned to fighting for more support and support to help small operators to improve rather than making more exceptions to improving our water. To achieve our goal of better water requires that we politicians motivate and inspire. It is costly, and it is hard work to achieve the goals. In our society we experience will and understanding. You want to change and get better. The people I live close to – people involved in soil, forestry and aquaculture – understand this. The people of our country know today that this is important. We're gonna help them. It takes more, not less. We need stronger measures, not weaker ones. It's crucial. The committee initiative lowers the bar. In fact, I think that even the Center Party would rather join in breaking Europe's record in the best lakes and rivers instead.
i-2ef7ead3e5141f6c-182	Madam President, I would like In the first debate of the parliamentary year, we take the opportunity to think back a little in the summer. During the summer we received an IPCC report on the climate that showed that the extreme weather we see is a sign of climate change. And extreme weather in the form of heavy rain, heat waves and dry periods creates major challenges for the water supply in our country, and not only in Sweden but throughout the world. Full implementation of the Water Framework Directive will therefore become increasingly important. More precipitation and increased run-off lead to increased leakage and transport of environmental toxins and fertilising substances both from agricultural land as well as from our cities and communities. In the debate, climate is often set against the environment. However, I would like to state at the outset that if we also destroy our water, we will not be able to cope better with climate change. The centre party draws support all the way from the far right to impair water status in lakes and streams in Sweden. In fact, more and not fewer measures are needed for us to manage our freshwater resources in the future. We politicians in the Swedish Parliament must stand up for environmental quality standards. We must stand up for Environmental Sweden, which we in the Swedish Parliament have built up to protect just one of the most important ecosystem services: clean water. Madam President, I would like Like Markus Selin, I was extremely surprised when the Center Party presented its committee initiative at the end of the spring. Let me say that the whole handling of this matter has been poor. Most of the questions should have been dealt with by committees other than the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture. At the same time, I would like to add that I myself have learned a lot about new issues, and that is also positive in some sense. We who work to improve the environment will also get more jobs. We'll have to work even harder when initiatives like this come along. I was also surprised that this committee initiative was being pushed through very quickly before the summer. However, it was a number of poor wordings that were changed at a very late stage in the original committee initiative, and that led to us having to postpone the preparation until after the summer. In a way, it was positive for me, because I had the opportunity to visit small-scale hydropower producers who care for culturally-historically valuable environments but also river routes that are very valuable for the ecological status. There is no easy balance between environmental and water requirements and the requirements for the continued production of electricity in small hydroelectric power plants. It became very clear to me that there is competence in the producers themselves, in the water authorities, in the county administrative boards and in all the actors who will make the assessments in each individual case. I'm very safe, too. Authorities, researchers and representatives whom we in the Committee on Environment and Agriculture have met have been extremely clear about the facts. In some areas, I would like to say that the committee initiative is based on alternative facts rather than on the facts that we see emerging. The EU's water directive came 20 years ago, and in 2004 we in Parliament decided to introduce it. In six or seven years' time, the whole directive will be in place, and one might ask: what have we done in the 20 years that have been far too little? We now have a very short time to deal with EU environmental legislation. Then we must step up the pace and not put the hookbones in place for the development that we have set in motion. Water is not just any commodity but an inheritance that we must protect, defend and treat. Pressure on water resources throughout the EU has constantly increased. For the Swedish part, we have been quite confident that we have had a lot of water. However, in recent years, with climate change, we have seen a big difference, where we have long periods of drought and lack of water in many areas. But we also have very serious problems with environmental pollution. Madam President, I would like I would like to mention a few examples to show that the biodiversity of fresh water is seriously threatened. Globally, freshwater species have decreased by 80 percent since 1970, and one third of all freshwater fish in Sweden are listed in red. We have had local salmon strains in many streams before. Today, less than half of them remain. We have endangered species, including eel. When we have discussed the survival of eel in other debates in this House, we in the Green Party have always emphasised that we want to stop eel fishing. Then we usually hear from the Center Party: No, it is hydropower that is a problem. Today, however, the Center Party is making a proposal that does not want to take action in rivers and watercourses in order to save the eel from the damage caused by hydropower. This is fake math for me. I think that the Center Party must decide whether it wants to be a party that actually specifically wants to exterminate species. Madam President, I would like I used a concept, alternative facts, which, of course, I have to show in my speech. I can see that the SGU, which is one of our authorities responsible for groundwater, takes up the fact that when a body of groundwater is polluted it takes a very long time before the water recovers and the quality is improved. They point to the fact that the supply of drinking water can be decommissioned for decades in the event of contamination. One of the proposals put forward by the Center Party is that it wants to make it easier to pollute in agricultural areas where there is intensive agriculture. But it is precisely in those agricultural areas that we have the largest farmers. There are also the most powerful economies in agriculture. That is where the measures could be strongest in terms of protecting our water. Now, on the other hand, we are seeing greater problems with increased residues from pesticides in water areas in our agricultural landscapes. Another issue concerns heavily modified bodies of water. There, the SLU Department of Aquatic Resources, SLU Aqua, points to the fact that the committee initiative's text is too generalized. They believe that heavily modified bodies of water are water that has changed significantly physically as a result of a human activity with great social benefits. Therefore, this concept of highly modified water should not be applied in general to productive agricultural areas or environments with high cultural values. They write this in their paper to the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture. An assessment of actual modification of the body of water must be a prerequisite, they write. They also say that the concept of heavily modified water is not intended as an opportunity to avoid achieving good ecological status. It is therefore important that it does not appear to be in the text before us that we are going to take a decision here in Parliament today. But unfortunately it does just that. Madam President, I would like We know that the Center Party wants to implement the Water Framework Directive so that the five action programmes recently presented by the water authorities cannot be defined in the form proposed. This means many billions for farmers and hydropower owners, among other things. However, as my colleague from the Liberals pointed out in a commendable way, there are, in fact, instruments from society so that it can be very much involved in paying for this. We have the water funds and the rural programme, which helps agriculture to make all the efforts needed for us to have clean water in the future. Madam President, I would like I apologise for having oversold the reported speaking time. I ask you to accept reservation number one.
i-2ef7ead3e5141f6c-203	Madam President, I would like As we continue to debate the Swedish implementation of the EU Water Framework Directive, I would like to mention that we have a great deal of knowledge behind us. It has demonstrated the broad approach needed to understand the multifaceted nature of the Directive and the number of important activities directly or indirectly affected by it. The journey of knowledge we have made also demonstrates the importance of a holistic approach between committees. It is an exercise that we have too rarely, I would argue. Unfortunately, the input we have received from various authorities shows that the consensus between them is flawed. Greater political clarity is called for in terms of how water management should be organised. This is an issue raised in an investigation, which, unfortunately, has been on the table of the government for almost two years. That is unfortunate, because, as I said, this is in demand. The implementation of the Water Framework Directive so far also shows little of the Swedish Brer Duktig mentality, when, in comparison with other EU countries, we do not make use of or use the exceptions that EU law actually provides. Of course, we should have ambitious action programmes to ensure a good aquatic environment, but it is also important that we choose a level of ambition that is better adapted to our conditions of implementation. This does not mean that the quality of Swedish water should be lowered, but that measures that do the most benefit in relation to the environment and economics should be prioritised. This is also, in fact, something that the law stipulates, namely that the impact of the action programmes should be assessed from both an economic and an environmental point of view. There is a great deal to be desired here, and this is the fourth time that action programmes have been presented. But what have we learned? If we're going to get it right, it's gonna make a lot of demands on local knowledge. But there was one thing that was quite clear in connection with our hearings: local assessments had certainly been desirable. But they can't really be done because you don't have data. Environmental monitoring is lacking. Data is flawed. The regional competence was also mentioned from SMHI. This surprises me. We Moderates think it should be quite easy to fix. It's about actually interacting and sharing data. It is also important to increase trust and transparency in the assessment of these facts. It is clear that the implementation of the planned action programmes costs. This is also the reason why some municipalities have requested the Government to examine the action programme. They point out that the current proposal represents a significant increase in the cost of the va-systems. It is about hydropower but also about agriculture. The National Heritage Office and the Committee on Culture have also pointed out that the proposal will have a major impact on cultural environments, where thousands of dams will be adapted to the new environmental requirements. They therefore feel, like paragraph 2 of the committee initiative, that these action programmes must take account of all the benefits. They should make available exceptions and apply less stringent requirements, for example in environments with high cultural values, productive agricultural areas and water bodies. Otherwise power plants simply risk being decommissioned or not being able to be more efficient and increase their regulatory power. In terms of agriculture, the water authorities have estimated that the costs of eutrophication measures will be SEK 3 600 million the following period. Money does not come from the sky – agriculture should pay a good third on its own while the rest should be covered by compensation schemes. However, it depends on how much money is pumped into the replacement systems, and it also depends on the credibility of these calculations. We only know this afterwards. At least we Moderates think that it is far too high a cost to impose on agriculture, and we fear that it will have a major impact on farmers. We also see that this runs counter to the food strategy that we have agreed to adopt, where we say that we should have increased competitiveness and increased profitability in agriculture. Madam President, I would like In this context, we must also highlight a fact that emerged during the hearings, namely that in Sweden there is not a single agricultural area that is classified as heavily modified. This does not mean that it is very sad, but it is about that in order to be able to release the arable land that we use today has therefore had to drain or drain in some places. Half of the agricultural land, says the Swedish Board of Agriculture, has required drainage measures. That is what this is all about, and it is also something that other Member States actually benefit from. But in Sweden there is nowhere. There is also great concern that these action programmes will hit small hydropower hard. Maria Gardfjell had been visiting and has a great deal of faith in their ability to handle this, and that is something we must wish for. But it is clear that this is important for local electricity production, perhaps not least in southern Sweden, where we already have a shortage of electricity. In fact, despite the announcements that the Riksdag has addressed to the government– Markus Selin had a long drapa about this – the government has not acted, and that is why the civil committee points to these examples. So there is a great deal of small-scale hydropower which, as a result of tough demands for greening and re-evaluation of permits, may even have had to shut down, and that is why the additional energy that we so badly need goes away. This is not sustainable. In recent years, the Riksdag has clearly stated to the Government that, in the area of water management, EU law's scope for exemption and also the explanation of certain water resources that have been heavily modified should be fully used. However, it is clear from the hearings and the input we have received that this is something that the government and the authorities are using precisely on hydropower but not in any other context. We need a round here. Interestingly, the method used by water authorities when they look at how different activities have to reduce their emissions is also studied. Looking at the water body in a particular area, one can see that the environmental quality standard says this and so, and therefore we have to reduce emissions x, y and z, and then we release this percentage on the activities concerned. So far it seems good, but when a business is then going to apply for a permit because you want to expand your job or business, it strikes. For then it turns out that no account is taken of what this practitioner has already done to reduce his emissions, nor is it taken of what it looks like in the environment. This has resulted in even the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency saying in an opinion to the Land and Environment Court that the model shows that it does not take account of whether it is technically possible or socially reasonable to achieve these reduction baits. This is a basis that we have all had access to. This kind of consequence thinking is something that we from the Riksdag have called for the government to be included in its decision-making and responsibility chain. However, we have not seen that. To conclude, Madam President, I would like to thank the Centre Party, which has brought this committee initiative. The Moderates believe that it was much needed, and we hope that it will clarify Parliament's view on how the further implementation of the WFD should be addressed and developed.
i-2ef7ead3e5141f6c-220	Madam President, I would like I have noted that the Moderates support the Center Party's committee initiative on the implementation of the EU Water Framework Directive. Since water management is critical and rather complicated, I thought I would start by asking some fundamental questions to the Moderates. As early as 1970 by the Riksdag Constitutional Committee, the purpose of committee initiatives in the Riksdag is to correct minor matters in the government's work or to have a very broad majority to do something about which there is a need for time. None of this, Madam President, is contained in the Center Party's Committee initiative on water, which is increasing the enraged amount of committee initiatives currently taking place in our Parliament. I can understand that committee initiatives may be short-term attractive to individual Members and parties, but in the long term this is bad, especially for parties that consider themselves to be government-supporting. We should take this opportunity to think carefully. My questions to the Moderates are: How do the Moderates think that several issues in this committee initiative do not even affect the primary responsibilities of the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture? What do the Moderates think about the practice of waiting to make various moves before Parliament's committees have listened to each other, determined what we want and adjusted the matter? How do the Moderates think that the committee initiative tool is now being used wildly in Parliament in a way that was not intended?
i-JvZNxngB5ktcpD84LfiCU	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Markus Selin, for your commitment to old statues and regulations! What Markus Selin forgot to mention is that committee initiatives are actually a democratic right enshrined in Chapter 9 of the Parliamentary Order. 16 §. This is an opportunity that we from the Riksdag have to govern the work of the government. We can't deny that to anyone. I think it is positive that there will be more committee initiatives. These have not directly had to do with any legislative changes that have been proposed and which would thus affect preparations, but have more to do with the direction of the committee initiatives that have been laid down. However, I suggest that we actually stick to the proposal for a framework directive. By the way, I forgot something, Madam President. Markus Selin wondered what it mattered – it probably won't have any effect at all. And that is precisely what it is about: Markus Selin evils himself at the fact that there have been announcements before. But the fact is that the government hasn't delivered on them, and that's why we're taking this tool one more time. I have a small window to ask a question anyway. During the hearing, we were told that political clarity is being called for in water management and in who is responsible for what. There's been an investigation that's been on the government table for two years. When's it coming?
i-2ef7ead3e5141f6c-230	Madam President, I would like I guess I'll have to politely thank you for the non-responsives from the Moderates. I wish we could stick to the practices and rules of procedure in Parliament. As a social democrat, I would like to see a thorough and balanced proposal, that is to say work for more jobs, a fair climate change that everyone can participate in, sustainable watercourses, smart energy and food production. The Moderates support the Center Party's committee initiative. However, the Moderates have chosen to add a supplement, a so-called special opinion. In this supplement, the Moderates deliver the following closing lines:. this does not mean that the quality of Swedish water should be lowered, but that measures should be prioritised to those areas where they do the most benefit in relation to the environment and economics. ..................................................... As far as I'm concerned, this is flosskeler! At the same time, they are directly contradictory. Of Sweden's 16 environmental quality goals, half in one way or another is about our water, and we have had broad participation in the Swedish Parliament regarding these goals. Madam President, I would like Many government and public investigations in Sweden have concerned water management and its organisation, and work is currently under way. Among all actors, skilled authorities, government and others – what magic wand do the Moderates have? Madam President, I would like In two minutes, the Moderates should be able to give a decent answer about this. What should be prioritised according to the Moderates without simultaneously lowering the quality of Swedish water?
i-2ef7ead3e5141f6c-236	Madam President, I would like In fact, as early as 2016, the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture issued an announcement saying that the Water Framework Directive should be compatible with jobs throughout the country, with competitive agriculture and with other environmental objectives, and that the socio-economic costs associated with the action programme should be analysed. This is what the report says, and it is a fact. Even then, the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture called for more socio-economic analyses to be made. It's something that's not actually happening. When the Commission criticises Sweden's action programme to some extent, it turns out that it does so because there is no motive. There is no reason why derogations from certain environmental requirements have been made at some point. This is a huge problem. The big problem is that we lack monitoring and evaluation. It is an instrument that we use far too rarely. But this also shows that when the Environmental Protection Agency writes to the Environmental Court that the requirements that now lie on the business, a water treatment plant, cannot be realized, all confidence in us to live up to the goal of Clean Water is destroyed. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency says that there is no socio-economic analysis or environmental analysis. It's bad, Markus Selin.
i-2ef7ead3e5141f6c-239	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report. Citizens! The debate is about the EU's water directives and the transposition of these EU regulations in Sweden. It's about water environment and water quality. In concrete terms, this is a committee initiative which the members of the Centre Party in the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture have travelled on the basis of action programmes drawn up by the water authorities. It is therefore a question of the practical transposition of the provisions of the EU directive. The Swedish Democrats welcome the fact that the Center Party has put forward the proposal for a committee initiative and that it will lead the government to reconsider these action programmes in a way that will make the measures more balanced. We support this initiative. We also welcome the fact that the initiators and the committee have heeded the Swedish Democrats' desire to include cultural heritage issues in the management and to hear the National Heritage Office. Cultural heritage is also threatened by the current Swedish application of the EU Water Directive. It became clear in the presentations. But why are we opposed to the action programmes and so in favour of a review? Well, the water authorities' action programme is one-sided and cannot sufficiently take into account values that conflict with water quality. As a result, the programmes appear to have a major negative impact on agriculture, hydropower and cultural values, as well as on rural areas. A government test that weighs off between these values is therefore necessary. This is not a new phenomenon. Even at the last management cycle half a dozen years ago, the water authorities' action programme was unbalanced, and a government review was necessary. At that time it was the Swedish Board of Agriculture that made demands for a government review. This test then changed the outcome in a positive way. That's good. When the committee heard the relevant authorities in June and August, the Swedish democrats' view was confirmed that the system for determining measures in Sweden under the EU Water Framework Directive is not working well to make political balances. So we cannot just blame the authorities. Neither does the adaptation of individual case-by-case measures work satisfactorily. We've heard that before. The whole system should therefore be amended. It gets crazy every time. Sweden has thus created a system for transposing the rules of the EU directive that works very badly for balance, and this was a recurrent criticism from several of the authorities that we had invited to the committee. What if you do the same at home, for example when you buy a car? Normally, you may sit at the kitchen table and discuss which car you should have. Well, it should keep good, be pretty fast and strong. It's supposed to be crash-proof, of course. The cargo hold must not be too small. The car should keep good, gladly draw some fuel and not rust too fast, be reasonably spacious and not too expensive. A compromise is made between all these parameters. You make, quite naturally, a balance. Right? Imagine if you would buy a car in the same way that Sweden's water rules work today. Yeah, we're gonna have a quick car. Everything else, we'll have to adjust as we go. What about the family? They get to take the train because there's only one person in the car. The dog? It'll be the roof box. The car draws so much gas that we can't afford to drive it. And the car is expensive to buy, so we'll have to sell the house. Nor is it possible to sleep in the car. Joking aside – we'll have to realize that we have to bring some kitchen table realism into our water rules. The Swedish Democrats believe that an investigation and a thorough review is needed regarding both Sweden's water regulations and many other environmental legislation. It is of course very important that we ensure that we can get workable balances between different values. This is crucial – otherwise we will have unexpected effects, as in the current example of Cementa. There is one more aspect to this. There are certainly some water-related problems in Sweden, but the EU Water Directive has been created mainly in the light of the major problems that exist in continental Europe. In spite of this, it is precisely there that we have made use of the derogations that are provided for in the directive. But Sweden has not used any exceptions that have to do with agriculture and cultural values. That's a hell of a spin, isn't it? Let's raise our eyes. What do we learn from this? Well, we shouldn't always be Bror Good who over-implements EU rules. That's the first thing we learn. The second is that we may not need so many European directives. It will often be better if the rules are adapted to the very different situations in different Member States. Often conditions in Sweden are also very different from the average EU Member State; this is something to be aware of. Against this background, we should pull the brakes of EU cooperation. There have never been more EU directives. Never has the EU had so much power over Sweden and other Member States, and more is happening all the time. It's like a self-playing piano. I have previously worked with EU rules on agricultural matters. This has in the past been one of the areas most harmonised. There have long been uniform rules that do not really suit Swedish conditions. But uniformity spreads to other areas. The European Commission is now running a huge campaign in which, with reference to climate and the environment, many initiatives are being taken that will align environmental work. As climate and environmental impact can occur in almost all activities, these activities are dragged into the EU's detailed regulation by the back door. The Water Framework Directive and its transposition are in itself a problem that needs to be resolved, but this can also serve as an example pointing to two other horizontal problems: the Swedish over-implementation and the existence of too many EU directives. Learn! Pull the handbrake in EU cooperation! We're not going to have any more absurd situations.
i-2ef7ead3e5141f6c-257	Madam President, I would like Many times I have heard the Swedish Democrats calling for a handbrake against the EU, but it is another debate. I note that the Swedish Democrats support the Center Party's committee initiative on the implementation of the EU Water Framework Directive. As water management is critical and rather complicated, I thought I would start with questions of principle. As early as 1970, the Parliament's Constitutional Committee established that the purpose of committee initiatives in the Riksdag is to correct minor things in the government's work or to have a very broad majority to do something that is time critical. None of this, Madam President, is part of the Center Party's committee initiative on water. It also impinges on the enraged amount of committee initiatives that we are currently seeing in our Parliament. I can understand that committee initiatives can be short-sighted and clever for individual members and parties, but long-term this undermines confidence in Parliament's work. In the beginning, Madam President, I therefore have a couple of fundamental questions for the Swedish Democrats. What do the Swedish Democrats think about the fact that several issues in the committee initiative do not even affect the primary responsibilities of the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture? And how do the Swedish Democrats think that the committee initiative tool is now used as fluttery in the Riksdag, as it was not intended?
i-EuHtGKKqx4VABsdowFnKe2	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Markus Selin, for the question! It is now the case that the regulations of the WFD require that someone asks for a review. That is what the committee initiative is about. What is needed is a balanced assessment, to take account of all the exceptions available and to make local site assessments. This means that several important principles of Swedish legislation are maintained. I believe that the committee initiatives should be seen as a confirmation of the government's inability as a matter of urgency. What is required in the initiatives is what is missing from the government and what the government does. Parliament is superior to the government. There's something we know, but I wonder if the government knows. There are several examples of the Social Democrats not realizing this. People like to rule in a minority. It wants to make agreements and deals and freeze certain parties in order to put democratic order out of play. Another of Markus Selin's questions was that several committees are involved in this. It is quite natural for several committees to be involved, because that is the reality. That is why we must be able to strike a balance between different values, and that is what is at the heart of the Center Party initiative. In fact, I am rather tired of the drain pipes that exist in this Parliament and of the fact that questions cannot be raised in other committees as well so that decisions can be well balanced. I very much welcome this initiative.
i-2ef7ead3e5141f6c-267	Madam President, I would like That was a rather unclear answer. I have noted that the Swedish Democrats support the Center Party's committee initiative. The views of the Swedish democrats on the EU are now well documented. On the other hand, the Swedish democrats' budget bill introduced this year wanted to cut off funds that in one way or another protect our water. Among other things, they wanted to remove SEK 170 million from the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency. They wanted to remove SEK 500 million from measures for valuable nature. They wanted to remove millions from SMHI. They wanted to remove 800 million crowns that have been set aside for protection of a valuable nature. At the same time, the Swedish Democrats have chosen to supplement this report with an addition – a so-called special opinion – on a narrow side. The final lines of this special opinion are as follows: ..................................................... Madam President, I would like Having compared the will expression of the Swedish Democrats with the funds in the budget for this year – the desire to revise the entire system for deciding on measures under the EU's Water Framework Directive – I wonder what the Swedish Democrats have the ambitions for Sweden's and EU's waters at all. Half of Sweden's 16 environmental quality targets are about our water in one way or another. We have – or have at least had – broad support for these objectives. Madam President, I would like Do the Swedish Democrats support these objectives at all?
i-2ef7ead3e5141f6c-273	Madam President, I would like We support the improvement of water quality and the aquatic environment, but this should be done in balance with all other values that are worth preserving. It is about the conditions for agriculture, about our common cultural heritage, about electricity supply and hydropower and about rural conditions in a broad sense. Now there was a small detour in the debate – the detour was taken over the budget. But I'm still going to comment on this a little bit. Markus Selin mentioned certain budget lines. The items in the budget are not very many; they are very broad. It is therefore not possible, from a budget line, to draw a conclusion on the ambition of water quality. To talk about how we think in the budget, we see that the current government spends a lot of money on inefficient things. We have no problem cutting away what is inefficient. Instead, however, we are putting forward our own proposals, which are certainly cheaper but which are ultimately more effective than those put forward by the government. Our budget therefore costs less but does more for the environment.
i-2ef7ead3e5141f6c-279	Madam President, I would like The water environment and improvement of Swedish waters is an extremely important issue. The safety of drinking and groundwater for citizens and businesses is vital. It is important from an environmental point of view as well as for biodiversity and the safety of life and health. Water resources are also important for many activities and for making our society work. That is also why balanced legislation is so incredibly important. Therefore, in connection with the Energy Agreement 2016, the Center Party, the Moderates, the Christian Democrats, the Social Democrats and the Environmental Party agreed on a new legislation on hydropower and the water environment in general. In fact, only the Left Party voted against it in parliament. It makes it all the more spectacular that when the legislation and agreement are now to be complied with, it is no longer only the Left Party that opposes this. Neither L nor the government itself are behind the intentions any longer. We in the Center Party have long seen that something needs to be done. We've had several talks with the government. We have personally discussed the implementation of the legislation with three different Environment Ministers. None of them were interested in living up to what we had decided. That is extremely remarkable. There was therefore no other solution but to go to Parliament, as we know it is urgent because it is to be decided on the water authorities' action programme in December. There's no time to wait. Something needs to be done here. That is why we tabled the committee initiative, and that is nothing strange. It has sounded in the speaker's chair that it is a matter of destroying and deteriorating. It is simply a matter of living up to the legislation that we already have. We're not asking for anything else. We demand that the government listens to its authorities, which have voiced criticism. We are also calling for legislation that is in line with the proposal on the aquatic environment and hydropower and the objectives of the food strategy that we have decided on. We call for ensuring that the water authorities take into account all the benefits that exist in the aquatic environment and to the cultural environment, agriculture and water bodies that cannot be handled otherwise than with a derogation. It also states in the Energy Agreement that we shall ensure that the effect increases in existing hydropower. It is also something that needs to be taken into account. Of course, when dealing with legislation and standards that affect individual activities, one has the right to have one's individual case examined, not desk assessments. It is a matter of course for us in the Center Party but obviously not for the government. Maria Gardfjell says we're talking about alternative facts. It is beneath this speaker's dignity to say so, especially when the committee initiative quotes, for example, the Maritime and Water Authority, its own expert authority, which says that guidance has not been followed and that classifications of heavily modified waters, the KMV, and less stringent requirements are needed in order not to knock out a large number of activities. These are not alternative facts. That's the truth of the day. At the same time, it is stressed that such exceptions and less stringent requirements do not mean that nothing should be done. This means that everything should be done that is manageable and relevant to the individual business. Otherwise, a very large number of activities would be eliminated. Nor is it an alternative fact that the Swedish Board of Agriculture says that the implementation of the classification of heavily modified water is needed. This is necessary because more than half of Sweden's agricultural land is dependent on land dewatering facilities in order to be managed. It is even uncertain how much of this would be affected. They talk about somewhere between 5,000 and 12,000 hectares, according to the models that exist. There are significant areas that would be affected. How this goes with the goals of increased production in the food strategy and the government's desire to reduce emissions from consumption, there is also no answer. The truth is that water management and water authorities are geared unilaterally towards improving the aquatic environment and lack of balance with other environmental and other important societal objectives. As a parliament, we urge the government to take care of this, to look to the whole. None of the previous speakers from the government parties have been able to do that. We need to use the entire breadth of the county boards in this work, all the skills, not just the one-sided ones. Let me take an example of what could be the effect if the water authorities' action programme goes through. Uppsala Municipality and the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency fully agree that best technology is used in the new treatment plant. An increasing population still leads to increased emissions, so the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency estimates that the ability to reach the water quality standard good ecological status is at risk. This means, in practice, that you can either introduce a stop to moving into Uppsala or perhaps some form of a child policy, or else other activities need to be closed down or required to change within the permit you have already received. None of this is legal or reasonable. We have water authorities that do not take account of reality and do not care about making specific assessments of watercourses, but they are based on stencils and desk assessments. The Energy Agreement concluded that the limit for significant negative impacts on hydropower is 2.3 per cent or 1.5 terawatt hours for the whole of Sweden. The Social Democrats signed that. This was signed by the Green Party and, of course, by the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Center Party. It was based on figures from the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and the Swedish Energy Agency. The level is not binding, but we agree politically that this is the level to be achieved. The Agency for Marine and Water Management, HaV, then allocated the 2.3 per cent to main river basins and set indicative values. We have some comments on the guide values. But what the water authorities are doing now is completely ignoring the guide values. They are not taken into account, but the standards that have been decided so far lead to a loss of production that may be three times the limit of significant negative impact. We can take the example of Ljungan. There the benchmark was 0.5 per cent. Then we are talking about many hydropower plants that are class 1, i.e. the absolutely most important for the Swedish energy supply. The Agency for Marine and Water Management said 0.5% and the water authorities said 5%. Now they have adjusted some of the parts but in such a way that the benefits of the measures are almost non-existent. But the costs are 80 times higher. This is completely unreasonable. The initiative we are discussing today is nothing strange. We demand that the government comply with its own legislation – that is not much to ask. It is a piece of legislation that we have previously agreed on. And the use of exceptions when justified is exactly the way EU law is to be used. Derogations may be made subject to compliance with certain conditions and compliance with the acquis. Of course, the European Commission is also looking into this, and it is important to follow reporting requirements and accounting methods. And Member States are able to define and justify less stringent requirements, for example when it is technically impossible to meet the requirements, as in the case of Uppsala, or if it is excessively expensive, as in the case of very small hydropower. It is therefore entirely appropriate and enshrined in the EU directive to do so. To those party representatives who have spoken before me and who wish to reject the initiative, I have a few questions. To the Social Democrats: In your reservation you and the Green Party write that the importance of the already expanded hydropower for the Swedish energy system is fundamental, and I agree with that. But how do the Social Democrats and the government see the water authorities' proposals going so incredibly far beyond what we agree on, so that the consequences would be insurmountable for the Swedish energy system? The high electricity prices we now see would in one stroke dramatically increase if we removed about 20 percent of the electricity supply on a cold winter day in southern Sweden. To the Green Party: Maria Gardfjell is himself from Uppsala. How does the Green Party view the fact that Uppsala cannot grow with the current legislation unless exceptions are applied? The Liberals I know protect culture. When the National Aquarium Office says that the Water Authority's proposal is the greatest threat to the cultural environment we have seen for a very long time, I react. There are no exceptions decided on by cultural environmental considerations. Why aren't the Liberals reacting? The Left Party has not spoken here today, but has written in its reservation that the IPCC report as well as the weather events of recent summers show with all the necessary clarity that extreme weather in the form of heavy rain, heat waves and droughts will become increasingly common. Yeah, I agree. Having ponds in the landscape protects against floods, stops some of the eutrophication problems when sediment sinks to the bottom and slows up water so that groundwater levels can increase. With ponds, we avoid for much of the year dry furrows that threaten wildlife, and they create stability in the water supply. More extreme weather events are an argument for keeping ponds and exploiting the social benefits they bring. How, then, can the Left Party wish to reject this initiative? This whole soup is a typical example of when authorities work in drain pipes and do not see the whole picture. It is difficult even in the Swedish parliament because we are also divided into drain pipes. Somewhere we have to take this discussion, and where is it to be taken if not in the Committee on Environment and Agriculture? It obviously needs to be worked on the aquatic environment and biodiversity measures. However, the measures taken must be effective, justified and cost-effective. At present, different authorities have completely disparate images of reality and operators do not get their case properly tested. It is not worthy of a rule of law like Sweden. The government must review the programmes and ensure that everyone gets a fair and individual trial and ensure that other societal goals are not threatened. This is obvious to us in the Center Party but obviously not to the government, the Left Party and the Liberals. This process is further that evidence that the government needs to work with permit processes, government decisions and government cultures in a way that is not done. When the state authorities speak with such disparate voices, something is fundamentally wrong. Water management needs to be reviewed, government culture needs to be more service-oriented and Sweden needs to stop overinterpreting EU legislation. I am pleased that a majority in the Swedish Parliament has recognised this and support the initiative of the Center Party, which I hereby support. We cannot sacrifice our agricultural land, our energy system and our social development by overinterpreting European legislation and not applying the legislation that seven out of eight parties have supported. We agreed on it when it was clubbed, so let's go through with it. The government must act even if the House is unwilling in part. It is about large parts of Sweden's future.
i-2ef7ead3e5141f6c-308	Madam President, I would like In Sweden there are approximately 1,900 small-scale hydroelectric power plants in operation. These produce approximately 4.3 terawatt hours of electricity per year, equivalent to 860,000 household electricity use per year. Most hydropower plants in operation are located in southern Sweden, where we also note that the power shortage is greatest. For the power supply in southern Sweden, small-scale hydropower is important. It contributes to net stability. With the destruction of many power plants, the government's forcing and escalating electricity crisis will be even greater. There are over 40 000 rapids in Sweden, of which approximately 5 per cent are currently used for the extraction of hydroelectric power. Small-scale hydroelectric plants have a total value of SEK 25 billion and contribute to approximately 4,000 jobs. The socio-economic value of annual production is SEK 4 – 5 billion, in addition to the cultural values these facilities give us. In Sweden there are about 300 working life museums near water, many local associations and small hydropower plants. These are important as a living environment, for recreation and for tourism. For many of the facilities, the location right next to a watercourse is the prerequisite for the operation. Many of these facilities are now under threat. There are unreasonable demands on several small players who may run an old mill or preserve an old industrial environment from the 1700s. Madam President, I would like The production of small hydro power increases the export of electricity to or reduces imports of electricity from our neighbouring countries and therefore reduces their coal power production. As the climate knows no limits, this means a reduction of carbon dioxide emissions equivalent to 7% of the Swedish, a figure that can be increased to 14% in the expansion of existing power plants that is possible. Since climate change is one of the greatest threats to biodiversity and thus to a rich fauna and flora in the aquatic environment, it should also be possible in this case to have two thoughts in mind at the same time. Countless communities and cities have grown up around the use of hydropower since it began to be used during the Middle Ages. Several million people live near or near the lakes, ponds and watercourses where the water level is maintained thanks to the dams of the power plants. Without these, water mirrors would disappear, jetties and boats would end up on dry land, drinking water supplies would become more difficult to handle and floods would become more difficult to manage. Countless farms, industries, communities, villages and cities have used the flowing power, first as mechanical energy and now as modern electrical energy. Production of electricity can double without changing water management. Most small-scale hydroelectric plants are so-called power plants that do not prevent natural variations in water flow. I don't have to go further than 100 meters from my own home to the small border river Långebäck, which makes up the Norwegian border. This river was previously used for timber rafting and had good strains of fine brook trout – as long as the ponds remained. When the dams were demolished in the early 90's, the water flow changed considerably, leaving only a debris of the formerly powerful trout tribe. During dry summers, there is hardly any water left for what it looked like earlier. Madam President, I would like We need to see the whole picture of these issues and not move forward with big blindfolds as the authorities and the government are doing to a large extent today. A healthy balance between different interests, where natural values have a place, should of course be sought. However, it can be noted that what is called an environmental perspective sometimes has a too narrow outlook. Depletions of dams and removals of water controls on the basis of alleged environmental reasons have in practice in several cases had the opposite effect with the drying of parts of watercourses and damage to animal life as a result. Madam President, I would like Ownership is becoming increasingly important in the general debate, and it is often now a question of forests. But there are several parts that fit in here too. Are you allowed to own and thus use what you own? Or should the public always take precedence over individual ownership? According to the government parties, the answer always seems to be that the public should go first. It's socialism in a nutshell. The individual owner shall not be bothered. It is also a question of small businesses in rural areas. If you are to make a living in rural areas, you must also be able to use the resources available there. There will once again be a big city perspective in the debate. Another concern that many bear witness to in these matters is the activism of authority. Some have come up in daylight and thus led to changes, but unfortunately there is still some to clean up. There is an announcement from 18 April 2018 to extend criminal liability for misconduct – or in pure Swedish: reinstate civil liability. At the time, the Parliament considered that increased criminal liability for misconduct in public administration would improve the legal certainty of citizens and increase confidence in public activities. Here we have not seen any delivery, but the issue has been hidden in an investigation that is really about something other than the direction in which the decision pointed out. As we heard earlier, the House made another announcement on 22 April 2019 based, among other things, on a motion from the Christian Democrats that the government should protect small-scale hydropower through reduced regulatory constraints, respect for property rights and effective and affordable environmental measures. Many owners of small-scale hydropower live today with concerns about environmental testing processes that can lead to widespread fatigue if the processes are designed incorrectly. Unfortunately, we have not seen delivery from the government in this matter either. Owners testify that the legislative changes so far have not had the intended effect on government management. Future trials in the so-called national plan risk taking out many works if the trials are not designed with clear respect for property rights, for the historical value of the works and for the benefits of hydropower. Small-scale hydropower contributes to a more secure electricity supply, not least in southern Sweden, and it is a contribution that must be allowed to continue. The Christian Democrats would like to thank the Center Party for the committee initiative. We support this and call for the proposal in the report to be approved and for reservations to be rejected. Then we Christian Democrats want to go a little further in some parts of the structure of the government, among other things, and to introduce a moratorium on reconsiderations, for a number of reasons, but we will have to come back to the latter. I want to finish with a quote from a member of the association Vramsån's friends, but it could come from many places in Sweden: Is that really what we are aiming for, Madam President?
i-2ef7ead3e5141f6c-328	Madam President, I would like I have noted that the Christian Democrats support the Center Party's committee initiative on the implementation of the EU Water Framework Directive. Since water management is critical and rather complicated, I thought to start by asking some questions of principle to the Christian Democrats. Established in 1970 by the Constitutional Committee in the Swedish Parliament, the purpose of committee initiatives is to correct minor things in the government's work or to have a very broad majority to do something that is in need of time. Madam President, nothing of this – nothing – fits in with the Center Party's committee initiative on water, but the furious amount of committee initiatives that are currently being put forward in the Swedish Parliament. I can understand that committee initiatives can be short-term pleasurable for individual Members or parties, but this should leave time for reflection. My questions to the Christian Democrats in principle linked to water are: How do the Christian Democrats think that several issues in the committee initiative do not even affect the primary responsibilities of the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture? What do the Christian Democrats think about the practice of waiting to make various moves around committee initiatives before the parliamentary committees have been able to deal with the issue? And how do the Christian Democrats think that the committee initiative tool is now being used wildly in the Swedish parliament in a way that was not intended?
i-2ef7ead3e5141f6c-332	Madam President, I would like I thank Markus Selin for the questions. I must begin by stating that we have a committee initiative that the Center Party has put forward. Markus Selin has used his lines to yell at Moderates, Swedish Democrats and Christian Democrats, but the Center Party, which has tabled the committee initiative, is free. I draw some conclusions from this, but there it is up to me to think for myself. As far as the questions are concerned, there is a reason why the committee initiative is presented just as Rickard Nordin himself said in his speech, which Markus Selin did not take a line on. Here we have decisions taken in the Swedish parliament, which the government has previously supported and which it does not follow through. When we have announcements and decisions that do not follow through, we must do something, because it is about both the survival of traders and about culturally and historically valuable environments and so on, as we have heard. This isn't some kind of toy world, it's actually real. Then we must act when the government chooses not to act, which is what it is doing here, or possibly acting wrong. We have decisions. I myself mentioned several announcements in my speech that the Government has chosen not to proceed with in the way that Parliament has decided. Why does the government choose not to go ahead with this? As we heard, the decision that the government has partly supported in the past. Why do you do that, Markus Selin?
i-2ef7ead3e5141f6c-336	Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats mention that you should have two thoughts in your head at the same time, and you say yourself that this could be some kind of toy world. I take note of that. With two broad movements to the Riksdag for this year on water and the distribution of expenditure, the Christian Democrats wanted to significantly reduce measures for the marine and aquatic environment, by SEK 240 million. At the same time, the Christian Democrats opposed the fishing restrictions imposed on the acutely endangered eel – the eel we touched upon in the committee initiative as there are direct links between hydropower and eel hiking trails. The Christian Democrats wanted to cut off SEK 35 million for environmental monitoring and also for the Swedish Water House, for example. The Christian Democrats wanted to remove more than SEK 1 billion of the funds, equivalent to two thirds, earmarked for valuable natural environments and outdoor activities, which would bring a significant deterioration for Swedish fishing tourism, outdoor activities and all the country's recreational fishermen. Madam President, I would like When the Christian Democrats were on the move, they wanted to close down the entire Maritime and Water Authority. So, simply printed, with two thoughts in the head at the same time and the like: What do the Christian Democrats really want with Sweden's water?
i-2ef7ead3e5141f6c-340	Madam President, I would like We want balanced legislation also in relation to water and the other parts mentioned by Markus Selin. I referred to the structure of the government in my speech, and we will come back to that. Then it is a matter of priority. As I said, Markus Selin mentioned in his line everyone who does not own the land. On the other hand, he mentioned those who use the land, but as I said in my speech, may I remind Markus Selin that we have a right of ownership and therefore a right of use. Markus Selin did not mention this at all when he pointed to the protection of forests. That's one reason we're pulling down there. We must have legal certainty worthy of the name when it comes to the protection of Swedish forests. We're not there today. If we add even more money, the government can free up even more to take forests from ordinary foresters throughout Sweden. It is a Sweden that we do not want. We want legal certainty worthy of the name. This should also be pursued by the Social Democrats.
i-2ef7ead3e5141f6c-343	Madam President, I would like I have a somewhat serious question for Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson. I like to debate with Kjell-Kjell-Arne very much. There are a number of issues that have come up alongside the committee initiative and which I am very concerned about. One of those things is about what Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson mentioned in his speech, namely that the Christian Democrats want to ban people who are employees of government agencies from being active in and members of environmental organisations. This is called government activism. Another issue that has also been raised in connection with the committee initiative is that there are other politicians who advocate a reduction in support for environmental organisations that work to save our rivers, for example. This worries me a lot, and I would like to ask Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson how he views the proposals from a democratic perspective. Is this really compatible with the Constitution?
i-2ef7ead3e5141f6c-347	Madam President, I would like I thank Maria Gardfjell for the question. Here, too, I can state the facts and who Maria Gardfjell is taking the line on and not. It is not we who have taken this committee initiative, but it is the Center Party. I'm just reminding you of that. Then Maria Gardfjell gets to take a line on whoever she wants. Maria Gardfjell asked a question about democracy. Of course, we cannot ban anyone from being in organisations. We've talked about the Constitution before. And that is in the Constitution, and we cannot prohibit that. But sometimes there may be conflicts of interest, and it may not be appropriate to work in some places when you have other connections and there may be conflict situations. That could be the case. But for purely democratic reasons, it is not possible to ban anyone from being in organisations. It's against the Constitution. We see a wave of appeals in many parts, especially around the forest. During the summer someone said in the media: No matter where the felling takes place, it is as safe as amen in the church that there will be an appeal from Öland's southern cape. Unfortunately, we see that appeals come from organisations and people who do not live and work where it should happen. You appeal and appeal as a pattern regardless. This applies to what people own. Then it should apply to those who live around this area and who in some way might be affected by this. But they are not the ones who appeal, because there they know how this works. Unfortunately, it is organisations that are to a large extent putting obstacles in the way of life in the Swedish countryside to work.
i-2ef7ead3e5141f6c-352	Madam President, I would like I believe that if Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson had visited the Bird Life organisation, he would have known that they are not based on Öland's southern cape, but in the middle of Öland. I'm gonna move on. It is very worrying that the Christian Democrats are pushing that individual officials who work in public authorities should not be allowed to organise themselves in ordinary organisations. I think it is a major democratic problem. But I would also like to highlight the issue of hydropower. The reason why I take a line at Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson is what he said in the speaker's chair. We have 2,100 hydroelectric power plants in Sweden. Some 210 of them are large-scale. 80 percent of our watercourses are extended, and waterfalls and rapids are now rare. It is a very small part of the hydropower that is environmentally friendly. It is also a very large proportion of small hydroelectric plants that do not produce electricity. The energy agreement that exists between several parties in the Riksdag states that the natural environments around the small hydroelectric power plants are to be restored, which do not produce electricity, but which have a major impact on the living conditions of plants and animals. Now it emerges from Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson's speech that he wants to go further than the Center Party and put a moratorium and simply ban the possibility of environmentalising those watercourses that have been partly destroyed by small-scale hydropower. Is KD against the Energy Agreement?
i-2ef7ead3e5141f6c-358	Madam President, I would like First of all, I get to correct Maria Gardfjell. I didn't mention Bird Life. What I mentioned was what someone else had said, so those were not my own words. As far as individual officials are concerned, I think I was quite clear in my previous reply. No, we should not and we cannot prohibit being in an organisation because it is not compatible with the law. It's as simple as that. But when situations arise, the question is how to deal with them. This is not just about electricity generation. As we have heard before, it is about so much more. This affects a lot of things. This means that we must be able to have several thoughts at the same time in our heads. As I mentioned in my speech, small-scale hydropower is important in southern Sweden. That is where we have the power shortage, and that is where we would need even more power. If I do not remember wrong, we have almost as many power plants that are not running and could be used. We'd need them today. We need all the power we can get. Maria Gardfjell mentioned earlier the IPCC report. It was very clear in its scenarios that we must use everything we can get, and that includes nuclear power. But it never wants to mention Maria Gardfjell, although it is included in the IPCC report.
i-2ef7ead3e5141f6c-363	Madam President, I would like Today we are discussing, among other things, measures to reduce litter and the use of disposable plastic articles. There are several parts of this bill that I think are both important and necessary. Junk is a major environmental problem. Littering creates insecurity in the urban environment and in people's neighbourhoods. Junk has a negative impact on animal life, and it pollutes our seas. The Moderates want us to make Sweden waste-free, and we are in favour of reducing the use of disposable products in those areas where they can reasonably be replaced by other alternatives and where they are not needed for example for food safety or to maintain good hygiene. In order to reduce the spread of dangerous substances, pharmaceutical residues and microplastics, the Moderates have spent years in our budget on advanced purification technologies in our treatment plants precisely to get rid of these dangerous substances, this as another part of the work to reduce litter and hazardous substances. Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, there is a part of this particular proposal that we have to consider today, which I think is inadequate in terms of preparation. Therefore, the Moderates have called for rejection and asked the government to return with a new proposal. We are doing this not because we do not share the problem picture, but because the proposal is flawed in its form. It is not least about how Sweden will transpose the EU's disposable plastic directive and the increased producer responsibility for littering. The moderates' principle is that when the government implements EU directives, it should do so in a way that seeks to ensure that the rules are highly harmonised across the borders of the Member States, that they do not lead to competitive disadvantages for Swedish companies and that clear guidelines are given in time to stakeholders so that they have the opportunity to redeploy their activities. The Moderates believe that it is reasonable for producers to bear part of the cost of littering the products. However, it is also reasonable that these charges are reasonable and proportionate to the litter that the products actually involve. It is essential both to safeguard our businesses and our jobs and to maintain confidence in environmental policy. Incorrectly designed charges, without any requirement for compensation, are instead hidden taxes. This, I believe, damages confidence in environmental policy. In a memorandum, the Ministry of the Environment has developed a proposal for littering fees, on which Parliament must nevertheless base its proposal today. This proposal has been criticised from a number of quarters because it is not based on the actual costs of cleaning up, that it has been developed long before the Commission's guidance has been published, that the factual evidence is incomplete and that the proposed levels of fees far exceed the actual costs of cleaning up. This means in many ways that the proposal actually runs counter to the foundations of the disposable plastic directive. The Moderates note that the government's proposals for littering fees that have been presented go further both in terms of levels and in terms of the product categories to be covered. We note, of course, that through oral information in committee, the government has described a slightly different implementation of these fees compared to those presented in the memorandum on which the bill was based. This is a step in the right direction, I would say – but it is, after all, only oral information, and it is the government's proposal that the Parliament has to take a position on. It is therefore a pity, I think, that the government did not take account of the criticisms made by the referral bodies even before the draft was drawn up. That is why we have called for the government to come back with a new proposal that clearly addresses the shortcomings that not only the stakeholders have pointed out, but also, in fact, the Environmental Protection Agency, which points out that the system risks leading to an extremely extensive administration that is disproportionate to the environmental benefit. We simply cannot give carte blanche to the government to design this system just how it wants to. It won't be serious. Madam President, I would like Another part of the bill is about criminalizing low litter. You should simply be able to get a fine if you throw butts, gum or snuff in nature or in our urban environment. I think that is a good thing and a step in the right direction. We have long wanted to see such a change of law on the part of the Moderates. It is a matter of clarifying personal responsibilities, which must of course be combined with municipalities ensuring access to trash cans and bins so that it is easy to do the right thing. We also know that smaller debris such as butts, chewing gum and snus can contain dangerous substances that we do not want to spread in our nature either. We also know that the debris affects our urban environment and makes our surroundings less pleasant. Small litter also accounts for a very large proportion of the litter, so it is important and good that there is also a fine for this. Madam President, I would like However, the government has not given sufficient thought to how this should be put into practice. It is an important signal that you can get a cure if you litter, but that the police should hunt the butts I think will be a blow to the air. I also believe that many of us in this House, like people out there, would prefer the police to spend time and resources chasing down serious crime, tackling gang shootings and, for that matter, tackling serious environmental crimes. Other solutions are simply needed in order for the proposal to be effective. Therefore, the Moderates agree with, for example, the organisation Keep Sweden Clean, which for several years has argued that law enforcement officers should also be able to distribute fines for small litter. We would have liked to see the government take that step in this bill too, so we simply urge the government to return to Parliament with such a proposal. In this way, as Keep Sweden Clean put it in a debate article, the police can be relieved while society has the opportunity to indicate that littering is a crime to be taken seriously. In conclusion, Madam President, there are parts of this bill that are good. However, the memorandum underlying the implementation of the Single Plastics Directive was substandard. In fact, our serious work in this House to reduce litter had earned a better preparation and a better proposal here today. It is essential both to preserve opportunities for entrepreneurship and jobs in this country and to maintain confidence in environmental policy. Of course, I support all the reservations signed by the Moderates, but for the gain of time I only ask for reservation 6.
i-2ef7ead3e5141f6c-381	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 3 in the report. In August, after we had to take a position on the proposal being debated today, the Government Office for Environment and Agriculture informed the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development that it was considering changes compared to the one-time plastic memorandum. It is a matter of possibly no longer being subject to producer responsibility and charging. It is also considered to postpone implementation. Both of these considerations, we believe, are going in the right direction, but unfortunately they came late in the process and are therefore not present today for us to take a position on. Instead, it is the previous proposal in the bill that we are discussing today. On this basis, we want this bill to be rejected by the Parliament and a new, revised bill to be presented. However, since this is clearly not going to happen, we have some comments on the proposal that has actually been tabled. Since the producers' littering fees are proposed to be regulated by regulation and not by law, it is important that Parliament's authorisation does not go beyond what is necessary and that it ensures that the littering fee regulation only imposes cost liability on producers in accordance with the disposable plastic directive and the cost principle. When a directive is introduced into Swedish legislation, it is important that there is a predictability for industry regarding what implementation will mean. If the government receives an open authorisation from the Riksdag, it gives the government free hands to charge any fee. The government's proposal for authorisation is therefore far too transparent. This makes it impossible, in principle, to assess the consequences of different regulations once they are implemented. The fee model presented by the government in its proposal contains a number of uncertainties and less successful proposals. First of all, the government has chosen to build the charging model in such a way that it is more like an excise duty than a charge. There is simply no link between the actual cost of littering and the fee charged. For example, the Government proposes that the fee should not be calculated on the basis of the actual littering that takes place but on the number of products released on the Swedish market. In addition, the government's current fee estimates are based on a cost estimate of SEK 100 per inhabitant per year – although only one municipality in Sweden has made such a cost estimate, which is 45 SEK per inhabitant per year. These circumstances point to the fact that there is a tax rather than a levy on producers. Another point that has been raised in many places but which the government does not seem to have wanted to listen to is that practice in the industry is that garbage and waste is calculated based on weight or volume, not per unit piece that the government has chosen to do. This creates an injustice in that it penalises producers of small units in favour of producers of larger and heavier units. There is also a risk of inequality between different types of producers, as the Government's proposal excludes certain products that generate garbage and waste but imposes charges on others. As in the Government's proposal to impose a fee on producers of portionsnus as part of the implementation of the disposable plastic directive, we consider it to be very strange. We believe that this is an over-implementing of the directive. In addition, we would like to see the Government return to us with information on how often and on what grounds the fee levels will be continuously revised in the future. From the Swedish Democrats' side, we want to postpone the implementation of Article 8 of the Disposable Plastics Directive, which regulates producer responsibility. The Directive does not require its transposition until January 2023. This would give the government time to revise the shortcomings that I have pointed out. The European Commission will come up with guidelines later in 2021 on what can be considered a cost-effective and proportionate cost linked to the level of fees. The government should therefore wait until the Commission has actually presented these guidelines with a decision on authorisation and any regulations. Reducing litter is good, not least when it comes to plastics that end up in nature. But the government bill contains far too many injustices. It contains too short time limits and omits important elements on the basis of which the charge is to be levied. There is also a lack of elements on how often and how the regulation is to be evaluated and revised in order to have a good foundation in reality. This needs to be done again. Do it again! Do the right thing!
i-2ef7ead3e5141f6c-392	Madam President, I would like On the previous issue we debated, there was a lot of criticism of the government parties about lack of and poor preparation. I look forward to similar criticism in this case, where it is indeed justified, unlike in the previous one. Here, as we heard, it has been a very special handling of the bill; after our follow-up motions have been submitted, we have had a meeting with the Secretary of State who has orally explained to the committee that the government is considering a different implementation of the disposable plastic directive in several parts from the original investigation, based on the views of the referral bodies. It's a little strange. This is what you knew about when you wrote the bill. In retrospect, however, we have come to the conclusion that we have to change our mind. As I said, we only got the Secretary of State's word that changes can be made. It's not confirmed they're coming. It would be interesting to know what has happened in the scenes and why this matter is handled in such a reprehensible way. But regardless of the handling, I would like to move on to the bill, which we actually have to relate to. The Christian Democrats believe that the introduction of criminal liability for low litter is a good signal to promote individual clean-up responsibility. For several years we have been exercising on parts of this, including the problem of cigarette butts. It is enough to go for a short walk in the Old Town to see how big the problem is. The government's basis and method for determining the amount of cleaning fees is so problematic that the Christian Democrats propose that the Riksdag reject the bill in its current form and that the government should do it again and do it right, because the intention is nevertheless good. The Government proposes that the municipality be allowed to provide regulations that the cleaning fee should be paid for measures taken by the municipality, in order to inform households and operators of waste management. The memorandum on which the bill is based has been met with broad criticism in order to precede the guidelines that the European Commission is developing as a basis for the calculation of the clean-up fees. Instead of waiting for these studies or using existing data from municipalities that made calculations, the Ministry of the Environment has carried out its own study. The government's base has been criticised for using a hypothetical figure for total litter cost of SEK 100 per inhabitant per year. The hypothetical figure, compared to an existing municipal example, as we heard earlier, of SEK 45 per inhabitant per year, is exceptionally high. The consequence of an overcomparative ratio is that the charge far exceeds the actual costs of cleaning. With such a high fee, the link between littering and the fee is undermined. Unlike the European Commission, the government has also decided that the fee should be based on numbers instead of weight. This removes incentives for producers to manufacture small and light products with packaging. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency believes that the basis is substandard in order to determine whether the fee affects littering. Where the Directive only considered that the necessary cost-effective measures should be covered, the proposed clean-up fee model appears to be an over-implementing of the Directive. Sweden should be Bror Good and always do a little more. With the lack of individual compensation, where the producer can influence the reduction in the level of litter of his own products, the levy becomes of a general nature and appears more as a tax than as a charge. In order for the fee to be perceived as legitimate and transparent in a way that promotes reduced litter, its basis for calculation must be based on the actual litter costs incurred by municipalities. In the context of a possible fall in these costs, charges should also be able to be adjusted accordingly. Madam President, I would like The litter levy shall apply to producers of certain disposable plastic products. The single-use plastic directive exemplifies, among other things, mugs, lunch boxes and cigarettes with filters. In addition, the Government proposes that portionssnus should also be subject to the requirement to pay the littering fee. As can be seen from the referral, the adhesive used in the bag does not fall within the scope of the Directive. The government's proposal to include more products than the directive states again becomes an over-implementation, which, in our opinion, cannot be accepted. As I began by saying, we have received other signals. But we can't take them into account because it's the bill we handle and not oral information from the department. Overall, the proposal over-implements the proposals of the directives and provides for a non-acceptable basis. The Christian Democrats therefore reject the bill as a whole and want the government to come back with a proposal in which the producer's cleaning fee corresponds to the municipal litter costs, where the cleaning fee is based on weight instead of number and where the obligation for producers to pay littering fees is limited to the products specified in the disposable plastic directive. As I said, the intention is good. But, do it again! Do the right thing! I would like to conclude by calling for the approval of reservation number 1.
i-Q3W3xZsoWafzuDV45y8WBU	Madam President, I would like The report we are now discussing proposes amendments to the environmental code aimed at implementing the EU's single-use plastic directive and waste directive in Swedish law. Most of the proposed amendments relate to a number of authorisations to allow the implementation of the Directives at Regulation and Regulation level. Madam President, I would like Every hour about five bathtubs are washed up along the Bohus coast. One of Europe's most littered areas is here, in Sweden. If you look out of there, or from any other of Sweden's coasts, you can be sure that there is always one thing where you look even if you don't always see it: plastic. Plastic is an extremely important material, but when it ends up in our nature or in our seas as debris it has a negative impact on the environment, on tourism, on shipping and possibly also on human health. Plastic has a very long life. We also have more knowledge today about microplastic and plastic litter than we had at the time of drafting the penalty for littering and the exception for minor crimes. It was only when the global sustainability goals were adopted in September 2015 that plastic litter was recognised as a global environmental problem that needs to be combated. Because of a lack of knowledge in these areas, previous preparatory work lacks reasoning on the environmental impact of littering of small plastic-containing objects. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency conducted a national litter measurement during a week in June 2020. Despite the current pandemic, the measurement found a total of about 35 million debris items with a total weight of about 60 tonnes. Cigarette clips are the disposable plastic product that leads to the most littering. According to Håll Sverige Rent's report in 2020, around 1 billion butts are thrown into Swedish streets and squares every year. That's about 108 tons of plastic. According to the litter measurement carried out by the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, approximately 62 per cent of all litter is butts. During the week of the litter measurement about 21 million butts were found. Madam President, I would like It follows from the SPD that Member States should ensure that producers cover the costs of cleaning up waste from producers' products. The fees shall cover the costs incurred by the cleaning up of litter in a proportionate manner. The proposal and the report have raised many questions about the amount of the levy and the associated administrative costs. The Government Office has now announced that the ongoing work has a dialogue with the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency on how to limit the administration of littering fees. Furthermore, the amount of litter will only be fixed in 2023, i.e. after the Commission has presented its guidance on the matter. It is important that fees are regularly reviewed and can be adjusted. Any surplus of the revenue from the levy shall be refundable to the producers. Therefore, according to the Government, it is appropriate, not least for practical reasons, that the fee should be determined by regulations and not by law, on which there are motions. In the one-time plastic memorandum – not in the bill referred to earlier in the debate – the issue of portions and the large litter that is caused is highlighted. I think we really agree that this is a problem. The memo highlights a proposal on producer responsibility for portionsnus linked to a littering fee. This has given rise to very strong reactions and views, as snus is not regulated in the Single-Plastic Directive. The government has listened to these comments and has now announced that it does not intend to proceed with the proposal and does not intend to charge a fee for snus. Another important part of the implementation of the disposable plastic directive is the labelling of products. Here the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture wishes to highlight the importance of applying this authorisation in a way that, taking into account the requirements of the directive as far as possible, gives producers time for adaptation. The requirements for labelling are set out in the Commission Implementing Regulation, which applies directly in Sweden. The plan is now to introduce environmental sanctions for infringements only on 4 July 2022. This means that no sanctions will be imposed in the first year. Madam President, I would like One of the most common sources of microplastic formation is that macroplastics that litter in nature are gradually broken down into microplastics. The European Chemicals Agency, ECHA, in its proposal for the restriction of microplastics, has concluded that microplastics are considered to be very persistent and very bioaccumulative substances, i.e. substances that break down slowly and can be stored in living beings. These substances shall be restricted as far as possible. According to the Government, it is therefore not only the total litter, but also every individual buttock, every chewing gum, candy paper or the like that gives rise to adverse effects on the environment. It is also the case that garbage feeds debris that leads to scribbles and damage and, in turn, leads to insecurity. That's what several studies show. People simply perceive that it is okay to throw garbage in a place that is already littered. Finally, we lose respect for the place, and the trashy place is perceived as insecure. A survey conducted by Keep Sweden Clean revealed that junky areas are associated with insecurity and that you do not want to live in an area where it is junky because it means that those who live there do not care. Since 2011, the police have been able to impose fines for litter offences if they catch someone throwing junk like food packaging or pet bottles outdoors. The law has not concerned small litter. But it is reasonable to see all litter in the same way. For example, small litter is fined in countries such as Finland, Italy, France, the Netherlands and the United Kingdom. It is important how you look at littering, and it will be normative if the law on criminal liability for low litter is in place. This is an important signal for raising consumer awareness and for bringing about a change in behaviour. The police are also given another tool. Against this background, the committee does not believe that it is justified to initiate a decriminalisation of litter in order to allow for an exchange of sanctions. Madam President, I would like I support the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture's proposal for a decision.
i-2ef7ead3e5141f6c-425	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mrs Burwick, for your speech. I believe, just as Mrs Burwick was at some point, that we agree to deal with this social problem of littering. It is a bit of a pity that there have been so many ambiguities in the handling of the bill and that it was not more clearly dissociated from the memorandum at an earlier stage. Perhaps some of the debate would have been avoided. However, I note with some satisfaction that the fact that several parties have presented accompanying motions with severe criticism seems to have had an effect. This led the government to come to the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture to account for the changes now under consideration. That is why it was a good thing that we were several parties who pressed for an amendment to be made. I appreciate Mrs Burwick's presentation of the changes that the government intends to make. My question relates to the continuation of the procedure. When the committee had its hearing, it became clear that there has not been much dialogue between the government and the actors responsible for paying the garbage fees. In fact, there had been no dialogue at all, so when the actors came to the committee they knew nothing about the government's intended changes. Has there been any dialogue since then? Will the government clearly disassociate itself from the memorandum so that the actors know what will apply in the future?
i-AUFCJg6EFaLYrFNd4K5mMo	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jessica Rosencrantz, for the question! I cannot answer exactly what dialogue the government has had. I think the honourable Member will have to ask government representatives about that. However, I know that there has been some dialogue, but I cannot explain it exactly. There is information on the government's website on this particular matter, and there are several of the questions that the honourable Member is asking about.
i-2WSyzWAZLwrDmAz2VFPdVg	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Marlene Burwick, for your answer! I understand you don't know everything. But in this House, the Social Democrats and the Green Party are representatives of the government. Otherwise, the Government will simply have to come to the debates. However, I respect the fact that we cannot have an overview of all the details. I get to look at the website and examine this more closely there. I hope, however, that there will be dialogue, because it is clear that there has not been any such dialogue in the course of the work. It's a little unfortunate. Since complex systems are now to be designed and because it has received extensive criticism in the consultation round, it would have been good if you had worked together with the stakeholders to develop the best possible system. Let me ask you another question. Both at the committee meeting on the ongoing case at the department and now by Marlene Burwick it was described that there is a dialogue with the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency to review the administration of the system. That's very good. At the same time, not only has a reduction in administration been requested, but it has also been ensured that the fees are at a level that corresponds to the cost of actual litter. Is it the Government's and Social Democrats' ambition to find a level of contributions that is more consistent with the actual cost than has been the case in the preparatory work and in the memorandum?
i-2ef7ead3e5141f6c-434	Madam President, I would like Of course, the government has had dialogue with the actors and taken on board views and criticisms. That is also why we are making revised proposals, which I think is a good thing. When it comes to fees, they work with the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency. They are also working to ensure how the garbage measurements that are to be used as the basis for this are to be done. That is why the fees should not be fixed until 2023. Then Sweden will also be able to wait for what the European Commission is saying on this issue. I have also seen this as a contribution from many actors and several parties. The fees will be fixed in 2023, and then Sweden will have all the facts on the table. It is important to remember that the disposable plastic directive obliges producers to bear the costs of littering. I hope we agree on this. It is only reasonable to pay for the litter of our nature caused by your production.
i-2ef7ead3e5141f6c-439	Madam President, I would like The littering is a fairly clear example of the fact that environmental benefits can also be a gain in other ways for society. It has already been mentioned here in the speaker's chair today that littering is something that affects not only the environment but also the comfort and security of our towns and cities. In addition, we know that littering is a source of negative environmental impact, not least in our lakes, streams and seas, but also for the rest of the environment. It is a benefit for society in several stages, but also for the environment and ecosystems, if we succeed in reducing litter and the form of physical impact on the environment and ecosystems. It is therefore gratifying that this European directive is actually trying to get to the bottom of the problem of litter. It is perhaps the case that the construction is more focused on other EU countries than Sweden, where we have a fairly developed work to reduce litter and its environmental impact, but it is nevertheless a fundamentally commendable initiative. However, I would like to start by saying a few words about the Commission's handling of the directive and how it should be implemented in the Member States, which has not yet been mentioned in this debate. There is, to say the least, something to be desired, not least with regard to the time horizons and the requirements on when an individual Member State should have announced what measures it intends to implement. Those points of time have not only been rather narrow, but also before a comprehensive guidance from the Commission has been obtained. I have to say that I find it quite remarkable. There is reason to point out, for the future, from the Swedish side that it has not been one in all parts of good management by the European Commission. Having said that, we have yet to relate to the directive, and we shall implement it in the best possible way in Sweden. The implementation of the directive has also been the subject of negotiations on the basis of the January agreement between the Centre Party, the Liberals and the Government. The Centre Party's entry into those negotiations has always been that we should implement the directive in a way that allows us to overcome litter in the best possible and most effective way, while avoiding over-implementation and having a good dialogue with industries and companies that will be affected. We will simply try to find the best way to implement the directive. Since before the summer there is no longer the January agreement. It is no longer part of these negotiations. This puts us in a rather unique position when it comes to the handling of the authorisation proposal that is now on the table of the Riksdag. We have agreed on the need to move forward with appropriations in order to be able to relate to the timeframe set by the Commission. However, when the January agreement fell, we had not reached an agreement between the Liberals, the Center Party and the government parties on which regulations this will ultimately lead to. We were simply not finished in the negotiations. This is also the key issue that much of the debate today is about and which the discussion on implementation has been about in the past – what actual changes to regulations will be made and which will be decided on by the government? It is quite important whether these are regulations based on the line taken in the memo that has been released here or whether there are other changes in the regulation that are intended to be decided upon. Madam President, I would like On the basis of our inputs, I think it is easy to understand that we think it is good that the government has announced that it will withdraw some proposals and not implement them. The consultation round and the criticisms that have been made about the proposals as they are made in the memo and some of the facts on which they are based have been taken into account. This is something which, in itself, has come both too late and too unclear on the part of the government, but which we nevertheless assume will be met. This is, among other things, about the snuff, which we have talked about in the past. It's good that we don't include it-- it would have been an over-implementment. That does not mean, I believe, that someone in this House thinks we should have more snuff lying on our streets. It should end up in trash bins and in the lids that are on the snuff boxes, not on the paving stones. But it is also about how to design a system that gives us producer responsibility, that producers are involved in paying for the costs of littering and, by extension, that we reduce litter. The aim must be to ensure that the proposals contribute to the reduction of litter and to the strengthening of prevention. The fact that we also remember the whole preventive part is an important part of the continuation of this work, Madam President. The best piece of junk is what never becomes junk, but ends up where it's supposed to be. We must not forget that perspective either. Madam President, I would like On this basis, we have given a special opinion to make it clear that, on behalf of the Center Party – as the committee has written in the majority text of the report – we take note of the changes announced by the government and assume that they will also be implemented in line with what has been announced to Parliament during the preparation of the matter. Madam President, I would like Having said that, I would like to move on to the issue of criminal liability for low litter. I shall now do something that is somewhat controversial, Madam President. I must admit that I personally have some doubts about the removal of the exception on criminal liability for low litter. But I fully understand the entrance from the Center Party and the other parties that want to find and use all the tools to reduce litter. I think it is important to remember the preventive work that I have mentioned before. However, as one colleague said earlier, it is also important to remember to make it easy to do the right thing. If you wonder how easy it is to do right today, you can do the little thought experiment when you leave this Chamber to pretend you were a smoker and think about how close it really is between ashtrays and other places where you can get rid of your butt. We have a lot to do in the preventive work if it is to be easy to do the right thing. This does not mean that we do not also have a personal responsibility to reduce litter in this country. But there is still much to be done in the preventive part.
i-2ef7ead3e5141f6c-451	Madam President, I would like As a new Member, to open the Chamber with a speech on water and then to continue with a report on littering suits me very well. I am very pleased with this. I want to put my foot down firmly once and for all against the littering in nature that the disposable plastic contributes to. I shall therefore begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved. Madam President, I would like I'm an old scout leader. There's a mission that you give a scout patrol that they go in for with wool and hair. It is to go out on the forest walk, the day trip, with the mission to collect plastic throughout the day. Scouts love to collect plastic. The happiness in their eyes when they return from the forest promenade with a large bag full of plastic, that happiness in their eyes is amazing. But then it comes less amazing. They are less proud when they realize: How much junk must remain in the forest that we did not bring with us? Madam President, I would like Although I've gotten better, I'm the first to admit. You try to think one, two and three times when you cramped hold the little piece of plastic or gum in your hand. It's a matter of going and finding that trash can. My colleague said before here that we need more of them. We have improved, but we are not yet good enough. It needs a tougher hand for this, absolutely. Today in society we talk a lot about tougher moves, tougher penalties and so on. Don't get me wrong. It's not that it starts a gum and ends with gang crime, but there are parallels. We've been into it today. It is about insecurity and so on in society. I'm thinking about the plastic sea that we've seen pictures of from above. In our seas today, plastic floats around. There are huge amounts of plastic pouring into, for example, our west coast. Of this plastic, 85 percent are disposable plastics designed to be used only once. You thought maybe it wasn't that important, and then you threw it away. All this plastic is due to the human factor that it is not handled by throwing garbage properly. It is important not to become a moralist in this. I think that is very important to emphasise. That index finger would only make things worse. But that does not prevent us from pursuing a higher moral standard with this proposal when it comes to not throwing garbage around us. This proposal helps us. We need it to take responsibility. The responsibility for what we produce and the responsibility for throwing away their rubbish is the single best way to stop the great litter that we have that should not really exist. That should be a matter of course. Madam President, I would like My thoughts are still spinning. Why is this plastic so much in our society? We know what it's going to be, unfortunately. Why do we make it so much when we should do something different? Why doesn't littering the plastic reduce? Why is it increasing? Here politics sets its foot and now conveys a vision of where we want to go with the goal that we are going to achieve. The Single Plastics Directive is a minimum requirement. I have heard the word overimplement here several times. We have a minimum requirement to deal with. We'll have to do more. We'll do better. It's not wrong. It's not right to call it over-implement. Nor is it wrong for us to be called Bror Good in Europe if we were to do more. Wouldn't it be great if we could do more? Madam President, I would like Indeed, the Liberals are now in favour of the proposal. However, I still ask myself the question of this portion of schnapps. I'd like a little more to hold the thought of it. It is now being considered to remove producer responsibility for it. The plastic content in it is not high enough, according to the EU. But we can't be happy when we walk around and see the portionsus stay that long. The decomposition process is too long. About 12 – 13 percent of the trash is portion snuff. When I came to Parliament today, I saw more portions of snuff bags than butts. I therefore have my doubts about the argument about the snuff. I would like to point out that I am not against the snus. Now the producers have taken a good responsibility. There's a compartment in the case, in the snuff box, to put it in. That's great. But we should keep in mind that just like butts and tugg ummin we do not want to see it in our nature. These are prohibitions and requirements to improve waste collection and national targets to reduce consumption. These are labelling requirements, design requirements, cost recovery requirements in accordance with the polluter pays principle and awareness-raising measures. This allows us not only to keep minimum standards but to change up in the future. We only have one soil, and it's not like a plastic mug.
i-2ef7ead3e5141f6c-467	Madam President, I would like I would like to take this opportunity to support the committee's proposal in the report so that I do not forget it at the end. Last Saturday it was Keep Sweden Rent Day. There were 130,000 people picking up trash. It was mostly butts, because cigarette butts are Sweden's most common junk. One reason why Jakob Olofsgård may not have seen so many butts when he went to Parliament may have been that Keep Sweden Clean was here in the morning and picked 3,000 butts around the Parliament building despite the fact that the streets were completely clean. Cigarette butts are common. They have filters made of plastic. In addition, some environmental toxins from tobacco smoke end up in the filters. It is a major problem for the environment. Studies conducted by Keep Sweden Clean show that 93 percent of the Swedish people would be in favour of imposing fines for littering cigarettes. The D.A. has been positive. Even a lot of policemen have expressed support for it. One argument that is often heard in the debate is: should the police really spend their resources on low litter of this kind instead of focusing on serious crime? That's a pretty ignorant statement. The police would probably not spend much of their resources focusing on low litter. On the other hand, it is extremely important that there is an opportunity to intervene when someone litters in front of the police. Therefore, many who work on police patrols feel that it would be welcome in order to be able to act against non-standard behaviour. The fact that we now have this opportunity gives the police another tool against the prank. Sweden has been quite lonely in Europe to have an exception for low litter. It was the alliance government that decided in 2011 to oppose this type of legislation. As we have heard today, the Moderates are still against a great deal of the elements of this legislation because they reserve their rights. Had the Moderates been proponents of not spreading litter of this kind that butts, small debris, coke paper and other things, we would probably have had a different view of our streets today. But now we're giving a signal that it's not okay to throw butts, gum or coke paper on the streets. This will make it easier for everyone in the Swedish population to know what applies. The environment benefits, and we get cleaner, more attractive and safer environments in our cities and communities. Now the environmental code is also to be amended, and we are implementing the disposable plastic directive in Sweden. When waste has been measured on beaches in the EU area, it turns out that plastic accounts for 80 to 85% of marine litter. Half of these are disposable plastic products. The measures in the Single-Plastic Directive are mainly aimed at fishing gear and various plastic articles, which litter most. The Single Plastics Directive aims to combat the littering in the EU of these plastic products with the greatest environmental impact. There will be a littering charge, there will be labelling requirements, we will have a collection system for butts and so on. We also get design requirements. I do not think we should underestimate how incredibly important it is to have an eco-design of different types of products. It will help in the work to reduce litter. Just take the plastic bottles from which you drink water or soda! If the cork were to remain on the bottle instead of being able to take it off and throw it away separately, that littering would reduce quite radically. The directive also includes the introduction of producer responsibility, and the government will be authorised to draw up detailed rules. There are quite a few speakers here who have looked at exactly how the government has reasoned and how it wants to change the proposals compared to what was presented before the bill was written. I think, as previous speakers have said, that although snus may not now be proposed at the first stage, it is quite important to remember that the small fabric around the snusprillan in the portion packaging is not actually biodegradable. So remember that unless this kind of litter can be reduced otherwise, the government will have to act against this kind of litter at some point in the future. While we are in this Chamber, I would like to emphasise that plastic litter is also a major climate problem. When I was a municipal councillor in Uppsala, we started the project Hunting on plastic, which aimed to reduce climate emissions from plastic. In fact, the project concerned both the production of plastics from renewable raw materials and, above all, the need to increase recycling and to reduce combustion in plastic products. These directives make it incredibly much easier to introduce producer responsibility in more areas to get recycling systems up and running better. I want to tell you that this week Vattenfall Värme in Uppsala went out with the information that if the Swedish people, and Uppsala residents in this case, become better at sorting out plastic when leaving the garbage in their garbage rooms, the costs of the heat will also be reduced. It is associated with large costs for cogeneration companies to burn plastic, and it is also incredibly important. Madam President, I would like I would like to conclude by saying that more multi-packaging and fewer disposable packaging are an extremely important effort to reduce waste of resources and to achieve a cleaner and safer environment.
i-2ef7ead3e5141f6c-482	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Maria Gardfjell, for your speech. I wasn't quite sure if I was going to ask for a line, but then the insults began to hail. My statements were ignorant, and actually the Moderates are probably against a clean environment. I was just waiting to hear that we're having kids for breakfast. It gets a little tiring in the debate, when I really think we want the same thing. Especially strange is the question of what it is that Maria Gardfjell criticises. Is it that we point out what many other stakeholders have pointed out – that there has been a lack of management of the legislative product? Is it that the Moderates want to go further than the Green Party in terms of fines for small litter? Because that's the way it is. I think it is a good thing that the police are given the power to distribute fines also for small litter. But I think there is a point in that security officers should also be able to do so so that we can get to grips with the problems in real life. I think we can still agree relatively that the signal value is there and that there may be contexts where it is good that the police have this possibility. But it would make even greater difference if security guards too were to relieve the police in this work. I am proud of the fact that the Alliance Government imposed fines for litter infraction. Let's take the next step. My question to Maria Gardfjell is: Is the Green Party totally opposed also to allowing security officers to issue this kind of fine or fine? This is something that the government's own investigators have pointed out as a measure that would be good and something that Keep Sweden Clean has said for years would make sense to both relieve the police and deal with the litter. What does Maria Gardfjell think about the possibility for security officers to hand out fines?
i-2ef7ead3e5141f6c-487	Madam President, I would like Thank you for an incredibly important question from Jessica Rosencrantz! The Green Party is, of course, strongly in favour of ensuring that security officers can also be involved in working against littering. However, in order for the government to take this initiative, changes in other types of legislation, which are under the responsibility of the Ministry of Justice, are also required. In order for the government to be able to initiate this work, a decision is required here in the Riksdag today to create the authority regarding this work and the changes in the environmental code. Such measures could then be taken at the Ministry of Justice and further developed with such types of proposals. I and the Green Party would think that would be very good. With regard to the question of ignorance, one argument that is often put forward is that the police should not give priority to small-scale crime and that this is an ignorant claim. Perhaps I should have been clearer, Madam President, but it is actually a statement by a police officer who has written an article together with Keep Sweden Clean. The article is about how important it is for the police to be able to have another tool in their toolbox when they meet the youth gangs who provocatively throw small litter in front of the police and they cannot act on this. This is therefore a welcome contribution in order for the police simply to be able to act against cross-border behaviour on the part of youth gangs.
i-2ef7ead3e5141f6c-492	Madam President, I would like That's great. Then the Moderates and the Green Party can fight together to also take the next step and also give the security officers this power. Thank you for that clarification. I want to be clear again, because there seems to be misunderstanding all the time: we also think that the police should have this power. We also want to give it to security guards. We don't see that it has to be one or the other. A step along the way was good. It would have been good if you had come even further now. I can see that there are some boots directed against the alliance government, but this government has been sitting for a while now. It has had seven years to come up with this bill and had definitely been able to prepare even the slightly more complicated aspects of the Ministry of Justice. However, I keep my fingers crossed because you are doing what you can in this last year with this government. Otherwise, I guess we'll have to deal with it later. But this was good and positive. My question back may well be: Is it the view of the whole government that we should proceed with the proposal to allow officers to distribute fines, and if so, when can we expect such a proposal to come?
i-2ef7ead3e5141f6c-496	Madam President, I would like First of all, however, we must note that it is the voters who choose who is able to form a government after the next elections. It is absolutely important to move forward with all forms of proposals that can reduce litter. I suggest that Jessica Rosencrantz also put questions to the Minister for Justice about this, because I cannot answer exactly how the whole government sees the question on the basis of my contacts at the Ministry of the Environment. However, I think it is very positive, and there is also a precondition for this now after this afternoon's decision on the new rules. I would also like to highlight an issue that Jessica Rosencrantz touched on in her speech, namely that it must not be too complicated and bureaucratic to introduce both the litter charge and the forms of cleaning up the litter. Here there is a small problem: In some municipalities there can be very few people, but you may have a very large tourism industry. Then it can be extremely important that the rules are still a bit complicated so that we have an opportunity to focus more resources to municipalities with a lot of tourism. They will have the resources to be able to have a very good cleaning. I'd like to take this opportunity to say.
