i-15bd51326a94d2f6-1	Mr President, I would like to Allow me to begin by saying a few words about the tragic plane crash in Örebro yesterday. Nine fellow humans died. We're thinking about them. We think of the families of the dead, loved ones, and we express our deepest condolences to you. Mr President, I would like to Let me report the ministers who, together with me, form part of the government.
i-15bd51326a94d2f6-3	Prime Minister and Head of the Ministry of Justice is Morgan Johansson. Minister of Justice in the Ministry of Justice is also Mikael Damberg. Prime Minister and Head of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is Ann Linde. Minister of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is also Anna Hallberg and Per Olsson Fridh. Prime Minister and Head of the Ministry of Defence is Peter Hultqvist. Minister and Head of the Ministry of Social Affairs is Lena Hallengren. Minister of Social Affairs is also Ardalan Shekarabi. Minister and Head of the Ministry of Finance is Magdalena Andersson. Minister at the Ministry of Finance is also Lena Micko and Åsa Lindhagen. Minister and Head of the Ministry of Education is Anna Ekström. Minister of Education is also Matilda Ernkrans. Minister, Deputy Prime Minister and Head of the Environmental Department is Per Bolund. Prime Minister and Head of the Ministry of Enterprise is Ibrahim Baylan. Prime Minister and Head of the Ministry of Culture is Amanda Lind. Prime Minister and Head of the Ministry of Labour is Eva Nordmark. Minister at the Ministry of Labour is also Märta Stenevi. Prime Minister and Head of the Department of Infrastructure is Tomas Eneroth. Minister at the Ministry of Infrastructure is also Anders Ygeman.
i-15bd51326a94d2f6-12	Before closing the sitting, I would like to express my warm thanks on behalf of Parliament to Deputy Parliamentary Director Claes Mårtensson, who is leaving office for the last time as Parliamentary Secretary today. Instead, he will become the lawman and head of the Administrative Court of Växjö. Thank you very much for your many years of faithful service in Parliament. Thank you very much.
