i-ffa3992a34433214-15	Madam President, I would like Qualified labour migration is very valuable to Sweden. Our economy and our companies depend on people wanting to come here and contribute their knowledge, dreams and ambitions. That is why we must protect and strengthen the image of Sweden as an attractive country for talent and hard work. Among other things, we do this by reducing the hassle and short processing times. We Moderates want to see a 30-day guarantee for processing and a one-stop-shop to Swedish authorities for highly qualified workers. Once and for all, we must stop deterring excellence from coming here because of the risk of deportation. Thanks to the fact that we gathered a majority in Parliament for new directives for the government's investigation, it now looks like we are finally ending the expulsions of competence. Had it not been for us, the government would still have been mapping whether there is a problem at all. However, this mapping can be done easily by opening the daily newspaper. Madam President, I would like While Sweden should be the obvious country for talent, we must have zero tolerance against cheating and exploitation. In recent years we have been faced with terrible reports of how foreign labour is exploited in Sweden. Since the introduction of the current regulatory framework in 2008, the labour market has changed a lot. The reform was correct, but reforms must be nurtured and adapted as society develops. Doors that criminal bends up must be clogged and walled up. Hundreds of thousands of people have come to Sweden in recent years as asylum seekers, and too many stand year after year without a job. That is why our unemployment is one of the highest in the European Union. At the same time, criminals have found new ways to exploit both the rules on labour immigration and our asylum system, and in some cases we are dealing with pure attacks on our common welfare systems. Just look at the assistance fee! It undermines respect for and confidence in our regulations. We cannot allow this to continue. The Social Democrats repeatedly claim that they want to do something about the problems, but not a single proposal has been put on the table in recent years. Labour immigration is perhaps the area that best illustrates the problems of the January agreement. In fact, there is a clear majority in this House to do something about the problems. The Social Democrats are constantly out and rolling in a very loud tone about the exploitation of the Swedish labour market as a result of today's regulations, and everything is of course the Moderates' fault. However, instead of doing something about it, the Social Democrats, in order to retain power at all costs, have signed up to paragraph 21 of the January Agreement, which states that the current rules on labour immigration should be safeguarded. That's why everything's just empty words, but empty barrels, as you know, rattle the most. At the same time, the opposition has continued to develop its policy and put forward a series of proposals for change. We Moderates have this year put forward four sharp proposals in the Riksdag to tighten the regulatory framework for labour migration. These are proposals that should be supported in Parliament if each party voted for the policy they claim to stand for. Firstly, we want to increase wage demands. Today you can come here against a promise to receive a monthly salary of $15,000 a month. This is unreasonable, and it obviously invites cheating. The focus should be more clearly on the more skilled part of the labour market. Therefore, we propose a wage requirement of at least the median salary in Sweden, i.e. SEK 31 700 per month. I would like to remind you that we are now not talking about the nearly half a billion people living in the European Union, nor about seasonal workers or researchers, who are exempt from this wage requirement. But when so many people here in Sweden do not have a job, it is unreasonable that thousands of people come every year from across the world to work in cleaning, fast food restaurants and as newspaper carriers. In order to increase the driving forces to move from grants to work, we also propose a comprehensive benefit reform with a ceiling, lower taxes on income and a gradual qualification to the Swedish welfare systems for those who have immigrated to Sweden. If you can work, you should also contribute. Secondly, we propose to stop track changes. A change of track means that an asylum seeker who is refused an asylum application can instead apply for a work permit. This encourages abuse – people without asylum reasons still come here. This, of course, requires resources that should go to those who need these resources most. We have all heard about the Ukrainian working property that organises travel for people who apparently lack asylum reasons but still come here seeking asylum and in the meantime live free of charge and then change tracks and become labour immigrants. This is not a small problem – compared to 2016, track changes have increased by 600 per cent. Thirdly, Madam President, there must be a stop to labour migration to personal assistance. Scandal after scandal shows how big the problem is, and according to the National Intelligence Centre there is a clear link between labour migration to personal assistance and organised criminal arrangements that exploit vulnerable people, exploit our generous welfare systems and exploit Swedish taxpayers. This has to stop. That is why, Madam President, I am in favour of reservation 12. Finally, we must introduce a proper supply requirement for family members. The Moderates propose a proper supply requirement. It is unreasonable that everyone with a contract of employment in Sweden can bring their families here without being able to support them and that they have access to Sweden's welfare system. For example, there must be requirements for housing of sufficient size and standard. Sweden now needs to reform labour migration in line with today's reality. We will protect Sweden as an attractive knowledge nation while stopping cheating and exploitation. Unfortunately, it is in this area that migration policy at large: the Social Democrats say one thing but do another. There is now a need for a new bourgeois government capable of carrying out powerful reforms and not just of rewriting them on the pages of the newspapers' debate.
i-ffa3992a34433214-31	Today we are debating labour immigration, and I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 16. The Swedish Democrats believe that every labour market should strive for a long-term balance. At the same time, we know that all economies are changing in the short and long term. Therefore, we welcome the opportunity to supplement the Swedish labour market with foreign labour, if necessary. In addition, particularly in some industries with fast and advanced technology development, there is a value in exchanging skills and experience. A sustainable labour market policy must, however, be based on balanced balances taking into account both the individual's conditions and the stability of the labour market. As long as there has been labour immigration in Sweden, it has been a fundamental principle that it should take place in accordance with the established conditions that apply on the Swedish labour market, the Swedish model. Both employees and employers commit themselves to the right conditions through collective agreements and similar conditions. It has served our people well. Despite this, we have recently heard more and more about labour immigrants who are being exploited and mistreated, while at the same time the labour market is being put out of control by fake employment, dumped wages and other abuses. At present, the Finnish Immigration Service mainly checks the conditions and circumstances surrounding an alien's employment in connection with the application for an extension. This is the background to the fact that workers can be rejected because of long-term shortcomings. Madam President, I would like At the same time, Sweden has become one of the world's best and most advanced economies with high demands on both education and knowledge. The number of jobs for the low-skilled is steadily declining and the scope for people without qualifications is becoming only smaller and smaller. Unemployment is increasing, just like exclusion and poverty, in this group. Despite this, a large part of the labour migration to Sweden today is just a low-skilled workforce in professions such as waitresses or pizza bakers, which are high on the list. The problems are even greater when the demands for labour migration are so low, such as 13 000 SEK in salary and no requirements for family members. Madam President, I would like It is clear that the system is not working. People and the labour market are getting hurt. We Swedish democrats are therefore proposing a number of reforms aimed at improving the system: sponsored skills requirements for labour migration. No more cleaners, pizza bakers or taxi drivers from the other side of the world. We have enough problems with exclusion as it is today. 中 regular requirements for reasonable forms of employment under collective agreements or similar conditions; It should not be enough to be entitled to a holiday. One should actually have one's vacation and not be afraid to lose one's job. sponsored supply requirements for family members. If you can't support your family to the full, they shouldn't come here to live in poverty. • regular checks to ensure that both employers and employees keep their promises and comply with the rules for a fairer, fairer and better labour market; Madam President, I would like At present, an asylum seeker who has been rejected in all instances, after several years of residence in Sweden with the support of the taxpayer, is given a special tailor-made chance to stay anyway by applying for a work permit, the so-called change of track. Normally, as is known, a foreigner must apply for and wait for the permit outside Sweden. But instead of being expelled after a refusal, which must be regarded as the point of the whole idea of regulated immigration, the foreigner is in practice given a sour cream for a sought-after work permit. The Swedish Democrats believe that this is unreasonable. A no should be a no. A foreigner who has been refused his asylum application should be liable for reimbursement rather than a tailor-made right to a residence permit. We therefore propose that the so-called change of track be completely abolished.
i-ffa3992a34433214-45	Madam President, I would like Labour migration is positive for Sweden. It contributes to the development of our country. People from other parts of the world can fill gaps in the Swedish labour market while improving their living conditions and realizing their dreams. Business needs can be met while working life and society at large become richer. All of this presupposes that the regulatory framework works. Unfortunately, the regulatory framework introduced by the Reinfeldt government and the MP in 2008 has led to a completely different situation, as the Left Party and the trade union movement predicted back then. People are lured here from other countries, exploited under slave-like working conditions and risk being punished if they report the employer. It reinforces the unequal balance of power in the labour market and impairs the conditions for the country's employees. Between 2008 and 2009, the average earnings of migrant workers fell by 30 per cent. In some sectors, exploitation is almost systematic and makes it very difficult for serious operators to survive. The same regulatory framework also leads to the expulsion of sought-after and sought-after labour as a result of minor errors and mistakes committed by the employer. Once again, employees are punished for the shortcomings and mistakes of the employer, and that is completely unreasonable. The framework for labour immigration needs to be fundamentally amended. The underlying principle behind the 2008 reform, that companies should decide unilaterally when to go outside the Swedish labour market in order to find staff, must be changed if we are to overcome the problems that we see in terms of labour exploitation, working life crime and wage dumping. The Social Democrats often say that they see the same problem as the Left Party. A party with its roots in the labour movement should work to strengthen the situation of employees in the labour market and to achieve a more balanced balance of power between the parties. We have appealed to the government to resolve together the serious problems that exist with today's system, unfortunately without success. Instead, the government refers to a January agreement which has already fallen on a point-by-point basis. The investigative proposals presented in a recent interim report – itself influenced by additional directives that the Left Party was involved in creating a majority for – are far from sufficient. This is also pointed out by, among others, LO. Sweden needs proposals that really solve the problems of exploitation and conditional dumping created by the current labour immigration regulations. There must be guarantees that immigrants are not exploited and are not used to dump wages and working conditions on the Swedish labour market. The regulatory framework should be based on six simple principles: Firstly, the employer should be able to demonstrate that recruitment is based on an actual shortage of labour and not just a shortage of cheap and desperate labour that is easy to exploit. Secondly, the work offer must be legally binding, i.e. that the promise given as a basis for the work permit is kept. Thirdly, full-time employment must be a requirement so that the employee can actually live on his or her salary. Fourthly, a thorough assessment of employers' behaviour must be carried out before a work permit is granted. Fifthly, workers who come forward and talk about abuses should be allowed to stay in Sweden for the permit period, so that they have the security to come forward and tell about what is happening. Sixthly, penalties should be imposed on employers who exploit migrant workers and compensation should be awarded to the worker affected. These are principles that should be self-evident and that would effectively reduce the opportunity to enslave and exploit people in the Swedish labour market. The reports on exploitation and slavery that we have received from trade unions, authorities and civil society organisations ever since the rules on labour immigration were amended are now accompanied by new reports on new groups that end up in the same dependency position with the employer, by which I mean persons with temporary residence permits. The Social Democrats have created the same imbalance of power in asylum legislation that already exists in the labour regulation that we are debating today and which has been repeatedly criticised without having been corrected. It is difficult to digest, Madam President. We promise and assure you that under no circumstances will we ever work under worse conditions or at lower wages than what we have now promised each other. We promise each other this in the deep understanding that if we all keep this promise, the employer must meet our requirements. That is the trade union promise, Madam President. It is a promise that will ensure that colleagues are not put against each other in the workplace. Unfortunately, the Social Democrats' policy on both labour migration, family reunification and permanent residence permits effectively breaks the condition for newly arrived employees with either work permits or temporary permits to keep that promise. How can you say against sexual harassment or sexual exploitation if the possibility of keeping a job or seeing your children again is at stake? How can you require a safe working environment, protective equipment and safe procedures if you know that the employer can replace you at the minimum? How can you demand the wages you have been promised or the working hours that are on paper if you know that the employer has the power over your future? And above all, how can one make use of the trade union community and solidarity if one is so vulnerable? Madam President, I would like I note that the Social Democrats' migration policy increases the vulnerability of the labour market and gives employers more power. The Social Democrats obviously do not see newcomers as part of the workers' collective. The question is, do they realize where it leads? It is a defeat strategy for the newly arrived employee who is left to the employer for his future security and the opportunity to meet his family: easy to exploit, easy to pay, easy to grab, easy to replace and easy to silence. As part of the labour movement, we know that it is also a defeat strategy for the colleague who works next door. The employee collective is never stronger than the most insecure in the labour market. It is also a defeat strategy for the labour movement. A fragmented employee collective where insecurity is driven by the fact that a newly arrived working class is more vulnerable and insecure in the labour market is an employee collective who loses the strength of cohesion and solidarity with each other. Without solidarity, the defences and welfare systems that the labour movement has built up for those who live and work in Sweden, regardless of where they were born. As part of this movement, the Left Party will never accept that the position of employees is weakened in such a way. The question for the day is why the Social Democrats actively choose to do just that. Madam President, I would like With this, I support reservation number 3.
i-ffa3992a34433214-73	Madam President, I would like It is beyond doubt that Sweden needs labour migration. But it will be designed in a way that benefits our country. Labour immigration can certainly help to develop our country and our economy. But then the one who comes here should not be used, and we should not bring labour into jobs where we have our own able to work but unemployed people available to the labour market. We Christian Democrats have a number of reservations, and of course I support them all. However, in order to save time, I am in favour of reservation number 6 on the conditions for labour immigration. In recent weeks, the problems in the Swedish labour market have come to a halt. The other day, the Employment Service raised the finger of warning that the number of long-term unemployed will set a new bleak record, with over 200 000 now being long-term unemployed. Already in the 1990s, when I was the Federal President of the Christian Democratic Youth League, I warned against politicians who too often use the concept of employment to justify their policies. Employment is a vague concept that can mean most things and is not what we call real jobs in everyday terms. Employment is the one who works one hour a week. It was this that enabled Prime Minister Stefan Löfven to say happily less than a year and a half ago that the government had halved the time for new arrivals to come to work, from nine years 2014 to four and a half years in November 2019. A few months later, a new report gets some media light. Entrepreneurship Forums have looked at self-sufficiency and show that it takes 20 years for half of those coming from the Middle East to become self-sufficient. That is, after 20 years in Sweden, half of them are still not self-sufficient but dependent on subsidies. The other week, a report from the Parliamentary Investigation Service showed that 675,000 adults who have immigrated to Sweden and are of working age are not self-sufficient. These figures may be good to have as a background and sounding board for the discussion about labour migration we are currently conducting. With these figures and the development we have in Sweden, the need for change in labour migration becomes quite obvious. Madam President, I would like Compared with other countries' way of designing regulations for labour migration, the Swedish design stands out properly. It is even contrary to the knowledge available on how to design a successful model. In fact, we are the only country in the Western world that has the gates wide open for people to come here and perform unqualified tasks. Here in Sweden we do not distinguish the slightest whether there is a shortage of labour or not. Madam President, I would like The Christian Democratic Labour Immigration Policy insists that labour immigration should enrich not only the individual entrepreneur, but also Sweden and the migrant labour force. That is why we think it is reasonable, to say the least, that Sweden, like all other countries in the Western world with functioning welfare systems, has a number of conditions for when labour immigration should be current and how it should be done. I will give you four points that we Christian Democrats have formulated and which we believe are important if we want to tackle seriously the abuse and exploitation that everyone knows is part of today's labour migration. As a first point, we want to see a salary floor of approximately SEK 35 000 for free labour migration. It should be quick and easy to recruit experts abroad. This is the easiest way to tackle cheating and exploitation, displacement of people in areas of exclusion, economic imbalance and skills exclusions, for example. So today's salary floor, which is only 13 000 SEK, we want to raise to 35 000. Second point: We realise that 35 000 SEK can be the highest figure for some of the labour migration we de facto need. That is why we believe that there should be clear valves. If the labour force in the shortage professions can come to Sweden, for example in healthcare where we need more hands and feet, but the salary does not amount to 35 000, the wage sum should not stand in the way of coming to Sweden. We in the Swedish Parliament should not decide which professions are in short supply, but rather the Swedish Employment Service and the Swedish National Agency for Higher Education can produce such a list if they see that the labour market is in need of a foreign qualification supplement. The third point is the stop of track changes. At the moment, an investigation is being carried out by the government with the mission to produce the exact opposite: to facilitate track changes. This is despite the fact that the Migration Agency has repeatedly alerted the abuse of track changes. We think it is a good rule that a work permit is applied for before you come to Sweden. That law is eliminated by changes of track where, for example, a person who has been refused his/her asylum application can apply for a work permit without leaving Sweden and vice versa. The fourth point is that the investigation that is working now, as I mentioned, has submitted an interim report in which they actually meet with us Christian Democrats on the supply requirements that we want to address with regard to the family members of labour immigrants who come here. That is what the investigation is now proposing. This is a good measure because we have seen a dramatic increase in the number of relatives coming to Sweden. In fact, five times more relatives came to Sweden in 2019 than it was ten years earlier. Most family members who come here do not work in the first few years and are therefore eligible for social assistance, such as subsistence support. Madam President, I would like Finally, thirteen years after the reform introduced in 2008, it is clear that the system is being abused and in need of change. We know that labour migration, which has increased most and continues to dominate, is the low-skilled labour force. We have unemployment in Sweden that is far – very far – from the government's goal of having the EU's lowest unemployment rate by 2020. On the contrary, we have slipped from 10th place to an unimpressive 23rd place in these years. Then we should all agree here that the supply of skills in low-skilled jobs can be resolved without foreign recruitment. I have said it before, and I am happy to say it again: there is not a single rational reason why we in Sweden should have an extensive labour migration of low-skilled people when we have a large group of working-age people who are unemployed. These jobs should go to the Swedish unemployed. We're not importing labor from across the globe.
i-ffa3992a34433214-91	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation number 8, the titled Administration and the duration of proceedings. It is a joint reservation from the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Liberals. Madam President, I would like First of all, it is important to establish that labour migration is basically a good thing. Labour migration is also quite good. Migration, mobility and people looking for happiness somewhere and moving to where opportunities for work and so on lead to individuals growing, getting more money in their wallets and getting a better life, hopefully. As a result, countries are growing. As a result, we will have more dynamic regions around the world. And, of course, this means that companies can manage their skills and find staff to develop their businesses, products and services. Basically, mobility for people who work well for the world. It's important to the economy. We have hugely dynamic regions around the world that are very dependent on labour coming from other countries. The United States is a good example of this, and other countries around the world too. Liberals have always stood up for this. We think it's important. That does not mean, of course, that we want High Chaparral, but laws and rules, or some sort of robber capitalism where companies can exploit employees, but basically it is good that you can find staff from other countries. Socialists and nationalists have always opposed this. The socialists feel that it in some way divides the employee collective. Socialists think more or less, to hip to it a little bit, that it's okay that people come here as long as they don't work. If people work, however, they become a threat to the Swedish model. That's a very remarkable starting point. And nationalists really don't want people coming here at all. It's really even dumber. From a liberal point of view, this is important. We defend the basic principle of the regulatory framework that it is not politicians who should say that now we need just this many engineers and this many masons, but that it is the companies that must be able to see what needs they have for staff and first and foremost try to find these staff, close of course. But if this is not possible, you can pick up staff from third countries. We have free movement within the European Union. There are, however, some things that should be corrected in the Swedish regulatory framework. There are some shortcomings and problems. There are problems for high-quality or rather high-performance or high-paid workers. It can be about long processing times. These can be problems with, for example, bureaucracy and regulatory problems for some, not least start-ups. We have some concerns related to other things in the economy and other regulations. For example, we have a rather large housing shortage in Sweden's most dynamic region, namely the 08 region, where it can be difficult to find staff from outside because it is difficult for them to find housing or because there are really huge prices in the rental market. There may be such aspects that can make it difficult for people to come to Sweden and work here. We also have the problem that several previous speakers have addressed, namely what concerns so-called competence expulsions. It's when an employer makes a mistake, but where it's the employee who takes the whole blow. A person comes to Sweden and starts working somewhere, and so it turns out that the employer does not really know all the papers. Then the employee may not renew the work permit and be forced to leave Sweden. This is not reasonable. It should be said, Madam President, that if you are an employer, you have a responsibility. If you are an employer and you pick up a person from a third country as a staff at your workplace, you have a duty to ensure that you keep track of things like insurance payments, salary payments and so on. The fact that employers make small mistakes is not okay. It is important that employers take that responsibility. It is not reasonable to have a regulatory framework in which such shortcomings lead to the worker being forced to leave Sweden. There are many examples of skills outsourcing, and a great deal is available in the IT sector. This is problematic, because it is companies that are very important for our economy, our competitiveness and our innovation climate in Sweden. We have a problem, Madam President, which several speakers have already mentioned. It concerns the lowest levels of income in terms of labour migration. You can to Sweden today labour immigrants at a monthly salary as low as SEK 13 000. In our neighbouring country, Denmark, the lowest level of income is more than triple in order to be able to labour immigrants. We should ask ourselves whether it is reasonable for Sweden to have such a low minimum wage for labour migration. We have a fairly large group of unemployed in Sweden who could take a lot of these jobs. It is often jobs that do not require long-term training, it is jobs in the service sector and it is so-called low-threshold jobs that young newcomers and others could take and enter the labour market. Their potential is likely to be squeezed away by some of the labour imports into the very low incomes. Another problem with low incomes in the labour market is that we have opened up to some less well-calculated employers. There are problems with fake jobs and with people who are being duped. There are examples of things that we in Sweden should regard as more or less exploitation and also some kind of aversion of jobs that we spent quite a lot of effort and effort not to have on the Swedish labour market during the day of the folk home. Now a lot of this has come back. On the Liberal side, we say that the reasonable thing is that the salary received should correspond to the lowest collective wages that are consistent with a full-time service. You don't have to work full-time, but the salary should correspond to a full-time in the lowest collective agreements. This means that you should be able to labour immigrants to Sweden at a salary a bit over 20 000. It should be a minimum level. I have seen other parties proposing a significantly higher limit of up to 35 000. I'm not so sure it's really good for the Swedish economy. Rather, the risk is that a great deal of the jobs in the IT sector will be difficult to fill, which could hit the economy. But it is clear, Madam President, that the lowest wages should be higher than $13,000 a month. There are a number of other elements to be discussed about labour migration, but my speaking time does not allow this at the moment.
i-4Hzjo8iFYNjsURm6NpPuUH	Madam President, I would like We are now debating the Social Security Committee's report 18 Labour immigration. I shall begin by calling for the proposal in the report to be approved and for all 18 reservations to be rejected. These reservations originate in 80 motions from general exercise time. Much of what is mentioned in these motions and which has been debated today is included in the study to which some have referred, namely an improved system of labour immigration. I would also like to explain the directives given to the investigator. However, we should also recall that the starting point is the law that was passed in 2008 with all its shortcomings. It is now that there is an investigation that will try to overcome some of the shortcomings – as a first step, I would add. The report on labour migration has had a broad mandate with several different issues to consider. The interim report was presented in February this year. The overall objective has been to improve the current regulation of labour migration while safeguarding the current labour immigration system with good opportunities and conditions and a good regulatory framework. The study has been tasked with both proposing measures to attract international skills and measures to strengthen the labour market position of the migrant worker. The main task of the investigation has been to make proposals on how a new basis for a residence permit for highly qualified persons who intend to seek work and for those who want to start a business in Sweden should be better designed than now. In addition, the investigation shall consider whether the rules on residence permits for the pursuit of business activities are appropriate and whether there is a need to propose changes. In addition, the investigation will carry out a wide-ranging analysis of the legal situation and its consequences in relation to so-called skills deportation of labour migrants and will make proposals aimed at ending deportations due to negligible and excusable deficiencies. In addition, the investigation will consider whether there is a need for rules for the protection of an employee who cannot be granted an extension of a residence permit for work, if an obligation is to be introduced for employers to notify major changes in working conditions compared to those on the basis of which the decision on a work permit – and an associated obligation for the Finnish Immigration Service to examine whether the conditions for the permit continue to exist. The investigation shall also consider an extended possibility to impose corporate fines where there has been an error with an employer or propose other appropriate measures. The investigation must then propose a scheme in which employment contracts are to be attached to an application for a work permit, and also decide whether to introduce supply requirements for the family members of the labour immigrant. This has been raised by a number of speakers in the debate. In addition, the investigation shall consider criminalisation of intentional procedures, which allow entry into Sweden to take place on the basis of a residence permit issued on incorrect information. In addition, the investigation will propose measures that will enable the applicant for an extension of a residence permit for work to travel outside Sweden during the processing period. Finally, the investigation will examine whether the possibilities for asylum seekers to renew a cared passport in connection with so-called track change should be facilitated and make proposals for necessary constitutional changes. The fact that I have read out these various directives is because it has been discussed here that there is so much inadequacy of application. We see that changes are needed, and that is why the investigator has been given this assignment. In addition to this, we know that several authorities work together, such as the Migration Agency, the Swedish Tax Agency, the Swedish Work Environment Authority, the police and the border police to find illegal labour and expose abuses. More workplace inspections are now being carried out than in the past to deal with abuses. And there have been several expulsions because these abuses have been discovered. Madam President, I would like The report proposed in February that a family dependency requirement should apply to migrant workers. No proposal on requirements for the size and standard of the dwelling has been made, but there are proposals for supply requirements. Furthermore, there are proposals to extend the organisation of trafficking in human beings. According to the investigation, intentional procedures enabling entry into Sweden to take place on the basis of a residence permit issued on incorrect information are punishable. This shall be done by planning or organising, for profit, activities aimed at encouraging foreign nationals to travel to Sweden without a passport or the permits required for entry into Sweden or with permits issued on the basis of incorrect information which have been relevant for obtaining the permit for the organisation of human trafficking to prison for a maximum of two years. This is important in view of what we have heard in the debate before, namely that there are abuses and pure illegality. Of course, it needs to be punished. We Social Democrats believe that the proposed changes are a first step in the right direction. We also believe that we need to continue to look at whether there are problems in labour migration. Of course, we will come back again on proposals that have been raised earlier in this House and on things that do not look good on the labour market. We will consider proposals that will improve the order of the labour market. I am in favour of this and also of what I have heard in the debate. There have also been motions, and we will, of course, also look at those proposals. It should also be recalled that this is a legislation that came in 2008. Now there are changes, as it has done in the past, but I think I hear in this House that some have forgotten who presented this legislation with all its shortcomings. However, there are now some proposals for changes in the right direction. I agree that a lot of changes are needed, because it does not look good. There are abuses, and we must see and recognise them – and make better proposals. As I said, this is a start.
i-ffa3992a34433214-119	Madam President, I would like There has been a very high tone from Social Democrats on the issue of labour immigration. Swedish jobs are sold out to desperate people from countries with lower wages and conditions. We can't have that. This is how the Socialist Party Secretary Lena Rådström Baastad wrote at DN Debate last October. We Moderates agree. That is why we have put forward concrete proposals to raise wage demands, to stop this with a change of track and to stop labour migration to personal assistance. But the Social Democrats did not want to support this. If the Social Democrats see the problems, as they claim – why do they write about them at DN Debate instead of doing something about them? The problems described by the Social Democrats in this way are part of the reality after almost two terms of social democratic power. If the Social Democrats voted for their own alleged policy, there would, of course, be a very clear majority for it in this House.
i-ffa3992a34433214-122	Madam President, I would like I said in the speaker's chair – and it heard Maria Malmer Stenergard – that this is a first step and that we need to look at more measures. I do not think I had a high voice in the speaker's chair, and it is we who are debating here. I also said that we must continue to look at this issue and see if there are any abuses. So what has been proposed here is what we will have to look at, both when it comes to changing tracks and when it comes to raising wage demands. One can see that there are a little different proposals from different Members and parties here. It can also be seen in a different way than just imposing wage demands, because it is possible to regulate in other ways as well. I think we should look at all kinds of suggestions. I am not really a woman to judge it, but when it comes to abuses in the form of trafficking in human beings and so on, I could imagine that part of what Maria Malmer Stenergard describes may be that people are being lured here on incorrect grounds. It is therefore important to see whether what we are now proposing can also stem what Maria Stenergard is referring to as a mistake. So that is my proposal now, and I do not think I am inclined to take a high note. I also see the abuses that exist in the labour market and that the 2008 legislation has brought with it. This is a first step that is addressed in the investigation.
i-ffa3992a34433214-126	Madam President, I would like I welcome Carina Ohlsson's tone as a variation to the rather tough tone of the Social Democrats in general. I think it will be a much better debate and a much better decision in this House if you have such a tone. However, I must note that an increase in wage requirements, a halt to labour migration to personal assistance and a halt to a change of track are issues that will not be included in this investigation. On the contrary, it is true that the Social Democrats have commissioned the investigation to look at how to make it easier with track changes, which concerns me a lot. It is also the case that the sharpest elements of this investigation have been added thanks to the fact that we gathered a majority in this House to present proposals for additional directives for the investigation. There, from Moderates to Left Partyists united, and I think that was good. Nevertheless, I must return to the debate on the high tone of the Social Democrats. The only winners of this disorder in the labour market are rogue companies that cheat, exploit and commit crimes. Those who deceive economically desperate individuals and drain resources from our welfare system. ... with fake contracts of employment you bring people here and then ruthlessly exploit them. It may sound like this comes from a shrewd opposition party, but it is in fact a direct quote from the party secretary of the party that has ruled this country for almost two terms of office. If it is so terrible, why did the Social Democrats agree to an agreement that clearly states that today's rules on labour immigration should be protected? Is the truth as brutal as the Social Democrats would rather sacrifice those who are exploited in the Swedish labour market than their own power?
i-ffa3992a34433214-130	Madam President, I would like The current regulatory constraints are based on the poor regulatory framework decided in this House in 2008. I would like to remind you of that once again. As far as the sharper proposals are concerned, we can fight over who should take credit, but I see that it is the Social Democrats in the government who have given the directives on tightening up. The minister responsible is Minister of Migration Morgan Johansson. This has, of course, been done in negotiations with the parties that have signed the January agreement. I would, therefore, still like to put the profits of those who have negotiated that this regulatory framework should be investigated. As I said, this is a first step. Of course, if we are dealing with rogue companies and companies that commit crimes, we must curb them. Anyone who commits a crime should be punished, and I see that the proposals that are now coming still increase those opportunities. But that will probably not be enough, but we will continue to work on this issue.
i-ffa3992a34433214-133	Madam President, I would like When I listen to Carina Ohlsson, I feel the need to ask a supplementary question. It is very clear, concrete and sharp, and I hope for a concrete and clear answer. I believe that the Social Democrats see and recognise the problems of the imbalance of power that exists in the existing labour immigration regulation. It is a problem that arises when people in labour migration are completely dependent on and entirely in the hands of employers for their continued residence permit and continued livelihood. Is it correct to understand that the Social Democrats think that it is a distorted balance of power that provides the opportunity for exploitation?
i-ffa3992a34433214-135	Madam President, I would like That is why I read out the various directives and points. There were several points about looking at the employee's conditions and possibilities, as well as describing and investigating what is criminal. There are employers and others who expose workers to criminal acts. That's why I made it clear. Then there are different power imbalances in society. Of course, if you are in a vulnerable situation, you are always at a disadvantage when it comes to power, so of course I can see that there are such. So the answer to the question is yes – there are imbalances in power. That is why we must also ensure that this changes in the right direction. There are many power imbalances in the Swedish labour market; it is not at all the case that we have achieved everything in a right and good way, but it needs to be curbed in many different areas. This could be about gender equality. This could be about the situation of foreign workers. It can be about migration in general. We know that there are such abuses in the labour market that regulations need to be tightened up. That was a yes to the question Christina Höj Larsen asked me.
i-ffa3992a34433214-138	Madam President, I would like It was a yes that was very far away. It was a little too far away for a party that has emerged from the labour movement. If you see that this imbalance of power makes it possible for people to be exploited without actually being able to defend themselves, the question is: Why does it create exactly the same situation with migration legislation? If it is difficult to defend oneself because you do not want to lose your work permit and income, how difficult is it, Madam President, to defend yourself if you want to see your family again, if you want a permanent residence permit, permanent security? Madam President, I would like What I suspect, and the reason why this yes is so far away, is that the Social Democrats are aware that they are now doing exactly the same thing as they think on paper is wrong. They create power imbalances in the Swedish labour market where people do not have the opportunity to defend themselves from exploitation, from groping, from low wages, all of this because they want to meet their family and want a permanent residence permit. That, Madam President, seems to me to be a betrayal of enormous proportions.
i-ffa3992a34433214-142	Madam President, I would like I felt that this was taking the next debate in the Chamber prematurely. It was both. Of course, we need legislation and a regulatory framework in the labour market. There are many power imbalances in the Swedish labour market. Christina Höja Larsen highlighted issues such as touching and sexual abuse. There have been many different reports from LO and the trade union movement, which Christina Höj Larsen also referred to about the Swedish trade union movement. It is not just a question of migrants. It is often a question of women being more vulnerable than men and so on. Of course, we must constantly work with both legislation and the application of legislation and the regulatory framework applicable to the Swedish labour market. We will not give up on that, neither I as a Social Democrat nor the Social Democrats as a party.
i-ffa3992a34433214-146	Madam President, I would like Labour immigration is absolutely necessary for Sweden, for Swedish companies, our competitiveness and our economy. In 2018, labour migration contributed EUR 34 billion to GDP and EUR 12 billion to tax revenues. Given that labour migration is a matter under the January agreement, the Centre Party does not currently have its own motions. Instead, we will come back together in the future with proposals on how to stop the skills demonstrations, introduce talent visas and eliminate cheating, exploitation and criminality linked to labour immigration. It is precisely the proposal on the qualifications, which other parties want to take credit for stopping them, that is a proposal that will go through thanks to the January agreement. The truth is that labour migration is not only important but absolutely necessary for Sweden. But the truth is that there are also problems in labour migration. Cheating, not least when it comes to abuse of work permits in personal assistance, is something that we urgently need to tackle. These are specific problems that require specific solutions, not wild swinges in the air that break the whole system that the Alliance once introduced. The Moderates are one of the parties now swinging healthy on the issue of labour immigration. Among other things, they want to stop labour immigrants who want to come here and work in personal assistance and introduce a salary floor of SEK 31 700 that would be a hard blow to many companies and many industries that are completely dependent on labour migration. That's the wrong way to go. The Moderates' salary floor of SEK 31 700 would mean that two out of three labour immigrants who work, pay taxes and contribute to Swedish companies would no longer be welcome. The Moderates' proposal for a pay floor does not counteract cheating. This means that people who support themselves are thrown out and companies are left on a bare slope. This leads to less growth and reduced tax revenues. People who come to Sweden and work and do the right thing make Sweden a better country whether they earn SEK 31 600 or SEK 31 800. But whoever abuses the system should be stopped forcefully. We need strong proposals that really get to cheaters, but we should not break the system in the hunt for cheaters. The Centre Party has recently put forward a number of such proposals in which we get to cheaters while making it easy for everyone who does the right thing. Madam President, I would like Personal assistance work permits are systematically used for fraud, illegal migration and labour exploitation. It should not be possible for people to get to Sweden with the aim of exploiting the welfare system. The Center Party therefore wants: These are some of the many proposals put forward by the Center Party to get away from fraud and crime in labour immigration. The Center Party also wants to protect today's system. That is something we also agree on in the framework of the January agreement. Of course, protecting today's system does not mean that fraud, irregularities and crime should not be vigorously combated. Nor does it mean that we should completely destroy the bourgeois liberal reform that labour immigration once was. Anyone who claims to be protecting labour immigration must also make balanced proposals which, at the same time, are strong against fraud and crime. When both the Social Democrats and the Moderates begin to threaten labour immigration in order to score political points, we need to be constructive and propose solutions to today's problems that touch the cheater, not the one who does the right thing. Madam President, I would like IT companies, the tourism industry, forest companies, farmers, berry farmers – yes, the industries and enterprises that are directly dependent on labour migration are many. The Center Party will continue to stand up for the fact that these companies and industries are given the opportunity to choose for themselves what skills they need in the future.
i-ffa3992a34433214-158	Madam President, I would like Ladies and gentlemen! Last week we were able to hear and see the Minister for Migration Morgan Johansson presenting the Government's proposal for a new migration policy. The migration problems we have in Sweden have not escaped anyone. These migration problems did not show up yesterday. I have said it earlier in the speaker's chair: they go as far back as the 90's. Even then, it was alerted that alienation was growing. Then we had a Rinkeby, a Rosengård, an Angered. Now it doesn't matter where you go in our elongated country; everywhere you find a small or large alienation area. Migration to Sweden has been very large. It is like this House has not been in Sweden but in another place. It's like the distance has been too great. It's been built on goodwill. In Sweden, historically, our culture has been that we should help, be solidarity-based, share and be human. But somewhere in the middle of all this, almost no one has thought: What happens after people have come to Sweden? Most often, even today, when people come to Sweden, they end up in areas where most people don't want to live. In this way, they are segregated from the society in which you live and work, that is, the majority society. Then people end up in our areas of exclusion, where we have a system that instead has to deal with the problems, that is, our welfare system. Our welfare system will remain in place. It's supposed to help people in need. One should always know that there is basic protection. But this presupposes that those who can and want to work are also involved in producing for our common well-being. Instead, what we are seeing today is that over 600 000 immigrants or foreign-born people – you can use any term – are not self-sufficient. Add to this that hundreds of thousands of children who, when they go to school, do not know whether they are Swedes or whether they have their parents' ethnic background, what religion they belong to, etc., also undergo some kind of identity crisis and cultural crisis – because that is the case. I can attest to that myself. That's how we humans work. We're not robots. We are not computer programs that someone can button on and switch us to start thinking in a different way. Our heritage and our environment are recording. It is beautiful, but it also presents a number of challenges. What connects Sweden? Yes, it's the language. We must realise and understand that Swedish is not an easy language to learn. We might think so, but it's not. I have met very few people who think that Swedish is an easy language to understand. In addition, one speaks in a certain way and writes in a completely different way. In Sweden, we have a culture, whether we are aware of it or not, of speaking Swedish is something you should be able to, should not be able to. There's a huge difference between the two. Let me go back to the government press conference. It was said proudly that a language requirement should be introduced – we look at the Council's referral, we see that it says that the government should return to the Swedish parliament sometime in 2025. It is referred to synchronise with the language requirement that one should, or should, or will – as you know – never with this government can one know whether it happens or when it happens; usually nothing happens – introduce as a requirement to be able to credit a citizenship. Madam President, I would like To make demands is to care. The only way to get into Swedish society is to learn the Swedish language. There is nothing more humane than from day one to demand that you learn Swedish in order to qualify for Swedish welfare, to become a part of Swedish society and to receive permanent residence permits and citizenship. Migration policy must act as a timeline: People come to Sweden. They seek and have their case tried. If it is concluded that they have protection reasons, they will be granted a temporary residence permit. But integration cannot happen from one side. It's done from two directions. Sweden says as a state: We give you protection. We will ensure that you stay in Sweden. But it also depends on yourself. You also have a responsibility for this system to stay together over time. Learn the language! We will ensure that you attend Swedish education. But there is a requirement that you attend the teaching and get approved in the Swedish language, that you become self-sufficient and that you can support your children as best you can. What we are seeing today in our suburbs are children living in Sweden. They're our responsibility. Too many people talk about solving the world's problems. We cannot solve the world's problems when we cannot even solve the problems at home. And those who are victims, Madam President, are not the children of the Minister of Justice. It is not the children of the Social Democrats. It's not the Green Party's children. They are children of the suburbs, and they have the same rights as we do. They haven't chosen their parents. They have not chosen to come to Sweden or be born in Sweden. But they are here, here and now, just like everyone else, and we have to make demands to show that we care about them. We have made a trip as a country, the Swedish equality journey. And one thing we know for sure: If we do not make demands, these children will inherit the social vulnerability of their parents. That betrayal comes from politics. The Moderates will not help to betray the children of our suburbs. We have to deal with the problems we have at home. Therefore, we will tear up the proposal that Morgan Johansson presented if it goes through in the Swedish Parliament. To conclude, I would like to endorse reservation 41.
i-ffa3992a34433214-172	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 1. Of course, we also support all our reservations. This debate on migration and asylum policy is a little mutilated, as we are all waiting for the bill for a long-term sustainable migration policy. A number of requests that should have been dealt with here have now been moved to the forthcoming debate. But, Madam President, that does not mean, of course, that the claims being dealt with here and now are unimportant, quite the contrary. Swedish migration policy is so poor in so many parts that there is plenty of room to discuss both narrow issues as well as large, important principles. Madam President, I would like For many years Sweden has had the most extreme immigration in the industrialized world. Since 2005, immigration of foreign-borns has never fallen below 80 000 persons a year and exceeded, on average, 100 000 persons a year. From 2009 to 2019, Sweden has granted over 430 000 residence permits to asylum seekers and their relatives. Madam President, I would like A side effect of the coronapandemine has become a reduction in cross-border mobility. Despite the fact that the government has not tightened its requirements in a single area, asylum-related migration to Sweden has nevertheless decreased. And what Sweden desperately needs now is that this reduction not only lasts but that it continues downwards. Like the government parties, it is not possible to be happy to return to the volumes before the pandemic. In the case of asylum seekers and their relatives, the objective must instead be a net volume minus. More people must return from Sweden to their home countries than vice versa. Madam President, I would like It is worth pointing out here that there are different types of migration, because for some inscrutable reason it usually mixes together like apples and pears. We had the debate on labour immigration an hour ago. It has its pros and cons, of course. It is amazing that there are plenty of good examples of ambitious immigrants who have entered working life and contribute to Swedish society. But we cannot build a policy solely on the basis of a selection of good examples, for then the result will be black and white, the alienation and fragmentation that exist outside this House in Sweden today. Asylum-related immigration, which is the subject of this debate in the first place, does not mean that we have more hands in the care system, but for humanitarian reasons, and on the basis of all the available estimates, we have a socio-economic cost. We have to be honest about that, and we have to stop with the fog curtains that it would be profitable or to see and so many go to work every day. Unfortunately, asylum-related immigration has to a large extent also consisted of people with low education who come from culturally and socio-economically remote countries and have poor opportunities to integrate into Swedish society. The level of self-sufficiency is low, unemployment is high, and too many live after many years in the country still on welfare. Ironically, a large proportion of those who are most affected by continued high levels of asylum immigration are those who have themselves immigrated to asylum. In addition, we must be able to look at the alternative costs. After all, resources are limited, no matter how good the will is or how strong one is in one's faith. This means that priorities and away priorities are needed. All bets we make come with an alternative cost. Today's Swedish humanism is limited to those who have the resources, strength and contacts to pay for refugee smugglers to take them across the border to Sweden. An asylum seeker who receives a residence permit in Sweden costs the pension system 800 000 SEK net. The asylum process costs tens of thousands or more of thousands of dollars. Then you have to ask yourself, Madam President: how many people could you help on the ground, in the immediate area, for the same money – women, children and the poor? It is about giving shelter over your head, blankets, beds, medicine, water, food and basal help to those who need it the most. What today's humanism is doing is stealing the resources directly from those who are most vulnerable to helping those who cross Europe through safe country after safe country across Sweden's borders. The humanism of the Swedish democrats focuses on the total opposite. But it is also about reducing the total costs and redistributing Swedish tax money to Swedish citizens. And the fact is, it's possible to do both of these things at the same time. Madam President, I would like It is possible to redistribute resources from reception in Sweden to efforts on humanitarian aid in the immediate region, while at the same time reducing aid significantly in relation to efforts that have nothing to do with humanitarian aid at all. It is unreasonable for Sweden to take out billions of loans and then give away the money for all sorts of strange projects and into the pockets of corrupt politicians and officials. Madam President, I would like Now I have talked about great, important principles and certainly to some extent repeated things that I said in other debates. But this is important, and these are things that we must constantly remind of with the stubbornness of a fool, if you may say so. However, I had also intended to address some of the more narrow issues that the Swedish Democrats have proposed in the context of this preparation. In Sweden, all asylum seekers should stay in a transit centre pending a decision on their case. Such centres already exist in, for example, Germany and the Netherlands, and having such centres here too would improve Sweden's ability to receive asylum seekers and settle asylum cases in a fast and legally secure manner. We want to get away from the system where asylum seekers should first be integrated into Swedish society because several years later they are expelled in the absence of protection reasons. Determine the asylum application first, and then integration can begin for those who can stay in Sweden. In this way, it will also be considerably easier to execute expulsions of those who are rejected, which is essential to shrink the shadow society that has emerged over the last ten years. The authorities must work purposefully together to ensure that those who reside in Sweden actually have the legal right to do so. Until we can have transit centres in place, we must also take into account the autonomy of our municipalities and their failing economy and enable them to decide for themselves whether they can accept asylum seekers or quota refugees. Sweden's municipalities have guaranteed their own best knowledge of the integration capacity available in each municipality.
i-ffa3992a34433214-190	Madam President, I would like We are facing a spring when the Riksdag will decide on a new migration legislation that will take effect when the temporary restriction act expires in the summer. It is a law that the government once promised would only be a temporary exception. It is now clear that the government has allowed M and SD to set out the direction for future migration policy and that the new legislation aims, in conclusion, to make Sweden a safer and worse country to live in – all so that people in need of protection do not want to come here. That is a very sad political vision. However, what we are debating in this report today is something that is not connected with the new proposal for migration policy that the government will present later this spring. I am therefore not going to talk today about why it is wrong with a law that divides families and creates insecurity and deteriorating opportunities for integration permanently. I think we'll have a chance to talk about that at other times. Instead, today I want to talk about a group of people that most people seem to want to turn a blind eye to. These are generally people whose expulsion decisions cannot be enforced for practical reasons and, in particular, for stateless persons. I would say, Madam President, that the reason for this unwillingness is that these people so clearly show that the political talk about a no is a no and a yes is a yes at best is quite naive and, at worst, is deliberately wrong. Because that's not the case. As in any democratic rule of law worthy of its name, it is possible to appeal against decisions in several instances. No can be accepted in many ways and for many different reasons. No is converted into yes in both migration courts and supreme courts. No even becomes a yes when people after the limitation period have the opportunity to search again. A democratic rule of law needs mechanisms that can correct wrong or substandard decisions or take into account information that has not previously emerged. Things can change in the applicant or in the outside world after decisions have been made. To say that a 'no' will always be a 'no' is therefore to turn your back on the valves for the rule of law that should exist in a legal society, for the sake of the individual and for the sake of society. A group of people who in practice do not have the opportunity to have their 'no' turned into a 'yes' are people who, for various reasons, cannot return to their home countries but still do not live up to the too high demands to be regarded as having practical enforcement barriers. These are people who, despite having worked with the border police, could not be expelled but who still do not get a residence permit under current legislation. Why people end up in this situation varies. These may be stateless persons who do not have a beneficiary country which considers that they are legally obliged to grant an entry permit. Sometimes, for political reasons, a state may be unwilling to allow a citizen to return. The nationality of a person may also have been withdrawn, or the permits may have been temporary. It may also be impossible to get back to or very difficult to get an entry permit to the assigned recipient country, such as the Gaza Strip. Madam President, I would like When the Migration Committee was working, there were sometimes calls from the street below to the meeting table where we sat. It was a large group of Palestinians, many of them stateless, who wanted to draw attention to the very difficult situation in which they find themselves. Because they are in the very no-man's-land that I have described. I have met families who have been in Sweden for 8, 1O, 13, 16 years without being granted a residence permit, but also without being expelled. They are stateless, on the run for generations and not infrequently born in neighbouring countries where temporary permits have been granted. Let me give you an example. I have a Palestinian friend whose parents have been in Sweden for 13 years. After rejection, they have constantly participated in their expulsion. Twice the border police have tried to execute the expulsion without success, first to Kuwait, then to Jordan. The mother was born stateless in Kuwait and escaped from there in connection with the Kuwait war. The border police have made the assessment that it is impossible to execute the decision and have sent the matter back to the Migration Agency. Yet life in no-man's-land continues for this couple, year after year. In November 2016, the Government appointed an investigation to identify the existence and application of the law on residence permits where a decision on expulsion cannot be enforced for precisely such practical reasons outside the individual's control. The investigation, which has been called the Limbo investigation, presented its report in November 2017 and shows that the demands on the individual to prove that there are actually practical obstacles to return are unreasonably high. This is true even in cases where it is largely impossible to obtain acceptable documentation regarding practical obstacles. In addition, the Finnish Immigration Service rarely accepts the documentation provided. The possibility of staying in Sweden because of practical enforcement obstacles after a decision is very small; it involves about ten people every year. The investigation deals with a number of typical cases that I know well from my meetings with people with practical enforcement barriers. It's their call from the street that's never answered and never gets in. Common to people with this kind of practical enforcement barriers is that it is impossible for them to return to the country to which they are to be expelled. It is beyond their power to change that, but the requirements for showing this are so high that it is impossible. Several stateless people have asked me: How are we to prove that no country in the world can accept us? It is understandable that it is a difficult thing to prove, Madam President. The investigation therefore proposes, inter alia, a clarification of the legislation so that the person whose expulsion decision cannot be enforced for reasons beyond the control of the individual can be granted a residence permit. It is suggested that residence permits can be granted because of practical enforcement obstacles in the basic case – it is sometimes known – and that the concept of practical enforcement obstacles is included in the provision allowing the Migration Agency to grant residence permits after a final removal decision. It also proposes that the issue of the status of stateless persons be further investigated. That is a very urgent question. Unfortunately, the government has not taken any of the investigation's proposals further. We therefore propose that the government return with proposals based on the investigation. Madam President, I would like Changes to the law on the reception of asylum seekers, called LMA, were made in 2016 and create a similar vulnerability and deepen the problem I have just described. The amendments mean that the person who receives a rejection of his/her asylum application, except for children and families with children, loses the right to assistance and housing. This change has had quite serious consequences. Instead of increasing the number of returnees following expulsion decisions, it has led to more people living as undocumented people in Sweden. The authorities have also found it much more difficult to work with returnees. It goes without saying that it is difficult for a police authority to work effectively with returnees if one does not know which park bench people are on. This has led to suffering that affects not only those individuals who live in severe misery and vulnerability. It has also led to increased crime and so on and creates major problems for our society. There are also a number of proposals. Madam President, I would like Today, for time-winning, I request the approval of only reservation 43 on practical enforcement obstacles.
i-ffa3992a34433214-207	Madam President, I would like This will be a somewhat limited and perhaps strange debate on migration. This is because all the elements that will be found in the migration policy bill that Parliament is still waiting for will be debated once the bill is here and we will debate that content. The debate on migration policy has always been a little limited, I think, in this House because we are not debating integration at the same time. After all, when integration policy does not work, it undermines the legitimacy of migration policy. Then it's never good enough for you to say such beautiful words. I support all the reservations that we Christian Democrats have in this area, but in order to gain time, I am in favour of only reservation 25 on certain grounds of protection and relating to the process of deciding matters such as converts. Madam President, I would like Nevertheless, I would like to outline some of the reservations we have in this area. One of these concerns asylum applications. It is an old demand that we Christian Democrats put forward in 2015. We believe that asylum application areas should be established in the vicinity of our major border crossings. When we presented the proposal, it was met with harsh criticism, not least from Minister of Migration Morgan Johansson. But that criticism has since become more and more silent, not least after a government inquiry in 2018 proposed something that they called the arrival centre, which has great similarities with the Christian Democrats' proposal. The reason why we Christian Democrats want to see asylum applications was and is because we believe that it is important to keep it all together, to get a single reception and a single decision-making process that can be both effective and legally secure. It should also make it more difficult for people to deviate and thus end up in a vulnerable situation. We Christian Democrats often come back to this with legal certainty. One should be able to trust the process, rest in that a yes or a no are real decisions. Here we have highlighted concerns about how the process can be improved, for example, when it comes to assessing whether a conversion has taken place or not. One convert is a person who has left one religion for another. Here in Sweden it is common that Muslims come to believe in Jesus Kristus as savior, and then they are called converts. Such a conversion in our secularized Sweden may seem like a minor matter, but to some an expulsion after a conversion may be equal to the death penalty in the country of origin. The problem with determining whether a conversion has taken place or not is that the belief expressed by the individual is relational, and therefore for several years I have been criticising that the Migration Board has used knowledge to a great extent to try to reach a decision. We therefore have a reservation in this case in which we request a review of the examination of converts, atheists and apostatists to see if this cannot be done better and thus achieve an even greater degree of legal certainty. Someone may protest and say this: Then the matter should be resolved. 中 It is true that the government made an adjustment in the regulation letter 2019. This was done partly after that criticism, but above all it was, I believe, due to a convertite report that the churches had compiled in 2019. Just a few days ago, there was an updated conversion report. Unfortunately, it shows that the problem is not solved. There is still a lack of knowledge from the Migration Board and the Migration Courts, and a lack of knowledge always creates scope for arbitrary assessments. The question of conversion points to something that we Christian Democrats are working very actively for, namely that we should have an inspection on migration issues. It would be an inspection that promotes legal certainty and efficiency throughout the migration process. The objective of such an inspection is to detect systemic deficiencies and thus ensure legal certainty for the individual and effective cooperation between authorities in this area. As a member of the Social Security Committee, I only heard on Tuesday a series of brilliant speeches from the Social Security Inspection, the ISF. ISF is extremely valuable to us MPs when we try to find ways to make decisions that can make social security work as well as possible. In my opinion, we also need an ISF for the migration area. Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats have a number of other urgent reservations about, for example, trafficking in human beings. We believe that the penalties should be increased for this. We also have a reservation in which we mention that expulsion must become a much more common penalty when people commit crimes here in Sweden when they apply for asylum or have received a residence permit. If you commit a crime, expulsion and expulsion must be a much more common penalty than they are today. Madam President, I would like Our 36-page exercise in this area gives a clear picture of what the Christian Democrats want. We want Sweden to be a community that includes everyone, not just some. That is a crucial reason why we Christian Democrats advocate and will advocate a very tight migration policy for a long number of years to come. The large reception that Sweden has had over a long period of years has led to serious integration problems. People who have come here to Sweden with dreams and hopes of getting a better life have instead stuck in unemployment, exclusion and passivity. Shadow societies, gang crime and honorary culture have been able to thrive, and the community in some places has crumbled to unrecognizability. Studies also show that the majority of Swedes want to receive fewer refugees. I do not think this has anything to do with xenophobia or lack of generosity. Instead, I think it is based on the conclusion that if we cannot take responsibility for those who are already here, we may not be able to take the same responsibility for people who want to come here. Simply put: There is a social contract between those who already live here in Sweden and pay taxes. They want a Sweden that they can trust when they too need help and support. Not a small amount of factual resistance is required to see that Sweden has failed to integrate people who have come here to our country. For me as a Christian Democrat, the words are not good enough to welcome you here. To all those who have the opportunity to stay in Sweden I want to be able to say welcome home – for real.
i-ffa3992a34433214-223	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 40 under the heading Asylum Living and Vulnerable Groups. The reservation comes from the Liberals. We all remember the autumn of 2015 and the great refugee crisis that took place. What happened was that the legal acts, the regulatory framework and the structure of asylum and migration policies within the European Union were effectively broken down. Hundreds of thousands of people went north in Europe along previously trodden paths. We got tremendous pressure in Sweden. At first, everyone would be very humane, and we would open our hearts, raise money and help. After a while the Swedish people's reflex kicked in. Suddenly, the debate and politics were wroth in another direction. This led us to the temporary asylum law that came later in the summer of the following year, i.e. 2016. Let me start with the European perspective, Madam President. If the acquis on which the European Union's asylum policy is based, with the Dublin Regulation, the principle of first asylum and other things, is maintained by all Member States, the consequence will be that the southern European countries will have to assume the absolute greatest responsibility for refugee policy and reception. That would be the result. It also explains why these regulations broke down five six years ago. What happened in the autumn of 2015 when the European Union's legal acts were thrown out was that when asylum seekers and migrants were left to decide for themselves, they did not want to come to the southern European countries, but very many wanted to come to Germany and not least Sweden. It is countries that are perceived to have better order, which already have large diaspora groups, which have a good reputation and so on. This gave us tremendous pressure in our country. I believe that more than 160 000 asylum seekers arrived in 2015. As I said, this led to a very restrictive approach to migration policy, and we were given the Temporary Asylum Act. It has since been extended in a few laps. Over the last five years, the European Commission and the Member States have feverishly tried to come up with a so-called asylum package in order to find a new working order in which to revise the regulations in order, above all, to create a migration policy within the European Union where more responsibility is shared. This is a starting point on which most people in Sweden support themselves. There is broad support for this in the Swedish Parliament. Liberals think this is important. We believe that all municipalities in Sweden should be involved in taking responsibility and helping in the reception of refugees. Similarly, we believe that all the Member States of the European Union should be involved in sharing responsibility. The problem is that it is extremely difficult to achieve this at European level. It's stuck. The various directives and proposals from the Commission have been being threshed for a number of years now, but it is very difficult to come up with something that is strong and sustainable over time. At the same time, we have had the same process in Sweden. The temporary law has been extended a few laps. In the January agreement, it was signed that we should set up a parliamentary committee on migration policy with all parties. The Committee would present a report which would lead to a new and long-term sustainable foreign law for Sweden. The Migration Committee presented its report in September. Then the government has had it right in front of its eyes on the desk, but has not done much until now. Last week, the council referral came from the government. Now qualified lawyers will look at this, and then there will be a bill to Parliament. Votes are scheduled to take place at the end of June, if I do not remember wrong. On 22 June, I think we should vote. Madam President, I would like What we now have before us is a process in the European Union that has more or less stalled on a number of points, as well as a process in Sweden that is now approaching the finish line as we get a new foreigner's team by mid-July. The problem is that the government has handled this in a way that has meant that it is not really a goal in the middle of the summer but rather the run-up to the next election movement. We are now in danger of having a debate on migration policy that will be a complete battlefield in Sweden until November next year. On the Liberal side, we regret this. We would have liked a cross-block agreement between the four bourgeois parties and the Social Democrats on a long-term sustainable migration policy that could serve our country well on a number of principles, Madam President. The first principle is that Sweden should be a country that stands for refugees and people who need protection. We always have, and we will. We will be there for people who need protection and give them a future in Sweden. We will give them opportunities to integrate into our country and enter the labour market. Children will grow up in safety and freedom. They should not be confined to any camp in Kenya or Lebanon. The second principle is that we must do this on a scale that our society is capable of dealing with. Sweden has not done so. We have had asylum and family migration at levels that our country has not been able to handle and that are not sustainable for our country in the long term. We see this if we go out of the Parliament building, go up to the central station and take the subway some stations outside the prosperous and well-to-do city centre of Stockholm. There the situation is radically different. We have enormous problems in many of our large cities in Sweden with vulnerability in vulnerable areas, increased crime, gang formation, social problems, cultural clashes and so on. If we are to be able to manage to get things right, get our country in order and create opportunities for a good life for all those who need protection and who have come here, we cannot have a situation where we continue to have a very generous asylum and family immigration and where people are driven straight into exclusion, dependency on benefits, overcrowding and so on. It is not protecting a sustainable policy in the long term. We must balance our ambitions to stand up and help people in need by having to be able to do so to an extent that our country can cope with and not to an excessive extent. I am quite convinced, Madam President, that the vast majority of people in Sweden are calling for this kind of attitude. If the parties of the Riksdag gather together and are actually prepared to take responsibility and not just pursue symbolic issues or keep on locking themselves in different types of party conflicts, I am quite convinced that it should be possible to reach a broader consensus also in the Riksdag around such a model for Sweden. That is what we in the Liberals are acting for.
i-Akf1cBAR1Ve17iehx6cbzm	Madam President, I would like We are now debating the Social Security Committee's report SfU20 Migration and asylum policy. I support the proposal in the report and reject all 51 reservations. These 51 reservations stem from 230 motions from the general period of exercise, including the withdrawal of residence permits, penalties, the asylum process, the reception of asylum seekers, the free movement of EU citizens and cooperation within the EU in the field of asylum and migration, the enforcement of expulsion decisions and expulsions on grounds of crime. As far as the European Union is concerned, we Social Democrats welcome the European Commission's presentation of the Migration and Asylum Pact, and we welcome the Commission's ambition to resolve the blockages that have previously existed in the negotiations on certain proposals for a Common European Asylum System. The distribution of responsibility for the reception of asylum seekers among Member States remains one of the main challenges facing the EU. It is of great importance that Sweden in the EU continues to work towards a common EU asylum law. The common asylum system must lead to a more balanced distribution of asylum seekers within the EU. It is also positive that the Commission has presented a communication on cooperation on return and readmission. For a long time, Sweden has given priority to resettlement, which is also an international effort, in order to increase the global division of responsibilities and the reception of quota refugees by other countries. Resettlement is a well-proven system and the safest way for people in need of protection to come to the EU, but it must be of considerable scope to make sense. Resettlement, however, must be seen as a complement and should not replace the individual right of asylum. Within the framework of the proposal for an EU common resettlement system, among other things, the government is working on this issue. The Commission Recommendation on legal pathways to protection in the EU recommends, inter alia, that Member States increase participation in resettlement in order to help offer legal pathways to persons in need of international protection in a spirit of international solidarity with the first countries of asylum or transit and strengthen solidarity between each other. In the budget for 2021, SEK 60 million was allocated to asylum seekers under Category 13 for community information. You may wonder why I jump like this from one to the other. That is because of what I started by saying: that there are very many requests for exercise. I also raise a few questions about what the reservations are about. It is a question of social information for asylum seekers about democracy, gender equality, children's rights and honour-related violence and repression. The regulations for 2021 state that, based on previous government assignments, the Finnish Immigration Service will provide a mandatory social introduction in which all asylum seekers over 15 years of age will participate. The introduction of society must be provided orally as soon as possible after an asylum application has been registered and must include information about how society in Sweden works, about Swedish legislation, about children's rights and about democracy, norms and values, including regarding gender equality and honour-related violence and hatred, including issues of child marriage and genital mutilation. We have also got changed rules when it comes to EBO, our own accommodation. The new rules entered into force on 1 January 2020 and became fully applicable on 1 July of the same year. They mean that an asylum seeker who moves to and lives in his/her own home in an area with socio-economic challenges, as a general rule, should not be entitled to daily allowance. The aim of the rules is to reduce the concentration of asylum seekers in residential areas with socio-economic challenges. They also aim to increase the choice of asylum seekers to live in the Finnish Immigration Service's accommodations or in areas where the conditions for integration are better. It is too early to draw any conclusions on the effects of regulatory changes. We shall follow this matter closely, and we see no reason at this stage to make an announcement, as some parties propose. Madam President, I would like The political agreement of January 2019 between the Social Democrats, the Center Party, the Liberals and the Green Party states, among other things, that the rules on expulsion of non-Swedish citizens convicted of honour-related crimes and hate crimes should be tightened and that the issue of expulsion should always be examined in such crimes. Against this background, the Government appointed an investigator in April 2020 to review the rules on expulsions due to crime and to propose ways to achieve more stringent regulation. The aim is to make it possible in more cases than at present to expel foreigners who have committed crimes and to make the enforcement of such expulsion decisions more effective. The investigator should also consider how the current regime with a so-called penalty value equivalent to one year's imprisonment should be amended. The aim is to investigate whether crimes such as assault of the standard grade, women's poverty reduction, aggravated theft and so on, which have penalty scales for a year, should also be included. The directive states that the investigator should make international comparisons and pay particular attention to the regulation of the other Nordic countries. The mission shall be finalized on the last June of this year. So this is also something we must follow. Then Members have raised a great many different issues, but I do not respond to everyone but chose to highlight some of the issues described in the report.
i-ffa3992a34433214-246	Madam President, I would like In my speech, I outlined the enormous difficulties faced by people with practical enforcement barriers. I told him that it could be stateless people or people who have had temporary residence permits or have lived as undocumented people in their countries of origin and then cannot return even if they do their utmost to participate. I described that these people can live in Sweden for years and that the requirements are far too high when it comes to being able to show that you cannot return and to get a residence permit because of practical enforcement obstacles. An investigation has been presented that has sharp, clear proposals to bring a door into society for these people. My question to Carina Ohlsson is how the Social Democrats stand on these proposals and whether it was not time to finally ensure that people can arrive.
i-ffa3992a34433214-248	Madam President, I would like I listened carefully to Christina Höja Larsen's description of an individual case, which, of course, I cannot comment on. On the other hand, when it comes to the situation of stateless and undocumented persons, the name of the investigation, the Limbo investigation, of course, says a lot. Christina Höja Larsen also mentioned that this was further investigated because there were some issues that needed further investigation. I know that the investigation is on the table with the government, but I do not have the knowledge to say that one thinks like this, or whether any of the proposals will be followed up. I'll just have to take that with me. Several Members have also mentioned, Madam President, that a referral on the Aliens Act and migration policy is currently before the Law Council. There are also proposals to apply for asylum on a humanitarian basis, and I cannot answer whether, in some of the examples mentioned by Christina Höja Larsen, it may be possible to search on that basis. I cannot answer this at present, but these are questions that I have to take with me.
i-ffa3992a34433214-251	Madam President, I would like I almost think I could answer that. These are people who have not had permission in Sweden, and as I understand the Government's ambitions, it is about being very hard on people who have not had permission. But the thing is, they haven't had a chance to have it. They have neither the opportunity to obtain a residence permit nor the opportunity to return, but it is their own fault. My question to Carina Ohlsson is: How does she answer my Palestinian friends when they ask how they can show that no country in the world can receive them? It is a completely impossible task that is required of these people. What the government is doing is one thing, but I would like to know whether the Social Democrats think it would be reasonable for people in precisely this type of situation to have a residence permit and that the requirements are made so that they are actually achievable, not just on paper.
i-ffa3992a34433214-253	Madam President, I would like As I said, I cannot currently answer what the investigation proposals look like, because I have no knowledge of that. So I'm going to take that with me. Then Christina Höj Larsen asks if I can answer the question she asked me. No, I can't. I can't answer what to do when you can't prove it, and that's what you're supposed to do. We have made some changes when it comes to, for example, stateless people and their children who were born in Sweden. Of course, we are allowed to follow the question, but I am not making any promises. It could make you wonder why I said that, and that won't be true. When you have an answer, it should be truthful. It's very important that you don't make false hopes. I am not going to do that here either, but what I have said is to look at these proposals and see what happens to them. I will be able to present this to Christina Höj Larsen at a later date.
i-ffa3992a34433214-256	Madam President, I would like I asked for a reply when I heard that Carina Ohlsson expressed a welcome to the proposal for a new asylum and migration pact for the European Union. I share the honourable Member's hope that a pact will be found, for the simple reason that it is important for Sweden but also for the whole of Europe to help around a lot of these issues. All of us who have been following the work of the European Union know that, in the area of asylum and migration, we have had huge problems, not least since 2015. I have two questions for Carina Ohlsson, who points a little to answers when they say that they welcome the draft pact. One is about the proposal to extend the concept of association. After all, the EU has proposed that the old family concept, which has traditionally been used, should now be extended. I would like to know what Carina Ohlsson thinks about that proposal. Is that also a positive thing? We Christian Democrats are opposed to extending the concept of association. We do this because we have a very large diaspora in our country, and a broader concept of connection will make more people relate to Sweden. That is one question. The second question concerns the five-year deadline proposed by the EU. We are very critical of this, and I would like to know what Carina Ohlsson thinks of it. The five-year limit means that the people we received in 2015 – 2016 will not be included when one sees how the Member States have taken responsibility also historically in order to make a correct assessment of what responsibility they should take in the present and also in the future. Here I would like to know what the Social Democracy thinks.
i-ffa3992a34433214-260	Madam President, I would like It has been discussed here today about proposals that will come to Parliament in the future, and that is of course important in this context. We also know that if there is EU legislation and a common EU asylum policy, that is something that will apply. What we have said about family ties is also what we have said when we discuss this in the European context. That's the answer to that question. When it comes to taking responsibility historically, at least in the contexts in which I am meeting Commissioner Ylva Johansson, which I do quite often, we have mentioned that it needs to be important both what responsibility we are taking now and what responsibility we have taken historically. We'll see where it ends up. Then I do not really know what that sounds like in the negotiations. It may even have been rude to say that – perhaps Hans Eklind has more information than I do. Since I am not on the EU Board, I am not fully aware of all the discussions that you have there and what the various parties are saying. That is, of course, what also becomes the Swedish position on these issues as well.
i-ffa3992a34433214-263	Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, I have to disappoint Carina Ohlsson a little, because I don't know much more than she does, I think. Throughout the process, it has been a constant problem that the government that we have and which conducts the negotiations down in Brussels has been extremely sparse in expressing its position. This has led us all to a certain degree of uncertainty about what Sweden really wants to achieve in the negotiations. I will be honest and say that I did not quite understand what Carina Ohlsson answered to my question about what the Social Democracy thinks about extending the concept of association. The honourable Member will be happy to repeat that. The proposal, if anyone is not aware of it, is that even adult siblings and so-called newly established relationships should be included in the connection concept. After all, it takes some time to come to Europe for people who are on the run, and they can fall in love while they are on their way here, and the idea is that they should be able to invoke a concept of association. This is an important message not only to me but to Swedish voters: what does the Social Democracy think? Do you want to keep the concept of association as it is, or do you want to meet the EU proposal and broaden the concept? It will have consequences for how many people come to Sweden. It's undisputed. With regard to the second question, concerning the five-year limit, I hear that Carina Ohlsson does not have an answer either. I had hoped she would have said that the five-year limit would not be good enough. The effort that Sweden has made in the 21st century is huge in terms of giving people the opportunity to be in our country, and then this should also be included, so that Member States that have historically not taken that responsibility will have to take greater responsibility than Sweden in the future.
i-ffa3992a34433214-267	Madam President, I would like Let me begin with the first question, where Hans Eklind did not understand what I said. What I said was that, on the issue of family ties, what we are saying here at home is also what we are running in Europe. What is written in the legislative referral that is on the way – I understand that Hans Eklind has seen it – can then be seen as a relaxation because one takes into account relationships such as homosexual couples even if the people have not met. So it can be a wider circle, or what to call it, or a relationship that has not been made clear since before. That is what we stand for even when we discuss it at European level. Then there is the five-year limit. Now I'm not the government, I'm a simple Member of Parliament. However, I am responsible for the migration and integration issues in our party at European level, not just in the European Union. The responsibility that we have taken historically is something that I, as a Member of Parliament, highlight in all contexts, because I think it should be important. I'll have to talk to the responsible minister, Minister of Migration Morgan Johansson, about that and see if he's also highlighting it. Then we will discuss what it will ultimately be. Is it worth it even if it goes against what we in Sweden think? I think we should have European legislation. That's a lot more for us not to say yes to that.
i-ffa3992a34433214-270	Madam President, I would like As many previous speakers have said, this will be a rather strange debate. Major changes in Swedish migration policy are to be expected in the near future. This is actually a journey that has been going on since 2015, when the first temporary law was introduced. The temporary laws expire on 20 July this year, and Sweden will then have a new migration policy in place. Such legislation has not yet been put on the table of Parliament, and for this the government deserves criticism. Unlike many other parties, we will wait until we have seen the bill as a whole and it has been put on Parliament's table. In view of the ongoing work – it has been going on for a couple of years – the Center Party has chosen not to present a committee motion this year but instead to await the bill that the government is now expected to put forward shortly. I shall therefore be quite brief today. We can already note that next year, regardless of the bill, the Center Party will have many reasons to make sharp proposals in the Swedish Parliament. The government has not presented and will not present proposals on how we can increase the legal certainty of the asylum seeker. Nor are there any proposals for the rejection of asylum seekers to be just a rejection. Nor can we expect any proposals on how to get a qualification into welfare, which is absolutely necessary for Sweden to continue to be able to take a great responsibility for people on the run. Sweden, Swedish politics and, above all, people on the run, had felt good about long-term rules of play and a broad migration policy settlement. There were many attempts last summer to reach such a broad agreement. I note that today, unfortunately, we stand too far apart and that the will to compromise with the Moderates and Christian Democrats in particular has been extremely sparing. Instead, we see an increase in the tone of the debate on migration policy. There is a will to deliberately misinterpret the government's legislative referral to take cheap political points. As I said, however, we will have every reason to return to the debate on the plug later on. Nevertheless, I think we need to open our eyes and see what we are really talking about. It is 1 percent of the earth's population, one in a hundred people, who are on the run. In each case, it is a personal tragedy. Of course, we are going to help people on the ground, but we are also going to help people who have the right to seek asylum, where they have had their asylum reasons tested. Madam President, I would like I will end here, and we will have every reason to come back later, hopefully in just a few weeks.
i-ffa3992a34433214-279	Madam President, I would like My colleague, Rasmus Ling, has been stuck in train traffic, and I have been cycling here to read in his place the speech he has written in the face of this incredibly important debate. Madam President, I would like I just want to stay here. That is what the girl said in less than ten years who had lived most of her life in Sweden but who was threatened by expulsion with her family to Afghanistan. She had more dreams than that. She wanted to be a doctor, to heal the sick, and to help those who are in trouble. But most of the wish list was to stay in Sweden, continue to go to school, continue to learn English, math and all other subjects and play with friends. I don't know if she's still in Sweden. This little girl is a person, and there are thousands in the same or similar situation. A thousand children's dreams met us and several colleagues from other parliamentary parties a few years ago. They had compiled stories about what exiled children in Sweden dream of. Their dreams of what they will become are the same as any other child has – architect, football professional, writer, bus driver. These are more or less hard-to-reach thoughts. What distinguishes them from other children is insecurity and uncertainty – if you do not know if you will be left behind. Migration policy increasingly tends to be about numbers and statistics, graphs, how many have come to Sweden, how many are rejected or expelled and how many are granted a residence permit. The perspective of the individual ports is further and further away. Basically, migration policy is about the individual. The consequences of legislation determine people's chances of living their lives. We're not talking about the values behind politics. We talk too little about respect for human dignity, the desire to offer security and freedom to people at risk of being killed. Seeking to be a humanitarian superpower has become something that is ridiculed. At the end of the summer, the Migration Committee submitted its report to the government. In the light of the horrifying proposals that were on the table, thankfully, there was no cross-block agreement. The Migration Committee proposed a ceiling on the number of asylum applications, with the built-in logic that it would not be a long-term regulatory framework. Instead, the rules would be continually revised and more restrictive in order to reduce the number. The Moderates and Christian Democrats wanted to go the Danish way. Then Sweden would not have a greater reception than our Nordic neighbours. Since we do not have the geographical location of Finland or Norway, for that matter, it is Denmark with which the comparison should be made. That's what the refugee route looks like. Denmark is formally outside the EU refugee acquis, making comparison even more problematic. But we must also ask ourselves: do we want to go the Danish way? Denmark, as the first and only country in the EU, has started to withdraw residence permits for Syrians. Denmark wants to ban asylum seekers from coming there and having them in camps outside the EU. Until the other year there were zero quota refugees. Now the government's cooperation parties have got up to 50 people a year. The list is long, so long that the former immigration minister in Denmark, now facing impeachment, celebrated 50 austeritys with cake on Instagram. Denmark has now begun to talk about return. This is not about the return of those who have been rejected and who are to leave the country, but about those who already have a residence permit. It is therefore the discussion that is now also taking place in Sweden: that they should leave voluntarily. Voluntary is about parties wanting to make life so difficult and intolerable for people that they simply do not want to stay. Here, somewhere, a tight immigration meets with racism. The Green Party entered this parliamentary term with open eyes. We knew that most parties had left the pragmatic view of permanent residence permits at the time of the first decision, which provides a good basis for integration. It is a regulatory framework that Sweden has had since the 1980s. It is a vision and a regulatory framework that means that in almost all cases those who have protection reasons have a long-term need for protection and that it is then best to give permanent residence permits. Because even if, in 99% of cases, temporary residence permits are extended, we know that for the individual, the uncertainty of temporary residence permits will always exist. I am thinking of the employer who is going to hire someone and who is going to choose between someone who has a permanent residence permit and someone who has a temporary residence permit that expires in a few months' time. Who do you think the employer will choose? Temporary residence permits lead to mental stress for people but also to fewer opportunities for people to enter our country. Today, Madam President, only the Green Party and the Left Party are responsible for permanent residence permits at the time of the first decision. We knew it. However, the Green Party has chosen to work on the electoral promise that we made before the elections – more humanism when the temporary law expires. On Thursday, the legislative referral was presented, and the proposal will allow more people to stay for humanitarian reasons than before. It is about children who have grown up here, the elderly and the sick without arranged reception and people who have lived in Sweden for a long time with temporary residence permits. Last Sunday Ulf Kristersson and Märta Stenevi debated the changes. When the spokesperson of the Green Party stressed the importance of facilitating the situation of LGBT refugees – there are those who have not been able to live with their partner because it is a crime that in many cases is punished with death – Kristersson said that it is not a big issue. For the Moderates, who see themselves as a party for freedom, it is an important issue of freedom to be able to buy box wine on Ica or Net. But that same - sex couples should be able to live together in freedom is not a big question. We will come back to the future migration policy in committee and in this House. The product is sent to the Swedish Law Council, and the government will return with a proposal before the summer. There are definitely parts that I and the Green Party would have liked to see differently. But I am terribly proud of the work we have done, now and before, to provide people who are in need of it, security, protection and freedom. We will continue to fight that fight.
i-ffa3992a34433214-294	Madam President, I would like Let me begin by calling for the approval of reservation 1 for the time to come, although we naturally support all our reservations. Evaluate me at the jobs, the Löfven One confirmed. Sweden now belongs to Europe's ironing class. Only Italy, Greece, Spain and Lithuania have higher unemployment rates than we do. The long-standing high, and rising, Swedish unemployment is Sweden's biggest economic and social problem. The Corona crisis is only a small part of the explanation for this. In fact, Sweden had the lowest growth per person across the EU. Before Löfven we were among the countries with the highest growth. In spite of Lövven promise that Sweden would have the EU's lowest unemployment rate by 2020, we already had the EU's fifth highest unemployment rate before the crisis. Sweden was also the only country where unemployment actually increased between autumn 2014, when the Government of Löfven took office, and that the Corona crisis broke out. The pandemic has deepened an already serious exclusion, and now we are risking large-scale unemployment in large groups. Thus, when the economy is to restart after the Corona crisis, major reforms are needed, which we Moderates have long been calling for. Such an important reform is a more flexible labour law to strengthen Swedish companies and competitiveness, improve matching, increase mobility and make it easier for more people to get the first job. Let me explain to you our moderate overall entrances. In particular, we have four reflections on the necessary change in labour law in Sweden. Firstly, Madam President, there are safe and secure jobs only in safe, secure companies and growing companies. That was true yesterday, it is definitely twice as true today and it will be as true tomorrow. Secondly, Sweden's labour market has been facing major problems for a long time. These are challenges relating to a sluggish labour market where the transition is very poor and where we also have legislation which largely excludes large groups from the labour market, from those who are very far removed from the labour market and those who have never really been in the labour market at all to the long-term unemployed, young people and new arrivals. Thirdly, what needs to be done? We need safe, secure and growing companies as well as we need safe, secure employees who see increased labour market mobility as a way to increase opportunities. But you should also be able to be safe and sure that you cannot lose your job on a wrong or arbitrary basis. At a time when so many people have lost or are at risk of losing their jobs, it has never been more important for companies to be able to change or retain key employees so that more jobs can be saved. This is ultimately about the survival of small and medium-sized enterprises and the creation of more jobs after the crisis. Fourthly and lastly, Madam President, I can tell you that, after the Social Democrats have turned around, there is a rather broad consensus in the Swedish Parliament that we need to change labour law across the board. That's good. However, the discussion on labour law cannot stop there, but we must jointly ensure that we have as broad a consensus as possible in the Swedish Parliament on making changes to secure employees and entrepreneurs and the balance that is actually needed in Sweden's labour market. So and really just that, Madam President, we get a society and a country that stick together. Of course, we Moderates have also noted that several of the parties to the Swedish labour market have reached an agreement in principle on a change in labour law. It is welcome that the parties take responsibility for the necessary changes to the regulatory framework in order to adapt it to today's labour market. However, unlike the committee, we believe that it is not possible to rely entirely on the fact that the changes needed in this area will result from the government's treatment of the Party Agreement. We have not yet seen a proposal from the government, nor has the government announced such a proposal, and it is not possible to know at present whether the government will water down or change the parties' proposals. That is why, Madam President, there is reason for us Moderates to stick to all the changes in Swedish labour law – everything from changing rules of rotation based more on competence to strengthening the right to leave to start a business, the introduction of the principle of proportionality in combat measures and the reintroduction of lex Laval.
i-ffa3992a34433214-308	Madam President, I would like We are, of course, in favour of all our reservations, but I choose to endorse only reservation 12. Today, we are going to debate the report on Labour Law, a broad area ranging from issues such as the rules of rotation and the extension of the right to leave to the EU's influence on Swedish labour law. The Swedish democrats have for a long time stressed the need to increase the scope for exemptions, especially for small companies, so that they can maintain their expertise in the event of economic downturns and remain competitive when the economic cycle turns. We are, of course, behind our motion, but at the moment there is reason to wait as the agreement of the parties is now being prepared in the Government Office and the rules of order are part of the agreement. For this reason, the Swedish Democrats chose to submit a specific opinion setting out our position on the matter. Madam President, I would like Today, jobs are being created in small businesses. In difficult times, thoughts and ideas arise but also the dream of daring to take the step and start your own business. However, the law only provides for six months' leave of absence. It is not enough, Madam President, to meet all the challenges facing the labour market when setting up a business. By extending the time from six months to one year, you give more people the chance to bet on their dream without getting rid of their employment protection. Had the government and its support parties really been serious about their opinion in the report, that they wanted to see more start-ups, they would of course have supported the Swedish Democrats and Moderates' reservation 12. Instead, it is considered in its position that the current period of leave is well balanced. How this has been achieved is not mentioned in a single word in the report. All you have to do is regret it. Madam President, I would like Getting the economy and employment back on track after the pandemic will require a lot of action, with the creation of new businesses that will eventually generate more jobs being an important part. To then give more people the chance to dare to take the step, you might think it would be obvious. It is probably for most people in this House, except for the members of the Socialist-led government. The report concludes by saying that the issue can be raised in the future, which unfortunately is not new. When good proposals come from the opposition, they take the proposals and make them their own, which is very synonymous with this government. This is something that we have seen several examples of in these eight years. Madam President, I would like It is interesting to see, despite the government's extreme hate and slander campaigns against the Swedish Democrats, that we still meet each other on certain issues. I am pleased to hear that. For the Swedish Democrats, it is the substantive issues that are crucial. In this report we see that we have a consensus on the issue of posting and lex Laval, which is gratifying. So the social-democratic rhetoric about never having anything to do with SD is rather shaky. We should be very clear that without the support of the Swedish democrats they would have had much worse conditions today on Swedish construction sites. It's something I'm proud of. Madam President, I would like The Swedish democrats defend the Swedish model and national self-determination over Swedish labour market policy. The reintroduction of lex Laval, like the introduction of the social pillar, would greatly weaken the Swedish model. And here it is good that the government, with the support of the Swedish Democrats, dares to say no. But it could have been hoped that the government would have been equally clear about the introduction of the social pillar. But there they have been very naive and gullible. It is about minimum wages and social welfare in Europe paid by Swedish taxpayers. Is this what the Prime Minister wanted to achieve when he stood at the Gothenburg Summit and spoke warmly in favour of the introduction of the social pillar? Madam President, I would like This government will be remembered too much. But one of the most remarkable things is that it is the government that has greatly weakened the Swedish model and sold out Swedish labour law to Brussels. You can call yourself whatever you want. But the card has been played out as the Swedish Labour Party.
i-ffa3992a34433214-320	Madam President, I would like It is not possible to talk about labour law without talking about the functioning of the labour market at the same time. A central part of a functioning labour market is high employment, measured by the number of employed or hours worked. Work accounts for about two thirds of a country's value added, 60 percent of the tax base and a large part of Swedes' income, and thus their consumption opportunities. Sweden had before the pandemic hit an internationally measured high employment rate. This is usually strongly highlighted by the Social Democrats. However, there are explanatory models for the high employment rate. This also means that using the employment rate as the sole measure of the functioning of the labour market conceals the structural problems that we have been struggling with for a long time. The AKU, which SCB produces at regular intervals, is now struggling with reliable statistics, given that fewer and fewer people choose to participate in the surveys. In addition, it is sufficient that you have worked only one hour to be counted as employed. As long as that's a problem in itself. The statistics describe the development of the labour market for Sweden's population aged 15 to 74. AKU shows, among other things, the number and proportion of employed and unemployed per month, quarter and year. It is the only source of continuous data on total unemployment and accounts for the official unemployment rate. My view is that in the future we should supplement the concept of employment rate with other concepts in order to get a true picture of how labour market policy works. Madam President, I would like Who then works more in Sweden than in other countries? The answer is that it is the labour supply of women and older people, especially older women, that explains the differences between Sweden and our immediate environment. The employment rate of men aged 25 to 54 varies very little between comparable countries. In general, however, we have the link with the fact that we have well-developed childcare facilities, no co-taxation and more, greater participation of women than other countries. It therefore gives us a higher employment rate, if complex events can now be explained in a simple way. What is hidden, however, are other measures of the functioning of the labour market. We had before the pandemic hit a relatively high rate of long-term unemployment, major skills supply problems and a low degree of labour market mobility. Long-term unemployment and major skills supply problems may be the opposite of each other. Why is it that we had 100,000 vacancies at the same time as we had a large unemployment rate? I usually get questions about this. Well, even this complex event can be explained relatively easily. We have had a high migration rate in relation to our surrounding world. The new migrants, if allowed to generalise something, have a lower formal level of education. This, together with the fact that Sweden has Europe's lowest share of simpler jobs requiring lower formal qualifications, a higher rate of automation and digitalisation, sluggish labour market mobility, a non-functioning employment service and the fact that our labour market is network-based, has meant a high threshold for entry. Madam President, I would like The Swedish labour market is far too rigid and complex to tackle the major challenges we face. It had challenges even before the extreme situation that we now see as a result of the Corona virus. What is particularly problematic now, apart from the fact that we are not yet sure when we can return to some kind of normality, is that despite astronomical aid packages, the crisis has meant that sectors that are normally entry ports for people with weaker ties to the labour market are those that have been hardest hit by the pandemic. It is therefore important that we continue to take a great responsibility to support Swedish small and medium-sized companies to overwinter this harsh cold. Without these companies, we will not be able to secure jobs. Madam President, I would like As a centre party, I am pleased and proud to stand here in this pulpit and say that we are in the final stage of our negotiations with the government on several structural reforms that are aiming at historical changes in the Swedish labour market. Reforms that were not even possible under an alliance government are becoming a reality. The biggest changes in labour law, perhaps in parity with the Saltsjöbad agreement in 1938, are now being implemented. The three letter investigations resulting from the parties' agreement last autumn are continuing. In June, we will be able to refer them, and in the autumn, the bill will be discussed by the Riksdag. Unfortunately, the left side has gone with various untruths in the public debate that the agreement is one-sided in favour of employers. That is simply not true. The agreement and the changes that will solve a number of problems in the Swedish labour market, for the benefit of job creators but also for employees. We will finally be able to enable skills development and transition during working life in a structured way. Our training programmes are not enough for a full working life. As the labour market changes with a higher degree of automation and digitalisation, we must create the conditions for people to keep up with. This historical support structure is needed for the development of workers' skills and for the conversion of workers. Madam President, I would like There are more changes. A whole new unemployment insurance is under way. It aims at a higher level of coverage, a problem that was discovered in the pandemic's tracks. It becomes easier to administer and more modern, as it makes it easier to qualify for it but also reduces the incentives to get stuck in it. It should have a clear degression but also lower transaction costs. We also implement the biggest administrative reform in modern Swedish history with the help of the January Agreement. The important role of the Public Employment Service as a public authority should be developed, but the matching of the unemployed should be managed by independent actors – private companies but also civil society actors. We are making a radical reform of a socially important authority. We are not doing this for ideological reasons, as some claim, but because it is socially important and profitable. But we are also doing this so that Ali, Mohammad, Lisa and Leila can get an honest chance to get into the labour market so that they can achieve their dreams. Madam President, I would like We are reforming the start-up mission with the help of the intensive year. We reform and raise the quality of SFI, Swedish for immigrants, with the help of the Kliva inquiry and the SFI-money investigation. We safeguard the work line with tax cuts for low- and middle-income earners, and we lower employers' contributions for companies that employ young people. In short, we are making a historic transformation of the Swedish labour market with the help of various policy areas. We are doing this because we need these reforms. We must reduce exclusion, which is the breeding ground for the problems that we see in the media on a daily basis with gang crime, shootings and other things. This while the outer edges of this congregation sit on the grandstand, screaming and pointing fingers. We in the Center Party take great responsibility instead and solve the problems. Finally, I would like to endorse the Center Party's reservation number 16.
i-ffa3992a34433214-343	Madam President, I would like Labour law, the issue we are dealing with today based on general exercise, is actually one of the most important regulations we have in Sweden. Labour law affects people's security in working life, and it is something that in turn has a profound impact on other social relationships. In societies where employers can very much treat people arbitrarily, it is also more difficult to build social trust. The opportunities to maintain broad social security policies that people can trust are becoming less. The social hierarchies tend to become sharper. Labour law is also something that affects the organisation and execution of the work itself. We also know that from Swedish experience. Where the work is done with more temporary labour, by people who do not know from day to day whether to go back to the same workplace or the same colleagues, and where the bosses' whims play a greater role in the employment relationship, where there is less investment in skills development and where the risks to the working environment tend to be greater. The extremely important component of all productivity developments made up of employees' ingenuity and commitment is adversely affected. The Swedish labour market model determines most of the concrete conditions in collective agreements. That's very good. This makes it possible to have rules and conditions that are flexible and adapted to a wide range of sectors. It also increases the commitment and involvement of both employers and employees in the design of what should apply. At the same time, it is of course the case that collective agreements are concluded on the basis of existing law and interpretations of the law through the practice of the Labour Court. This calls for the legislator, that is to say, us here, to keep up. It should be of great interest to Parliament's parties to closely monitor developments in the field of labour law and to try to address the problems that exist there and that affect individuals and social development. If you look at the types of problems that exist and have grown in the Swedish labour market, you can see that precarious employment, especially in certain parts of the world of work, is a major problem. The number of people in precarious employment has increased compared to a few decades back. But above all, precarious employment has become more precarious. This is due to several co-operative factors that have increased the power of employers at the expense of the security and dignity that all workers in a modern welfare state should be able to count on. These factors also include active changes in labour law. The most obvious is the introduction of so-called general fixed-term employment, which is a one-sided gift to the employers' side and which makes it possible to deviate far-reachingly from what should be the general rule for employment: permanent employment, i.e. permanent employment. This is without having to justify it and without having to negotiate with the other party. Madam President, I would like What becomes apparent when you look at job insecurity from different aspects is class and gender injustice in society. Insecure employment conditions that bring with them concerns about not getting wages to go together and concerns about not getting enough jobs if one says against poor treatment or poor working environment, those conditions are more common among women than among men, and they are more common in the labour professions in the LO area than among officials and academics – although in no way does it mean that they are not even there. This is also an important explanation for the fact that right-wing political parties, those who not only accept but thrive in inequality and social injustice, have rather wanted to weaken and undermine labour law. That is what we have heard today. This is despite the fact that reality is crying out for completely different kinds of proposals and changes. That's nothing new in itself. But a little odd and unusual is the fact that a government led by Social Democrats has pressed for such deteriorations. Madam President, I would like It has been a real accident for Sweden that the government's cooperation parties – we can call them market-fundamentalist, neo-liberal, anti-labour or just de facto – have been able to bring such far-reaching bad, sometimes almost absurd, proposals concerning the labour market into the so-called January agreement. On the basis of that agreement, there was also an investigation, the so-called Toijer investigation, which made proposals which cannot be described as anything other than a frontal attack on workers' rights. On the Left side, we were very clear that a government which, with the Toijer investigation's proposal, ran over the entire Swedish trade union movement would lose even its most fundamental confidence in us and thus might be forced to resign. We are, of course, pleased that this press helped to put aside the proposals for investigations. At the same time, there have been ongoing negotiations on issues of security and transition between several of the main social partners. I will not explain in detail the tours of that process. But I note that an agreement was reached between PTK, i.e. the Private Official Cartel, and the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, but not LO. I also note that after this there were some further negotiations, in which the municipal workers union in particular achieved some important improvements regarding fixed-term employment and so-called planing, and that Kommunal and IF Metall then chose to sign an agreement with those terms. It is easy to see that there is an essential difference between the Toijer investigation and what the partner organisations have worked out. But it is also a fact that the negotiations have been conducted under conditions that have been very unfavourable to the workers' organisations and that they have been influenced by the investigation proposal and the legislative threat for which the January parties, i.e. the government and its cooperation parties, are responsible. The agreement undermines job security in some important respects. At the same time, large parts of the Swedish employee collective, especially in LO's areas, but also, for example, civil servants and academics, are in danger of being disproportionately adversely affected or not being sufficiently taken into account in what comes out of all this. At the moment, it is quite difficult to know where the process that is now going on in the Government Office on the basis of this agreement will go. But, Madam President, what we have already been able to see quite openly and to which I would like to draw attention here is the extremely fateful and remarkable action of the Social Democrats in the government when there was an agreement that LO had amassed had rejected. In this situation, the Minister for Labour and the Prime Minister – both Social Democrats – went out and said that the government would continue to work on the basis of the parties' proposals. So it was stated from the Social Democratic side that LO does not have to be counted when it is mentioned who are the social partners. It's both outrageous and tragic. The trade unions have, of course, worked further pragmatically on the basis of the situation in question and on the basis of what they have assessed is in the interests of their members. This applies both to those who signed in the first turn, those who made changes and signed later and those who have not signed. Responsibility is taken, but this does not take away the responsibility of the government and the Social Democrats for how they have treated and talked about LO in this process. No, it is not possible simply to blame the parliamentary situation. Most people understand that it is difficult to deal with the Centre Party and the Liberals on these issues, but most can also see that the government and the Social Democrats have not done any active work in favour of workers' interests in this case. Above all, the shoulder twitching towards LO's no is something we can hardly call anything but a betrayal. Madam President, I would like We will now follow the process in the Government Office closely and see how to deal with a number of complex problems and how this will actually work for the whole labour market. It is clear that many of the problems that really characterise the field of labour law will not disappear – quite the opposite. This will be something that many trade unions will have to address in future agreement negotiations and perhaps also conflict for. But then they do not do so, but are being robbed by the present government, and that is regrettable. For us in the Left Party, this means, among other things, that we will continue to pursue the important issues raised in this report. It is important that general fixed-term employment as a form of employment be removed from the law. It is a matter of introducing a maximum time limit of two years over a five-year period – anyone who has worked for so long with the same employer must, regardless of the form of employment, receive permanent employment. It is also necessary, among other things, to change the law in order to improve the fight against the routine use of staff members when there is a need for permanent staffing. Finally, Madam President, I cannot help but note that there are some Socialist Members who have raised an important issue in motions, namely the need to strengthen the right of association. The reason for this is regular reports that employers in connection with, for example, strike notice have tried to map membership in trade unions. This is something that can be perceived as threatening for some employees, and it is something that should be followed up. Unfortunately, I note that these motions too are not supported by the Social Democrats in committee. If they are to be approved, we must instead support the Left Party's reservation 5, which is also the reservation I would like to endorse today. However, I naturally support all the reservations of the Left Party.
i-ffa3992a34433214-365	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to say that we in the Christian Democrats obviously support all our reservations, but for time we will only ask for voting in respect of reservation 14. For a very long time, Sweden has had a system that is largely based on legislation in the field of labour law. This is nothing unusual in itself; almost every country has it. But what makes Sweden special is that a lot of legislation is left to the social partners. This is what we call the Swedish model. It distinguishes us from many other countries. This system has served Sweden well in large parts. That is why it becomes so confusing and almost unlikely that the Social Democrats agreed to introduce the social pillar into the European Union. Clearly, this will cause concern for the Swedish model, which is already evident in the discussion on minimum wages. Unfortunately, it is only a matter of time before the EU considers itself entitled to make demands and interfere in other matters that should reasonably be decided in Sweden. Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, I am fully aware that the decision on the social pillar has already been taken, but it is nevertheless appropriate to point out its threat to the Swedish model, which we together are proud to support. Madam President, I would like The social partners eventually reached agreement on, among other things, the modernisation of labour law in their negotiations. The government will come back with legislative proposals in the spring, so today we really know nothing about what this will look like. From this point of view, it seems important to be able to highlight some of the proposals that we Christian Democrats believe would benefit the Swedish labour market. We want to extend probationary work from six to twelve months. This is needed in order for employers to dare to hire more employees and to be able to really see that the employee has the qualifications required for the job. This may mean, for example, that an employee who after less than six months has not really met the requirements does not need to be laid off but may be allowed to work for a few more months and may thus prove that it is suitable for the job. This approach – to give the worker an additional opportunity to learn and prove that it can – we very rarely talk about. On the contrary, it is said that employers may be taking advantage of workers for an even longer period of time. I think, Madam President, that this is an unnecessarily black view of employers in Sweden. The rules of order are another point that can cause concern when a company needs to change in order to survive. Not infrequently, there are individual employees who are of great importance, and it is not certain that they are in the right place on the order list. Nor is it quite certain that they are excluded because of their special competence. It must never be the case that rules of rotation prevent a company's ability to survive in the long term. That is why we Christian Democrats want to double the number that is excluded from the order list from two to four people, regardless of the size of the company. Madam President, I would like It would be strange if, as a Christian Democrat, I did not also highlight the importance of the family. Sweden may have the world's best and most generous parental insurance, and we should all be proud of this. Until the child turns one year of age, parents have great flexibility in managing parental benefit and decide for themselves what they want it to look like. Then there are more and more restrictions. As a Christian Democrat, I am fully convinced that parents are absolutely the best at seeing what is best for their children, their situation and their lives. They are definitely much better than we politicians are. One way to increase parents' ability to look after their children's interests would be to guarantee a further 20 months' entitlement to leave in addition to parental leave. This would create choices for families to decide for themselves how they want to create their lives for a long time. Similarly, the right to leave for the care of relatives should also be examined. We all know how important it can be for the individual to be able to care for aging parents for a shorter or longer period of time, for example. This has not least been brought up to date during the current pandemic. Being a supporter, accompanying the last few months in the lives of parents or other relatives is incredibly vital both for the elderly and for the care provider. Madam President, I would like As far as lex Laval is concerned, it is gratifying that all bourgeois parties agree that the removal does not serve either the free movement within the EU or the individual workers or their businesses. This is an issue that has caused political discord for many years, and it seems, unfortunately, to be allowed to continue for a further time. On this issue, social democrats, left-wing parties and environmentalists undoubtedly join forces with Swedish democrats. I am not sure that the motives are identical, but it is agreed that the end result is to make it more difficult for foreign companies and their employees to operate in Sweden. Probably the term go home has completely different meanings for the different parties, but the result is, unfortunately, that mobility is decreasing and that our economic growth is not as strong as it could be. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to believe that the government will take on board our proposals for a modernised and effective labour law. It deserves both Sweden's employees and Sweden's employers. An incontrovertible fact is that without companies, prosperity will be rapidly eroded. We cannot simply live off work financed from the tax bill. That is why it is so crucial to create regulations that are long-term and transparent and that constantly promote entrepreneurship and, with it, create the new jobs that we desperately need.
i-ffa3992a34433214-382	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the AU8 report on labour law. It is a motion report that deals with all the motions that Members of Parliament and parties have written about labour law, and there are, as usual, many motions to deal with. What we can see is that most motions and claims do not differ significantly from previous years. It is still proposals to reduce job security in various areas that pervade the movements of the bourgeois parties. At the same time, we can see that the world around us has changed a great deal over the past year. As the covid-19 pandemic has developed all over the world, we also see a changing labour market. Many sectors are severely affected, not least tourism and commerce. But many other parts of the labour market are also marked by notice and cancellations. Unemployment has risen, and it is particularly tough for young people to get a foothold in the labour market today. In this situation one can really question that the proposals of the bourgeois parties are exactly the same as before. At this point in time, to stand and defend why we do not want to agree to the further deterioration in employment security that there are a number of motions on which the report makes no sense, whether it concerns extended probationary contracts, further relaxation of LAS or anything else. It should be self-evident. Sweden is not just dependent on our companies. We are, of course, equally dependent on all those who work in companies. If we are to get this country back on its feet after this crisis, we need to secure companies with secure employees. Insecure employment creates precarious people, and it benefits no one in our society. Nor does it benefit a living democracy. Over the past year, we have also clearly seen the advantage of a strong partnership model and the importance of collective agreements in the labour market. We saw how quickly and effectively the social partners signed short-term lay-offs agreements at the beginning of the crisis in order to prevent major lay-offs and abuse of key skills. The parties quickly and effectively took responsibility for Sweden's companies to be able to restart quickly when the crisis one day is over. I hope that everyone can see the strength of the Swedish model when we are on the other side of this crisis. The parties have also negotiated security and transition over the past year, and some of the negotiations have focused on labour law. We are pleased that Kommunal, IF Metall, PTK and the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise reached an agreement, although we would very much like to see more people joining their proposals. It is a tremendous strength in our Swedish model that it is precisely the social partners who settle the conditions that apply. At the moment, work is under way in the Government Office with three investigations that will later this spring present how we can proceed with legislation based on the parties' proposals, so we will have reason to come back to the future. There is often a broad consensus in the debate on the importance of preserving and safeguarding the Swedish model and that the role of the parties in the labour market is crucial for the rules of the labour market. When the parties agree, the policy shall respect it. However, this report shows that this is not always the case. As late as 2019, the conflict law was changed as a result of the parties' negotiation of a modern conflict law. Nevertheless, we see no less than five reservations in the report aimed at changing legislation in this area. Here the parties agree, and we have delivered what they have negotiated through legislation. We Social Democrats believe that we should respect the party model and stand up for it and thus not review the parties' agreement on conflict law. Another section of the report deals with posted workers. Here I can see that, as in previous years, there are several claims to reintroduce lex Laval. One main argument for this is that it would now be less attractive for foreign companies to come to Sweden and do work and that the right of trade unions to fight for collective agreements would hamper freedom of movement. What we see in reality is actually the opposite. The number of posted workers in Sweden remains high. Even during the pandemic year 2020, there were as many as 40 000 people. We Social Democrats, of course, want the posted labour force to have good working conditions and that order and order should apply to the Swedish labour market as a whole, both for the employees' sake and for the sake of companies and competitiveness. Then there is no reason to reintroduce lex Laval, but rather to ensure that more of the seconded workers are covered by collective agreements and that checks on the workplaces with many seconded workers are both more and better. Finally, I would like to support the committee's proposal and therefore reject all the motions.
i-ffa3992a34433214-394	Madam President, I would like I didn't really intend to ask for a line, but I could only do it when I heard Anna Johansson's post here. When you heard the speech, you could be led to believe that the Social Democrats do not want to change labour law at all without only the bourgeois parties in the Swedish Parliament wanting to do so. I wonder if the script for the post happened to be a script from before 2019. Let us remember that it is the Social Democratic Government that has said that it intends to make quite major changes in labour law. Had it been a moderate government, the Social Democrats would have shouted it out of the rooftops. Anyone who listens should be aware that it is the Social Democrats who intend to put forward a bill for a renewed labour law, because when you heard Anna Johansson you could think that it is the opposite. I have two questions. Can Anna Johansson describe all the positive effects she as a Social Democrat sees of changes in order rules and changes in terms of dismissal for personal reasons? Describe the positive effects for Sweden and the labour market on this particular issue. I have previously described what we see as positive effects of it, but it would be interesting to hear Anna Johansson describe the positive effects of what she and her party friends are about to carry out. So to my second question. One prerequisite for the Social Democrats to be able to get through their "no" to lex Laval and more is that you follow the same line as the Swedish Democrats. How do you feel?
i-ffa3992a34433214-399	Madam President, I would like I'll start from behind. It would have been much better if there had been broad participation in the Swedish parliament to protect Swedish wage earners against sub-offer competition and foreign posted workers against bad conditions when they are on the Swedish labour market. It is not, of course, the case that the Social Democrats have in any part negotiated with the Swedish Democrats, either on this or any other issue. Here the Moderates differ from us, which I deeply regret. As far as labour law is concerned, our position is quite different from that of the Moderates. As I said in my speech, we respect when the parties settle the terms and conditions of the Swedish labour market. I have read the report and the motions and listened to Mats Green in the speaker's chair. Let's say I'm 55 years old and a construction worker, assistant nurse, cleaner, restaurant assistant or something else. I have been working since I was 18 - 19 years old and begin to feel that the pace is tearing on my body. Now I'm wondering if I'll be able to make it to my retirement. The Moderates and other bourgeois parties suggest that it will be even easier to terminate – but without the proposals in the Party Agreement that weigh it up. As I said, I have read the motions and listened to the speech but find nothing in Moderate politics that would make this 55-year-old's life safer.
i-ffa3992a34433214-406	Madam President, I would like I note that I did not receive a single answer to my questions to Anna Johansson. But I will respond to what she said. Again, it is the Social Democrats who are going to make the very changes that Anna Johansson now claims to be against. But the script she uses here today must, as I said, be written before 2019. It is you who want to change the order of resignation for personal reasons, so it is rather Anna Johansson who should explain. As I also stated in my speech, the only safe and secure jobs are safe, secure and growing companies and safe employers. This is achieved through a more mobile labour market, that is, precisely what her party has said it should implement. I ask the question again because I did not get an answer: can you describe the positive effects you see as a social democrat by loosening up the rules of rotation and making it easier to dismiss people, such as those you talked about? Describe all the positive effects that you, as a Social Democrat, see in presenting these proposals and making them a law. Anna Johansson talked a lot about the reintroduction of lex Laval, which she says she is against. Can Anna Johansson promise that a future Social Democratic government will never reintroduce lex Laval? Can she promise this right now?
i-ffa3992a34433214-412	Madam President, I would like I note once again that the Social Democrats are behind the agreement reached in the labour market on changes in labour law, among other things. This agreement is a whole consisting of both changes in the order rules and measures on the other edge that balance it. That is why workers' organisations and employers' organisations have been able to come to an agreement. However, the Moderates' proposals in this area are entirely one-sided and only in order to reduce the security of employees. I note that Mats Green could not answer me, because the Moderates have no proposals that would increase security or provide security in employment for the person I described in my previous line. A moderate labour market policy would mean total insecurity for Swedish employees. It would be easier to get laid off and harder to get re-hired. The probationary periods would be longer, lex Laval would be reinstated with an increased risk of low-wage competition and a much worse unemployment benefit would also be paid if you had the bad luck of being laid off. Both Swedish employees and Swedish companies can thank their lucky star for having a Social Democratic led government during the pandemic and not a moderate leader.
i-ffa3992a34433214-416	Madam President, I would like Anna Johansson mentions in her speech that it is an extra tough period for young people. Yet it is difficult for young people to realise the dream of starting their own business in a safe environment. Do not Anna Johansson and the Social Democrats think that six months is a very short time to get a company started? Would it not be better to support the reservations of the Swedish Democrats and Moderates on this issue? You don't have much time in six months, especially young people who have many visions and dreams and may find it difficult to decide how to do it. I would like an answer from Anna Johansson.
i-ffa3992a34433214-419	Madam President, I would like Having a dream of running your own business and a business idea that you would like to try is of course positive. We also see many startups and successful start-ups in many different areas. Just measuring the number of start-ups will be a rather poor measure of having a well-functioning labour market. Many companies are set up because they cannot be employed and are therefore forced to become self-employed, even though they should perhaps have had a job with the security it provides. There are many sectors where it is clear. These are, for example, so-called false F-tax notes. Of course, it is important that there are good conditions for those who want to start a business and that you can get support with funding, good advice and have the opportunity to try for a while. Our assessment is that today's legislation in this area works well and that the possibility of taking leave of absence for six months to try to start a business is well balanced in relation to other needs that also need to be satisfied. We do not intend to make any changes on this point at the moment.
i-ffa3992a34433214-423	Madam President, I would like I disagree with Anna Johansson. I know from experience how troubling it is, and six months is very short. Before Anna Johansson came to the committee, we were in the United States. We visited Swedes who chose to start a business there and compared what it was like to start a business in the USA and Sweden. In the United States you are met and welcomed and get help, but in Sweden you only get a lot of demands. Another question I have for Anna Johansson is: Is it possible to trust the Social Democrats when it comes to the question of lex Laval – that you do not change feet? We have seen in other matters concerning labour law, including the introduction of the social pillar and more, that the Swedish model may not be so important in the long run, especially when choosing to adapt more and more to the Center Party's view of Swedish labour market policy.
i-ffa3992a34433214-426	Madam President, I would like The social pillar is an ambition to create a socially sustainable Europe for all citizens living in the European Union, that is to say not only the free movement of capital and the possibility for companies to recruit, but also social rights that mean decent working and living conditions for all citizens of the European Union. I am not ashamed that we are behind the social pillar. On the other hand, there is nothing in the social pillar that says to change skills between the different levels. Municipalities have a responsibility, regions have a responsibility, national parliaments have a responsibility and the EU has a responsibility, but decision-making powers are not affected at all by the social pillar. I find it remarkable that there are so many parties in the Swedish Parliament who claim to be against EU initiatives aimed at us being able to live good lives no matter where in the Union we live. This does not mean that the Social Democrats want more decisions at European level, but we have a responsibility towards our citizens to live up to what we have promised in the social pillar. The same applies to other national parliaments and governments. We think this is a good thing. We have no plans whatsoever to reintroduce lex Laval. On the contrary, former Minister of Labour Ylva Johansson has fought hard at EU level to get through the new posting directives that are now in force and which create better conditions for trade unions to make demands for posted workers to have reasonable and decent conditions. We intend to continue to fight for this.
i-ffa3992a34433214-430	Madam President, I would like The Swedish model is unique in the world and is based on a joint agreement between the social partners on terms and salaries, combined with robust security systems. During the pandemic, this model has indeed been put under pressure and has once again demonstrated its advantages, not least as regards the management of layoffs. At the same time, the parties have managed to agree on an agreement in principle which is now being drawn up in detail. This process is very important for Sweden. It will bring major positive changes for both employers and workers, creating both more flexibility and security and becoming sustainable over time. This process must take its course and not be disturbed by short-term political initiatives. It is hoped that the process with the partners will lead to changes that will better equip the labour market for the changing times in which we live. Thanks to the new opportunities offered by digitalisation and AI, working life will continue to change at an accelerated pace. Some tasks will be taken over by computers and machines, while new ones will be added. Madam President, I would like A changing labour market requires an education and labour market policy that offers people good opportunities for lifelong learning and for choosing a new career path in the middle of life. More and more people will have to change and either retrain or train themselves to a whole new profession, some perhaps several times during their professional lives. The Green Party has been pushing for many years to create such opportunities for people. Workers should be given the opportunity to keep up with developments in the labour market and strengthen their position in the labour market through lifelong learning. Employment is not the only way to enter the labour market. Entrepreneurship is also a road to employment. We can only say which professions will be affected and how, which underlines the need for flexibility and lifelong learning. Even from a societal perspective, the possibility of education is central in the middle of life. Our investments in school and education are one of the major strengths of the Swedish economy, but it takes too long to solve today's skills shortages only through those who are currently young and studying. We also need faster solutions that give those already established in the workplace the opportunity to develop their skills. For unemployed people, continuing training is often a way back to work. Thanks to the parties' agreement in principle, we now look to be able to put in place a sustainable and long-term system for conversion and competence development, through a new public conversion organisation that will offer and finance basic conversion and competence support. This is not a small change, but it will change our view of lifelong learning and give people much better opportunities to meet the challenges that the future labour market will bring. Madam President, I would like The Green Party wants to create a secure labour market for all. For a long time we have seen a trend towards working life where it has become more difficult to get permanent employment, especially for young people. Abuse of fixed-term contracts occurs, and so-called planning of working time has made it difficult to make a living even for people in employment. It is therefore very positive that the parties have made an effort to move forward on these issues too. There will, of course, be problems in the Swedish labour market even when the parties' agreement has been implemented. As developments progress, new challenges will emerge and need to be met. My hope is that in the future we will also be able to do this in accordance with the Swedish model. Madam President, I would like In the longer term, the Green Party wants more people to gain more power over their own time. We want to bring about reforms that reduce normal working hours and increase people's ability to influence their working hours and working conditions. Our goal is that we take out our increased prosperity in more time for each other rather than in gadget consumption. A few steps towards a reduction in normal working hours may be to allow older people to go down in working hours while maintaining their pay and to offer people to take their pay rise in more free time or in reduced working hours while maintaining pay for heavy, women-dominated health and care jobs. It is also extremely important that work against discrimination and harassment in the workplace continues. That is why we need strong anti-discrimination legislation and sufficient resources for both the Discrimination Ombudsman and the Swedish Work Environment Authority. The government has strengthened this work in recent years, and much has also been done at the level of authorities. However, there is reason to come back to these issues when the report on effective and effective supervision of the Non-Discrimination Act comes up with its final report in October. Madam President, I would like Work is a major part of our lives. It is important that people can feel good and secure throughout their working lives, even when the labour market is changing. I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved and for the reservations to be rejected.
i-ffa3992a34433214-442	Madam President, I would like We in the Liberals are, of course, behind all our reservations, but for time-winning I only ask for reservation 19. As a liberal, I am particularly proud today to debate labour market issues in general and labour law in particular. At the same time as we are conducting this debate, we are working intensively to bring the so-called parties' agreement to goal. Politics now has a great responsibility to conclude a historic agreement. The agreement is a great liberal success and profit in the January agreement, but above all it is a great profit for all Sweden's employees and companies. I believe that the vast majority share the same view that there have been major structural changes in the labour market over the last 25 years. At the same time, there is legislation that is much older. It is clear that we need to modernise and, at the same time, liberalise labour law in order to overcome many of the challenges we face in the labour market. Madam President, I would like The Swedish model has served us well. It has now been over 80 years since LO and SAF signed the Saltsjöbad agreement. That December day at the Grand Hôtel came to be a form for the social partners to reach agreement without legislation and government regulation in the right to negotiate. That is what we know today as the Swedish model. But the Swedish model also needs to be challenged to develop for the better. What do I want to say about this? Well, for example, the issue of LAS was a political initiative – indeed from the People's Party. The initiative was based on the fact that people who worked in companies without collective agreements had no protection whatsoever, which the People's Party considered unreasonable. At first, LO felt that protection for employees outside collective agreements eroded the Swedish model. But LO changed foot, and in the end it was actually LO that pushed so that the laws were finally clubbed through. Our Swedish model should be protected, but sometimes it also needs to be challenged. Challenge means development, and that is right and important. Today we can see that the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, PTK, IF Metall and Kommunal are making a joint effort to modernise labour law and at the same time create transition opportunities for Swedish employees. The Swedish labour market needs a more flexible labour law with the opportunity to change in the middle of life, and above all it must be cheaper for companies. All in all, we will strengthen Swedish competitiveness, and thus Sweden will be much stronger in the future. So with the liberalisation and modernisation of labour law, there will also be a skills and conversion package. But at least as important is the reform we make of, for example, Arbetsförmedlingen and the unemployment fund. It is about a whole that will create the best opportunities for both Sweden's employees and Swedish companies. Madam President, I would like Liberals defend the Swedish model where the parties resolve conflicts and negotiate working conditions and wages. However, it has become clear that the system needs to be modernised in order for the partner model to continue to be effective and workable. Cryptography shall not be used to eliminate the system and the sanctioning system needs to be reviewed in order not to misuse combat measures. These are, above all, three parts that we want to see. We need to investigate the introduction of a principle of proportionality, to investigate how legal proceedings can be shorter and less costly for the parties involved in a dispute regarding combat measures, and to investigate the conditions for making notice, as well as threats of notice, of combat measures more predictable. Madam President, I would like We need to challenge the Swedish model so that it will continue to be effective and workable.
i-ffa3992a34433214-453	Madam President, I would like For time winning, I request the approval of reservation number 1 of the Moderates, although of course I support all our reservations. Madam President, I would like Immigration should be good for Sweden. It should be useful for Sweden and for those who live here. Otherwise, there is no value in immigration. Swedish politics has never taken integration problems seriously, and therefore neither have the necessary political decisions been taken. The result has been a deep exclusion of many immigrants, which is why a completely new integration policy is now needed. For a country like Sweden, successful internationalisation is a matter of survival. Our world-leading companies enrich other countries, and hundreds of thousands of people who have come here over the years enrich our country with culture, knowledge, entrepreneurship and tax money. It is crucial to our success. But Sweden has for a long time failed with integration while more and more people have come here. Today, every fifth person is born abroad, and only over 400 000 asylum-related residence permits have been granted in the last ten years. Politics has for decades– that is what it is about, Madam President– hoped that everything will go well, but it has not done what is necessary. The result is dangerous alienation among many immigrants. Madam President, I would like Totally new figures from the parliamentary investigation service, which we Moderates have produced, show that 675 000 adults who have immigrated are not self-sufficient but instead depend on benefits for their livelihoods. It leads to a life of exclusion with children who never see their parents go to work and women who never become independent. The failure of integration affects our entire society in the form of housing segregation, unemployment and dependency on benefits. It is also largely the basis for poor school scores, gang crime, honour repression and radicalisation. Madam President, I would like Stefan Löfven has continued the failed policy during his almost seven years as Prime Minister, and the government has shown that it has absolutely no reform power. One of the most important tasks of our time is to reverse the trend, and that requires a rescheduling of the course. Above all, it requires a new government. First of all, we need to have a vision of problems. Since the 1970s, a fundamental idea in Swedish politics has been that integration is about a process from two directions, where both immigrants and natives will be integrated into a new multicultural society. That approach leads us wrong, Madam President. It is about a necessary practical adaptation to work in Swedish society – to respect the laws, customs and practices that apply in Sweden. If Sweden is to succeed in integration, we must both raise the level of ambition and measure how it actually works. Therefore, we Moderates propose a new overall goal, namely that immigration should be good for Sweden as a whole – not for every individual or every year, but as a whole and over time. As in other areas, the legitimacy of immigration and integration policy is based on the fact that it makes Sweden better, not worse. In order to evaluate the new integration policy on an ongoing basis, we propose two concrete measures. Firstly, self-sufficiency, not just employment. Secondly, how many speak understandable Swedish. Perfect Swedish is overrated. Understandable Swedish is underestimated. Those who legally support themselves and their family and who speak useful Swedish have good opportunities to understand their rights and obligations in Sweden as well as to contribute to our common prosperity. The measures should be followed up in the same way as the fiscal and climate policy frameworks, i.e. by the Government reporting annually to the Riksdag how things go and what decisions should be made to achieve and move forward. Madam President, I would like Integration does not take place in any kind of vacuum, but is, of course, directly related to migration. If integration problems are to be resolved, our reception of asylum must be considerably lower than it is today. Thus, ten times as many people apply for asylum in Sweden compared to our Nordic neighbours. It cannot go on like that, Madam President. We Moderates propose the introduction of a volume target corresponding to the levels in our Nordic neighbours. This requires a policy that reduces the number of migrants who come here, including through clear livelihood requirements for family migration and that immigrants gradually qualify for benefits and welfare benefits through work in Sweden. Madam President, I would like Let me conclude by saying that I have now listed only a small part of what we Moderates are proposing for a long-term sustainable integration policy. In Sweden, everyone should be able to build a good future for themselves and their children with their own strength. Today, however, the failure of integration divides our society in a dangerous way. It affects our entire country and everyone who lives here in Sweden. However, we are convinced that it is possible to reverse developments and bring a majority of the Swedish people – quite independently of their origin – to a new and better course.
i-ffa3992a34433214-468	Madam President, I would like I thought I'd start with some formality. On the one hand, I am in favour of reservation number 5 and, of course, I support all our reservations. On the one hand, I shall say something brief about our part of the report. In the Swedish Parliament there is a rule that a claim may be dealt with in only one report. One party may have a number of motions concerning, for example, integration policy, but if the motions are taken up in another report in another committee, they cannot be taken up here too. This means that the majority of the proposals we have in this area of policy have not been taken up in this report. I just wanted to put it on the record. The report deals with quite a large number of motions in the field of integration policy. Instead of spending my speaking time on the details of the proposals – I think it is quite well-known what we think about this – I would like to say something about the theories that lie behind the direction of politics. I think that is what is at the root of many of the problems we have in this area today. Integration policy is a mismanaged policy area in which failures in relation to goals are regularly presented as successes, where the parliamentary objective we have decided on counteracts the results we actually want to achieve, where the conflicts of objectives are as obvious as they are serious and where ideological duplicators often shut out science, common sense and necessary reforms. I would like to start by saying something about how successful Swedish integration policy really is. Equality ministers say that we in Sweden are really the best in the world on migration policy, with reference to an international study called Mipex. But which country is best depends, of course, on what and how you measure. In the budget bill, the government measures integration policy results in the form of unemployment, school results and health among foreign born. Instead, Mipex, the study that is then chosen to highlight publicly, only measures formal regulations – the rights of foreign citizens, for example, to benefits, social security, housing, education and so on. So what is measured is actually just how much money a country spends on migrants. If you set up a table and compare how much money the different countries spend on migrants, Sweden is at the top – certainly. However, if you measure the actual results in terms of unemployment and school outcomes, for example, and compare those figures with other countries, a different picture emerges. According to the OECD report International Migration Outlook, Sweden has the biggest gap between domestic and foreign born in terms of employment – or employment rate, as it is called in this study – of all 37 OECD countries. According to the PISA survey, we also have the biggest differences in school performance. Among people with backgrounds in the Middle East and North Africa, less than a third of those who come to Sweden then manage to support themselves. Sweden spends most money throughout the OECD on so-called integration policies, but in some respects has the worst results of all the countries studied. In fact, we do not need to look at other countries, but we can only look at ourselves: unfortunately, it can only be a failure when so few people support themselves. If there is one thing I am missing from the motions dealt with in the report, it is an analysis of why the current strategy is not delivering results. And how is it that integration policy works so badly? There are several reasons for that, but for time reasons I will stick to a few reasons. On the other hand, neither the government nor most of the parliamentary parties have ever clearly defined what integration really means. This makes the objective very unclear. You simply cannot define what you want to achieve. On the one hand, the policy area contains quite serious conflicts of objectives. I was going to start with the definition, i.e. what is actually meant by The government explained the concept in a bill called Sweden, the future and diversity – from immigration policy to integration policy. In the bill, it was written that integration policy should make it easier for the individual to integrate old and new life patterns and lifestyles in the way she wants. This is a prerequisite for man to develop an entire identity and be proud of his background. – – A multicultural society consists of a diversity of values and approaches that gradually affect each other. ..................................................... It also stated that integration should not be just a question of and for immigrants. In a society of ethnic and cultural diversity, people should complement each other and mutually contribute their skills and life experience in order to unlock and exploit the potential of diversity. ..................................................... Integration is really anything – whatever the person who comes to Sweden wants it to be. The public does not decide, and the public takes no responsibility. The bill does not really say anything about how cultural clashes should be handled or how values that deprive others of their human rights should be met. The bill does not mention at all that there are problems that can result from a far too widespread multiculturalism or tolerance of cultural degeneratives, which is something that we are now quite well aware of. No party except ours has been willing to actually formulate a clear theory about how society should behave to people who move here from culturally distant places. The theory is that you should take the custom where you come from, so it's not that complicated. We are therefore the only party in this House that has something that can be called an integration policy, at least in the sense that we are clear about what we mean. Furthermore, most parties work here to achieve a parliamentary goal that is not only quite inconclusive but also opposed to the results they then claim to want to promote. The objective of the parliamentary parties, as they have decided in this House, is equal rights, obligations and opportunities for all regardless of ethnic and cultural background. The government then measures how this goal is met by looking at unemployment and school results among foreign born. First of all, I think it is very strange to set an objective which can actually be achieved by the jure, i.e. by means of legislation. If we have a decision from the Swedish Parliament that newcomers should have the same social rights as everyone else, that is what applies. Then the target is met. But it is no guarantee that people will succeed well in the labour market at the later stage. Maybe it's even the other way around. We know today that in many cases it hardly pays to move from grants to work. Nor is it difficult to imagine that it makes the grants very attractive to people who may be new in Sweden, who may not have any experience of the Swedish labour market, who may not feel completely comfortable in a western workplace or who for cultural reasons have not worked before, women from some countries, for example. I am convinced that the approach of delivering the entire social security system, i.e. all the benefits and everything, from day one to those who move here reduces incentives to become self-sufficient. In other words, part of the objective, the objective of rights to the welfare system, is counterproductive, namely the objective of making use of the opportunities actually available in Sweden, and that is a pity. I suspect that this case was actually written from the beginning by some PR consultant who wanted something that sounds good. It is not someone who has thought about how to succeed in that policy area. Several of the parliamentary parties also highlight in the report the ambition to increase the success of women born abroad or born abroad in the labour market. That is, of course, an ambition that we share. But it seems only we are doing a thorough analysis of why that problem is so difficult from the very beginning. According to Statskontoret's report 2018:3, entitled "Compilation of knowledge of non-European women born outside the labour force" – I read before here, Madam President – it is clear that a traditional family value affects the participation of non-European women in the labour force by the fact that women are often expected to take greater responsibility for children and families, and that these are traditions and cultures that exclude women from the labour force. There is also a great deal of scientific material from several countries that confirms that culture, norms and values from some countries are putting a brake on women who want to succeed in the labour market. At the same time, most parties here are behind one of the fundamental principles of multiculturalism, that it is society's task to fund organisations, projects and so on that will promote and strengthen cultural influences and values in Sweden from these people's home countries. We spend a lot of money on it and decide on it in the Swedish parliament. That is part of the area of expenditure that we decide on. This means that taxpayers will pay for overseas born to retain large parts of their culture and values in Sweden. When those values and culture then lead to increased unemployment, taxpayers should also go in and fund special support to remedy that problem. That, of course, is not reasonable. Standards and values that prevent a normal life in Sweden for women, children or someone else should be left at home when you move to Sweden, end of story. It's as simple as that. I would also like to ask the representatives of the other parties here for a small favour. Can we, please, stop talking about the fact that it is extra-European born women who have a problem getting jobs in Sweden? Because that's not true. I have never heard of unemployment problems among women born in Canada, the United States, Mexico, Argentina, Brazil, South Africa, Zimbabwe, Kenya, Israel, Korea, Japan, Malaysia and so on. I don't think anyone else here has it either. There are a few countries where this is a problem. We all know which countries they are. We can then please stop saying that this applies to women born outside Europe as a category, because that is not true. Finally, Madam President, what is our alternative? Integration policy shall aim at material and measurable factors, such as language understanding, self-sufficiency and reasonable cultural adaptation. To achieve that goal, we need to implement a number of quite radical reforms. I'll just have a few picks here. Stop funding organisations and projects that have segregation and parallel communities as their purpose. That would be pretty obvious. Stop working for a diversity of values and work instead of diversity within certain given frameworks. Stop looking for a quick fix. Too much of this policy area is about grants and projects that are hoped to solve structural problems. Instead, work must be thought out from the start, hollow, and take some time. Makes it clear to those who move here that integration is primarily a personal responsibility. The state will not do the job for you, and a certain adaptation is absolutely necessary to succeed in Sweden. We must drastically reduce asylum-related immigration in the coming years. We need to build a clear incentive structure that provides opportunities and rights to welfare systems as people become self-sufficient and learn Swedish. We must set tougher conditions for residence permits and citizenship. We need to improve public information so that it becomes clearly normative rather than descriptive. In other words, it not only informs about what Sweden is but also what is expected of those who move here. I see that I have oversold my speaking time a little. I apologise for that, Madam President. Thank you very much for the floor.
i-ffa3992a34433214-509	Madam President, I would like Swedish integration debate would have felt better by a little objectivity and facts. There is also a general confusion about what is meant by the concept of integration. Is a job enough to be considered integrated, or are we talking about social inclusion with everything it can contain, or cultural integration or even an assimilation that the Swedish democrats seem to want to carry out? After hearing the speeches by the parliamentary colleagues Mats Green and Ludvig Aspling, I would like to stop a little in my speech and say this: warm thanks to all of you 2 million people with foreign background who wake up every morning, go to work and get the wheels in Sweden to spin! For my part, I am very grateful for the work you are doing. Many of you are now on the front line in the fight against the pandemic. I cannot emphasise enough the gratitude that many of us feel for the work you are doing. For me and the Center Party, the concept of integration covers a wide range of policy areas such as labour market, education, justice and housing. The Centre Party has for a long time been pushing for reforms to improve integration, for example in terms of a faster asylum process, language teaching and social inclusion from day one, a faster way into the labour market and efforts in areas of exclusion. Last autumn we submitted several motions concerning the questions to Parliament. Among them was a special exercise on integration and a whole new exercise on alienation. Madam President, I would like Language is central to integration. Strengthening the education of newly arrived children through more intensive and systematic language teaching is also something that the Center Party runs. The many targeted state grants in the field of school are problematic, and smaller principals receive these grants to a lesser extent. In order to ensure an equivalent school, state grants should be more general. At the same time, there is reason to consider targeted efforts to strengthen schools with specific challenges. We share the view that principals in exclusion areas need better support and a larger mandate. We also want young people who have come to Sweden to be offered high-quality studies in their mother tongue. The Center Party stands up for the free school elections. In order for the school elections to help counteract segregation, more people need to choose schools through an active school selection with clear information and transparent admissions. The Center Party has therefore proposed a series of reforms in this area. Swedish for immigrants, SFI, is an area that has been under criticism for many. That is why we are proud that we are currently carrying out a thorough reform of that school form, with the help of the Kliva investigation but also the Sfi money investigation. It is not reasonable for such an important form of school to have a third of its funding compared to the cost of a secondary school place, that only one in three teachers is qualified, that the flow is terrible, that the classification is square and that the number of teaching hours is so low. We have to change that. Madam President, I would like The possibility of setting up and running businesses is important for integration and for further access to the labour market. Entrepreneurship requires access to capital. The Center Party believes that it is important that small companies should also be given access to capital. We also want to review the possibility of re-establishing and expanding the Investing in Migrant Women programme. In order to modernise and streamline public venture capital, for example, fund-in-fund solutions should be used, where state venture capital initially interacts with private funds to reach smaller and growing companies. It also enables capital to be used where it is needed most. Furthermore, State Almi should take greater responsibility in these matters. We also want to strengthen municipalities' approach to entrepreneurs in exclusion areas. Incubators and similar activities should be supported. It is important that municipalities take responsibility for creating a good business environment throughout the country, not least in remote areas, but at the same time this is a state responsibility. That is why the Employment Service must also support people who are willing to start a business. The same applies, of course, to Arbetsförmedlingen's collaboration with other actors. This is something that we stress in our negotiations on the reform of the agency. Madam President, I would like The Center Party has proposed to investigate how to improve the procedures for paying and monitoring municipal allowances, as well as how to increase the degree of self-sufficiency. In the context of such a review, it is reasonable to also consider how to increase the long-term sustainability of the establishment and reception of new arrivals. Tomorrow, on the initiative of the Center Party, an intensive year will be introduced for new arrivals, which is in fact a reform of the establishment mission. In my speech in the previous debate, I outlined the fundamental reforms affecting the labour market. Here I have therefore chosen to focus on other issues that are central to successful integration, for example, that municipal efforts such as outreach and the like should be given high priority. The Center Party is also pushing the issue of integration preschools, but also that parents should be able to study Swedish for immigrants. It is also very important to strengthen education in Swedish with modern and digital aids. Madam President, I would like It is reasonable for new arrivals to work towards higher levels of social security contributions, so that they qualify into the Swedish system. It increases incentives to get into work, lowers costs and makes it clear that the right of asylum is about offering protection, not benefits. As a rule, financial compensation for households, such as financial assistance, should be paid evenly between spouses in order to strengthen women's economic empowerment. Women should also always be given the right and opportunity to have individual meetings with authorities without male relatives or acquaintances present. Madam President, I would like Mixed tenure forms, living urban environments and forward-looking urban development policies are important instruments for reducing segregation. The Center Party also wants to review the possibility of introducing housing savings according to the German model in Sweden, which provides opportunities to help people who would otherwise find it difficult to enter the housing market to buy a home. Not infrequently, exclusion areas can be raised through good collaboration between housing companies, the police and other authorities, as well as associations and civil society. There may be reason to review landlords' possibilities to evict tenants who interfere with and commit crimes. This could be done by amending the Tenancy Act so that disturbing behaviour in connection with the home and local tenants, as well as criminal acts committed against other neighbours wherever this takes place, could provide a basis for eviction. Finally, I would like to endorse the Center Party's reservation number 6.
i-ffa3992a34433214-524	Madam President, I would like One of the aims of the multicultural construction of society, supported by the Center Party, is that it is the task of society to finance organisations and projects that will help people who move here from other countries to preserve culture and tradition from their home country. After all, the Center Party spends some money on this in its budget. At the same time, another objective, expressed in one of the movements of the Center Party discussed in this report, is to help foreign-born women to succeed better in the labour market. Today, we know that one of the most important reasons why non-Europeanly born among certain groups have difficulties in the labour market is precisely the same culture and values that they have brought here from their home countries. Statskontoret, for example, says in a report from 2018 that there are a lot of traditions and cultures that exclude women from the labour force. My question is therefore this: why does the Center Party think that taxpayers should finance organisations and projects to help immigrants maintain and strengthen cultural values in Sweden, and that the same taxpayers, when those values and culture then cause unemployment among women, should pay for additional projects to help these people cope better with the labour market? Does the Center Party not understand that this is not a sensible way of managing tax money?
i-H7bxweyuRAnZc79ytg8SSe	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Ludvig Aspling, for the question! I honestly do not understand this constant obsession with cultures. I honestly do not understand the underlying values behind the question put to me by Ludvig Aspling. For the Center Party, it is of course important to have a high participation rate even among women born abroad. This is why we have a very clear focus on gender equality in our negotiations with the government regarding the reform of the Swedish Public Employment Service. We have been very clear about the importance of the participation of women born abroad in the labour force. Then we protect civil society, and Ludvig Aspling knows that. For us, it is very important that we have a wide range of civil society actors that contribute to successful integration. The image that Ludvig Aspling conveys of the fact that there are very many civil society actors who rather contribute to the destructive development of the integration process I do not recognize. Perhaps it is just that Ludvig Aspling wants to shift the focus from the fact that the Swedish Democrats lack an integration policy and strive for assimilation, which is something completely different from what the Center Party stands for.
i-ffa3992a34433214-532	Madam President, I would like I note that Alireza Akhondi is unable to answer the question. I understand that, because this is quite an obvious contradiction in the policy pursued by his own party. With regard to the fact that this type of organisation, i.e. organisations based on ethnic origin, impairs integration, there is plenty of research in this area. Paul Collier, for example, is a professor of migration studies, I think it is, in Oxford– he is at least a professor of economics – and draws the conclusion in one of his books. Statskontoret does the same, which I highlighted here. But let's try one more time, if Alireza Akhondi can focus a little bit on the question itself and not on who I am. We can pretend that this question comes from someone quite different and that it has nothing to do with the Swedish Democrats or who is asking the question. The Center Party wants to spend a lot of money on organisations that will help people from other countries to preserve culture, norms and values from those countries. We know that the same culture and standards make it more difficult for women to succeed in the labour market. Alireza Akhondi then wants taxpayers to pay even more money to tailor-made projects for these women who are excluded from the labour market partly because of the same values that taxpayers will have to pay to promote. Obviously not very smart, I think. Can Alireza Akhondi reasonably explain how it is to manage tax money in a sensible way?
i-ffa3992a34433214-537	Madam President, I would like In fact, I think that Ludvig Aspling should listen to what I say and what I have said. For us, it is important that we create opportunities for higher labour force participation among women born abroad. It does not get better or more understandable when Ludvig Aspling repeatedly points out that another culture is necessarily an obstacle to the participation of foreign-born workers. I mentioned in my speech that we have 2 million people with a foreign background who wake up every morning and go to work and contribute to Swedish welfare. To mean in general statements that there are structures that prevent people from being a productive part of our society really lacks evidence. Yes, Ludvig Aspling can laugh well there on the other side of the speaker's chair, but for me it is very important to point out that many civil society actors are involved and contribute in everyday life and in practice to people getting closer to the labour market and contributing to Swedish society, regardless of what Ludvig Aspling and the Swedish Democrats claim.
i-ffa3992a34433214-539	Madam President, I would like A joint, welcoming and dignified reception of refugees is a national commitment. It is something we as a country decided to do and that we take on together in Sweden. The Left Party wants the state to have overall responsibility for the reception of persons in need of protection in Sweden. Although it is the municipalities that are in practice implementing a large part of the efforts required for a good reception and a functioning establishment in society, the state has overall responsibility for its functioning. The state must therefore ensure that the municipalities have the right conditions for carrying out their tasks, both financially and practically. To this end, the reception shall have clear national governance and adequate state funding. A large part of the shortcomings identified by municipalities in recent years are linked to weaknesses in the establishment programme and the law on the reception of certain newly arrived immigrants for residence and how they interact with each other. However, some of the criticisms that have been made about the reception of new arrivals from some municipalities are based on other circumstances. Right-wing municipalities have come to blame their problems on those who recently settled there. In this way, the new arrivals are made scapegoats for the municipalities' own failures, while at the same time increasing racism and contradictions in society. Social Democratic and bourgeois-led governments have dismantled welfare in favour of tax cuts and subsidies for those who have the most. It has created the inequality and segregation that characterise Sweden today. The lack of affordable housing and undersized well-being are the real reasons behind the challenges of establishing and including new arrivals. But neither the government nor right-wing municipalities want to see that. Madam President, I would like The studies and reviews carried out show that Arbetsförmedlingen needs to improve gender equality in its activities and that the establishment programme should last longer than two years. The activities leading to more work normally begin at the end of the establishment period, and in many cases the participants do not reach it during the two years. Instead, they get caught up in preparatory activities. Although other programmes take into account the end of the start-up period, the same activities are not always available in these programmes. The short start-up period also limits the possibility of developing longer-term start-up plans and risks transferring greater responsibilities, too early, to the municipalities. The Left Party believes that the establishment programme should be investigated on the basis of the criticism that has emerged. The duration of participation in the programme should be evaluated on the basis of the ambition that it should be possible to participate until one gets to work. The two-year period of establishment is also linked to the period during which the municipality receives compensation for the new arrivals received. The regulations regarding these compensations should also be investigated with support from Statskontoret's mission to map the municipal reception activities. In addition, as regards the establishment programme, a number of studies and reviews have been carried out which show that the Public Employment Service needs to improve gender equality in its activities. Among other things, it has been shown that women are less able to take part in work-related activities than men, such as labour market training, work placements, entry-level jobs and new start-up jobs. As a possible explanation for this, it has been heard that employment intermediaries have different notions about women and men that influence labour market policy assessment. Madam President, I would like I believe that the government should have the establishment programme evaluated on the basis of the ambition of being able to participate in it until one gets to work. The government should also urgently address the gender inequality that exists in the establishment programme. I'm in favour of reservation number seven. Madam President, I would like I would just like to say a few words about integration in vulnerable areas. Women, especially young women, are always an especially vulnerable group in society. There is no difference between socially vulnerable areas. Women in such areas report to a greater extent that they are insecure and worried about being exposed to crime in their own residential areas compared to women in other areas. In particularly vulnerable areas, many organised gangs, networks or families want to create some form of parallel society. It is the group's honour and rules that are the most important and not society's laws and standards. The structures are patriarchal and violent, and crime such as the sale of drugs and weapons feeds large parts of the group. Women and girls, but also boys and young men, are controlled and oppressed. It will be important that the group does not participate in other community activities. It is the status and honor of the group that is to be protected. The collective status thus becomes more important than the freedom of the individual. Madam President, I would like I note, like the committee, that the government is making a targeted effort in several areas to improve the state of socio-economically vulnerable areas. However, I believe that particular attention needs to be paid to the situation of women in these areas. Women's conditions need to be made visible in particular in order to bring about a positive change. I therefore believe that the government should take the initiative for further measures to ensure that women in socially vulnerable areas have a level playing field with women in other areas. Madam President, I would like In the debate we would talk about integration. There are so many important topics to talk about and discuss. I hope that we will have reason to come back to the questions. But time passes. I hope I said earlier that I am in favour of reservation number 7.
i-ffa3992a34433214-553	Madam President, I would like Sweden should be a country of hope and opportunity, not hopelessness and exclusion. We Christian Democrats want a society in which all people do their part and are allowed to contribute and work to 100% of their ability. We need to take advantage of people's inherent motivation and willingness to build a secure future in Sweden. Those who have fled from war and oppression should feel welcome to create a good life in freedom here and become part of the community. But we need to be better at marking which fundamental values and values are not elective. Otherwise, we will see both growing xenophobia and growing exclusion. Madam President, I would like The community has many pieces. One of them is what is sometimes called the social contract, a description of the obligations and rights that citizens, society and the state have towards each other. In the proposals discussed in the report we are debating here and now, the Christian Democrats have presented some integration proposals precisely to safeguard and strengthen that contract. Sweden has not designed the reception of refugees in a way that has benefited integration. Few, if any, would claim today that the integration equation is not complicated by how many people are seeking asylum. Bringing the search pressure down to an average Nordic level is one of our goals. The objective of integration policy should continue to be community-based. New arrivals must be given keys to enter Swedish society. Research is clear here; with insufficient knowledge of the Swedish language, the conditions for self-support, further education and participation in society are worse. Integration is also hampered by preconceptions leading to discrimination and exclusion, particularly in the labour market. Madam President, I would like The state regulates migration itself and how the municipalities and regions handle it. At the same time, it is the municipalities and regions that are allowed to take over the long-term consequences of migration. This has led to frustration and discord between the political levels. The municipalities consider themselves, with some right, to be sitting with the bill of state policy. Since integration is characterised by a wide range of policy areas, some form of pit spray has emerged in terms of integration. The reception has been fully addressed alongside the discussion on housing access, labour market conditions and other key factors for integration. To take a comprehensive approach to, inventory and equip the Swedish integration capacity, we want to establish a permanent body that will make a continuous inventory of our integration capacity. It will develop policy measures and financial frameworks based on the actual needs. Madam President, I would like We Christian Democrats want to change the establishment programme. Today, those who have received a residence permit are prepared in an establishment programme for a maximum of two years, including Swedish, SFI and social orientation. The fact that, after these two years, just over one third of new arrivals move on to paid or subsidised work or training shows that it is not working. For far too many, the establishment programme instead leads to supply support and exclusion. The Christian Democrats want to extend the start-up period for those who so need up to five years. For municipalities, this would mean a relief, as the responsibility of the state, not least financially, is extended for the group that is not yet ready for matching. But it can't just be about the length of the program. Of course, it is also important that the SFI is much more personalised and has a clearer link with the labour market and self-sufficiency. The Christian Democrats want each municipality, individually or in regional collaboration, to offer SFI with a clear link to the labour market and profession. We believe that the first two years of the establishment programme should be mandatory and that the sanction system in the establishment allowance should be tightened up. With a flexible start-up programme with a mandatory first part, the newcomers who after two years are still deemed to need an extension of the programme would still need action. If new arrivals achieve their own livelihood or have adequate knowledge of the Swedish language within this two-year period, compulsory participation will cease. No one should be held back, but today too many are left behind in prolonged exclusion. Madam President, I would like New arrivals of women participate to a lesser extent in various preparatory work measures compared to men; they are later registered with the Employment Service and start training in Swedish for immigrants later. New arrivals of women and men are not met with the same expectations or demands to work. Several studies highlight different structural aspects, such as the types of interventions the Employment Service offers women, the treatment of the authority, access to childcare, the design of parental insurance and discrimination among employers. Isolation is not the answer to how to get more foreign-born women to work. Activities to prepare women on parental leave for work, such as compulsory language studies and social orientation, are a much better answer. The Christian Democrats suggest that Sweden, like Norway and Denmark, should work significantly more actively during women's parental leave to avoid isolation and prepare women for working life through language studies, workplace visits and mentoring programmes. It is important that these educational measures provide advice on how family responsibilities are combined with work in Swedish society. Outreach activities to get women who are not on parental leave on active leave also need to be strengthened. Unlike the committee, I believe that more initiatives are needed in this area, not less. I therefore believe that the government should, among other things, work towards the introduction of municipal mentoring programmes in which foreign-born women who have already made the trip can act as role models. Madam President, I would like About a year ago, the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs looked at the Australian model of integration efforts. I really wish that the government had taken better note of not least their way of involving civil society in networking and integration. New arrivals are offered from day one, instead of passivity, activity by doing some kind of mandatory community service. Evaluations from a number of Swedish authorities show that civil society organisations played a very important role in the reception of all asylum seekers who came in 2015. They showed a strength, flexibility and organisational capacity that the authorities concerned were unable to cope with, and have not been able to take advantage of, in terms of integration. It is in these associations that networks and contacts are created. This is where you can prepare the way for your first job. This is where what feels strange can actually become known. I therefore support our reservation 18 in paragraph 7.
i-ffa3992a34433214-568	Madam President, I would like People don't think I can make any sense just because I'm getting out of here. I don't think so either. The quote comes from a 14-year-old guy who lives in one of Sweden's vulnerable areas. We can call him Josef. He's not the only one who feels that way. I've met a lot of people like him. When we shape integration policy, it must be about Josef dreaming big dreams of his future. He should be able to dream of becoming a pastry chef, teacher, entrepreneur or whatever he wants, and he should be given the opportunity to fulfill his dreams through a functioning school, labour market and integration. When we talk about integration, we often mean vulnerable areas, but we should really talk about vulnerable people. It is about adults who do not have the freedom and pride that most others experience when they leave work for the day and know that the salary comes into the account on the 25th so that they can support their family. It is about young girls and boys who are limited in how they live and who they can love because of traditions that are not compatible with our society's fundamental democratic values of equality and children's rights. It is also about children who can never read their homework in peace because they live with another family in the already narrow apartment. These are the people we need to put on the retina. Removing obstacles, releasing driving forces and creating opportunities for those who live in the least freedom is what makes me and many other liberals out in our elongated country continue to engage us year after year. If we remove obstacles and create opportunities, the momentum that exists in the vast majority will be released. For example, it is at Kahwar. She grew up in Afghanistan where as a girl she did not have access to education, but she learned on her own. After two in Sweden, she now works as a personal assistant during the days and studies as a nurse in the evenings. Her driving force has made it possible, and it has been possible to do so thanks to her participation in the Establishment Lift, which gave her an intensive course in the Swedish language. That's what she needed to get a job. The solution, Madam President, is not revolutionary or unique. It is about a job to go to and a school that meets up and compensates for what the home cannot provide in terms of future faith and knowledge. For those who have not been born with Swedish as their mother tongue, language is one of the keys to integration. We are therefore pleased that more people will now have the same chance as Kahwar through the intensive year negotiated through the January Agreement. It is presented today and will shortly be introduced. A great deal is being done, but much more is needed. For the Liberals, the most important thing is to ensure people's freedom, especially for those whose freedom is most threatened. We therefore need to reverse developments in all the vulnerable areas of the country. We need integration pacts to be negotiated between the state, the region, the municipality and the local property owners in each affected area. In the integration pacts, the Parties shall agree on concrete measures and activities to improve both the physical and the social environment of the area based on the specific challenges and opportunities of each area. This may involve ending illegal local rentals or scribbles removal, homework or help for young people to gain work experience. State funding needs to help work in the form of a national fund for longer-term investments that can boost these areas. People living in the vulnerable areas must be involved in the work and be part of the integration pacts. Some of the work we have done under the January agreement is moving in the right direction, but much more needs to be done. One of our top priorities is precisely that of integration pacts. Madam President, I would like Sweden should be an open country that welcomes new residents, a country where we create a common future regardless of origin. Integration is a mutual process between people, where the sense of belonging is the result. We need to be better at harnessing the skills that people come here with and, at the same time, becoming better at making demands to motivate those who themselves do not have enough momentum. Sweden, for example, needs to be better at harnessing the potential and entrepreneurship that many newcomers carry with them and giving more opportunities to start a business. At the same time, we need to look at the possibility of withdrawing the compensation for those who skip school from SFI education. Rights and obligations need to go hand in hand. The responsibility of the individual is important, and it is also the commitment that people spend on their free time to create good conditions for integration. Ideal hours spent in language cafés, homework help and mentoring are extremely valuable for those who are new in Sweden and try to understand how society works. Civil society plays an important role in promoting the entry of newcomers into Swedish society but also in the reception of asylum seekers, and it should be able to play an even greater role in the integration process. Madam President, I would like There is still much to be done for a well-functioning integration in our country, where the momentum that Kahwar and the people she has is taken care of and where Josef and people like him have faith in the future. We in the Liberals have many suggestions in our reservations and, of course, we all support them, but for the time to come, I only support reservation 22 which deals with the integration pacts.
i-ffa3992a34433214-583	Madam President, I would like Many people have enjoyed immigration to Sweden. Companies can look for skills from a wider staffing pool, and people with experiences from different corners of the world can share these. The life of immigrants in other countries can be particularly enriching for people from here. For example, I would never have become a Swedish democrat if I had not seen Sweden a little more from an outside perspective. However, there is a slightly more unpleasant side of this. Words like balcony girls, oppression of honour and forced marriages were relatively unknown when I was a child, but unfortunately that is no longer the case. What makes problems like these special ones is that they are often culturally decreed. For example, if a parent in the majority culture wants to punish a child who wants a boy or a girlfriend, the parent must hide it from the environment in order not to completely lose face. But in other parts of Sweden it is exactly the opposite. A parent must carry out a certain act in order not to lose face. Of course, this does not apply to all those who move to Sweden, but some carry such problems. I argue that the reason why these problems have become more common in Sweden is that people have moved here from countries where this is not at all seen as a problem but rather as a cultural norm. They brought the norm here. I wonder if Malin Danielsson and the Liberals make the same assessment. Is there a connection between many people moving here from cultures that are based, for example, on so-called honorary culture and that problems then arise in Sweden?
i-ffa3992a34433214-586	Madam President, I would like There is, of course, a connection, Ludvig Aspling, between cultures where honor has a great influence and that we see an increased amount of crimes like these in our country. That is not strange, and the Liberals have been clear about this for a long time. That is also why we have been pushing for a very long time to identify and prevent the problem of honour. Schools should keep an eye on such problems in order to be able to capture and prevent them. I think we are the party that has been pushing these issues for the longest time. We noticed this very early. Our party leader Nyamko Sabuni noted this during his time as Minister of Integration just over ten years ago. So we have a long tradition of seeing these problems and finding measures to get to them. It is, of course, about freedom for those girls and boys who are victims of crimes of honour such as these, who are in no way acceptable.
i-ffa3992a34433214-589	Madam President, I would like Malin Danielsson says that it is obvious that there is such a connection. But how is it then that as soon as we from the Swedish Democrats talk about that there may be something that cultural burden clips the Liberals with their pearls and screams in falsified. It became a very rabble when we pointed out that many of these problems have a cultural dimension that is clearly imported. Does this mean that the Liberals have turned now? Does it exist in the world of the Liberals, something that can be called cultural burden? Again, we are not saying that this applies to everyone who moves to Sweden, but it applies to some. We say that the problem is more common among some countries of origin than others. We also say that a suitable expression to describe the problem is precisely a cultural burden.
i-ffa3992a34433214-591	Madam President, I would like I think it is rather the Swedish Democrats and Ludvig Aspling who have changed their way of expressing themselves. Instead of expressing themselves with sweeping collective terms about groups of people, people are now beginning to talk about individuals. From the Liberal side, we've been talking about individuals all along. We see each individual. We also see that it is positive that we have immigration to Sweden. It contributes to Sweden becoming a better country. It contributes to our workforce. It contributes in various ways to the growth of our country's innovation power and competitiveness in the world. But we also see that there may be some problems on the individual plane. There are some clashes between our culture and the culture from which you come. We need to help individuals see what's okay and what's not okay in our society. The big difference, as I see it, is that Ludvig Aspling usually talks in these sweeping collective terms, where everyone is a problem. Although Ludvig Aspling is now shaking his head, it is something that we have heard for quite a long time. That is also why we have the type of outbreak described when Swedish democrats talk about immigration in this way. We are going to deal with the problems that exist, but we are, of course, going to see the access that immigration to our country represents.
i-ffa3992a34433214-595	Madam President, I would like Our whole society has been affected by the pandemic over the past year. I do not believe that any debate in this House has taken place without mentioning it. We entered the crisis that came in the wake of the pandemic with a low level of public debt and order in state finances. It has created opportunities for the parliament and government to make great efforts to protect life and health. It has also been able to save several companies from bankruptcy and many employees from unemployment. Nevertheless, many have become unemployed. Many companies, not least in sectors where many get their first job, have an extremely tough time, for example in hotels and restaurants and some parts of the trade. Now that we are debating integration, we are doing so in the shadow of high unemployment and fewer entry jobs. Those who have previously found it most difficult to find work, such as low-skilled and foreign-born, are now competing for job vacancies with more domestic born and educated people – those who lost jobs in the wake of the crisis. It is a difficult situation that requires action. The 2021 budget contains strong efforts to relaunch the economy and get us out of the crisis. It is a budget that is estimated to contribute to 75 000 new jobs. There are also reinforcements of labour market policies through increased appropriations for the Employment Service, more matching services and labour market training. Funds have also been added so that more people can take part in introductory jobs and additional services. We have made it possible to extend the time in various support, for example to start business, start-up jobs, extra services and introductory jobs. More people can now participate in education with continued remuneration and take part in study start-up support. Madam President, I would like Sweden has for several years received a large number of refugees. For integration to work, efforts are needed to ensure that people who come here from completely other parts of the world understand which country they came to, how society and the labour market function, what expectations there are of those who want to live here and what rights they have. The Government has therefore extended public information from 60 to 100 hours and commissioned the Finnish Immigration Service to prepare mandatory community introductions for asylum seekers by this year at the latest. Work and the Swedish language are keys to participation and integration. It is therefore extremely important that we ensure that foreign born people receive good language training and support for work. For us Social Democrats, this is precisely what is at the heart of integration policy, an integration policy that has become increasingly labour market-oriented. We have re-established the right of establishment plan for establishment programmes corresponding to other labour market policy programmes, with the same requirements and similar conditions for all job seekers. Madam President, I would like Those who have fled to Sweden are not a homogeneous group. They all have different backgrounds, education and work experience. There is therefore a need for a number of different actions that can suit different groups. Compulsory education, knowledge transfer, increased ability to combine language studies with vocational training, fast track, job tracks, additional services and introductory jobs – reform for reform, the government has strengthened the job focus and improved the establishment of new arrivals. The start-up work of the parties shall become a reality. After the decisions we made here in the Riksdag, the government works to ensure that they are in place before the end of the year. For those who came to Sweden as refugees in 2014 it took four years before half of them were in work. It is a halving of time when compared to those that came in 2009. The same statistics show that those who have arrived later have an even faster rate of establishment. However, the employment and unemployment gap between foreign born and domestic born remains large, and we need to constantly evaluate, review and improve the efforts we are making. Madam President, I would like As I mentioned earlier, language is crucial for establishing oneself in the Swedish labour market. We have recently decided here in Parliament to introduce language duty. If you have income support and your lack of language skills prevents you from taking a job, you must take part in SFI or equivalent education in folk high school. The government has recently referred to several proposals for improved SFI. Language training for employees in care for the elderly is now being carried out around the country to improve the quality of care, but also to create a more stable establishment in the labour market for those who currently lack language skills. Jobs and self-sufficiency provide self-determination, participation and freedom to shape one's own life. As more foreign born people come to work, skills supply can be improved and tax revenues increased. We need to make sure that everyone who can work also works. The government's policy is geared towards equipping people and opening the way for more people to take the jobs that emerge as the economy recovers. We have everything to gain from successful integration. Tomorrow the intensive year begins. What we all agree on in this debate, Madam President, is that the path to self-sufficiency and work needs to be shorter for more people. Then we need to test new methods and new support. Intensification year means that women and men should get part of operations that take place in parallel or in close succession with a high tempo. The aim is to get to work within a year. In this action, the gender perspective should be the focus. The establishment in the Swedish labour market must be equal. Women and men should have the same opportunities and equal support to be able to establish themselves in the labour market, get jobs and support themselves. But it doesn't look like that today. Women are not met with the same demands and expectations. They do not receive equal support, and not the type of aid that more effectively leads to employment, such as labour market training and subsidised employment. Therefore, the government has in several ways strengthened the governance of Arbetsförmedlingen. In the regulation letter for 2021, the agency has been commissioned to have a gender perspective in all decision-making at all levels. The government has also pointed out specific actions where the Public Employment Service needs to do more. For example, it is about increasing gender equality within the establishment programme and subsidised employment. Measures should also be taken and planned to ensure equal support for women and men, especially among foreign-borns. In labour market training, we are now seeing an increase in the proportion of new decisions that go to women. It is the result of the Government's mission to achieve more equal participation in labour market training. It is possible to reverse the trend, but political will and clear governance are needed in order for the establishment to be more equal. We have strong standards in Sweden about women's participation in the labour force. Our well-being with extended preschools and elderly care creates good conditions for women to work. The Social Democratic-led government has reformed parental insurance and abolished the custody allowance in order to shorten the time it takes for foreign-born women to enter the labour market. Folkbildning, civil society and municipalities do an important job in strengthening language and the way to work for parents. We will continue to find more ways to improve gender equality, especially in integration policies. With that, Madam President, I would like to support the proposal in the report and reject the reservations.
i-ffa3992a34433214-610	Madam President, I would like The Social Democrats define the concept of integration, like this – I read before: Integration should make it easier for the individual to integrate old and new life patterns and lifestyles in the way she wants. This is a prerequisite for people to develop an entire identity and be proud of their background. A multicultural society consists of a diversity of values and approaches, which gradually interact with each other. In other words, outside economic integration is nothing more than what immigrants want it to be. A person who comes to Sweden and learns perfectly Swedish, makes friends and acquaintances, establishes their lifestyle according to what is considered normal here and adopts the life patterns and values that apply in Sweden is integrated. But a person who does not learn a word of Swedish, does not at all adapt his lifestyle to what is normative in Sweden and may not have any contact at all with the majority society is just as integrated, according to the Social Democrats' definition. In other words, from the outset the concept of integration has been defined in such a way that it really means nothing at all, in the sense of the government. I would therefore like to ask Johanna Haraldsson this: have the Social Democrats deliberately made it too easy for themselves here? Has this definition of integration been adopted simply to make it impossible to fail?
i-ffa3992a34433214-613	Madam President, I would like Ludvig Aspling insinuates a lot of things and wants me to answer for something he reads out of some document, which I don't really know which one it is. But as I said in my speech, the basis for integration for the Social Democrats is that you can support yourself, learn the language and participate in society. That's where we make a lot of effort.
i-ffa3992a34433214-614	Madam President, I would like Johanna Haraldsson has never heard of a bill called Sweden, the future and diversity – from immigration policy to integration policy. This bill explicitly states what the Social Democrats mean by the concept of integration. If you are not aware of this, I wonder what you have to do in this debate. However, if we move on to what is called a diversity of values, which is a fundamental element of this document, I would like to ask a small follow-up question. According to this bill, society should be characterised by a diversity of values, without a restrictive principle. So all values that come from elsewhere should be welcome. I can see a number of situations where this causes problems. One example is so-called honour repression, which several debaters in this debate have highlighted. According to the definition contained in this document, the Social Democrats believe that all values are welcome. Had I written the same document, I would have written something like this: a diversity of values within the framework of what is acceptable with regard to human rights, for example, or what is acceptable in a democratic society or something like that. Why did the Social Democrats choose to define the concept of integration so broadly that all values should be welcome?
i-ffa3992a34433214-617	Madam President, I would like One might wonder whether Ludvig Aspling's willingness to debate details and other parties' programmes is due to the fact that there is no integration policy of its own. But--I'm sorry, I actually forgot your question. Can he put it back?
i-ffa3992a34433214-619	If the honourable Member refers to honour-related violence and oppression as something that would be accepted in Swedish society, it is certainly not. We have worked purposefully to strengthen the legislation and work against honour-related violence and repression in the legal system, social services and schools. We have introduced a new penalty and an exit ban to protect children who are at risk of being married away or genital mutilation. And a particular offence of honour has now been proposed by the government's investigators. To say that we find all values and expressions of them acceptable is therefore not right.
i-ffa3992a34433214-621	Madam President, I would like This debate is about integration. Unfortunately, however, today's debate on integration is not always about how to improve integration. It seems that some have decided that integration is not possible and would rather talk about failed integration in order to find scapegoats for various social problems. It is much easier to kick the outsider than to create the conditions necessary for everyone to get in. But this is a dangerous strategy that neither creates security nor community in society. Instead, security is built by creating the conditions for people to meet and trust each other. We build security through policies that reduce gaps and strengthen the welfare of all. Integration is a mutual process that places demands on those who are new to society and on society as a whole. But how are we to succeed in integration when groups of people are constantly portrayed as problems? Politicians who constantly point out a we and a judgment create a dangerous situation where the reluctance to integration only creates more segregation. If we as a society are to overcome segregation, we must remove the obstacles that stand in the way of integration. One of the biggest of these obstacles is that the integration debate is characterised by racism and prejudices that stand in the way of rational and sustainable decisions. We will never be able to resolve segregation with a policy based on fear of people who are different from us. Instead, an economic policy is needed that reduces poverty and creates good conditions for everyone who grows up in Sweden, regardless of where they or their parents come from. Madam President, I would like It is no wonder that people in this country, who have been marinated year after year in a social debate characterised by pointing out new arrivals and asylum seekers as problems, are concerned that social developments are heading in the wrong direction. When, in principle, all social problems are pasted to people with foreign background, a very destructive debate is created that gives rise to polarisation and xenophobia. At the same time, many who have come new to Sweden and are really trying to establish themselves here about a feeling of doing everything but still not being allowed in. And it's not just new arrivals that are affected. People who have lived and worked in Sweden in an entire working life and also their children who were born and raised here tell us that they suddenly encounter hatred and prejudice that they have not seen before. A functioning integration requires a society that stays together. Inequality and economic divides increase segregation and impair interpersonal trust, and it fertilises racism. Therefore, it is not just newly arrived people who lose out on segregation. Our whole society loses out on it. For what happens to a society where people with different backgrounds, different experiences and different economic opportunities do not meet each other, where children go to different schools and families live in different areas? It will be a smaller society, where our children grow up with too narrow perceptions of other people's reality and of the society in which they live. It puts our greatest asset at risk: our trust in each other. In today's debate it sounds like foreign born that I and my neighbours do not want and can never be a part of Sweden. It will be a self-strengthening prophecy. When you talk about people all the time as a problem, as a burden and as non-functional is the risk that people internalize that image. We cannot believe that new arrivals will integrate themselves into their own corner of society and then face the rest of society once they are done with it. Integration is a mutual process that takes time and whose main threat is prejudice, racism and discrimination. An immigrant cannot be integrated unless she is included. It is therefore of the utmost importance that newly arrived people are included early in Swedish society. Language skills, social education, access to education, jobs and housing are central to creating the conditions for a future here. The current government has made a great deal of effort in these areas, but more needs to be done, not least in view of the ongoing pandemic, which is at risk of affecting the establishment of newcomers. What best promotes people's equal opportunities in the long term are general measures aimed at all people in society. The foundation is a good and equal school for children, young people and adults, but also efforts in areas such as labour market, education, health care and housing are necessary for integration. These measures must be complemented by targeted measures for newcomers in order to facilitate the sustainable establishment of society. Particular attention needs to be paid to women's path to self-sufficiency. Madam President, I would like Integration in Sweden should be the best in the world. It aims to increase equality, protect gender equality and provide the conditions for a society that stays together. If we are to get there, we need to talk about which policy makes a real difference – not take the easy way to blame everything on an already vulnerable group in society. Not only does it not solve the problems; it creates new problems that are hard to overlook. Political rhetoric and commitment must be a solution-oriented approach. Today, segregation brings together poverty and foreign background. It is a social problem that basically has nothing to do with ethnicity. The inhabitants of the suburbs have varied, but poverty, social exclusion and hopelessness have united them for decades. Poverty has always been a risk factor for ill health, crime and other problems. Some want to dismiss the Green Party's policy as blind to the challenges that exist in society linked to integration. Instead, I believe that we are one of the few parties that still dare to face these challenges without landing in simplified conclusions. We focus on a policy that helps improve the conditions for new arrivals to establish themselves and become part of society. For integration to work, people need opportunities, not resistance and suspicion. Having said that, I would like to support the committee's proposal and reject the reservations.
i-ffa3992a34433214-639	Madam President, I would like How successful integration policy is can of course be measured in slightly different ways. In the budget bill, the government presents figures concerning, for example, unemployment and school outcomes for foreign born children. There are differences there. However, I believe that there are other aspects to this where the differences are even greater. For example, Brå writes in her report Silence Cultures from 2019 on page 46:中 Some interviewers believe that some foreign-born victims do not perceive relationship violence as criminal. The same may apply to acts considered child abuse in Sweden. It is not torn down as a matter of mere lack of knowledge, but that it is a question of norm systems. ..................................................... Another example of values that are slightly different from what is normal in Sweden can be found in Statskontoret's 2018 report, which talks about the traditions and cultures that exclude women from the labour force. There are numerous sources that confirm this, that is to say that standards and values differ, sometimes quite strongly and sometimes with serious consequences. I would therefore like to ask Ali-Elmi: why is the cultural aspect of integration nothing that the government is interested in measuring when presenting results in the budget bill? I think, for example, that standard systems that justify child abuse are a much bigger and more serious problem than unemployment and school outcomes. Doesn't Ali-Elmi-Elmi agree?
i-ffa3992a34433214-644	Madam President, I would like I am the first to admit that integration in Sweden is not optimal and that we need to do more. Today we have a two-year establishment programme in which an illiterate and an academic are to take one and the same programme. We in the Green Party want to individualize the establishment programme and create more tracks, so that people get the help they need. However, I do not have the same perverse fixation as the Swedish Democrats in terms of people's culture, background and ethnicity. We need to work to give people opportunities and tools to get into society. Of course there are problems with honour oppression and child abuse. England does not forbid child abuse. We can only look at it. I mean that people who live in Sweden, no matter who they are, should comply with the regulations and laws that exist here. Nevertheless, I would like to put a counter-question to Ludvig Aspling. You are the party that screams the most and gives a very misleading and alarming picture of integration in Sweden. At the same time, you are the only party in Sweden that has absolutely no integration policy to meet these challenges. In your committee motion, you write that the government's efforts in the field of integration are defined on an ethnic basis. I would then like to know what ethnicity the government is delineating its integration policy by.
i-ffa3992a34433214-648	Madam President, I would like Ali-Elmi-Elmi claims that I misdescribe the problem. I would just like to point out once more that I am reading from a report by Mrs Brå. After all, Brå is an expert authority under the government, the government of which Ali-Elmis's party is part. If she doesn't trust it, maybe she should leave that party. I don't recognize the quote from the exercise. However, when we talk about associations based on ethnic grounds, which I suspect is what is meant by what Mr Ali-Elmi-Elmi says, we are not talking about any individual ethnicity, but there are a lot of different ones. I don't know exactly how many, but we're talking about maybe 30, 40 or 50. But let's get back to the question, because I didn't hear an answer. Maybe I should repeat it one more time. When the government presents results for integration policy, it leaves the cultural aspect of integration entirely out of the question. It is exclusively about school outcomes, unemployment and health. Why do you do that? We think that the cultural aspect of integration is very important, because many people in Sweden are getting hurt because of values that are simply not acceptable in a democratic society. This is reflected in the report by Mrs Brå to which I refer, which states that people regard child abuse as acceptable and that it is part of a norm system. I noted that in his speech Ali-Elmi said that integration is a two-way process. This means that those who move to Sweden will adapt to some extent, and we who already live here will adapt to some extent. All right, fine! Can Ali-Elmi then explain how to deal with norm systems that justify child abuse? Once again, therefore, I am not the one who claims to exist; it is Mr Bru, the government's own expert authority.
i-ffa3992a34433214-653	Madam President, I would like Of course we should protect children's rights. Ludvig Aspling is trying to make it sound like we welcome childage. It is forbidden to beat children in Sweden, and everyone must comply with the rules that exist in Sweden, the end of the period. Then I don't know which report you refer to, Ludvig Aspling. When you select a sentence in the report and put yourself in this Chamber and ask specifically if it will be difficult for me to respond to it. What is important for integration is that people are actually faced with opportunities instead of opposition and suspicion. I would like to come back to my question, because it has not Aspling: how do you want to solve integration problems? But I'm staying there because I see that Ludvig Aspling has no further line.
i-ffa3992a34433214-657	Madam President, I would like Sweden is one of the world's most equal countries, but in recent years we have seen that development in several parts has stopped. In other parts, developments are even going in the wrong direction. In today's debate on gender equality here in Parliament, I thought of three concrete examples, three areas that deeply concern me about the development of gender equality in Sweden. The first example concerns the oppression of honour. There is much evidence that the oppression of honour is increasing, that the spread is increasing around Sweden. The latest estimate, which we have received from researchers in Sweden, is that so many who were sixth ninth graders in Stockholm, Gothenburg and Malmö, our metropolitan areas, live under honorary oppression. Many of these also live under honorary violence. This is an issue that must be given absolute top political priority. It's a question of freedom. It is about people who in many cases have fled from oppression and who have gone to Sweden to live a free life here. And here they are faced with continued and even more widespread oppression. I am therefore pleased that, after years of protest from, among others, the Moderates, we can finally see that the competence team against honorary oppression at the County Administrative Board in Östergötland is now permanent. We have been going on about it in this House, but now we see that it actually seems to be happening. I'm very happy about that. But I can see that a great deal remains to be done. Just over a year ago, we could have had a new piece of legislation in place with a new penalty base in respect of honour. It is therefore a question of being judged more harshly for crimes committed in the name of honour. Instead, the government chose to delay that legislation. It was completed during the last parliamentary term. But they chose to set up another investigation. Now we hope that this will soon become a reality. We see that we need more efforts to appreciate the spread of honour repression in Sweden. For this reason, we on the moderate side have taken the initiative, among other things, to find out the extent of moral police forces in Sweden and to make it criminal to practice the type of repression that so-called moral police do in Sweden – to name a few concrete examples. By 2019 representatives of the Social Democrats in Umeå denied the existence of honorary oppression. Islamophobia was used as an argument not to carry out a survey of the extent of the honorary oppression in the municipality. It is difficult to shake off the feeling that it is notions like these that make the Social Democrats slow down and slow down efforts to stop the oppression of honour in Sweden. My second example concerns violence in close relationships. Every three weeks a woman is murdered by her partner in Sweden. Much of the violence in close relationships is sexual. During Stefan Lövven's first five years as Prime Minister, young women's exposure to sexual offences increased by 360 per cent. It's a massive increase. We have also seen increases in notifications, but we continue to see that the number of darkness is large. Many victims of this type of crime still do not feel that it makes sense to report the case so that the administration of justice has its way, for there are so few of these crimes that are cleared up. In the latest report from the Crime Prevention Council, we see that it has increased slightly. For example, we can look at rapes. It is now somewhere around 6 out of 100. It's still an extremely low percentage. More than 6 percent of rape crimes are cleared up. In practice, this is impunity. Here politics has a huge homework to do. We have repeatedly pushed the government in this House in the area after area and ran over the government with announcements to bring about penalties for rape and a general review of sexual crimes in Chapter 6. the criminal code in a punitive direction; But we still see that it takes too long to get these efforts in place. The third concrete example is that we would like to enable anklets directly in the case of violence in close relations. We do not want it to be as it is today, that it can only happen after an infringement of the ban on contact has been committed. It must be possible with a anklet immediately if one sees that there are reasons for this. In our budget, we have doubled support for women's shelters, compared with the government's budget. I think it's worth mentioning. But we see here too that there is still more to be done. This applies, for example, to the National Centre for Women's Peace in Uppsala. It is a successful business that supports victims and conducts research on violence in close relationships and also sexual crimes. We see that the government's reduction in their budget is still not restored. We continue to push for the National Centre for Women's Peace to have a restored budget so that they can continue to develop their important work to increase gender equality in Sweden. Of course, we support all our reservations, but for the benefit of time, I only ask for the approval of number 5.
i-ffa3992a34433214-669	Madam President, I would like We are, of course, in favour of all our requests and reservations, but I choose to endorse only reservation number 2, which concerns the issue of honour-related violence and repression, which has been allowed to become a serious social problem in us. That this can even happen in Sweden in 2021 is frightening, and that of course destroys our gender equality work. There has been an unhealthy migration to our country, which has meant that women in Sweden today cannot move freely and live an independent life. They are oppressed, forced to cover themselves, violated, married to their will, beaten and murdered — all in the name of honor. This so-called culture of honour and the violence of honour that is spreading more and more should of course not even occur in our part of the world. Of course, if we could decide, the poor view of women would not exist anywhere in the world. But unfortunately, we can't. What we can influence, however, is what it should look like in our country. According to the gender equality policy objectives of our country, women and men should have the same right and the opportunity to be active citizens. This is a goal that cannot be fulfilled as long as the culture of honor is not stopped. Those of us who are elected must, together, recognise the seriousness and, once and for all, put an end to the violence of honour. It is the responsibility of ruling politicians to women and children affected, and that is the least that we can ask of our so-called feminist government. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats will never accept the normalisation of honour-related crime as if it were a natural feature of us. We are therefore presenting a series of concrete proposals to overcome this: 中 Stop the irresponsible immigration so that we have a chance to rebuild a cohesive country. 中 Map the extent of the violence of honour in our Swedish society. 中 Stop the parallel medieval social structures that have emerged. Inform those who come to Sweden. From day one you should know which standards, laws and rules apply and must be observed in our country. It should be absolutely clear that honorary culture is not part of our Western way of life. . Dissemination of knowledge to those who, in their professional lives, are forced to deal with violence of honour. 中 Increase support for civil society's work against honour crimes. 中 Offer women's shelters especially for honour victims until we have resolved the situation. Last but not least: If you do not want to adapt to our western social structure and our Swedish traditions, you should not live in Sweden. In addition to imported honour violence, there are also serious problems with other violence in close relationships and men's violence against women. Every year, several women are killed by men with whom they have or have had a relationship. The government has expressed its ambition that men's violence against women should cease. That's good, but more needs to be done. One step in the right direction would be the introduction of a zero vision of violence against women. A zero vision that stated objectives would show even more clearly that politics understands and works on the basis of the real gravity of the issue. No one should ever have to doubt that society really prioritises this issue and pays the utmost attention to it. Women who are victims of violence should be sure that society is on their side and that the perpetrator will be punished. Madam President, I would like When the Swedish Democrats talk about gender equality, we do so in terms of equal rights and opportunities for both women and men to shape their own lives. Each individual should be free to make his or her own individual life choices without the public trying to control or influence. The objectives of gender equality policy are essentially also based on an equal idea. A closer examination shows, however, that the objectives are, as a rule, based on the fact that gender equality is only achieved when gender balance permeates society as a whole. This is a clear dividing line between our view of equality and that of the government. It is our conviction that the individual perspective must never be overshadowed by ideals and targets of a certain distribution. Targets that focus on this risk bringing in undesirable elements such as discrimination – and that's what we want to counteract, isn't it? We believe that the Equality Authority, as well as all forms of quotas, should be phased out. Gender equality work must be carried out within all authorities in order to have an impact, and we believe that this will have the best impact if the authorities themselves are responsible for their gender equality work. Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, Sweden is governed by a government in which the Green Party, with only 4.41 percent of voters' support in the back, is involved in influencing the country's direction. It is a very small party with very great power over the everyday lives of the Swedish people. Quotation, gender ideas and the growing division of the country will continue as long as the Green Party has such a great influence. When you think things can't get any worse, they get worse. Sweden has been enriched with a minister for gender equality who in media games divides the population's possibilities in life depending on whether you are born in Sweden or abroad and depending on what color you have on your skin – whether you are white or colored. We who are white, born in our own country Sweden, are devalued and will in future give up positions to foreign born. Women should therefore compete women regardless of their skills or personal suitability. The qualifications that now matter are the country of birth and the color of the skin. This raises a lot of questions. How should the selection of white Swedes be carried out? Is it the government's intention to distribute positions in the future according to skin colour or country of birth? Where should we white Swedes be displaced? How could our beloved Sweden have ended up this wrong? Hasn't the government learned anything from history? Where are we really going? Madam President, I would like The views of the Minister for Gender Equality and the fact that the government is behind them actually make me really afraid. I note that the guarantor of a cohesive Sweden that strives forward and develops in a positive direction, at the appropriate pace, is the Swedish Democrats.
i-ffa3992a34433214-692	Madam President, I would like As a result of the order of speech in this House, I am, as a rule, following the representatives of the Swedish Democrats in the debates. Each time I am struck by the fact that we are obviously living in different realities. I don't come from that. We heard the choice of words that absconding the selection of white Swedes and that we have learned nothing from history. I am very pleased that we have learned a great deal from history but have also taken a huge step forward on the subject that is the subject of today's debate, namely gender equality. It is 100 years since this congregation decided on universal suffrage. I am very grateful to the fighters who made this happen. Gender equality is a policy area with a lot of bottoms. There is therefore a great deal to be said about in this debate. I would like to start by talking about economic equality, an area that is rarely addressed in the debate but which is directly crucial to achieving the objectives that this House has decided on. Madam President, I would like Sweden is often mentioned as one of the world's most equal countries, but the report presented by the Commission on Equal Living Income presents a completely different picture. The Commission calls it an accident that nothing has happened to women's income since 1995. Unfortunately, I have to agree with that choice of words. Sweden has for a long time implemented several reforms that have strengthened women's economic empowerment. In the 1970s in particular, reforms were implemented, such as the abolition of co-taxation, the creation of universal childcare facilities, parental allowances and more, which have had a particularly important impact on women's economic independence. Even the grid reform, carried out at the initiative of the Center Party, can be considered a gender equality reform as it has led to more women running their own business. But it has also freed time from unpaid homework. It has been about 50 years since the 1970s gender equality reforms, but women still draw the shortest straw economically. A woman has, on average, 77% of a man's life's income... hears and beholds. The most economically deprived group is older women, who make up 78% of those with a guarantee pension. In practice, men still have a sour cream file for public support measures. Women generally receive benefits that compensate them financially due to absenteeism from the labour market, while men receive more measures and support that bring them closer to the labour market. Men generally receive more support for their own businesses and have higher capital income that is taxed less than income from employment. It will ultimately be a kind of double punishment that has a negative impact on women's income. Inequality in family life also limits women's economic space and career opportunities and adversely affects their income. Madam President, I would like In addition to income from service, it becomes increasingly important to own and let your capital grow as part of your income and not least from a life income perspective. Whether it be stocks, companies, real estate, land or forests, women's ownership is lagging behind. On the company side, gender differences are large. Barely 30% of all entrepreneurs are women. On the other hand, only a quarter of the companies have a woman as a real principal. All this leads to economic inequality. It is clear that, in addition to norms and values, there are also economic structures that limit people's empowerment based on gender. It is therefore more serious that a number of shortcomings in the administration, guidance and information that make it difficult for people to make a conscious choice have been identified in recent years. For example, Arbetsförmedlingen assesses start-up measures on loose grounds that put women further away from the labour market. Women are more likely to receive a non-matching stamp. This is remarkable but partly explains why foreign-born women have a significantly lower participation rate than Swedish-born women. We also know that our authorities do not sufficiently divide statistics by gender, which makes it difficult for a good gender analysis to be carried out. Unfortunately, in the light of what I have said, we can see that the gender equality policy objective of economic equality is far from being achieved and will not be achieved in the near future if nothing is actively done. Madam President, I would like Within the framework of the January agreement, the Centre Party has an important role to play in the work of economic equality. We are currently implementing a historical transformation of the Swedish labour market that includes a reform of the Swedish Public Employment Service, which includes, among other things, the establishment assignment. We are modernising employment protection and strengthening the development of skills in working life. We are also carrying out a reform of Swedish for immigrants, both its content and its structure. I mention these reforms because we have major challenges with the participation of foreign-born women in the labour market and thus their economic freedom and equality. We have also had clear gender equality goggles in our negotiations on the regulatory letters for various authorities. Among other things, we ensured that the Gender Equality Agency was tasked with identifying gender differences in educational choices. We now see a clear need for a comprehensive mission to monitor the impact of economic policy on gender equality, which should reasonably be available to the Gender Equality Agency. Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, it is not possible to debate gender equality without mentioning men's violence against women, or honour oppression for that matter. For me as a man, and also a foreign-born man, it really hurts my heart that we still today, 2021, are struggling with this kind of societal challenges. Last year, 13 women were killed by men in their own vicinity. There are 13 women too many. Nearly one fifth of the reported assault offences in 2019 concerned the assault of a loved one with whom the victim has or has had a relationship. We also see that men's sexual violence against women does not decrease. On the contrary, news of sex purchases, rapes and sexual harassment is constantly reaching us. Competence in men's violence against women and sexual crimes needs to be increased. Not least, there needs to be enough shelter, and they need to maintain high quality and of course offer rehabilitation from violence. However, it is also important that all those involved in these important issues in the field of social services, the police and the judiciary should be able to take part in the skills-enhancing efforts in this area. I really had a little more to say, but I see that my speaking time is up. In conclusion, however, I would like to support the Center Party's reservation 9 in this report. We are, of course, behind all our claims, but for time to win, it must be like this.
i-ffa3992a34433214-712	Madam President, I would like We are debating gender equality and anti-discrimination measures. To even know if there is discrimination, you have to measure and ask. I have therefore chosen today to talk about equality data, which is information about how different grounds of discrimination, such as religion, skin colour or ethnicity, are distributed in the population and how they interact with each other. The purpose of equality data is to investigate the existence and effects of discrimination. Madam President, I would like Sweden is regularly criticised by the UN, the EU and the Council of Europe for not collecting relevant knowledge and systematic statistics on the situation of different minorities. The conclusion is that equality data can and should be introduced and practiced more systematically in Sweden as well. I note that more knowledge is needed about the vulnerability of different groups in order to combat discrimination and inequality in society. The segregation and inequality are most evident in relation to the grounds of ethnicity, national origin or skin colour, religion and other beliefs. In its opinion, the Committee points out, among other things, that in two new action plans the European Commission highlights the importance of equality data. I welcome this and note that the Commission is, among other things, calling on the Member States to improve the collection of equality data. However, I regret that the committee does not also see this need. The question of whether Sweden should introduce equality data has been investigated by the Discrimination Ombudsman in consultation with the Swedish Data Protection Authority, Statistics Sweden and the Swedish Public Health Agency. The conclusion is that equality data can and should be introduced in Sweden, partly because of the international assemblies that Sweden is part of and the commitments that Sweden has signed in these contexts, partly because international agreements and Swedish legislation regarding the protection of sensitive personal data allow this as long as it takes place with the aim of combating discrimination and promoting equality and as long as those consulted give their consent and are insured. Madam President, I would like Sweden is today characterised by growing gaps. The segregation and inequality are most evident in relation to the grounds of ethnicity and national origin or skin colour. Equality data are already used as a method by several authorities. Botkyrka municipality uses it. All grounds for discrimination now exist as variables for self-categorisation. As regards the use of different ethnic and racial minorities as categories, larger classifications are used instead. What we now have is foreign born, foreign background and country of birth and sometimes so-called proximity values such as non-European background. There are also not many studies and studies that take a holistic approach to the issue, i.e. all the grounds for discrimination in the same questionnaire or interview. At the same time, there is much evidence that a majority of the Swedish population is in favour of the introduction of equality data at a more systematic and institutionalised level – not least the minorities themselves. The pressure on Sweden to establish equality data as the norm is growing stronger within various organizations. RFSL, the National Association for Sexual Equality, the Disability Associations and many Funki networks, like Sweden, the Finnish National Federation, the National Association of Afrosvenskans and the Muslim Organisations in Cooperation. Yes, you see-- there's an incredible number of actors. Those who experience discrimination, see discrimination and want to make discrimination visible are in favour of it. Madam President, I would like It is not good enough to be the best in the class in the world of rhetoric alone. The protection and rights granted to the various minorities on paper are completely impossible to fulfil, measure and map. The total lack of statistics on five of the seven grounds for discrimination makes it difficult to develop anti-discrimination measures. We're kind of in the dark. Madam President, I would like If we really want to identify discrimination and tackle it, equality data should be introduced. But if you don't want to know what discrimination looks like and where it is, then you're against it. I'm in favour of reservation 23.
i-ffa3992a34433214-723	Madam President, I would like The starting point of Christian democracy has always been and will always be the view of the equal, unique and inviolable value of each human being. A person cannot and must not be owned. She must not be violated or reduced to a tool for someone else's purposes. We are in constant opposition to thought patterns that regard women as subordinates, as less important in the labour market or as bearers of the so-called honor of the family. Our focus is on highlighting and solving problems that women face and wrestle with in their everyday lives. We focus on how to reduce the high rates of sick leave, on the deficiencies in maternity care and women's health care, on the difficulties of combining career and family life and on women's low pensions. We also focus on violence. Violence against women, Madam President, is the ultimate expression of an unequal society, and this violence has increased. This applies to both the number of reported rapes as well as violence in close relationships and honor-related crime. The clearance rate is far too low, and the darkness rate is large. Equality between women and men and boys and girls is an important and incredibly broad subject. It will thus permeate all policy areas in this Parliament. In this speech, however, I will focus mainly on some of the Christian Democratic motions dealt with in the report of the Committee on Employment, Youth, Education and the Media, which is the subject of this debate and vote in plenary today. Madam President, I would like The term a balcony girl has hardly escaped anyone. Now that we are debating equality in this legislative assembly, we must talk about these young women from immigrant backgrounds who have either been forced to jump or pushed off a balcony because their male relatives wanted them dead to restore the honour of the family. Now, in a short time, the police have initiated three preliminary investigations in cases of suspected honor killings after women have fallen from high altitude and died. Sweden must take the valuation struggle. Whatever the name of the party, we must be able to agree that certain values are not elective. One in ten murders in 2017 was an honor killing. I think we all realize that what had this fatal outcome began long before the murder was committed. There is no exact figure on how many people live under honorary culture, but according to researcher Astrid Schlytter at Stockholm University there could be as many as 240 000 people in Sweden. The Christian Democrats want the government to urgently start work on developing tools to measure the extent of honour-related violence and repression nationally. This is not just any gender issue but requires specific knowledge and skills to be combated. We also see a need to further increase knowledge of honor-related issues in order to ensure that in each municipality and region there are staff who are trained in the field and can assist and ensure that all professions with close contact with persons at risk of honour repression have the right expertise in the issues. Madam President, I would like The possibility of combining family and working life is good in comparison with other countries in Sweden. But we want to strengthen it further. It is incredibly important for both mothers and fathers to be able to combine family life and working life and that there are opportunities to actually make their own choices based on their priorities and their unique family situation. We politicians should put more effort into supporting families with children in their daily lives and ensure that these conditions exist for every family rather than using pointers in an eagerness to control the outcome. We cul tural democrats want to increase flexibility in parental insurance by enabling parents to freely transfer days to each other. We also want to enable parents to transfer parental benefit to other close relatives. Today, thanks to the Christian Democrats, there is an opportunity for parents to be at home at the same time as parents' allowance for the same child for a total of 30 days. The aim is to give parents the opportunity to find new routines, to establish common new responsibilities and to find the forms for their family. But we want it to be free to use the parenting days as so-called double days. A study from Stanford University that reviewed the introduction of double days shows that these have led to lower rates of sick leave in mothers – a result of families being given more freedom to solve their life puzzles. Most women – and most men too – do not want to have to choose between family and work. Changing this standard is important not only because it is consistent with people's own wishes but also because today's system drives large groups of women into sick leave. Today, 160 000 women are on sick leave, and the risk for women to be on sick leave doubles two years after they have given birth to their second child. During the time of the alliance government, the protection of parents in terms of discrimination at work was strengthened. Among other things, a disadvantaging ban was introduced on parental leave. Despite the important amendment of the law, according to the Discrimination Ombudsman, DO, the number of notifications linked to this basis has increased. We want the issue of discrimination against parents and pregnant women at work to be identified. It is not enough, as the committee seems, to think, to assume that the government is closely monitoring developments in this area. We demand that the government give this task to the DO, which is already receiving notifications today, and also propose possible measures to strengthen protection against discrimination against parents and pregnant women at work. Madam President, I would like I therefore support the Christian Democrats' reservation 15 under paragraph 7, which deals with precisely this, because if it is something I think that politics should try to steer, it is employers in order to make them more parental-friendly.
i-ffa3992a34433214-741	Madam President, I would like In the wake of the Corona we can see a decline, or a backlash, in terms of equality. Internationally, we see that many young girls do not return to school in the wake of school closures. In the United States and in Europe we see that women have left the labour force to care for and home school children. Sweden has been relatively spared. Schools and preschools have been open, and several women-dominated professions, such as health care, have needed more staff. But we see worrying signs that gender equality has been disrupted when more and more people have been at home more in the form of an increased number of reports of abuse crimes against women. In recent weeks there has also been talk of a backlash when it comes to metoo. We have been able to witness in the media how several known men who have been reported but not convicted for sex crimes have had to give their picture while those who have reported have not been given the same opportunity. Add this Commission on Equal Living Income Report, which shows that women's life income has been at the same levels since the 1990s. This isn't good enough. Liberals believe that gender equality issues need to be given greater scope in the debate. We think it is a good thing that there is now an authority responsible for highlighting those areas where women and men are not judged by the same yardstick or where the expectations of the two sexes are different, thereby limiting the chances of life of one sex. The Equality Agency is an important authority. We must focus on the problems that exist today and which limit the power and influence of women both over their own lives and in society. A woman's average living income is still more than SEK 3 million lower than a man's, only a quarter of parental leave is still taken by men and it is still the norm that it is the woman who goes down part-time if it is needed to cope with everyday life as a child parent. We must also focus on those issues where men's and boys' opportunities are at risk. Boys' school scores are still lagging behind, with the consequences for their future life prospects, and destructive male standards still lead to increased crime and gang violence. Although some call it gender flum, it is incredibly important that we work with the standards that exist and thus counteract the macho cultures that exist. It is also in this way that we can prevent men's violence against women. Sweden is perhaps the world's most equal country, but we in Sweden have a long way to go to actually being completely equal. Madam President, I would like Liberal successes during this parliamentary term have mainly been about the women and girls who experience the greatest freedom in our country – about those who cannot meet or love who they want and who are limited by the pressure of honour. The national competence team against honour-related violence and repression at Östergötland County Administrative Board will develop into a permanent national competence centre, which is very good. In this work, however, LGBTQ people who are subjected to oppression of honour must not be forgotten. The government should urgently take the initiative to deepen knowledge of honour-related violence and repression against LGBT persons and its scope through a special study. A number of sharpenings in the area of justice have been carried out in respect of honour crimes, and we have been involved in increasing support for Sweden's women's shelters and focusing on the work against men's violence against women. But, Madam President, more is needed. The ambition of gender mainstreaming needs to be further enhanced. An even distribution of power does not automatically come. More than 100 years ago, the struggle for universal and equal suffrage was taken. It sounds like a long time ago, but it's only a few generations away. And even if we have equal voting rights, political power is not evenly distributed. One reason is that the time to engage in politics is more limited for women, who very often have the main responsibility for home and children. We in Sweden also differ from our neighbours in that so far we have not had a female prime minister. Let us not have to wait another two generations for this. Women's economic conditions also need to be strengthened. Women are less represented in corporate governance and on top positions in business and start up to a lesser extent companies. Women work part-time more and take most of the parental leave. This affects women's lives. Rarely are these misallocations that women do not have the same opportunities as men, but are often about norms and prejudices that govern when it comes to the end. That is why we need the equality authority we have today, which can highlight these problems, as well as concrete measures to tackle them. Examples of proposals that we liberals put forward are that full-time work should be the norm and that municipalities and regions should develop action plans to combat involuntary part-time work. Parental insurance also needs to be modernised, and government venture capital needs to reach women's businesses to a greater extent. If we take an international view, we can see that only 27% of companies in Sweden are run by women; this compares with the EU average of just over 32%. We must be on our toes, for if we sit back, we will soon be overtaken by the countries that have previously seen us as an example. To conclude, Madam President, I would like to say that we support all our reservations. However, for time-winning, we only call for reservation 14, which deals with women's entrepreneurship.
i-ffa3992a34433214-761	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating equality, and we are doing so in a context where we have the privilege of living in one of the world's most equal countries. This is a journey that has taken us a long time. We started it a little more than 100 years ago in a Sweden that was both poor and unequally small country in northern Europe. The fact that we were going to get to this position hasn't been obvious. Every step has been a struggle economically, socially and not least politically. It has been a struggle against conservatism, against Nazism and fascism, and against communism in a world that has developed at a raging rate. For me as a social democrat, it is obvious that an equal society can never be achieved if it is not also equal. This year we celebrate 100 years of democracy in Sweden. In 1921 the first five women were elected to the Riksdag. Step by step and reform for reform-- or, as someone said to me the other day, with two steps forward and one step back-- we have fought to end up where we are today. We have the right to vote for women. In 1938 contraceptives were allowed, in 1971 we received special taxation, in 1974 we received parental insurance, in 1975 we got the right to free abortion and in 1979 we got the Equality Act. In the 1990s, we got in S's dual lists, which has meant a huge amount to the proportion of women visible in this House. We have also implemented reserved months in parental insurance, which has led, among other things, to Sweden in 2019, as the first country in the world, having a situation where men took out over 30 percent of parental leave. It is enough to cross the Strait to Denmark; there you are still at 8%. In 2018, we received a new gender equality agency. In 2018, we also received consent legislation in Sweden. In principle, all these reforms are carried out by or together with the Social Democrats. As I stand in this pulpit today, I feel the beatings of all the legendary Social Democratic women who have stood and fought here, such as Nelly Thüring, Agda Östlund, Karin Kock, Alva Myrdal, Anita Gradin, Birgitta Dahl, Maj-Lis-Lööw Lööw, Gertrud Sigurdsen, Anna-Greta-Greta Leijon, Marita Marita, Maj-Inger-Klingvall Klingvall, Anna Lindh, Ingela Thalén, Messing Messing, May Britt Theorin, Margareta Winberg, Lena Hjelm-Wallén-Wallén, Jämtin Jämtin, Laila Freivalds, Berit Andnor, Mona Sahlin, Åsa Regnér, Margot Wallström and Magdalena Andersson to name just a few. As you may have heard in the list of names, there were a few fewer women in the past than there have been in the last few decades. This result is, of course, also due to active policies, including the dual lists, quotas simply. Today it goes without saying that we should be able to make our voice heard. Some other parties have followed. We are proud of what we have achieved for Sweden to be one of the best countries for women. But we see that we have a long way to go. We have also heard this from the other parties. The report highlights the ambitious government policy now being put forward, including in relation to the work on men's violence against women. Nationally, more money is now spent than ever for the purpose, not least on women's and girls' shelters, on the expansion of the police force by 10 000 more to 2024, now half way, and on the fight against honour-related violence. All women in Sweden should be covered by gender equality, not just some. We have implemented a very ambitious piece of legislation that came into force last year. In 2020, comprehensive legislation entered into force specifically to combat honour-related crime. We were given a special penalty for crimes with honorary motives. V i also received a sanctioned exit ban and increased opportunities to take care of and block passports, for example. We now also have a Commission looking at equal income from life, and we have a new strategy for health and safety at work, to name but a few from the report. But there is a need for more gender equality reforms, not least in the light of what is being highlighted in this House today: the economic differences between men and women and the continuing violence. In Sweden, a woman reports an assault every 20 minutes. Every ten children have seen Dad beat Mom. We know that we have problems with honour-related violence. We need new measures. What now scares is the new right-wing conservative bloc in Swedish politics, because they talk about that we need a different kind of feminism than the one we have been pursuing over the past hundred years. It is seemingly a disguised anti-feminism. The equality policy of the right-wing conservative bloc has no purpose, no direction or force. There's the call: Make other choices, get other results! It's both wrong and evasive. It is braking and not least backward. A moderate exercise is about changing the gender equality policy objectives in Swedish politics, so that they only aim for equal opportunities and not an equivalent outcome. What it means is that you put the responsibility entirely on the young girls and women themselves. They are thus given both responsibility and blame for their own subordination – simply stone on the burden. Is a low pension after parental leave, part-time work and a low-wage occupation inequality? We have a few quotes that are well known. Make other choices, get other results is a famous quote of Ebba Busch. The other day in a conversation at Clubhouse Ulf Kristersson thought that it is about what education you choose from the beginning and then what career path you take, that it is up to the woman herself to make that choice. What is interesting, however, is that SCB's latest statistics show that men have the same salary after attending a vocational programme as women have after three years at college in this country or, for that matter, that if both men and women have attended the vocational programme, women still earn considerably less after completing their education. Make other choices, get different results! Sweden is one of the world's best countries to be a woman in, one of the world's most equal countries, and it is not thanks to Moderates and Christian Democrats but despite Moderates and Christian Democrats. Now we see before us a government option where the Swedish Democrats, who are perhaps Sweden's most anti-woman party, will also be part of this mess. A hundred years of female suffrage is a decision that the Right fought against, like so many other reforms since then. And it is the same moderates we have today that are opposed to an active gender equality policy with results targets. It's familiar from history. I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved.
i-ffa3992a34433214-778	Madam President, I would like Annika Strandhäll's debate technique is recognized. It focuses on highlighting historical phenomena. As for what the Social Democrats did in the first half of the last century, I actually think we agree. I think we agree that the Social Democrats play an important role in the development of many important reforms in Sweden, not least childcare, parental allowance and other reforms that have helped women to be active in the labour market in Sweden. I am prepared to support this 100%. Where I think we differ is that, unlike Annika Strandhäll, I don't beat myself to the chest and think that now we are done, that this is done. During the government period of the Social Democrats with Stefan Löfven as Prime Minister, we see that gender equality in the area by area goes in the wrong direction, that development stops. What happens then? Where do these reforms shine? Where are they? We see a pressing need for more reforms against sexual crimes and a need for reforms in order not least to give foreign-born women a chance to enter the labour market. Instead, the Social Democrats devote themselves to their usual forget-and-hidden policy, which leaves these women in an undemanding dependency on benefits rather than having the chance to enter the labour market. Above all, I would like to give Annika Strandhäll the opportunity to answer a question I raised in my speech. Umeå is an example. Other examples are Malmö and Gothenburg, where representatives of the Social Democrats deny the existence of honorary oppression and oppose the work to map honorary oppression. By 2019 this issue was up in the council in Umeå. Is Annika Strandhäll behind her party representatives there?
i-ffa3992a34433214-782	Madam President, I would like Firstly, it was not in the first half of the second century that we pursued our most active equality policy. As recently as the last parliamentary term, for example, we introduced consent legislation, something that Josefin Malmqvist is of course well aware of, which has meant that the number of cases brought to justice in relation to rape has increased radically. It is possible to follow the kind of gender equality reforms that we Social Democrats have put forward every time we have had the opportunity. These are the facts that can be checked, Josefin Malmqvist, as well as it is also possible to check about what the Moderates have done in terms of Swedish gender equality policy, both in the last century and so far. For example, speaking of foreign-born women and their entry into the labour market, when you were last in government with the Christian Democrats, you introduced a custody allowance, which I, as a newly appointed Minister of Social Security, immediately removed. Does Josefin Malmqvist know why I, along with a majority in this House, removed it? Because it had de facto prevented foreign-born women from entering the labour market and delayed their entry. Instead, you thought you could pay a penny for them to be home for longer. It is not a gender equality policy. When it comes to honour-related violence and oppression, we Social Democrats are crystal clear. You can also read what I have written in various debate articles. Swedish gender equality covers everyone. Therefore, during the last term of office, the government has introduced the most proactive legislation to counter the honour-related violence in Sweden. That is the truth, Josefin Malmqvist.
i-ffa3992a34433214-786	Madam President, I would like As Annika Strandhäll knows, we have the same opinion about the consent law and the custody allowance. As happens, Annika Strandhäll highlights reforms in which we have voted in the same way in this House. But what I am highlighting are all the reforms that Annika Strandhäll's government refuses to implement. You refuse to make it more profitable to work, you refuse to introduce premium ceilings, you do not want to introduce activity requirements, which would make it easier for women to enter the labour market, and you do not want to introduce sfi for women on parental leave. In the area by area, the reforms are absent. There is still a great deal to be done in the case of women born abroad. With regard to the repression of honour, the government has joined some of the issues that the Moderates have been pushing for years. Time and again we have pushed the government forward, not least in this House. Well, absolutely, on some issues the government has finally joined. However, much work remains to be done, both in this Chamber and in municipal councils around Sweden, where social democrat representatives continue to counteract efforts against honour repression, which makes me deeply distressed. I very much hope that we can bring about a change in which even social democrats in the country think it is important to combat honour repression and violence in Sweden.
i-ffa3992a34433214-792	Madam President, I would like We have the same opinion as you on the custody allowance," says Josefin Malmqvist. You were involved in introducing it and now want to put you in a government with the Swedish Democrats and Christian Democrats. The Swedish Democrats not only want to reintroduce the custody allowance but to double it, and the Christian Democrats want to introduce what they call childcare money, a covert custody allowance with exactly the same effect. It will be exciting to see how Josefin Malmqvist's moderates manage to stand up to this type of proposal if they come in government position. It's nice that the Moderates can reconsider their opinion. After all, you have done so with regard to, for example, the introduction of voting rights, the introduction of free abortion rights in Sweden and the legislation on the purchase of sex, which we Social Democrats introduced in 1998. In the impoverishment of reflection, you are joining various gender equality reforms. When it comes to honour-related violence and repression, it is not possible to turn a blind eye to facts no matter how much you want, Josefin Malmqvist. It is the Social Democratic-led government, with Minister of Justice Morgan Johansson and with the support of the Liberals in the framework of the January Agreement, that has introduced the most progressive legislation to deal with the honour-related violence. It's a fact that you can't get around. In this report, we are now taking further steps with the national competence team.
i-ffa3992a34433214-797	Madam President, I would like Growing up in one of the world's most equal countries is a privilege experienced by relatively few in the world. We see women's rights being held back around the world. It is about fundamental rights such as deciding your own life, being able to participate on equal terms in the labour market, being able to work even when you have children and having power over your own income. It is rights that generations of women in Sweden have fought for. Madam President, I would like However, the economic inequality in Sweden persists. Since 1995, there has been no equalisation of living incomes between men and women. Women's income today represents only 77% of men's. The most important explanation is probably the fact that men own more from the beginning. Income from capital is taxed less than income from labour, so although the wage gap is slowly decreasing, the difference in income from entrepreneurship and capital still increases. That is why we have been standing still since 1995. Madam President, I would like It is therefore incredibly urgent that the Commission on Equal Living Income presents progressive proposals that the Riksdag can proceed with. Madam President, I would like When you sit and listen in this House, it becomes clear that we are at an absolutely crucial time in Swedish gender equality policy history. On the one hand, we hear representatives with clear analyses explaining the structural differences that women and men live with in our society. We hear progressive proposals on how to counter inequality and discrimination. On the other hand, we belong to representatives who advocate housewives' allowance or want women to remain in honour repression in war zones and not get a sanctuary in Sweden. It is surreal to listen to these diametrically different approaches. It becomes clear that for some parties only certain women are covered by women's rights. The Green Party does not support this view. All women have the same rights. All people are covered by the same rights. This applies here and in all parts of the world. We will never surrender. We will never accept the violation of women's rights in our country. We will stand up when other countries in Europe restrict women's right to control their own body, as happens in Poland, where abortion has in principle become an impossibility. We will stand up to those forces in Swedish politics that want to go the same way and follow the example of Poland and Hungary. Madam President, I would like It is worrying how the Christian Democrats, among others, relate to gender equality policy. It is not enough that they want to reintroduce the old custody allowance. Now they call it childcare money, but what it's all about is a housewife's allowance. They also stand and say that they care about the girls and women who are subjected to honour-related violence and oppression, but when it comes down to it, that's where they save money. The Christian Democrats in their budget have removed 100 million SEK from the work against honour-related violence and oppression. This has consequences. If their proposals had been passed, fewer people today would have worked against honour-related violence and oppression. Madam President, I would like Another issue that concerns me a great deal in today's climate of debate is the fact that an elderly man on live television is explaining away sexual abuse by just smudged a little. It has been almost four years since the Metoo call made visible the extent of men's sexual harassment and violence against women. We can't let that tape back down. We must stand up for women's right to report and get redress and women's right to tell their story. Women who report have always been afraid to be labeled as whores or lying shoes. The fact that for a few years we have seen a sharp increase in the tendency to report rapes and other sexual assaults has been important. I am absolutely convinced that this is partly explained by the strong civil society and the great commitment of young feminists in the Kärörelsen under the Metoo who have put their foot down and said that that must now be enough. Let us not give up on that fight. Let us stand together for everyone's right to redress. Even in cases where the evidence is not enough for a conviction, women must be able to tell.
i-ffa3992a34433214-810	Madam President, I would like There are places in our country where violence and violations are part of everyday life. Some go there with a lump in the stomach and others with knotted fists. Some pay customs duties in the form of candy or cigarettes to get in. Others dare not go there at all. Girls dress in extra-large sweaters and always in pants to avoid unwanted hands on their bodies. Some beat, others get hit. Every time one child's right to security cannot be guaranteed, the other child's right to strike is guaranteed. That is how it looks at some of the country's schools today. Hardly, some of you think. False, thinking others. According to the Council's latest report on school crimes, over half of the students in ninth grade indicate that they have been subjected to school crimes. As early as 2015, Pisa showed that every sixth 15-year-old is subjected to several times a month's abuse and harassment. The statistics of the Swedish School Inspectorate show that insulting treatments are increasing, and it also shows that in 62% of cases there are shortcomings in school management. Madam President, I would like That was already the case when I was in elementary school, and it is now over 15 years ago. The fact that more has not been done, that this has been allowed to continue, is a fundamental failure. What distinguishes the time 15 years ago from today is that more students are affected today, that is to say that more schools are described in the same way, especially in social democraticly governed municipalities. There is nothing new under the sun in that respect. What I myself have witnessed and experienced during my schooling is now repeating itself to thousands of students in our country. That is why I am standing in this speaker's chair, and that is why I intend to present solutions to these problems. Each school must have a research and evidence-based programme against violations and harassment. I'll put an end to the fluke. Such a programme should be developed by the Swedish National Agency for Education in consultation with the Swedish School Inspectorate, Brå and the Swedish Public Health Agency. In addition, this grouping should be given the task of developing a model of competence in the areas of insulting treatment, threats and violence. The School Act needs to be tightened up in several respects, including with a view to facilitating school principals to move pupils who use violence against their classmates and teachers. In addition, the School Act should clarify the student's responsibility for his/her working environment. Given the large number of notifications at school, a more efficient and legally secure system needs to be developed for their management. But even though there are so many notifications, the worst thing is that there are not enough of them. There are more crimes, more violations and more violence in the school world than we can read in the figures. Too many people in the world of school – too much of the staff – today indicate that they are uncertain as to how and when notifications should be made. Many times it is actually wrong. The obligation to report by school staff needs to be clarified, and when a student repeatedly commits offensive and violent acts, this should be made visible through a written commentary and appendix to the semester certificate. It is time for order in Swedish primary school. The School Act needs to ensure the teacher's right to intervene and secure students who are exposed, but a completely new law on violence against school staff needs to be established – a law that states that a penalty scale corresponding to that applicable to violence against officials should also apply to violence against teachers. Finally, Madam President, an in-depth survey of crime in schools should be carried out. It's gone too far, too long. I think it's more important than ever that we stop talking about touching and bullying. Instead, we need to start talking about sexual harassment, abuse, harassment, violence and abuse. That is what it actually means. No more wrapping, no more reducing – zero tolerance is the right thing to do. It's not just between the students. It is also about the need to protect students – children – from those adults who have ideas and values that are unequal and backward. Gender-disaggregated classes as the main rule and censored sex education must never again occur in our schools. The school's gender equality mission needs to be reviewed and strengthened and the school law tightened up so that permanently divided classes can never again be allowed. The worst part of this is not that there is a need to do this, but that, in fact, five years ago the Riksdag decided exactly that. We have therefore agreed in this House that this will be carried out, but we have a government that has not been able to implement the decision in more than five years. Why? Why are the Social Democrats not doing everything they can to prevent and counter these injustices? I fear, Madam President, that this is a question we will unfortunately never get an answer to. I request the approval of reservation n umme r 5. To be honest, it is the only chance for Swedish primary school to be secured.
i-ffa3992a34433214-822	Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats, of course, support all our reservations, but for time winning, I would like to endorse only reservation n umme r 6. The other day the ranking of Sweden's best and worst school municipalities was presented. Nevertheless, I would like to say that it is very gratifying that there are many schools in our elongated country that work well, but there are too many schools that do not work well at all. What, then, is the big difference? I would argue that the big difference is the quality of the study environment. The quality of the study environment is a prerequisite for learning to work, for students and teachers to thrive and for each student to be able to reach their optimal potential. However, this does not always mean that all students get the same good results, but at least it gives all students the opportunity to reach their highest potential. Unfortunately, the differences in the study environment have existed for a long time, and they have probably never been as great as they are right now under this Social Democratic government. Broadly speaking, the government's strategy is to address these problems by giving a little less school money to well-functioning schools and more school money to less functioning schools. This is done through the municipal socio-economic equalisation system as well as through state so-called equivalence grants. It may be that after the local rent is paid for a school, some schools receive up to 50 percent more money than other schools. These extra funds are sometimes used to have two teachers in the classroom only to achieve a good study environment. In order to achieve a good study environment, we therefore need to double the staff of teachers. Somewhere, society may have resigned when it requires double sets of teachers in a classroom to maintain the student – if that's enough. We Swedish democrats, of course, like so many others, understand that some schools need some reinforcement, but this must not drain well-functioning schools to the extent that it does today. The phenomenon of giving more money to schools with poor results has continued for many years without significant improvements in performance. It is clear that this needs to be reassessed and other methods used. That the government doesn't see this is a mystery to me. The Swedish Democrats have made a number of proposals for a better study environment, but unfortunately we have not yet heard from them. Madam President, I would like There was a time when Sweden had a very well-functioning school with good results also internationally. Among other things, it marked my own schooling period. And we want to go back. We believe that a good study environment with peace of mind and maintaining order is crucial for the students to be educated. However, the responsibility for obtaining a good study environment rests not only on the staff of the school but also on the pupils themselves and their parents or guardians. To succeed, cooperation with clear consequences for violations of school rules is required, that everyone speaks the same language during class time, that students are not allowed to disturb their classmates, and that no students are harassed or bullied. All this is, in fact, self-evident, but as you heard from the previous speaker, this is happening. It's awful. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats have many proposals that will improve the study environment. I'm going to mention a few. We want an agreement on conduct of conduct between student, guardian and school. We want strengthened and clear powers for teachers and principals to act. We want a mobile-free school. We want written reviews from grade 1. We want special education for students who commit crimes, such as the horrors we hear of in the form of sexual harassment. Then we want each school to have some form of on-call class. With the establishment of the on-call class, teachers can refer students who are not doing well in the classroom to another room for study. Today, the teacher has an almost hopeless task of maintaining order in the classroom, while at the same time adapting the teaching to highly motivated students in parallel with students who are currently lacking motivation. The rest of the class offers the opportunity for a student to calm down and continue to learn something while the rest of the class has peace of mind. The on-call class will of course be staffed with specially trained staff, and the student will remain in the on-call class until the student can return to the classroom – sometimes already the next lesson hour. Madam President, I would like Now I have spoken about the study environment, and I hope that everyone understands how important it is. Another important thing is the teaching material of students. A recent report from the teachers shows that 86 percent of teachers cannot buy the teaching materials they think students need. The purchase of teaching materials varies between SEK 0 and SEK 1,500 per student per year. Furthermore, Sweden is the country in the Nordic region that spends the least resources on teaching materials. Added to this is an incredible discrepancy in the quality of teaching materials. Some literature today is free material from lobby groups, and there are examples of teaching materials that are highly politicised. In order to ensure that teaching materials are high-quality, neutral and fact-based, we propose the creation of a Educational Council. It shall consist of the profession, researchers and school authorities, and it shall be introduced to assess and label teaching materials and, where necessary, to reject substandard teaching materials. One could say that it is a question of certifying teaching materials. I want to end by giving advice to all students in the Swedish school who want a successful schooling. Be present at school. Don't mess with your schoolmates or teachers. Be upbringed. Always do your best. If you as a student follow this advice, at least most of the time in school, I promise that it significantly increases the opportunity for the student to reach his or her potential. Good luck with this!
i-ffa3992a34433214-838	Madam President, I would like It feels nice to be the third Malmöer in a row here in the speaker's chair. The others talk a little nicer Malmöite than I do, but it'll have to do anyway. There may be reasons why so many Malmöers think it is important to be on the Education Committee. This applies not least to the non-socialist side. Madam President, I would like Today we are discussing some basic basics in education. The security of the classroom, studies, mental health and the basic values on which the school is based are prerequisites for learning on good conditions. Madam President, I would like There are strong links between how you feel at school and how you deliver. There is a strong link between good mental health and the ability to absorb knowledge and reach educational goals. Therefore, prevention of pupil health is an important part of the school. Unfortunately, more and more children and young people are suffering from mental illness. It has become one of the school's major problems. In addition, pandemics and distance learning for many students have led to further deterioration in mental health, although some students have actually felt better about being at home. The Center Party wants a screening of mental illness to be carried out at the usual health check of the pupil health. We also want to introduce life skills in school in the field of sport and health, in order for more early tools to deal with their mental health. This can also lead to fewer people having to seek treatment. We also want to strengthen opportunities for municipalities to cooperate with the social services, the police and other authorities that are crucial when young people get on the wrong path in life. Within the framework of the January agreement, we are also investigating an acceptable minimum level of pupil health and also looking at the possibilities of a joint headship for primary care, youth clinics and the medical parts of pupil health. It is important that there is order at work, and the Center Party believes that the school should take greater responsibility for mental illness. Madam President, I would like It is also important to make it easier to get help in school through student health. In order for this to be possible, in addition to curators, there may be study educators and others who, for example, have behavioural knowledge education and can provide support for students in their studies and be a discussion support. We know that it is difficult to get the right competence to student health. Then it is important to secure other ways of getting good support. The Center Party is also pushing for the introduction of life skills in sport and health. The purpose of this is to strengthen the students' ability to cope with the challenges of life. For life is not always easy, especially in school, as other speakers have mentioned. Strengthening students' own abilities is the best support we can provide. It is amazing if you can get support when you need it, but the best support and the best prerequisite for doing well would be if you could ultimately have the ability to resist and cope with life's challenges. During the pandemic there have been examples of municipalities that in the context of pupil health have taken the help of digital services to reach pupils. It can be an excellent tool for reaching out to more and curbing mental ill health that otherwise risks affecting many. But in talks with young people from Sweden's schools, we have also clearly seen that there is still much to do to make student health better at reaching out. Many have experienced that they have not been able to reach student health when they have had a special situation. It is particularly important to strengthen the ability to use digital tools in student health for those who are normally absent. It is an important part of the development work and lessons learned from the pandemic period. Madam President, I would like Students must be able to trust that they are safe in school. Too many students go to school with a lump in the stomach, some out of fear of comments in the corridor, others of fatigue or of interrupted and messy lessons. But it can be much worse than that, as we heard from my colleague from Malmö. This can be about threats, violence and sexual abuse. As much as half of all students are victims of crime, according to them. So there are crimes in school where they have to be. That, of course, is absolutely unacceptable. The school must be able to guarantee a good and safe study environment. Half of all students experience, as I said, that others interfere with the order of the classroom. Many are victims of violence. Even one in three teachers reports that they spend much of their teaching time merely maintaining order. Teachers as well as students have to endure a lot. Especially girls are vulnerable. Much more often than boys, they feel insecure and experience a lack of studies. That is unacceptable. We must put an end to this. In order to create greater study and safety in school, we want to strengthen the teacher's position in the classroom, provide better opportunities to act against messy students and strengthen inspections of those schools where security is lacking. For a long time now, we have been saying that we want to tighten up the possibility of moving students who are seriously disrupting their studies or the security of other students and that schools should be obliged to report to the police if they have reason to suspect that a child has been subjected to sexual offences or crimes against life and health. What is self-evident in the rest of society must also apply in school. The school must not be a free zone for crime. Several others have also been involved in teaching, which is part of today's report. We have long wanted a review of the teaching materials available to ensure that teachers have access to good teaching materials. It should not be the case that you have to use them, but it should be done as advice. In the end, it is the teacher in the classroom who is handed over the confidence to steer up the teaching, also in We politicians should not interfere too much in how it should happen. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to mention the absolutely crucial democratic values of the school. In this House we are talking a great deal about how we want to run the school, what we want to do, what small changes have to be made, etcetera. But it is the democratic foundation of values that is the basis for the security of both the individual and society. Everything else is on top. Let me read some of what is written in the School Act: It will promote the development and learning of all children and pupils as well as a lifelong desire to learn. The education must also convey and anchor respect for human rights and the fundamental democratic values on which Swedish society is founded. ..................................................... Here it is very clear that security is an absolutely crucial part and the very purpose of the school. We must create a safe school for everyone to be there, but we must also listen to the school law and remember the democratic basis to teach the individual to stand on his own feet and live by democratic values. This is something that in some circles is sometimes heated about as just a foundation of values. It's not just that, it's the foundation of the school itself. We must not forget that. We must give students the basis for living their lives in a democratic and secure society. With that, I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 2.
i-ffa3992a34433214-855	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to endorse the Left Party's reservation 10. I was going to raise a couple of subjects today that have not been mentioned very much from here. It is well known that those attending school when it is an election year have a higher turnout than other first-time voters. Being politically involved is a central part of being a democracy. Therefore, we think it is important that students have the opportunity to engage politically in school and to meet representatives from different political communities. In recent years, the ability of political youth associations to come to schools has been severely limited. Most often the advice is given from the responsible authorities to schools that they should limit political information to one day. This solution rarely takes account of the fact that most people who are politically active work on a voluntary basis. There is also a problem that arises in electoral movements, namely that a large number of schools choose the same day. Instead, it will be the priorities of youth associations that will govern which schools and pupils will receive political information. We think that this is an unfortunate consequence of the limitations that have been made. Instead of seeing youth associations and political parties as a problem, schools should see them as an asset that revitalizes our democracy. As the election day is also in September, it often comes quite close to the school start. It is important to give all pupils equal access to political information as far as possible. Information going out to schools from the responsible authorities would benefit from highlighting the pros and cons of different ways of enabling pupils to access political information from the perspective of youth associations. The School Act was amended in 2017 to clarify legislation on political information. One problem that has been highlighted during the visits of political organisations to schools and that has not been resolved by the new legislation is the presence of racist and Nazi organisations. All students should be able to feel safe when they go to school. No Jewish, Muslim or black children, LGBT children or children belonging to national minority groups should have to go to school and meet with political organisations that violate their human dignity or question their existence. Before the 2014 elections, many teachers, school leaders and organisations clearly criticised the fact that, for example, Nazi organisations and parties were allowed to spread their message in their schools, messages that violate the school's mission and laws. The legislative changes made in 2017 have not led to any decisive steps to overcome the problem. The school is not a public place, Madam President. The Left Party believes that it is necessary for democracy that political organisations be allowed to spread information in an orderly manner in schools, but at the same time it is unreasonable to allow youth associations, organisations and parties who through their policies and message discriminate against a large part of Sweden's pupils and school staff. The Left Party therefore believes that the government should evaluate and investigate the effects of the latest legislation well in advance of the next elections and, if necessary, put forward proposals that strengthen pupils' right to political information while at the same time protecting pupils from being discriminated against. Madam President, I would like Today, digital learning materials are increasingly used in schools. At the same time, the teaching materials used in school sometimes convey something quite different from the values that the school is supposed to convey about the inviolability of human life, the freedom and integrity of the individual, the equal value of all people, equality between women and men and solidarity with people at risk. Prejudice and stereotypical notions of what is male and female, and narrow-mindedness are sometimes preserved and consolidated in school when its role should be to break the same. Critical thinking and scrutiny must be given greater weight in education early in primary school. School policy must therefore take greater responsibility for teaching materials. The responsibility for teaching in accordance with the values of curricula lies with the principals, principals and teachers. It should also be there. The heads have a great responsibility to create reasonable conditions for evaluating the teaching materials to be used in teaching. In order to make it easier for schools to purchase teaching materials and to put pressure on teaching material companies, we want the government to commission the Swedish National Agency for Education to investigate the establishment of a quality label for teaching materials that are designed in accordance with the curriculum values. The last thing I wanted to talk about, Madam President, is also about the values and democracy of the school. But I was going to take it from a different perspective. The previous speakers, like me, have talked about various subjects relating to democracy, values and values in school. But if we are to have a democratic system and a democratic school seriously, we must also talk about how school is run today. A democratically run school should not be seen as a market. In a democratically run school, principals should not be treated as sales managers. In a democratically run school, teachers are not salesmen. In a democratically run school, students are not customers. That is what we in the Left Party think is the basis if we are to talk about having a democratic school. The school should be democratically governed, and the foundation of the school should be democratic. This cannot be the case as long as we, as the only country in the world, have a system where school has become a market, where education has become a commodity and where students are literally sold in a market.
i-ffa3992a34433214-869	Madam President, I would like I and Daniel Riazat agree, it sounds like, that the school should be democratic and teach democratic values. That's very positive. For me, part of democracy is that there may be different perspectives and that one should be able to choose more than what the state says one should take in. It's about learning to choose in life and learning to take responsibility for your learning. You can also choose to do something other than what those currently in power think you should be able to do. In this perspective, independent schools are extremely important. According to the ideology of the Left Party, only the state – or perhaps the municipalities – should be able to decide what a child should take in and not take in. You should not be able to choose anything other than what the municipality offers. It is in my view, according to the ideology I represent, liberalism, a challenge to call it democracy that one should only be able to choose one perspective and that it should be the state, that it should only be the perspective of the existing power to be taken into account. We can see that the Left Party has a Youth League that calls itself Communists and that there are threads that are not so democratic. From this perspective, I would like to ask Daniel Riazat, who strongly criticises this and says that it cannot be a democratic school if free schools exist, depending on how it is organised: Do you see any other perspectives on the importance of securing a school world where it is free to choose and where you create the conditions for choosing a school?
i-ffa3992a34433214-872	Madam President, I would like I thank Mr Paarup-Petersen-Petersen for this question. But perhaps it would be good if the President reminded Members afterwards to listen to the speeches before asking questions based on premises that do not exist. The Left Party has not talked about there being no free schools, nor have I done so in this speech. Only representatives of the parties running the affairs of the National Associations of Free Schools can possibly interpret it in this way. What the Left Party is talking about is that education should not be seen as a commodity. Knowledge is a human right. We know for a number of years that research has concluded that the system advocated by the Center Party is not sustainable and leads to greater segregation. The so-called freedom of choice, as you think it is, has not led to greater freedom of choice but has led to greater segregation. Sure – some parties may turn a blind eye to this because of ideological blindings that they have because they think ideologically that everything in our society must be sold out at any price. I do not belong to such a party, and I am not such a politician. I believe that our children's future is too important to be put on the stock market to speculate on the stock market. I think it is much more important than that. The Left Party also has a policy of having non-profit free schools. As Niels Paarup-Petersen-Petersen knows, the myths that are spread by the right in time and out of time that we would be against all free schools are not true. The Left Party has also put forward proposals on how to have a school election system where pupils can choose to attend non-profit free schools. I would urge the representative of the Center Party to read that motion.
i-ffa3992a34433214-876	Madam President, I would like I, in turn, recommend that my honourable colleague read about the policy of the Center Party. Of course, we do not believe that the future of children should be sold on the stock exchange. I'm sure it's a fine rhetorical grip, but that's not what reality looks like. What we want, we've talked about here before. There are three of us here who come from Malmö. We have seen how it works when the Left Party is in and rules together with the Social Democrats and there must not be alternatives. We have seen how municipal schools underpresence and how nothing is done about it. We have seen what it does for those who live in the most vulnerable areas in Malmö and who have had the most difficult to get through. It is the schools that have come from outside – sometimes profit-making, sometimes not; both can be basically – that have created an opportunity for these children to get away from the exclusion that they would otherwise, in this unilateral socialist world, have been bound to if they had not been allowed to move out of those areas and had not been allowed to move away from the municipal school. The basis for my commitment is to ensure that the children are given a prerequisite to be able to move away from what the municipality wants to offer if what the municipality offers is extremely bad. It is sometimes, and then I want to create that opportunity. For me, it's less important if anyone who offers the option that provides a better opportunity– that gives students the opportunity to get through life, that gives them the opportunity to enter high school, that gives them the opportunity to create their own life – also takes a profit. This is less important to me than avoiding them being tied to a school that does not give them a future – just because it is municipal. In Malmö, the Left Party and the Social Democrats have ruled together for a long time. There have been schools there for decades as little as under half of them, and nothing has been done – it has been accepted. But as soon as someone does it better but makes a profit, you get angry. For me, this is not good from a democratic point of view.
i-ffa3992a34433214-881	Madam President, I would like In the world of the Center Party, all countries except Sweden are communist and socialist. Then why do I say that? Because we're the only country in the world that has this school system. The majority of bourgeois voters are against it. The majority of left-wing voters are against it. The majority of virtually all party voters are against this system. Yet Niels Paarup-Petersen-Petersen and the Center Party continue to run errands for Academedia, the International English School and other schools owned by groups whose owners and ownership structures are so remarkable that they should not even be associated with school activities. Or does Niels Paarup-Petersen-Petersen think it is reasonable for banks, funds and other things from Qatar, India, Brazil and the United States to own Swedish schools? Does Niels Paarup-Petersen-Petersen think that it is reasonable for us to have large groups which today make their profit from having fewer qualified teachers, at having poorer school premises, at ensuring that the students who come to their schools come from more resourceful homes, so that they can be given less help, and at having less equipment and less teaching materials in school? Is this the school system we want? No, that's not the school system the Left Party wants. You can throw away words that are a little free here and there, but that doesn't help, because children aren't soft ice cream and children aren't jeans. They should not be treated as a product. Children are children. Students are students. In a school market, they can't be. This also causes municipal schools to deteriorate and must work on the basis of a logic based on market principles. So yes, municipal schools have also become worse during this time when you have experimented with Swedish school. I believe that the municipal school also needs to be changed. But the basic problem in this case is not the publicly owned school. The basic problem is that you see school as a market.
i-ffa3992a34433214-886	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of the Christian Democrats' reservation 14. The school's task should be to create the conditions for each child to learn as much as possible, develop as a person and realise their potential. For this to be possible, the school must convey knowledge for a life in the labour market but also classical education, i.e. understanding of our society, our history, our cultural heritage and the valuable virtues and ethics that have been managed by Christian and Western ideas. It is against this background that we in the Christian Democrats have proposed that the Swedish National Agency for Education should produce a classic list – a list of literary works that all students need to get in touch with during their schooling. We believe that this would contribute to more common frame of reference and create a greater understanding of society. Free reading would also need to be extended, both in primary and secondary schools. The mastery of language is a key to success in life, and for a child who grows up in a home without books and reading traditions, it is especially important that the school encourages reading. For example, more movement in school is a recipe for success in order for reading and knowledge to be in focus. Security and study are also crucial. School leadership is, of course, the key, as well as teachers who have the ability to both inspire students and keep order in the classroom. Even today, there must be a code of conduct in every school. However, those students who violate the rules of conduct must also face clear consequences. It is possible to dispose of objects, deportation, detention, temporary relocation or, in the worst case, suspension. This type of measure needs to be used more widely. The saboteur himself should be able to repair the damage, and it is quite reasonable that in some cases the bill for what has been sabotaged should be sent to the parents. There must simply be zero tolerance to doodles and vandalism, but above all to bullying and offensive behaviour. Such actions always need to result in direct contact with the home so that parents can take on such important parental responsibility. Society is bigger than the state, and in this case we are convinced that families themselves, but also civil society, can help to provide security in school in a better way than today. Madam President, I would like Today's debate concerns, among other things, the core values of the school. The curriculum states that the inviolability of human life, the freedom and integrity of the individual, the equal value of all people, equality between women and men, and solidarity between people are the values that the school is to express and convey. In line with the ethics of Christian tradition and Western humanism, this is done through the individual's education of justice, generosity, tolerance and responsibility. The opinion of the Christian Democrats is that the school should continue to be based on this solid foundation. However, given the foundation on which the school is actually based and the crucial importance of the Christian cultural heritage for the development of our society, I must say that I find it sad to see how the government has delayed the issue of such a simple matter as school attendance in the church – this despite the fact that, in an announcement of this already on 12 May 2016, the Riksdag asked for clarification that makes it possible. Of course, the tradition of school graduations in the church at Swedish festivals will continue, and of course the priest will also be able to sing a hymn together with the students and pray. Parliament has been clear on this issue, and it is therefore high time that the government acted. Madam President, I would like Sweden should be a country where freedom and equality are obvious values. Unfortunately, however, too many children live under the pressure of honor. Girls are beaten and murdered in the name of honor or risk being married away and may never come back after summer vacation. The school therefore has an important role in preventing honour-related violence and oppression. In the City of Stockholm, we conducted a campaign against honorary oppression for the summer holiday in the form of a letter to all secondary school students and all principals – this with the aim of reducing the risk of students being married away during the summer. This is an example, but knowledge of honorary culture also needs to be improved among school staff. Each preschool and school should have an action plan against honour-related violence and oppression, with examples of warning signs and early signs of harm to someone and also guidelines in case of suspicion that a student may be exposed. Madam President, I would like The fight against honour culture is basically about what values and values Sweden should build on. But it is above all about standing up for the freedom of individuals and some of society's most vulnerable. That is why the fight against culture of honour and repression is important, and it should also be conducted in school.
i-ffa3992a34433214-898	Madam President, I would like This debate is about very important areas of school policy: the values of school, which many have touched on, but also an issue which I and the Liberals have been prioritising for many years, namely study and safety, or rather lack of education and security, in the schools of the country. We have looked at all the schools that were reviewed by the Swedish School Inspectorate a couple of years ago – the report was presented last year – that the studies vary greatly depending on the teacher who leads the teaching. Many students say that it will be studying if it is clear what to do and when the teacher takes a clear responsibility for the order of the classroom. But it is not enough to stand here and say that you should increase teachers' powers or that you have to deal with the mess in school if we have regulations, legislation and school authorities that actively counteract and undermine – I would say – the authority of adults and the position of teachers and principals at school. For two years, therefore, the Liberals have been demanding from the current government that the mission of the School Inspectorate be refined and clarified and that the legislation regarding the competences of teachers under Chapter 5 be clarified and strengthened and the powers increased. With regard to the chapter on staff violations, we have also called for a review of the concept of abuse in the school law. Nothing has happened there in spite of two years of intense debate that we have a culture of registration and abuse in Swedish school systems. It is not possible to just skip that question and the chapter on staff violations in school legislation if you seriously want to ensure that adults can maintain their authority and studies in the classroom and in school. As long as the authorities have this regulatory framework and this legislation to be based on, we will see teachers refraining from intervening against the mess in school. Six out of ten teachers refrain from taking action against the mess in the classroom for fear of being registered to the School Inspectorate or to the Children's and Student Ombudsman. Unlike the lion's share of the parties in the Swedish Parliament, we also demand that the Children's and Student's Representative be dismantled immediately. It is a function that has run the claims for damages and, in our view, from the start taken a stand for the student regardless of what the student himself has contributed to in terms of staff violations or cases that have been messy. Yes, there have been a couple of high-profile cases in the media. Last time, it was a case that was up in the Supreme Court. It was an isolated case that was very extraordinary, the so-called soffincident in Lidköping. But there are common situations where there is great uncertainty. The teacher surveys show that the regulatory framework is still unclear. We have helped to ensure that this issue has been examined in part, but not with regard to the concept of abuse and not at all with regard to the Children and Student Representative, because there we do not agree with the Green Party and the Social Democrats. These functions will thus remain, even though internal criticisms have been received from the School Inspectorate's own lawyers that the authorities sometimes make completely different and conflicting positions on the important issue of study and security. Why, then, is this important? Well, it is the students who most need the school, the school's compensatory assignments and the valuable time under the guidance of the teachers in the classroom who suffer when the mess takes over and there is a lack of study. The school inspectorate's large report, which was presented last year, confirms that there are still major problems, not with regard to the issue of safety itself, but with regard to studies at school and in the classroom. I commend our reservation 7 on safety and study. The second part concerns the basis of values. During the afternoon, I have followed the Parliament's gender equality debate. About half an hour ago, the House rejected the Liberals' proposal to stop extremism in preschool, which we debated a few days ago. The other parties voted down Liberals' call for a ban on the establishment of secular preschools linked to extremism. Today, according to the report's proposal, we will also reject our proposal for a coherent non-confessional teaching. For me, it is incomprehensible in view of everything that has been said today about equality, democratic values and that we should combat traditional gender patterns in the sense that, for example, for religious reasons, we want to force boys and girls into certain structures. I am very sorry about this. Liberals will continue to work to help prevent extremism and radicalisation. It is not enough that, as the report refers to, a number of curricula have been reviewed and adjusted, because the problem remains. There are still school activities linked to extremism and radicalisation, and where gender-disaggregated teaching occurs. This, if anything, shows that the school policy of the Social Democrats has failed in this respect.
i-ffa3992a34433214-909	Madam President, I would like It is very wise that has been said here. There have been many exciting posts. The most important task of the Swedish school is to ensure that our children and students have a safe upbringing and a good educational foundation based on facts and science to lean towards and take with them into life. We have received reports from the Swedish school, not least in the debate here today, that basic security in some places has been inadequate and has not really kept the quality that we should be able to demand. We have had situations in different schools where dialogue and dialogue between parents, staff and students have not succeeded in achieving the acceptance and respect between students that is crucial for everyone to feel safe and happy in staying at their school. That is why, Madam President, I am grateful that the government has taken a series of measures to protect the vulnerable student and, above all, to strengthen the teacher in his professional role. It is mainly about giving the teacher the time and resources to be able to take the necessary measures but also be able to follow up and be on hand. There, efforts on student health, special educators and special teachers, as well as more adults in school, not least teachers' assistants, have been a success. It is also very positive and important that the government, together with the Center Party and the Liberals, have decided on an investigation that will come back with proposals for a national plan for security and studyo and how it can be implemented in the Swedish school. Madam President, I would like The core work at school is and will be a very important factor in shaping our young people into safe, curious and democratic citizens of society. Protecting democracy and our values, based on equality and equality, is a fundamentally important task that has now been clarified in the curriculum. The school should always organise teaching that ensures that girls and boys meet and work together. This has historically always been a success model in our Swedish school: Children with different backgrounds and nationality meet and are taught to work together. For us Social Democrats, this is an important model to start from when we strengthen the Swedish school. It is also crucial for understanding our democratic society and its structure that students have the opportunity to meet representatives of political parties and also have the opportunity to ask questions and discuss political issues directly with elected or elected politicians. During my own time as a SSU, it was the work at upper secondary schools that undoubtedly gave the most opportunities for exciting and challenging debates and questions. It was also in the 1980s and 1990s that we had the most active youth policy associations and very active youth politicians. Of course, it is important that the political dialogue is held at an organised, orderly and respectful level. But trying to exclude political debate and discussion outside the walls of school is certainly not a solution, at least not if we want to protect democracy and the construction of democratic society. It is therefore important that principals really take advantage of the opportunity to invite and open up the school to political youth associations and parties. It creates interest and great understanding and contributes to active citizenship among our young people. Our children and students have a self-evident right to their own convictions and positions in terms of political positions, and equally obviously it should be in terms of secular and religious elements. No child should have to be forced by his or her parents on their or anyone else's faith. It is therefore important that the proposal for a ban on the establishment of secular schools should become a reality and that all teaching should take place on a comprehensive and objective basis. Madam President, I would like In a time of increased flow of information and misinformation, it is crucial that the school strives to be a free zone from violence, porn and propaganda. Given that the network is available in both phones and Ipadar, it has never been more important to teach the need for source control and fact-finding before taking in both news and information. The government's decision to make sex and relationships a mandatory part of our teacher education and thereby also strengthen sex education in our schools really feels both timely and urgent. The government has also decided to change the curriculum in order for the teaching of sexuality, consent and relationships to better affect the most difficult but perhaps most important parts about honor, porn and consent. Unfortunately, it is already far too many young people who have fallen completely wrong on these extremely important issues, with destructive standards and a great deal of suffering as a result. Madam President, I would like As important as it is for the school to teach social skills and values, it is that our students early learn about the local and regional labour market. Unfortunately, we see too many students who make study and career choices that do not lead to either work or further studies, and they risk being excluded from both further studies and an active working life. I am therefore pleased that Parliament has legislated for at least ten days of prao in high school. At least it gives pupils a certain opportunity to gain insight and knowledge about the various jobs and occupations that can actually exist in the local business community or in the local public sector. It is very important to allow students to meet representatives from different industries and workplaces early on in order to both create curiosity and take advantage of their curiosity. Regional cooperation has a very important role to play in creating interest in education and training that is in demand in the local and regional labour market. I believe that the work now under way in developing regional responsibility for certain training courses, especially vocational training, will reduce the gap between the skills needed and the needs of the labour market. I therefore look forward to this becoming a reality in the near future. To conclude, Madam President, I would like to support the Committee on Education's proposal for a decision and the rejection of all motions.
i-ffa3992a34433214-924	Madam President, I would like I asked for a reply because I felt compelled to ask a question to the Social Democrats and Tomas Kronståhl. In my speech I spoke, among other things, about the gender-disaggregated classes. So schools teach boys and girls where they are separated, usually motivated by religious arguments. My question to the Social Democrats is whether they are really in favour of carrying out unjustified gender-disaggregated education in Swedish schools.
i-ffa3992a34433214-927	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Noria Manouchi, for the question. I could answer very briefly: No, we are not for that. This is also part of the investigation now being carried out. I hope and believe that this will happen, as I mentioned in my speech. As far as confessional elements are concerned, we actually want to review them. It's out for a referral. We have received a lot of referrals, but we have also met with some opposition to the Council's referral, so to speak. It's about how we're going to work out what we really want. But of course we in the Swedish school should not have a gender division or a division in any other way. It is really as unfortunate as having schools where almost no one has Swedish as their mother tongue.
i-ffa3992a34433214-930	Madam President, I would like It is gratifying to hear Tomas Kronståhl's answer. No, the Social Democrats are not for gender-disaggregated classes. But then the question remains why we still have it in Sweden. The Member tells us about an investigation that's on its way. The fact is, however, that we have already decided in this House that this should not be allowed to happen. That was five years ago. One might think that the government should have been able to implement the Riksdag's decisions over the five years. It is somewhat unfortunate that the government needs more than five years to deal with such an easy-to-handle approach – it can surely be said? – problems like this with gender-disaggregated classes. Make sure it's banned! Make sure that schools are inspected to ensure that students are allowed to attend classes with each other and not separate from each other! Make sure that the School Inspectorate is instructed to review the schools that have conducted this type of activity so that it is not repeated! Distribute periodic penalty payments to the schools that continue to operate or close them! I and the Moderates believe that if the Social Democrats had been serious in their commitment to gender equality in our schools and that gender-disaggregated classes should not exist, they would have succeeded in implementing this in these five years.
i-ffa3992a34433214-934	Madam President, I would like Obviously, we can see that the issue is difficult. Before these five years, we had an alliance government for eight years. And this was not unknown during that time. But it is nice that both Moderates and Social Democrats and a lot of others seem to be in complete agreement on this issue. Once we have the approval of the legislative referral, perhaps we can be coherent in this House and ensure that we get this implemented fairly quickly. But we can't go ahead. We need to investigate and do things the right way. It's important. We Social Democrats really think, just as I started my speech with, that the strength of the Swedish school is precisely that we have had students from all social classes and from all nationalities. We have always managed to get them to work together and work together. It has been a success for this country. It has also given us a very good stability. I think most of us can agree that it has been successful.
i-ffa3992a34433214-937	Madam President, I would like Tomas Kronståhl quickly swept over the issue of security and education and did not, for example, touch on the problem of bullying at school, which is an important part of this report. Studies and security also include the possibility for all students to feel safe when they go to school in the morning. We can still read that the student who is being bullied is forced to change school or change municipality. That is totally unacceptable. Despite all the political commitments and despite all the fine articles from government and others, this problem has not been tackled. It is still the one who is being harassed, the one who is being bullied, the one who is the first to leave school, the class or even the municipality, at worst. I would like to ask Tomas Kronståhl how he wants to tackle this problem. I believe that the proposals that have been announced are not enough. I had hoped for the support of the Social Democrats. We have put forward a number of proposals on access rules, relocation and suspension, but also on equal treatment plans and so on. All of this discourages the Social Democrats. The second concerns the issue of gender-disaggregated education. The establishment of new secular schools has been suspended on the initiative of the Liberals. However, this does not solve the problems of existing schools, Tomas Kronståhl, but requires action regardless of future proposals.
i-ffa3992a34433214-942	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Roger Haddad, for the questions. First of all, I would like to say that when it comes to bullying at school, we have done a great deal. For example, we have strengthened teachers' professional role in various ways. Greater powers have been given during this period to both show out, shut down and actually remedy the perpetrators. This has been a problem in the past; we all know it. We have strengthened that authority. We have invested tremendous resources in more adults in school. We've invested in teaching assistants, class assistants and student assistants. The competence of teachers is the best way to tackle these problems, and we have tried in various ways to create time and space for teachers to actually fix the problems. Then I would say that both Roger Haddad and the Liberals have been with us in much of the work during this period. It will also be exciting to see what the investigation has to say about studies at school and how it might be possible to introduce national guidelines to address the problems. On the issue of gender segregation, I believe that it is solved in exactly the same way. Here we must give tools to both the Swedish National Agency for Education and the Swedish School Inspectorate to ensure that you comply with and follow the guidelines that are actually in the Swedish curriculum. I do not think that there will be any problem in getting a majority for that.
i-ffa3992a34433214-946	Madam President, I would like I believe that the measures against bullying and giving the tools needed to principals and teachers are not enough. Although parts of these tools exist, they are not used. It is obvious that there is something that is holding back teachers and, not least, principals from using the entire disciplinary action box to ensure that all students can feel safe and able to study. Unfortunately, during all my years as a school politician, I have always been told that it is the one who is being bullied who is forced to change schools. I've never heard of the perpetrator moving. It is a disappointment and a failure for Swedish school policy. In the question of gender-disaggregated teaching, Tomas Kronståhl refers to the Swedish National Agency for Education and to curricula. In August 2016, the Swedish School Inspectorate approved a school in the Stockholm area that had gender-disaggregated teaching. The curriculum was tightened in 2018, but last year continued to be approved at a school in Gothenburg that has had gender-disaggregated teaching for 22 years. It is therefore something that does not correspond between reality and the vision that Tomas Kronståhl possibly has and which I share. Students – boys and girls – are still in environments with radicalists and extremists where traditional gender patterns are acknowledged and are still trying, I mean, to impose these on the students. It may come from the school management or, unfortunately, as we have seen examples, from the parents. That is totally unacceptable.
i-ffa3992a34433214-949	Madam President, I would like Christian Carlsson, the Christian Democrats' representative, listed all the opportunities that exist in teacher competence today and that we can access to curb bullying. I share this. Of course, if teachers and principals do not use these tools, that is a problem. Then you have to strengthen them in their professional role, just as I was in the past. For example, to abolish the Children's and Student's representative, as Haddad and the Liberals say, seems to me to be going very hard. You don't usually abolish a lawyer because they succeed in their work. It is important to make sure that you have a space for both sides to make their views heard, and then I think it is very important that we have the Children's and Student's representative. But of course we should have a school where teachers in their profession have the security to actually be able to exercise the power and authority that is in the curriculum. Otherwise, of course, we have a major problem. With regard to the other role of the School Inspectorate to review compliance with curricula and other things, for example gender segregation, one can only hope, regardless of which party you belong to, that the authorities have the opportunity to do their job. We will probably always end up in situations where we see that someone is not following guidelines as it was intended, and then, of course, we must intervene and shut down those schools and ensure that they do not continue. I therefore have no problem with that question, Madam President. I can only share Mr Haddad's view on this issue.
i-ffa3992a34433214-953	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the basic report on education. It is a collection of sports that includes nature, teaching materials, sex and children's right to avoid being violated in school. My speech will therefore deal with many of these issues, albeit not all of them. Firstly, Madam President, I would like to refer to the change of line that we have just heard. I think it may be important for anyone listening to the debate to also take on board what a special investigator recently presented to the government. After all, the government asked investigator Tommy Lagergren to look at the issue of gender-disaggregated education at school and how we can make sure to overcome this. On page 762 of his report, Tommy Lagergren notes that current legislation already prohibits this. This means that to the extent that schools regularly and over time have gender-disaggregated education, it is contrary to the Education Act and the Discrimination Act. Madam President, I would like I turn to the issues that I myself have included in this report. As I said, it is a collection of many different issues, and I will start by talking about nature. We in the Green Party want all children to have access to Sweden's fantastic nature. The school has the task of ensuring that all children bring the knowledge needed to understand and respect the right of public access and engage in the outdoor life that has become part of an increasing number of Swedes' covid everyday. We know that staying in nature according to research has effects that are positive on children's health, learning and school performance. We therefore think it is incredibly important that all children have the opportunity to learn about and in nature within the framework of school. This is also very important for nature's sake. We know that people who love nature are the strongest protection for nature. At a time when we see how nature is threatened by climate change and exploitation in different ways, it is important that we ensure that the next generation learns about nature and can put words to what they encounter there. Madam President, I would like We have recently made a revision of the school curricula. The Green Party believes it is very important that we ensure that the clarifications and structuring that have now been made of the curricula do not mean that teaching in outdoor life, the right of public access and important skills such as orientation are affected. That's what we want to be followed up. The basic report on education also highlights other important subjects. I am so incredibly pleased that I can call for my own motion to be rejected in the report on sexuality, consent and relations on the grounds that the government has already fixed this. Madam President, I would like There are few times in one's political life that one has the privilege of following one's idea for implementation. But this is one of those times. The fact that we now turn the subject of sex and cohabitation into teaching in sexuality, consent and relationships will have an impact on children's exposure to violations. It will be important in that more boys will understand the difference between consent and abuse. And fewer girls will be subjected to sexual harassment and abuse, both in school and later in life. For a survey by the Crime Victims Agency shows that as many as 17 percent of all young guys in the survey believed that if you are lying naked in the same bed, you have agreed to have sex. Almost one in three thought that having a relationship meant agreeing to sex. There is quite a risk that there will be many serious abuses when the figures look like that. The school has a central role to convey knowledge of these basic issues to the students. I am so glad that we have now modernised this teaching and also brought in issues of honour-related violence and oppression and pornography. Madam President, I would like The members of the Christian Democrats both in this debate and in the previous debate on gender equality have highlighted their commitment to honour-related violence and repression. That sounds very good, because it's so important. The work for all young and adults in our country to have access to their rights and freedoms – freedom from violence and oppression, the right to choose who to love and live with – is so important. These rights are being violated today in the name of honour. But I wonder why the Christian Democrats, who say they care so much about this work, still wanted to cut off SEK 100 million from the government's efforts to combat honour-related violence and oppression. If this SEK 100 million had been removed, we would not have had as many people today working against honour-related violence and oppression. The money spent on the effort that was made for several authorities to work to prevent children and young people being taken out of Sweden for child marriage, forced marriage and genital mutilation had not existed. Nor had there been any money for the Swedish Agency for Youth and Civil Society to work in collaboration with the National Skills Team against honor-related violence and repression for information campaigns aimed at the adult professionals who meet young newly arrived and young asylum seekers in their work and linked to voluntary engagement. Madam President, I would like Politics is not just about wanting. Politics is also a matter of prioritising. Here I do not understand the priority of the Christian Democrats. Madam President, I would like I will exceed my speaking time. This is what happens when you are the last speaker on a matter and you hear a lot of jumps. I need to be able to respond to, among other things, what Liberal Roger Haddad was talking about. Liberals are talking about a registration culture in Swedish school. I can agree. We have an unhealthy culture where parents have become customers, where instead of taking responsibility together with the teachers for the students' development, they have become demand holders who report the school when they are not satisfied, for example with the grade their children have received from the teacher. Teachers in the marketing school that we have started to be treated as service staff. As I said, the parents have become customers. And the children have become a bag of student money that parents can threaten to move if they are not satisfied. It is incredibly serious that, for fear of being reported, teachers do not take action against disorder and violations. However, to suggest, as the Liberals, that the body to stand up for children who are subjected to bullying should be abolished is not, in fact, connected. That doesn't solve the problem. The fact that children have fewer adults fighting for their right not to be bullied, harassed and violated at school is not an answer to the fact that today we have misdirected reports. Nor is it the solution to the fact that an individual case has not been properly assessed. We know that there are ambiguities in the legislation. And we are actually working together with the Liberals to sort out several of them within the framework of the work of the national plan for security and studyo. But there will also be grey areas where it is up to the courts to decide where the limit is. It will also have to be forward. But we in the Green Party want to protect the Children's and Student's representative, whom we were involved in setting up because we saw that violations at school were not taken seriously enough and that children's rights to a schooling free from bullying were not always realised.
i-ffa3992a34433214-972	Madam President, I would like I thank you for the question of Christian Democrats' policy against honour culture. First of all, I would like to say that I am pleased that we are many parties that want to invest more in combating honour violence and culture. We have long had a problem in Sweden with the fact that people have not dared to speak clearly about honour problems, and they have equated honour violence with other violence in society. We have also seen in a lot of municipal action plans that there has not been any desire to distinguish between honour violence and other violence. This has made it more difficult to overcome the problem. With regard to the latest budget, the truth is that the government and the Christian Democrats invested equally in the work against honour violence both for 2022 and for 2023, i.e. SEK 80 million. However, the one-off investment of SEK 100 million that the government also made for only one year – 2021 – unfortunately lacks motivational text. Nor could it be made clear what motivated this temporary increase when it was planned to return to 80 million dollars. That is why the Christian Democrats chose not to support this proposal. Instead, we spend more money than the government on the judiciary so that the police and the other judiciary can fight honour crimes. The Christian Democrats have also been a driving force for us to bring about a forced marriage unit in Sweden in order to stop forced marriages. We are therefore an active party to that fight.
i-ffa3992a34433214-977	Madam President, I would like I agree with Christian Carlsson that it was urgent and good that we were several parties that wanted to invest more in the work against honour-related oppression so that we did not go on the Christian Democrats' line of cuts of SEK 100 million. The Christian Democrats' motion does not say what these SEK 100 million should instead be used for, but it simply says that they are being put on their own priority initiatives. That motion does not mention the judiciary. On the other hand, there is a call for more newly arrived women to be able to be housewives longer with their young children instead of the children going to preschool and the mothers to get to work. It is a policy that counteracts the work that we want to do to overcome the violence and repression of honour. Research into honor-related violence and oppression shows a clear connection when it comes to whether mothers work or not. Working mothers reduces honor-related violence and oppression. The Christian Democrats' policy is that more mothers should be housewives. Previously, it was called child care allowance, now it is called child care allowance. As a result, however, it is mainly women with low education and the over-representation of foreign-born and newly arrived women who, instead of going to the labour market and getting help to earn their own living, remain as housewives. I believe that, although the Christian Democrats claim to be concerned about issues of honour, they have a policy that goes in the wrong direction.
i-ffa3992a34433214-982	Madam President, I would like You barely know where to start. I must say that I find it distressing to hear the Green Party using immigrant women as bats in the debate to limit the right of families with children to choose childcare. I find that distasteful. Returning to the debate on honour violence and the importance of combating honour violence at school, this is not a fully coherent argument we hear here. The thesis is that there will be less honorary culture if more people work. I think it may be that in families where there are no problems of honour, it is also free for women to work. I believe that the issue is primarily about values. It is the harmful values that we must combat, including at school. Instead of pretending that there is a sharp dividing line in combating honour culture and violence, I think that we should take note of the fact that several parties are prepared to spend more money, absolutely, but that it is more than money. I presented several concrete proposals in my speech today. I was talking about the importance of conducting information campaigns for summer holidays so that little girls don't get married away. I was talking about the importance of every school taking responsibility and having an action plan against honour violence. It is much more constructive than trying to mix the cards away by talking about family choice, when the Green Party is strongly opposed to parents having to choose the form of childcare.
i-ffa3992a34433214-987	Madam President, I would like I do not mean that we do not both think it is important to combat honour-related violence and oppression, but I believe that the Christian Democrats' policy does not achieve it well. It does not counteract honour-related violence and oppression by removing SEK 100 million from the work against honour violence. The money, the 100 million that the Christian Democrats wanted to remove, has been used for, among other things, guidance to prevent children and young people being taken out of the country, for actions aimed at new arrivals and asylum seekers on issues of honour-related violence and repression, and also for how such violence can be seen to affect custody disputes. These three examples had not come up with the politics of the Christian Democrats. I think it must be understood that the policy of young children, whether they should attend preschool or be at home with housewives, is linked to the outcome of equality policy. Your policy of more housewives leads, in the long run, to the exclusion of low-skilled and newly arrived women from the labour market. According to research, it also increases the risk that their children will be subjected to honor-related violence and oppression. We need to see the structures. The school is a part of it, and the policy we have for children to go to school at pre-school age is another part. There we differ from the Christian Democrats.
i-ffa3992a34433214-991	Madam President, I would like The Green Party has not been known to counteract extremism and radicalisation at school. The reference Annika Hirvonen makes to the report on gender-disaggregated teaching is directly incorrect. It is distressing that the member of the Green Party says that there is an absolute ban on gender-disaggregated education in Swedish schools. That's not correct. I myself have referred to the case where the Swedish School Inspectorate gave approval in 2016. And last year, in 2020, a school was discovered that had had sex-disaggregated education for 22 years. No, Annika Hirvonen, there is no absolute prohibition on carrying out gender-disaggregated teaching in Swedish schools. But we want it. We have put forward proposals for a stop to the establishment of confessional preschools, which you rejected a few hours ago. In this report, we have tried to tighten up the issue of secular elements in school day because many students are forced into those elements and are not allowed to make a free choice. You have also called for this to be rejected. We have now tried to raise the issue of the clear need to tighten up the regulatory framework for gender-disaggregated education. My question to the Green Party is whether you are prepared to tighten the regulatory framework despite the investigator's proposal. Are you prepared to introduce either much sharper proposals or a really absolute ban on gender-disaggregated education in Sweden?
i-ffa3992a34433214-998	Madam President, I would like I quote now from SOU 2021:11. The proposal of the study: no provisions should be included in the Education Act which explicitly prohibit gender-disaggregated education and training. This is because the existing legal framework in the form of provisions in curricula and the Non-Discrimination Act is sufficient. ..................................................... We in the Green Party wanted to ensure that there is no doubt whatsoever that there must be no systematic and rule-based gender-based education. That's why we assigned that mission to the investigator. Now the investigator, who has gone into the matter in depth, has said that today's provision already says so. It is not because we have in any way been unclear on this issue. Roger Haddad suggests that the Green Party thinks it is good that it has broken the rules of the school law for 20 years. I think it is reprehensible. We have fought for gender equality to be included in the curriculum, and we have also ensured that this has happened. It is stated in the curriculum that the school has the task of combating gender stereotypes. You can't do that if you divide boys and girls into separate classes. It goes completely against what the school has to do, and it is distressing if the authorities do not act against it. Having said that, every day I am prepared to take steps to ensure that the school is a place where you not only teach but lead gender equality.
i-ffa3992a34433214-1003	Madam President, I would like You in the Green Party have not been the ones who have speeded up reforms to stop extremists and radicalisation in Swedish school and preschool, Annika Hirvonen. On the contrary, you have contributed to stalling and stopping reforms. Madam President, I would like Last year the Swedish School Inspectorate approved a principal who has had gender-disaggregated teaching. They were criticized, but after the criticism they got approval to continue – and not only to continue but also to expand their activities. It is directly provocative, Madam President. I have not asked what the investigator thinks on this matter. I do not share the investigator's opinion, conclusion and proposal to the government. The Green Party is in the government and has the opportunity to make its own assessment of the subject matter. I have not received an answer, Madam President. We have no absolute ban on gender-disaggregated teaching in Swedish schools. I know what the investigator is suggesting. I do not share his suggestion that the current regulatory framework is sufficient. The question is: Is the Green Party prepared to tighten up the rules further or even go so far as to introduce an absolute ban on gender-disaggregated education so that we can get to grips with these activities which still divide boys and girls for religious reasons?
i-ffa3992a34433214-1007	Madam President, I would like As I replied in the previous line, every day I am prepared to act if schools do not live up to the law's demands to work for equality and against this type of gender stereotype divisions of girls and boys, of course. Madam President, I would like I must nevertheless question the sweeping accusations made by Roger Haddad that we have been stalling. What have we been stalling? I know that Roger Haddad is not in a position to get a final word at this line shift. However, he may ask to speak again and explain the sweeping accusations. It is we in the Green Party who, during the last parliamentary term, have ensured that the curricula are clarified precisely on the issue of gender equality. We did this precisely because of the outrageous examples of gender-segregated education systematically in schools. We are now sitting together in the January cooperation and looking at better rules so that schools that are repeatedly criticised can be closed down. But somewhere in essence we have a problem in a system where it is at all possible for not who as a whole but, frankly, far too many to carry out school activities. We must tighten up the marketing school we have in Sweden today. I would like to ask the Liberals if you are prepared to do so.
i-ffa3992a34433214-1013	Madam President, I would like In our everyday life we are surrounded by thousands of chemicals, many of which are vital and have been crucial to building the society we have. Among other things, they have enabled longer durability for food, more effective medicines and reduced risk of fire. In this way they have contributed to both economic and social well-being as well as to trade and employment. However, with increasing use of chemicals, there is also a greater responsibility for the chemicals we spread and how these affect the environment and us humans in the long term. This is the start of the Moderate Committee exercise on chemicals. But that is also the key message of the chemical strategy that the EU set out only a few months ago. Given that chemicals spread across national borders through trade, wind and water, the Moderates are convinced that these are issues to be run internationally. We therefore welcome the aim of the EU strategy to protect human health and the environment from dangerous chemicals but also to strengthen industrial competitiveness. The Moderates also welcome the great consensus that exists here among Swedish parties in the Riksdag when we discuss and deal with chemical issues. But in the future, I would like to highlight a few issues where we think the government should act faster and perhaps a little more. Madam President, I would like Chemicals' connection to water is a broad but also vital area. So here in Corona times, emergency issues have been raised a little on the agenda. An important issue of preparedness is to ensure that there are chemicals that enable us to cope with water purification. That is an issue that we have highlighted. But also the Swedish Defence Committee already mentioned it in a report 2017. It points out that it is based on the fact that we now have a principle of responsibility. This means that it is the municipalities that are actually responsible for ensuring that it works. It is exactly the same way that the regions are responsible for health care. But we all know how it turned out. We therefore find it surprising that the government today, one year after the outbreak of the pandemic, cannot indicate how municipal water responsibility is ensured and followed up. Another issue I would like to raise concerns global responsibility in the production of copies of medicines. That's what they call generics. It turns out that environmental considerations are worse in the factories that produce the copies than in the factories that produce original medicines. A few years ago, researchers from the University of Gothenburg were allowed to follow the entire process from the time active substances were built up until the drug was ready. It turned out that 75 per cent of the original medicines were produced in countries where they had an entirely adequate and good environmental work. But looking at the copies of the drugs, the generics, only 30 percent of the countries lived up to the level of the original medicines. These are worrying results. This means, as we have also seen, that in the countries where antibiotics are used and produced, it has been found that they have been released right into the wild. In this way they also contribute to the development of resistance to the antibiotics we so badly need. Given that the manufacturing process can play such an important role in the dissemination of those substances to the environment, the Moderates believe that environmental requirements should be included in the EU acquis on what is known as good manufacturing practice. Finally, I would also like to draw attention to the problem of PFAS perfluorinated hydrocarbon. It is really about 3 000 – 4 000 substances. Yesterday a court case was closed in Blekinge District Court. This was the case with Kallingebor, who for a long time have been exposed to drinking water that has been contaminated with PFAS. It noted that there is a link between the ill-health experienced by these individuals and the pollution in the water that exists. Now there are no proper established standards for how much PFAS can be found in drinking water. There are only a few PFAS substances available. Therefore, our hope is that the EU's drinking water directive will tighten the conditions and tighten the rules for the levels of this. Let me say one more thing about the PFAS. It is about the major known health problems that we know are present with these substances. Denmark was early out. A year ago, they introduced a ban on PFAS contamination in, for example, pizza cartons and muffin moulds. It was precisely because you couldn't get substances that go into the food. We find it surprising that the government did not follow Denmark's example. We had the opportunity to do so, but the government chose to remain silent. Madam President, I would like Another point I would like to raise with regard to chemicals is how important it is that we have a holistic approach to the use of plant protection products. In Sweden, despite our northern latitudes, we have good conditions for crop cultivation, even though we also have a low use of plant protection products and fertilizers. However, there is now an EU initiative called From farm to table, which at the same time wants to push back the use of plant protection products, among other things, to a large extent and significantly reduce the use of inputs in agriculture. We have brought forward Moderates there and pointed out that consideration must be given to how things look in different countries – it is different if we are in southern Europe or if we are up here in the high north – but also that what we are going to reduce is above all over-use of products. At the same time, we are pleased to note an evaluation carried out by the Commission which highlights an issue that we have been pursuing in the past. It's about mutual recognition. The Commission now recognises that this hampers and delays market access for new plant protection products. As I said, this is an issue that we have been pursuing for a long time. A highly used plant protection product whose authorisation expires next year is glyphosate. This is not a party submission, but we believe it is important that the new evaluation and validation process that will be based on fact-based and based on scientific criteria but also on socio-economic analyses. A possible ban on the use of glyphosate today would have far-reaching consequences for Swedish agriculture and indeed also contribute to both increased climate emissions and environmental risks. This is not something I am making up, but it has been stated by the Swedish Board of Agriculture in a report. They take as an example that direct sowing is not possible, that weed control is getting worse and that the use of plant protection products with a lower environmental profile will increase. So once again, overall vision is important. This is why we think it is important that it is the Swedish Board of Agriculture that has to take over approval processes for plant protection products, because it is they who can continue to work with a holistic approach. Madam President, I would like I see that speaking time is running away from me. I quickly jump to the conclusion and would like to say that I am in favour of reservation 12. Then I would like to give you a thoughtful word along the way. Pseudonymen Falstaff, fakir coined the expression: The concept of non-toxic is something that we often turn around with, but it is also something that can fool us – partly because poisons do not have to be synthetically produced, partly because it is about dosage.
i-ffa3992a34433214-1033	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating chemicals policy. I would like to begin by calling for approval of the Swedish Democrats' reservation 10, and I have done so. Whether we think about it or not, we are exposed daily to chemicals, both naturally occurring and industrially produced. In many cases the chemicals we are exposed to are not dangerous, but it can also vary and they can become toxic to humans and nature depending on the method of use and concentration. Chemicals and their use are a complex area. Although individual chemicals may be harmless, they can become directly unhealthy in combination with each other. Therefore, the way forward for the use of beneficial chemicals must be guided by caution but also by public education, science, innovation and ever-improved knowledge of the effects of chemicals on living organisms. New smart chemicals and methods of use have the potential to reduce human negative impacts on the environment, while modern and functional products can be launched on the market. The process of regulating the use of chemicals must be characterised by evidence-based research and reasonable consideration between pros and cons and have high safety margins when it comes to human health. This is particularly true when it comes to children, who for various reasons may be particularly sensitive. Therefore, products aimed at children need to be assessed with the utmost care. There must not be situations where children's toys, playgrounds, clothes, pacifiers or the like pose a risk where children are exposed to substances which, although not visible to the naked eye, may be a health risk that may affect them if not directly later in life. I think all parents want to do what is best for their children, but the market consists of a jungle of products aimed at children, not least on the internet. You can often be attracted by cheap prices from third country websites and apps, i.e. from countries outside the EU, where you can buy the products you then directly import to Sweden. Goods sold in Sweden and within the EU should be safe to use and must comply with EU chemicals legislation. But suppliers outside the EU are not subject to these legal requirements and can thus sell products that are directly dangerous to Swedish consumers. In a Nordic inspection project led by the Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate, which was presented last spring, it was noted that almost 80 per cent of the products tested and purchased from companies outside the EU contained banned substances that could be harmful – 80 per cent! Therefore, it is important that our authorities work proactively to raise awareness and provide the knowledge boost needed to protect our Swedish consumers from exposing themselves or their loved ones to unnecessary health risks that may arise as a result of the purchase of goods that have not been controlled by the EU and have become CE marked. Madam President, I would like I would like to highlight another area linked to foreign trade. It's about electronics products. In 2017, a specific excise duty was introduced on consumer electronics known as the chemical tax. This tax is nothing else a penalty tax wrapped in the fine cover of the environment. The goods covered by the tax are goods considered self-evident or even necessary in every person's household in Sweden. It covers everything from refrigerators and vacuum cleaners to computers, tablets and more. The Swedish democrats were alone against this penalty tax from the start, as we could see that the chemical tax would not be the solution to the health and environmental problems that they wanted to get away with using the tax. Penalty taxing an industry that makes possible the modern living we have today, in which we use electronic devices to a large extent for most things, is directly retrograde. At an early stage, it could be predicted that this would mean an increased cost for our entrepreneurs, not only from the tax itself, but also from the increased administrative burden on them and losses on the revenue side when consumers might instead go to foreign operators who do not have higher prices. But does this tax contribute to environmental benefits, or is it just one in a row of cashiers that the government uses to try to cover up for other failures and budget holes? I believe that the chemical tax, which is based on weight and levied regardless of the value of the product, is not of particular benefit to the environment when the dangerous chemicals are still present in the products. If you really want to work towards better environment and health, you should instead review other regulation of the substances against which you want to protect yourself and invest in technological development in order to find better alternatives. Madam President, I would like It's all over again. This time it's about a chemical tax on clothes and shoes. Contains a product so high levels of harmful substances that it becomes dangerous, it should be regulated or possibly even removed from the market. It does not solve the problem of endocrine disruptors or carcinogens by keeping the product and also expect to raise billions to the public purse. If you expect money to come to the treasury as a result of a so-called environmental tax, the motives do not seem very sincere. Again, if we are to remove dangerous substances in the concentrations where they are harmful to us, we need to regulate them, find new and better alternatives and not see them as a cash cow.
i-DUbBg5Afv4Xu6qTCJudG94	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by calling for the Centre Party's reservation 22 in paragraph 12 to be approved. Madam President, I would like The Center Party has a vision of a non-toxic everyday life. That vision means that we should not have to worry about being exposed to harmful substances, toxic heavy metals or endocrine disruptors, whether in clothes we put on, curtains and furniture in the workplace or in the toys we give to our children. We know what environmental impact we have from historical sins when chemical policy has missed the target or not sufficiently tried to ensure that substances we use as pesticides in fire foams or other critical products have also been safe for humans and the environment. We still find it difficult to grasp the impact we also see on people from endocrine disruptors, heavy metals and harmful chemicals. One of the things that scares me most is the impact on male fertility in the last three generations. I'll admit it's because I'm a party to the case. Even when the harmful effects for humans are known, this becomes almost too close to the skin – it crawls under the skin. If it is something we, as elected politicians, cannot do, it is turning a blind eye to the environmental problems we have in working towards a safer and better society and a non-toxic everyday life. Chemicals policy is the tool we use not only to achieve our environmental objectives but also to build a safer society for man. This is a work that is not just done here in Parliament. Goods are being manufactured and transported worldwide in an increasingly globalised economy. The handling of chemicals in goods and products is a global concern that we must resolve in cooperation also outside Sweden's borders. One of our most important tools is the EU chemicals legislation REACH. Here, Sweden has often played a progressive role in identifying at an early stage which substances we see may need to be regulated harder or banned. We have tried to point out a line in which we are ambitiously phasing out harmful substances while at the same time giving a strong signal to the market that we need more sustainable and safe alternatives. Madam President, I would like This is a work which must in no way stop because we have achieved historic victories. It is just as important today, 2021, that we look ambitiously at the candidate list for REACH and think about what topics we need to work to get up there so that they can be regulated harder. If these goods are imported into Sweden from outside the EU, it is not always easy to apply EU chemicals legislation. Here we have one of the major problems in a globalised economy: to make environmental and security legislation actually apply to all the goods sold on the market in Sweden. I have often worn my hair over how we do with imported products. But it does not help that I wear my hair, but here we have to try to get better at this. In order to raise awareness but also to try to increase opportunities for cooperation, we from the Center Party want to see a special focus on international chemicals work, both in REACH and outside the EU. In particular, it concerns increased information on hazardous substances in supply chains and bilateral cooperation with strategic countries from which Sweden has a large import of goods, in order to reduce the presence of dangerous substances in imported goods. We can't capture everything. The best thing is if we, from the Swedish side and from the European side, can put pressure on manufacturers to adapt their production and ensure that we have non-toxic supply chains. Madam President, I would like Today's rapid technological development, not least in digitalization and applications of artificial intelligence, creates completely new opportunities to facilitate a more circular economy where knowledge and awareness among consumers about the environmental impact of products and their content of hazardous substances increases. At present, this, for example in the textile sector, is made more difficult by the fact that digital information carriers must not be put on products. We therefore want the government to work to revise the so-called ROHS Directive so that digital information carriers on all kinds of products, including textiles, are made possible. A further area where enhanced action is needed is the use of chemicals in construction materials and articles. Just as I was at the beginning, this is a typical example of material that we are in constant contact with in our homes, at the workplace and here I stand leaning on the speaker's chair. These are areas where individuals have little opportunity to choose what they surround themselves with. I can control what I decorate my own home with, but as soon as I go to the workplace or as soon as I pick up my sister's children at preschool, I come into contact with building materials that I have had very little opportunity to influence. Experience from the mistakes and ignorance of previous generations, such as radon, shows the long-term consequences of material choices. We in the Center Party therefore want a European regulatory framework to be put in place with requirements for the presentation of chemical content in building materials and that this is reflected in the content declaration for the materials. We also want the government to speed up efforts to secure consumers from harmful substances in construction products. Madam President, I would like One of the most difficult balances we face in the transition to a circular economy is the balance between, on the one hand, freedom of poison and the greatest possible reduction of the risk of exposing humans and nature to contact with harmful chemicals and, on the other hand, re-use. The flows that we want to make circular are not always free from harmful substances. In some cases we also know that it will be very difficult, at least for the foreseeable time, to ensure that they are completely free from harmful substances. So there is uncertainty as to when we are going to try to detoxify flows, when we are able to accept certain harmful substances because they occur to such a small extent that there is no real risk and when we have the really big problems. This uncertainty is one of the major obstacles to the transition to a circular economy. This meets me every time I go out and talk to companies that work with recycling and recycling, but also with producers. In addition to the uncertainty about what material contains, this is one of the high thresholds in the transition to a circular economy. Although I am very proud of the circular economy strategy, the first in Sweden's history, which was adopted last year as a result of the January agreement, it is also not a clear guide to how to manage the balance. Therefore, we want to see an investigation mission to the Swedish Chemicals Agency to investigate how to update the legislation to weigh circular resource flows and non-toxic environment against each other. This would be beneficial not only for the environment but also for those involved in recycling and recycling. Madam President, I would like Finally, the work of a non-toxic everyday life spans many areas, both European and national, and extremely local, policies. It is often heavy and complex. But we know what long-term negative effects a lack of chemicals policy can have. If we are to take on board what is at the heart of the Swedish environmental goals and work on the environment, not to hand over the problems to future generations, this is a crucial area for us elected representatives to continue developing.
i-ffa3992a34433214-1066	Madam President, I would like Like my colleague Betty Malmberg, I would like to start by talking about a topical topic. Yesterday, PFAS received a lot of time in the news broadcasts because of the judgment that came about PFAS pollution in Blekinge. A recurring feature is how drinking water supplies in Sweden are contaminated with persistent and toxic per- and polyfluorinated chemicals, which go under the collective name PFAS. Drinking water supplies for as many as 3 1⁄2 million inhabitants of our country may be contaminated by PFAS. Different PFAS systems exist in a number of applications, including fire-extinguishing foams as well as in industrial processes. It is important to take a holistic approach to this chemical group. The Christian Democrats therefore propose a ban on all PFAS substances, except those substances where it can be demonstrated that the environmental and health properties of the substance are acceptable. We're on our way there, but we're not there yet. Bisphenol A is a substance with extensive use in society. It has several health and environmental hazards and is suspected to have harmful effects on reproductive performance. Studies have shown that bisphenol A is endocrine disrupting even at low doses. In the EU, there has been a ban on the substance in, for example, baby bottles and baby food packaging. Other types of bisphenols are also harmful. Since December 2015, the European Commission, supported by the EU Toys Directive, has introduced levels of bisphenol A in toys for children under three years of age and toys intended to be put in the mouth. It is a step in the right direction, but it is time to move forward and ban all forms of bisphenol. In order to create more long-term and predictability for our food producers, the government should work to ensure that the authorities make greater use of the mutual recognition of plant protection products. Consideration should be given to how other EU Member States relate to plant protection products, in order to create competitively neutral conditions for Swedish agriculture. In this connection, Madam President, I would like to endorse the Christian Democrats' reservation No 18. There are many uses for nanoparticles, but we still do not know much about how humans and the environment are exposed to nanomaterials, whose risk, spread and exposure are not sufficiently known. The existing legislation is inferior. REACH has a limit which states that all imports or manufactures of chemical substances over 1 tonne per year and manufacturers must be registered. However, since nanomaterials are often used or imported in very small quantities, they risk falling below the threshold for this requirement. This means that the current legislation cannot fully generate the information needed to assess risks and, if necessary, take action. The European Commission believes that REACH is the right forum for managing nano-risks and that it is sufficient to amend annexes and guidance documents to make REACH fully applicable to nanomaterials. The Christian Democrats believe that the Commission should also explore other ways of ensuring safe handling of nanomaterials, such as complementary legislation. It should be promoted by the government within the EU. Nanomaterials are used not only in consumer products but also in new and innovative medical treatments. Research has shown that nanoparticles can be used to damage or even destroy cancer cells from within. Another use of nanotechnology in the fight against cancer aims to locate the tumor at an earlier stage than otherwise would have been possible. Nanoparticles designed to attach themselves to cancer cells make tumors visible in scans earlier during disease development. Since early diagnosis is crucial for curing cancer, this is an important step in the fight against the disease. Nanomaterials are therefore important. But we need to learn more about the use of it. Madam President, I would like Finally, M icroplasts are plastic particles in the wide size range 0.001 – 5 millimetres. Most are not visible to the naked eye. The Baltic Sea is supplied with microplastics through, for example, boat paints, washing of synthetic clothing and hygiene products such as toothpaste and make-up. From hygiene products alone, around 40 tons of microplastics are washed out each year in the Baltic Sea. In some parts of the Baltic Sea there are more than 100,000 particles per cubic metre of water. We know that plastic breaks down very slowly in nature. Therefore, concentrations are gradually increasing in both lakes and seas. Microplastics can be a deadly threat to fish that ingest the particles even in small amounts. Since they are not broken down in the animals, the microplastics accumulate more and more in the food chain. One consequence is that they end up in our bodies. Since 1 July 2018, microplastics are banned in certain products in Sweden. This applies to microplastics with cleaning, scrubbing or polishing function in products that are rinsed off or spitted out. They are found in toothpaste, shampoo, conditioner and scrubs. Sweden already has a national ban on microplastics in certain cosmetic products. The EU Chemicals Agency ECHA has proposed a ban on intentionally added microplastics in chemical products. This ban would cover, inter alia, cosmetic products, detergents, paints and varnishes, medical devices and agricultural and horticultural products. The Christian Democrats support the ban on deliberately added microplastics proposed by ECHA and believe that Sweden should push for such a ban.
i-ffa3992a34433214-1080	Madam President, I would like At the outset, I only support Liberals' Amendment No 17, on plant protection products. But, of course, we support all our proposals. Madam President, I would like We have already heard a lot about what chemicals mean for our habitat. They are important if we are to be able to recycle and recycle and are a large part of the circular economy. Chemicals are everywhere. Some are necessary; others only cause great trouble for the future. The EU's agriculture-to-table approach will lead to a shift towards a more healthy and sustainable food system. As part of this, the Commission has proposed to halve the use of chemical pesticides by 2030. Pesticides and plant protection products affect the environment. Last week the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture was able to take part in water issues and, for example, the purification of water from pesticides. A comparative study found that Sweden was not the best in the class. It's pretty simple, if you think about it. What is sprayed on crops and soil can seep down and end up in aquatic environments. What is sprayed on our crops can also end up on our dining table. Achieving as low a use as possible should be important, but there are strong interests to enable increased use of different types of plant protection products and pesticides. The arguments tend to relate to reasons of competition. As long as others do not do enough, we shall not be subject to additional restrictions for reasons of competition either. We in the Liberals find this regrettable. Sweden must be able to take the lead and drive forward a development in which the amount of pesticides is reduced in the environment. Research has shown that the species wealth of mainly birds, insects and plants is 30 percent higher in organically used agricultural fields than conventionally used fields where chemical plant protection products are used. The impact on biodiversity of conventional farming versus organic farming needs to be continued. The aim should be to find methods of farming that protect biodiversity without reducing the efficiency of agriculture. The impact of plant protection products on biodiversity should be included at national level but also in the further work on soil for the EU table strategy. In many EU countries, the use of plant protection products is quite different from that in Sweden. There are strong environmental reasons for restricting use in the EU as well. The common ambition within the EU should be to restrict the use of plant protection products wherever possible. At the same time, we can note that, with climate change waiting, Sweden's agriculture may also be affected. We must be observant about this. Sweden should be a driving force so that the strategy includes ambitious targets to limit the use of plant protection products where possible, not least in order to safeguard biodiversity and pollinating insects that are so important for our food production. Madam President, I would like We humans have many different chemicals in our bodies. PCBs, brominated flame retardants, highly fluorinated substances and other chemical substances have been measured in both human blood and urine. Some of the substances that we consume are endocrine disruptors and are suspected of contributing to the emergence of diseases. Children are particularly sensitive to influence as their bodies develop. A Sweden free of toxins is therefore an important part of liberal environmental policy. There are several examples of the possibility of reducing the levels of hazardous substances in the environment. Well-known environmental toxins have been reduced by legislation and other measures. In this respect, chemicals legislation shall be based on the precautionary principle, taking into account in particular the sensitivity of children and young people. What kind of toys are these kids playing with? What are the products targeted at children and young people? This is important. Dangerous substances in consumer products, such as toys and clothing, need to be removed from the market. For this to be possible, resource policy must prevent heavy metals, drug residues and other dangerous substances from spreading in nature. A broad basic knowledge and clear information on the chemical content of goods and products is required both in shops and at recycling plants. The January agreement concluded between the Social Democrats, the Green Party, the Center Party and the Liberals demonstrates the importance of a resource efficient, circular and bio-based economy. It will be strengthened, including a broad review of the regulatory framework for recycling and management of waste and residues in order to promote innovation and entrepreneurship in the circular economy. If we are to allow products to circulate, we must also know what they contain, all in order to ensure that consumers know what they are consuming. Madam President, I would like We in the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture are working on many issues. It is sometimes easy to lose the helicopter perspective on how everything is connected in our environment. Some chemicals are needed, while others need to be phased out. Chemicals end up in the ground and in our aquatic environments. The purification plants will take care of what ends up there. Others end up in the fish, meat and vegetables, or in the candy and spices. Still other things end up in clothes and other consumer products. What we humans spread in our environment and nature risks becoming a boomerang. We get it back to us over and over again. Therefore, the use of chemicals must be based on risk analysis and knowledge. Unnecessary use must be reduced. Dangerous chemicals must be phased out. Some products must be removed from the market. Madam President, I would like I would like to conclude by drawing attention to the fact that it is not only people who are affected by chemicals. As I said, so do many others. To flower and give fruit, our crops depend on pollinating insects. We have to take care of them. Let us therefore also protect our pollinators. They create and contribute to biodiversity, and they feed us on our plate. We also need to protect the environment and biodiversity for future generations. Here I am thinking in particular of the new generations of children and grandchildren.
i-ffa3992a34433214-1095	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Nina Lundström, for your speech. I really think we agree on most things, but I would like some clarification and also to explain what I said myself in my speech. I would like to begin by saying that we should vigorously push back the use of various inputs, including plant protection products. The example I want to mention concerns Swedish onion cultivation. It is mainly located on Öland and in the Kalmar area. A number of years ago, the Swedish Chemicals Agency wanted to ban certain pesticides here in Sweden. A derogation had to be requested in order to be allowed to grow with this means in the coming season. As a result, the onion cultivation in Sweden had been completely wiped out, Madam President. Instead, we had had to import onions from Holland that had been grown with the same pesticides that we had banned ourselves. It is somewhere here that we must try to maintain common sense. We cannot completely turn away our own businesses and agricultural entrepreneurs, but we must have a holistic view and see what can benefit Swedish agriculture so that it does not disappear. I want to hear Nina Lundström's view of this thought. Does the Liberals have this perspective when they say that the only important thing is to push back plant protection products? I share the view that we should remove the harmful chemicals, but there may be consequences that will strike back.
i-ffa3992a34433214-1099	Madam President, I would like Yes, there are always conflicts of interests on various issues. Here, as many speakers have said, on the one hand, there is the importance of competition, on the other hand, responsibility for biodiversity and the burden on our nature of different types of plant protection products, pesticides or even pesticides. We in the Liberals really want to strive to balance up the issue of the internal market, where we have authorities working generally to create good conditions. It is clear that what is good for Sweden to suppress its use must also apply to the rest of Europe. Then, of course, the conditions are very different, not least for climate reasons. We also believe that it is a risky strategy to sit back and expect other countries to take the lead. We think that we in Sweden should go ahead. But of course this is also about working on the basis of knowledge and evidence. There are authorities that have the skills and knowledge that we politicians need for our decisions. Somewhere we must find a balance point, but we believe from the Liberals that it is a very defensive and dangerous way to sit and wait for someone else to act. We think it is important that we do what we can. We in the Liberals have pointed out that we welcome different types of methods and methods to ensure that we are able to suppress the use of plant protection products. We also have the big question of pollinating insects. It's a matter of protecting them. If we do not have them, it does not matter what we try to cultivate, because the conditions will be lacking. It's all connected. We must be able to take the lead, but we must also push Europe forward so that we can get more people to act in the right direction.
i-ffa3992a34433214-1104	Madam President, I would like I thank Nina Lundström for her answer. But I don't really know if I understood exactly in what perspective Nina Lundström set the example of onion cultivation. It's not a conflict of interests. In principle, the conflict would be about stopping eating onions. Maybe that's how we should interpret it. I'm the first to sign on the importance of pollinating insects. We have put extra money in our Moderate budget proposals to promote beekeeping and promote pollinating insects. We are in complete agreement there. What we are seeing now, for example, is that, after leaving the EU, England has granted additional exemptions for the use of neonicotinoids in various oilseeds, which is reprehensible for pollinating insects. We shall certainly pursue this together and internationally. But the question is: Can Sweden completely abandon this and then also risk our own agriculture and our own food production? It is there somewhere that there must be a sort of balance and holistic approach as well. If we are to import all our food because we ban pesticides used in the rest of Europe, we have a problem. That is why it needs to be adapted. An opportunity that we now have is to continue working with the gene scissors, C RISPR - Cas9. I wonder if the Liberals have taken a position on whether they are in favour of such tools to ensure our food production in a changing climate.
i-ffa3992a34433214-1108	Madam President, I would like I think it is important to highlight a consumer perspective, which I also tried to do in my main speech. It's about having very conscious consumers who want to know what's landing on the plate. You want to be able to make active choices and opt out of products if you feel that this is a production that you do not want to benefit. All of this must be woven together, including the methodology of agriculture, regardless of whether you grow conventionally or organically. It could be the crop rotation, the gene sax or whatever it is. We must use the technological potential and try to get away from as much as possible of the toxins that will still remain and circulate. We heard, for example, in the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture, that treatment plants have to deal with huge quantities of chemicals, not only what they put into the purification process themselves, but also what is caught from the ground and from the water flows. There is reason to try to keep this down as much as possible. Then we are fully aware that today we cannot do without plant protection products. But there is an argument that, for reasons of competition, we should maintain a practice instead of thinking about technology, research on crop rotations and how to ensure biodiversity and pollinators. I think it is very defensive to give up and say that we are satisfied only the competition works. That's not enough for the Liberals. We want to see the bigger picture. We want to ensure that consumers have good products. We also want the idea of stewardship, that is to say, we must be careful that what comes into the ground does not recirculate so that the toxic load increases. For us, this is an important part of generational thinking. But sure – with new technology, new methodology and responsibility for the environment, I think we can get quite far.
i-ffa3992a34433214-1112	Madam President, I would like It's all chemistry. Chemical substances are fundamental to our society. They are included in all materials and goods. Chemistry offers many opportunities for us humans but can at the same time pose great threats and adversely affect people and the environment. In the past, industrial emissions and high concentrations of single hazardous chemicals dominated. Today, risk management is often about lower concentrations of many complex mixtures of chemicals, which are diffused and to which we are all constantly exposed via food, water and the indoor environment. Sweden started early with a policy to reduce risks with dangerous chemicals. In 1973, Sweden, as one of the first countries in the world, introduced a law on health and environmental hazards in order to tighten up the control of dangerous substances. Two important steps were in 1985 to draft a law on chemical products and in 1986 to create a special authority, the Chemicals Inspectorate, in order to build up skills and be able to implement the necessary changes. There is broad political agreement here in the Swedish Parliament on the importance of the safe use of chemicals for people and the environment. In particular, it concerns the protection of children, young people and pregnant women, as they are particularly sensitive to chemicals. The target for Sweden's chemical work is a non-toxic environment. Chemicals policy cuts into, and is an important part of, many other policy areas. One of them is medicines and pharmaceutical production, which we have also heard earlier here in the debate. The manufacturing process of pharmaceuticals is of great importance for the distribution of substances to the environment. The paradox is that drugs that make us healthy can make other people sick because of emissions during production. We need to develop measures to increase environmental considerations in the manufacture of medicinal products. The European Commission will address pharmaceutical issues within the framework of a pharmaceutical strategy for Europe. Environmental concerns must be given a prominent position in this work. I am pleased that there is broad agreement on these issues in the Swedish Parliament. Another example is work environment. It is extremely important to minimise the risks to workers exposed to high or long-term chemical exposure. We need to establish further measures to deal with workers' exposure to dangerous substances. Limiting the risks of chemicals is complicated. These are many thousand subjects where the need for knowledge is great. An individual country therefore finds it difficult to evaluate and regulate substances and products on its own, and that is why work at EU level is so incredibly important. The European Commission presented a new chemicals strategy last October. We debated this in Parliament a few weeks ago. This strategy means tightening up the current rules and their application. The strategy holds a high level of ambition and has clear Swedish footprint. In this work, we in Sweden want priority to be given to speeding up the phasing out of particularly dangerous substances. We also want to prioritise non-toxic cycles, which are a prerequisite for a circular economy, and that EU chemicals legislation should take greater account of the risks of combination effects. Madam President, I would like As far as dangerous substances are concerned, the phasing-out process must, as I said, be speeded up. The government and the responsible authorities are continuously working to identify the presence of dangerous substances in products and articles and on this basis propose appropriate measures. Important steps have been taken in the EU for a group-wide assessment of similar hazardous substances, for example for PFAS, but we fully agree that this development must be accelerated. Hormonal disruptors have a particularly serious impact on human health. At the same time, we know that the use of these substances is increasing in society. These developments require both urgent and vigorous action. As regards plant protection products, which we have also heard about in the previous debate, the use of substances harmful to pollinating insects must be restricted so that risks are minimised. Madam President, I would like In order for us to achieve the environmental and climate goals, we need to switch to a circular and bio-based economy. Non-toxic and resource-efficient cycles are a prerequisite for a circular economy and for reducing the negative impact of chemicals on human health. Action at European and international level is crucial for this work. The Swedish Chemicals Agency has this year and next year's mission to strengthen the work for a non-toxic circular economy, both nationally, within the EU and globally, through special efforts to make products and products non-toxic already at the design and production stages. They are also pushing for increased information requirements for chemicals in articles to come into place. The ambition must be to define clear and long-term rules of play so that the focus is clear for the work that needs to be done to switch to circular production and consumption, as well as for non-toxic and circular material circuits. Madam President, I would like In 2006, a UN Strategy on International Chemical Management was adopted. It outlines the international work on chemicals up to 2020 with a view to reaching the global chemicals target. Since 2017, there have been ongoing discussions on how to continue the international strategic work. The work is delayed as a result of the coronapndemine and is scheduled to resume in Bonn this summer. In 2018, the government launched an international alliance on chemicals and waste, which consists of some twenty countries and several UN agencies and authorities – the so-called high-level alliance. It is pushing for a new global framework for the management of chemicals. The aim is to reach a global agreement similar to the Paris agreement on chemicals and waste. Madam President, I would like Sweden has had a great influence on chemicals policy, both within the EU and internationally. A clear political will has been fundamental. The formation of the Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate, scientific support and a strong commitment from both environmental movements and progressive companies have also played a role in the progress. We will continue to be a strong force and drive a nontoxic environment. Finally, I would like to call for the Environment and Agriculture Committee's proposal for a decision to be approved.
i-ffa3992a34433214-1129	Madam President, I would like Yesterday, the verdict fell in the extensive PFAS trial, where over 160 Kallingebor sued the municipal company Ronneby Miljöteknik after PFAS substances leaked into the municipal drinking water. The Blekinge District Court ruled that the company will compensate the residents of Kallinge. They have increased levels of PFAS in their blood, and it is classified as personal injury. This has led to increased health risks, physical changes and deterioration of their health. Ronneby Miljöteknik must pay SEK 7 million in legal expenses. The question of financial compensation shall be settled later. This is an extremely important case, and we will see if it goes to the higher court before the judgment is finally adopted. I and the Green Party would like to send a big thank-you to all those affected in the PFAS Association who have stood up and worked very hard for people's health and the environment to be highly valued. A commitment to a non-toxic environment is required. More environmental trials and more success are needed, Madam President. I need to talk about the children's right to a non-toxic environment. Children are particularly sensitive to the effects of harmful chemicals and therefore it is particularly important to reduce the risks to children. The UN Convention on the Rights of the Child is now Swedish law and is therefore also the governing body in this work. Many children spend much of their day at preschool, and therefore the government has chosen to prioritise phasing out hazardous chemicals in children's everyday lives. Exposure to harmful substances can have effects much later in life. Children are more sensitive than adults because they are still growing and their organs are not fully developed. They eat more food than an adult in relation to their body weight, and they drink more water. Since its inception, the action plan for a non-toxic everyday life has had a clear focus on substances that impair the ability to have children, substances that harm children's development and substances that are carcinogenic or allergenic. During 2020, the Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate controlled goods that are located in public environments where children are located, including goods in preschools and playland. Just recently, the government made an important decision that chemical pesticides will not be used in schoolyards, playgrounds or parks. This Decision shall enter into force on 1 October 2021. The studies carried out by the Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate on children's products found an enormous number of substances on REACH's list of candidates. For example, carcinogenic PAHs were found in materials made from old car tyres. Several of the companies were not aware that the substances measured were present in their goods. After they found out, they have started to improve their routines and the requirements they impose on their respective suppliers. Madam President, I would like Materials of old car tyres should not actually be allowed to be used where children play. Companies that sell goods to children should make it part of their business idea to check out the toxicity of their products. In fact, they can easily do so. We have a substitution centre in Sweden for a few years, where we offer advice and training to the business community with the aim of developing alternatives to hazardous chemicals. In 2020, the Centre produced a compilation of substances that could be used instead of the hazardous substances. There are web-based guides. Last Friday, I met the Substitution Centre at a digital meeting. We discussed how they could reach out to more entrepreneurs. They really do. At the time we talked about how to use the normal channels for business advice, for example a collaboration with Almi or with the regional Structural Funds. Madam President, I would like Sweden's role is extremely important when it comes to the EU's work on chemicals. One area where Sweden really works very strongly concerns PFAS, which I started by addressing in the light of what has happened in Kallinge. Here, the Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate, together with authorities in other EU Member States, has developed a proposal for a broad restriction of PFAS substances. The entire PFAS group currently contains 4,700 substances. The Swedish Chemicals Agency has increased the requirements for information, and a screening of PFAS in Sweden has also been carried out by the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency. A coordination group of Heads of Government, Samtox, has been set up and an agency network has been set up. The Government has also allocated increased funds since 2017 to increase environmental monitoring. There has been an inventory, risk assessment and analysis of sites where fire foam has previously been used. 37 authorities, including the Swedish Armed Forces, have signed a joint declaration of intent to cooperate to reduce risks and increase knowledge about PFAS. When the Swedish Armed Forces recently presented their report on PFAS decontamination, I was surprised. They say that more research and innovation is needed before action can be taken. I do not think so. The technology is available to clean lots from PFAS. The defence has had a considerably larger budget. There's plenty of knowledge. I now wonder whether the judgment in Kallinge can arouse the Swedish Armed Forces' interest, so that one understands the seriousness. Madam President, I would like The environmental impact assessment for 2021, which has recently been published, contains new data on environmental toxins in breast milk and blood from first-time mothers in Uppsala. It was by examining the breast milk that it was discovered that we in Uppsala have a drinking water contaminated by PFAS. The levels in breast milk of the strongest regulated environmental toxins are now decreasing. You can see that from the curves of the last few years. However, there are other high-PFNA substances– PFNA, PFDA, PFUnDA, PFDoDA, PFTrDA– that are increasing sharply. It must now not take as long to find the source and the reason why these substances increase in breast milk. We need to address the dangerous chemicals that are spread in the environment. Better coordination of EU chemicals policy is needed. Good can get a lot better. A sub-situation centre is also needed at EU level to facilitate the substitution of hazardous substances by businesses. Just as we in Sweden have gone ahead, we need to sell this idea to apply throughout the EU. Madam President, I would like Many of my colleagues have spoken about important areas, such as the work on chemical plant protection products. Here the EU work and the biodiversity strategy state that use must be reduced by 50%. Here we in Sweden can also contribute. We are a long way ahead, but the use has actually increased over the last 20 years. There is a great reason for us to lie on and create even greater commitment to reducing the risks of chemical pesticides. I would like to support the committee's proposal.
