i-2079e40c704ff75e-8	Madam President, I would like Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm has asked me whether I intend to take any steps to enable small fuel stations to take the necessary measures to avoid closure. Good access to both commercial and public services is essential to make living, operating and living in all parts of the country attractive. Daily goods stores and fuel stations in rural areas are of particular importance as they often act as agents for example postal and parcel services, payment services, pharmacies and sometimes even certain public services. However, the challenges for small fuel stations in rural and rural areas may be significant in terms of both rules and costs. A regulation that even the small stations must comply with is regulated by a regulation of the Swedish Civil Protection Authority, MSB, on tanks with connected pipelines for flammable liquids. According to regulation one, existing hot galvanised pipelines in soil that are not moisture-insulated may be used until 1 July 2022 without corrosion protection. The reason is that the content should not be able to leak out and cause damage to the environment or a risk of fire. The requirement has been included in the Authority's regulation since 2014. Madam President, I would like I am aware of the challenges faced by smaller rural fuel stations. In the budget proposal for 2022, the government therefore proposes an investment of SEK 75 million for 2022, and s breast-feeding amounts are calculated for 2023, in the form of investment aid for fuel stations in areas with sparse service that are in need of support to carry out the investments necessary to meet the requirements of MSB's regulation. In addition to the support provided by this initiative, it is possible to apply for other aid for fuel stations and supermarkets in rural and rural areas.
i-2079e40c704ff75e-14	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for Enterprise for his answer, and I know that the Minister for Economic Affairs has good local knowledge of the area that I will address when it is his former home country. For many years, rural power stations have been a waste of life. Previously, there were in many places besides the obvious petrol station also mail, bank, grocery store, kiosk and perhaps even a clothing store. Now all these activities have been concentrated at a central point in every small town, the fuel station, and just as the Minister for Economic Affairs said, it is the service point of the whole town. We can see that fuel is not a profitable business and therefore fuel stations also sell food and perform other service tasks for the local population. A trader in Ammarnäs, Västerbotten's inland, earns about 10 000 – 15 000 SEK per year on fuel. In order to survive and continue operating, he needs to receive income from the other public services he provides. The fuel station in Ammarnäs is 90 km from the nearest other fuel station, and should the fuel station in Ammarnäs disappear it would be very long to travel for residents, tourists, home help, rescue services and all others who depend on fuel to continue to live and work in the area. The Minister says that the whole country should live, but with current legislation, which means that large investments must be made to ensure that cisterns and pipes are environmentally safe, we will not have a living countryside. In my home region Västerbotten, at least 18 facilities are affected by the new legal requirement, and the conversion will take place before July 2022. With the weather we have – this morning there were 7.9 minus temperatures at home – the time of year when you can make this transition is limited. In addition, the number of entrepreneurs who can carry out the conversion required to meet MSB's requirements is small.
i-2079e40c704ff75e-21	Madam President, I would like There is a lack of transition in several areas in order for Sweden to reach the target of 2040. As far as the gas stations are concerned, it boils down to a number of points to bridge over between today's society and the vision and the goal of the transformation. People must be able to live, live and work throughout the country, and then the issue of the stations must be resolved. There's not much time left. On 1 July 2022, there shall be the right pipe and possibly cisterns in the ground. There's a need for a quick map of the gas stations. State aid rules can put an end to those who have used state resources in the last two years and thus pass a maximum amount. Then you can't get support. Mackers have not been able to obtain funds from the banks even though state guarantees on the payment have been completed, if they have known about it at all. That's the question. There is a limitation in time to fix these measures. MSB needs to grant exemptions so that the measures are in place. Not all municipalities have reported to the county administrative boards, so there is no complete survey of the stations. On the county administrative boards there is evidence that they have applied for and received funding, but not all of them may be under the tab, but it takes some work to get the answers. These points make it haste to know what number of sandwiches it is about, and as far as I understand, the Government has now commissioned the Swedish Agency for Growth to request these documents from the county administrative boards. I would like to ask the Government why this has not been done in the past. Now that there is a survey of the sandwiches that can come up – between 100 and 200 of the 500 that have been mentioned – other parts are also added. Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm has well highlighted the example of Ammarnäs. Abisko is another example. The nearest fuel station is ten miles away in Kiruna, and Abisko is the last outpost towards Norway. If we consider that this fuel station or gas station has also benefited from the aid in the past, for example in order to replace refrigerators and freezers with state resources, the maximum amount may have been exceeded or, in any case, used so that it is not possible to obtain these new State resources. Then the government needs to resolve the issue of state aid rules. Sweden cannot, of course, be seated with white spots around the country because of state aid rules from Brussels. What then happens to other parts – with emergency services, home care and bluelight personnel and jobs that disappear not least because you may not be able to rent scooters? It is a very large part of the tourism industry up in the northern part of the country. The Government's strategy for the tourism industry was presented yesterday. How is it supposed to work? The locality is great. We are talking about small companies that often combine different activities in order to be able to operate all year round. This is the case, for example, in Vilhelmina in Västerbotten's inland area, where fuel station and grocery store are a node to keep society alive. It has a large base of Norwegian motorhome and caravan tourists who make the economic wheels spin in rural development. Getting advances on funds when the banks are not there, despite the promise of state resources, has been a problem. How does the government intend to obtain these funds? Almi seems to me to be an appropriate party for the task of acting as a bank when the banks are not there, now that it is planned that the Swedish Agency for Growth will take care of the issue that will be linked to the regions. This can be answered by the Government.
i-2079e40c704ff75e-29	Madam President, I would like These are urgent issues we are discussing, and just as Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm says, she and I have it in common that we have both been sitting on the Västerbotten bench. Before that I had the privilege to work in Norrbotten and especially in Västerbotten for five years when I travelled across the county. I can tell Ann-Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson that there are a lot of white spots in this country, and that's because of a very simple thing: The two northern counties of Västerbotten and Norrbotten make up 40% of the country's surface area, but there only barely one twentieth of the population lives. The population is also very concentrated in the coasts of Västerbotten and Norrbotten. For example, in Umeå and Skellefteå and the surrounding areas, a fairly large majority of the county's population live. So when I went around in my last position, before becoming a minister of school, I saw that there are a lot of white spots. Nevertheless, we have a common responsibility to ensure that public services work. It is about the functioning of public authorities and public services, but also, as in this case, both sandwiches and trading venues. Madam President, I would like Since I went around Västerbotten in the service there have also been other changes. Places like Dorotea, Sorsele and Vilhelmina that we heard about earlier today are places with a smaller population than it was at the time, with the challenges involved. It must be recognised, Madam President, that it is a challenge for the individual municipality or even the county to do this on its own. It is therefore important that we continue to help each other. We must take a national responsibility to ensure that both sandwiches and shops are in place, where you can buy food or other commercial services. We will have broadband throughout our country and roads and other infrastructure that works. It is against this background, Madam President, that during the seven years we have been in government, we have increased resources and also in cooperation with, for example, the Center Party – a colleague from the Västerbotten bench sitting here today – increased funding year after year precisely to support more service. In the latest budget bill that we have added to Parliament, we are putting forward over 28 billion up to 2027 in the Agriculture and Rural Development Programme. That is half a billion more than the current programming period, and it is precisely about being able to secure the opportunity to operate, live and live throughout our country. As the interpeller himself points out, this has been going on for a while, and it is mainly about safety and the environment. It is a requirement that has been in place since 2014 and has been created through regulations from an authority. As the interpellant says and as we are all aware, some of these sandwiches are not able to make this investment of their own power, because it is too large in relation to any revenue they could have from the operation. Against this background, Madam President, we are now putting forward additional resources to help with this investment so that we can have a better environment and fewer risks in terms of fire hazard. It is also, of course, a matter of maintaining this service. Against this background, we are proposing that a further 150 million be added to this next year and the following year.
i-2079e40c704ff75e-39	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister for Economic Affairs, for your answer. We're supposed to be fossil-free by 2040. This means that the change to be made by the gas station owners in rural areas is a major investment, and then one may have to move to investing in charging poles in order to provide citizens with energy to be able to charge their electric cars instead. We have a little bit of an element 22 here. At the same time as we are going to renovate all petrol stations and cisterns, we will think fossil-free and charging poles. It costs about half a million to set up a charging post. You have to secure your electricity grid, and the price of electricity is, as I said, quite high right now. For the individual gas station owner, this is definitely not a good investment. In Västerbotten's inland there are very few charging poles, so it is important to plan your trip very carefully. As Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson pointed out, if the whole country is to live, a review and, above all, an impact assessment must be made of how we can have a living countryside with a good public service. The Minister for Industry describes that the government is investing 75 million in its budget in 2022 and the same for 2023. The Moderates put in their budget SEK 150 million for 2022, for 2023 and also for 2024 for fuel stations to be able to apply for a grant for conversion. But it is a bit of a moment 22 when the person who has a fuel station must first pay for a conversion and then apply for support. In this respect, it is necessary to simplify the rules so that aid can be paid in advance, so that the individual gas station owner does not have to lie out with a large amount of money that you do not have. As I described in my previous post, many of these gas station owners do not have very big profits in their fuel stations. The government also needs to review, as Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson pointed out, the state aid rules that stand in the way of guaranteeing these payments to the gas station owners in advance. It is also necessary to ensure that the county administrative board carries out a survey as a matter of urgency so that we can see how large the scope is when it comes to these gas station owners. My final question to the Minister is still: how can we simplify the rules so that we can continue to see a living countryside?
i-2079e40c704ff75e-47	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. As far as the budget is concerned, 150 million over two years is a good thing. But there are other components missing that I have not heard anything about. And, as I said, the Moderates put $150 million in their budget for 2022, 2023 and 2024. As a result, there are funds, but there is also time for implementation. An entrepreneur with whom I have spoken said that it is about a month per job and longer if the land is frozen. He who is in northern Sweden is talking about a handful of companies when I asked about how many companies do the jobs. The equation will then be the number of companies, months for jobs and companies that can be booked and who know that they are paid. It is now a matter of efficient and short handling of the stations. The government needs to look at the fine print in the state aid rules, so that Sweden does not get the white spots that I was in, where it is no longer possible to live, work and live and get from one node to the next in our country. The government has an opportunity to find a solution to advance payments by, for example, giving an assignment to Almi. I think that's a smart and wise tip to take with you. When it comes to low risk, low interest rates and banks not lending out, Almi is a good option. The government should ensure that MSB quickly sends out information to the gas station owners – this has been quite unknown to these small entrepreneurs, although they have had some time – and that MSB is commissioned to make use of exemptions to extend the time for the gas station owners to keep up with them and not be knocked out. Time is ticking and limited. There are solutions to the knots that have arisen. Will the Government and the Government resolve the whole issue with all these components? So far, I've only heard about money in the budget.
i-2079e40c704ff75e-52	Madam President, I would like These are, of course, urgent issues. As I said, the regulatory framework has been in place since 2014. And for the vast majority of those who have the commercial basis, the necessary investments have been made. As we have heard before, it is often the case that if you do not have the commercial basis, as is often the case in rural areas, you need support to achieve these improvements. I'm sure everyone wants to do them. There is no one who wants to contribute to fire hazard or to new environmental problems by bringing this into the wild. Madam President, I would like That is why we are providing a large number of aid, that is, the general aid that I was talking about, the rural programme that exists and targeted support for both traders and suppliers. I'm being asked if there's anything else the government might do. That is absolutely the case. The very aim is, of course, to bring about an improvement and that we also have this service throughout our country. As has been said before, we will see a shift from fossil energy to electricity, biofuels and other things. But it is a step-by-step development, and traditional sandwiches that we have today will be needed for the foreseeable future. However, we must also, of course, take up the height of what Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm is talking about, namely support for being able to switch to electrification, for example. There are opportunities for gas station owners throughout our country to take part in the climate economy, for example, to make the investments needed to provide electricity. The state also invests in ensuring that there are electricity poles along the state roads. I want to admit that we are only at the beginning in the sense that more and more electric vehicles are being sold – unevenly across the country. But we are also only at the beginning of strengthening this infrastructure. Madam President, I would like However, what makes me optimistic is that we already have electricity infrastructure throughout our country today. We've got a core grid that goes all over the country. Today it is not enough because it has not been invested enough in the last 30 years for a very simple reason, namely that 15 years ago it was thought that the electricity grid was completed, which it is not. There is now a sharp increase in the expansion of the core network. But it also needs to get out where consumers are and where there is demand for charging points but where you do not really find them. That's why we need to get back to work. Against this background, we have added money to this in the budget that we have put forward in Parliament. Madam President, I would like As far as the purpose and what we want to achieve is concerned, I think we are quite in agreement. Then, of course, it is also to be welcomed that the Moderates are now making proposals in opposition for initiatives. I know that they were less concerned about this in government positions. But better late than never, as you say. And, of course, the absolute best thing is that the proposals that we have put forward in Parliament are carried out so that this money comes out to the gas station owners. On the question of whether we are also prepared to review other possible solutions to the challenges that exist, the answer is absolutely yes. As long as they comply with the laws and regulations that we have, we shall, of course, do our best, whether it is about advances or other solutions to ensure that every gas station can do this and remain in place and provide the services that citizens so badly need.
i-2079e40c704ff75e-62	Madam President, I would like This question was up in the spring, and nothing has happened. Now the question is up again, and the Minister for Economic Affairs says that the Moderates have done nothing. During our time in government, we gave MSB the assignment to look at this. The Minister has been sitting for seven years and has done nothing about it. So you can think about who is responsible here. Right now we are seeing a large expansion of the labour market in the northern part of Sweden, as the Minister said is 20 per cent of Sweden's surface area.
i-2079e40c704ff75e-65	I thank the Minister for Industry for this. But what I'm thinking about is that we have MSB, the Swedish Energy Agency, the Swedish Growth Agency and many different authorities involved in this issue. And we must ensure that the old system, as I call it, with diesel and petrol can survive and continue until we reach the goal of a fossil-free society in 2040. But it will not be possible if we do not ensure that we can ensure that these sandwiches can survive until we see a turnaround. My question is still: how is this to happen?
i-2079e40c704ff75e-68	Madam President, I would like The answer to the question is, of course, that we are helping each other and that we are also supporting from the national level. It is just as Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm says: this was something that came under the moderate-led government. But resources did not come up in the same way. We have proposed these resources – and will continue to propose – not least in the budget that is now at the table of Parliament. Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm says that this was last spring and that nothing has happened. I don't think I agree. The fact that in the autumn budget that we have, the government is adding additional resources is an expression of the fact that we are not in goal. We need these resources. And, as I said earlier, we can make things easier in other ways, of course, we will. I believe that we have the objective in common: that it should be safe and secure for people as well as for the environment and nature. At the same time, we shall provide the service provided by the fuel supply. Although we all, I think, dream about and believe that the fossil-free society is getting very much better, we are not really there. We will have to help each other step and make these investments. Madam President, I would like Now we had a discussion about what it looks like in the northern part of the country. It is clear that many of these challenges exist throughout the country, but it is particularly evident in Norrbotten and Västerbotten. That is 40% of the country's surface, but it has around 5% of the population. Then access to public services, but also, in this case, to trade, sandwiches and other things, will be a challenge, especially if you move from the coast. That is why we must continue to help each other. It is against this background that the government is proposing major investments, not only to ensure that the whole of Sweden can live but also to make use of the large investments that are now being made in the northern parts of our country. It benefits not only northern Sweden but the whole country.
i-Dm4SpjXJ76i85HQ5pjZNth	Madam President, I would like Erik Ottoson has asked me the reasons why the government has decided to allow hunting for rough goat during the period from 1 May to 15 June throughout the country. Madam President, I would like Our game tribes are a natural part of our country. Lively and healthy game tribes require responsible management. In this way, it is true that our game tribes are a finite but renewable resource that must be well managed. It is against this background, among other things, that the government reviewed hunting times this spring. The deer strain is strong and viable and occurs in stable or increasing populations in all counties. The tribe has spread north and since the mid-1950s has established itself in large parts of northern Sweden, and the trend, Madam President, is increasing. It is also true that, in the past, hunting for rough goat has only been permitted in the counties affected by radioactive deposition following the Chernobyl nuclear accident. During the 30 years this hunt has been allowed in these five counties, no negative impact on the deer strain has been documented. Madam President, I would like It was over 20 years since a systematic review of hunting times was carried out. The decision on changes in hunting times is based on a solid basis from the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, which has been referred by the Government. Since the last review, inter alia, injuries and traffic accidents caused by e.g. deer have increased. The deer share some of the feed resource with other cloven-hoofed game and cause damage to both forest and crop. The deer are also the wild species that are over-represented in accidents between game and traffic, and the trend is, unfortunately, also increasing. This involves costs both for the individual and for society. All in all, there is an increasing need to regulate the deer strain and to promote the appropriate development of the strain in the interests of the general and individual interests. Landowners and hunters are responsible for this. Extended hunting times are one way to make this possible when snow, ice and temperature conditions are appropriate. All in all, I and the government make the assessment that spring hunting on the roe goat throughout the country allows for reduced damage and good management of the deer strain.
i-2079e40c704ff75e-77	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. It is an interesting answer that sheds some light on the reasoning behind the decision. It was also the whole purpose of the interpellation: to try to understand. I would like to start by saying that I am fundamentally in favour of using hunting to manage our game tribes. As the Government knows, I am a hunter myself, and I think it is important to have good game management. Ethic and biological, so to speak, the anchoring of the measures we are taking is crucial. That's why it's interesting to listen. I have also taken note of the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's analysis before the government decision. It makes it quite clear that the possibility of hunting for roe goat during the spring can help to limit the deer strain. At the same time, however, it is said that the really effective measure, if we are now to limit the strain, is rather to allow further hunting of females. It is well consistent with the research that exists. It is mainly the number of females that determine the birth rate. Quite a few goats can fertilize quite a few females, and so you get quite a large number of kids in reproduction. This is really what would be the most powerful measure. I understand, however, that the government chooses to hold this back, because there are ethical questions about allowing hunting for goat and kid during, for example, the month of February, which has also been part of the discussion. What I am interested in is the government's reasoning that it has chosen to do this throughout the country. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has chosen to remove Jämtland and Norrbotten County in its proposal, but the government still chooses to go forward with the whole country. There are also consultative bodies which have pointed out the fact that the development of the deer strain in different parts of the country is quite different and that it can in itself be a reason for restraint at an initial stage or at least to try to make local adjustments. One such example is areas where there is a very strong dovhjortstrim. There the deer are greatly repressed, because the deer is more of a omnivore and thus uses the same feed resource as the deer, among other things. Then the tribe is vigorously pushed back. The government's decision means that this will be a bit of an experiment, because it has not been tested in Sweden before. It is valid in all places, and it can have very different effects depending on where we are. I say that it has not been tested in Sweden before. I am fully aware of the rules that have applied in the various Chernobyl counties in the past. There is, of course, the problem of radioactivity in animals during the autumn, which limits the traditional autumn hunting of raw goat. It has then not had the same full rash in the tribe as one will be able to see from next spring, when this becomes widespread throughout the country. So there are no current examples in Sweden where the tribe has been managed in this way, and that is something new for the hunting corps. Time is limited. I will come back to more questions or concerns about things that I would like to understand. What I encounter among other hunters is that they are positively surprised when it comes to extended hunting times – this is something that we hunters generally view positively. But they also wonder whether this has been really thought through and what it means for the management of the deer tribe. It's a completely different thing to hunt raw goat in the spring than to hunt raw goat in the autumn. In the spring, it requires much more responsibility in terms of governance than it does in the autumn, because the reproduction for the year has not yet taken place.
i-2079e40c704ff75e-85	Madam President, I would like This is exactly what Erik Ottoson says. There are, of course, a number of things that complicate this. However, there is experience, particularly from the five counties that have been worst affected by Chernobyl fallout and where this has been allowed over the last 30 years. During the 30 years the hunt has been allowed in these five counties, no negative impact on the deer strain has been documented in this way. Now Erik Ottoson asks why we have decided that spring hunting can be introduced in all counties. I'll try to answer as best I can. As Erik Ottoson says, there are differences between counties. This is, of course, always a delicate task. When we received the proposal from the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, we sent it out for a referral, and a number of referrals were received. One of the referrals that we attach great importance to is the answer from SLU. There is a lot of knowledge and research. In this referral, it is considered that spring hunting can be introduced in all counties. We must, however, have a degree of humility because we have not done this in 30 years. We are now opening up this opportunity, and it is clear that we will be following developments closely. Should it turn out that something is happening that is problematic in those counties where this was not previously allowed, we must be prepared to take that information and the findings. I would think that the researchers – not least those at SLU, who themselves have argued for this in their consultation – follow this closely. That is the answer to the questions raised by Erik Ottoson. However, when this has not been done for a very long time, but has only been concentrated on the five counties where the Chernobyl fallout has been greatest, and now it is opening up to the whole country, you need to be prepared to take on board if new information or research is to emerge.
i-2079e40c704ff75e-89	Madam President, I would like I am very pleased that the Minister says that he wants to follow this up closely. I hope that it is willing to consider how it will be handled if we in parts of the country or in the whole country see negative consequences of this. I take it that the follow-up in such cases would be aimed at this. Other referrals received, including those from the Swedish Hunters' Association, suggest that we proceed with care and caution and perhaps begin by extending to the counties directly adjacent to the former Chernobyl counties. These referrals suggest taking it step by step to share new experiences on a smaller scale. It is, as the Minister says, 30 years ago, and there has been some hunting and hunting in these 30 years. There has been a new group of hunters, of whom I myself am a part, with people who live in urban areas but who are increasingly taking part in the hunt and who then may not have the same ingrown tradition of the idea of stewardship. This is in such cases a much more manually learned knowledge than that brought with you from childhood, and this can have effects. It is also the case, as I concluded my previous speech by pointing out, that, in the search for spring, much greater responsibility for the administration must be assumed. There are several reasons for this. The first is that reproduction has not yet taken place that year and that, if you want a healthy deer strain, you should focus their displacement on those individuals who exhibit the worst traits in different ways. The second is that deer foraging is much more extensive at the time of the year, which means that you can see movements all day long, even daytime. This leads to a drastic increase in the risk of overshooting, as the chances of shooting are increasing drastically in view of the animal's movement patterns. If this is to work, there needs to be increased responsibility from the hunting corps, and I feel that large parts of the hunting corps are willing to do this. Many people I meet say quite simply that they are not going to hunt raw goat in the spring, because it is not something they see a need for. In order to respond to this need, I would like to ask the Minister a question. If you now see such problems with grazing damage and grazing pressure from the deer strain, has there been a consideration on the part of the government rather to invest in information on that problem? This is done in different contexts when it comes to grazing damage from elk, wild boar, dovhjortar and other things to try to increase the interest of the hunting corps to keep the stem down. I do not feel that this is a discussion that exists in the hunting corps or among landowners to any great extent at present. This, in turn, has contributed to the questions the hunters ask when the hunt is expanded. Is it so that we want to push back our Swedish deer strain symmetrically over the entire surface of the kingdom? In that case, I think there are other measures that need to be taken and other discussions that need to be taken. I am of the opinion that, at present, it is not the case that during the time of hunting all animals are being shot, but rather that they are trying to manage and maintain a strong and viable tribe. You hold back in the situations where you see animals that you want to save and drop on when you feel that there are animals that you can take home as interest from the forest. If you now have this as an ambition – if you see this as a major problem and think that deer need to be repressed – the question is perhaps rather what other measures the government has discussed and considered in order to achieve the goal.
i-2079e40c704ff75e-99	Madam President, I would like It is quite clear that Erik Ottoson is well-read and has been involved in this matter, which I welcome. There are, of course, as I myself described, a number of problems associated with an increasing stock of deer. It is also a deer strain that, for many reasons, not least because of the warmer weather, is moving further and further north. As I said earlier, it may be about damage to forests and nature, but it is at least as much about the growing problems we have in terms of traffic. After all, information does not help, because there are probably no deer or people who intend to collide with each other. Unfortunately, however, the damage is still there. It is also against this background that we need to expand this. However, you have to follow it up and see that it works properly. My picture, Madam President, is that it is exactly as Erik Ottoson says. I feel that we have a very wise hunting corps that has an interest in doing this in the best way possible. It is not such a picture that has sometimes been painted in other countries – a picture of the hunting corps only shooting – but rather there is a huge interest in taking both ethical responsibility and natural responsibility. Very much of the hunting policy we have is based on close cooperation with the hunters. The general mission is one such example – it is based on close cooperation between us and not least the Hunter Association. Madam President, I would like There are, of course, a number of things to watch out for, but we are probably well aware of them. We've opened up our hunt all over the country, and the reasons are exactly the ones I've explained. If it turns out that this does not work in any county or county, one must of course be prepared to consider changes.
i-2079e40c704ff75e-105	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for the developed reasoning. As the Minister said in his reply, there is, of course, a partly shared feed resource with the moose, for example, in the case of various conifers, especially processed ones. However, there is a discussion about the evidence also in the case of elk injuries. The question is also what affects most of an elk and a deer and to what extent the problems of further hunting of deer are solved. As far as traffic is concerned, I am the first to agree that it is urgent. I have had an interpellation debate in this House with the Minister's colleague, Minister for Infrastructure Tomas Eneroth, who has unfortunately shown a compact lack of interest in facilitating hunting close to the road, especially with loose dogs, as was the case with this interpellation. I find this regrettable, especially because deer are decently local and have home areas of not many hectares. If you want to reduce the number of wildlife accidents, the hunting must be carried out in connection with roads, and if the hunting is to be carried out in connection with roads, then there is a great risk for us with hunting dogs. Just a few days ago I had to stop my dog from running straight across an 80-way, which of course is a very unpleasant experience when there is heavy traffic. It is clear that there are many different communication vessels; that is why, in conclusion, I would like to come back to the question of what other measures have been considered. With respect to the fact that the Minister was not a rural minister at the time of the decision and during this process of preparation, I hope and believe that the institutional memory has, after all, followed in order for the Minister to be able to answer this question: Have we considered other things than simply extending hunting time? Spring hunting is a bit sensitive because this is something new and complicated that requires new knowledge in the hunting corps – which may not be there today – to get a good administration.
i-2079e40c704ff75e-110	Madam President, I would like This is new and sensitive, but yet we have experience, especially from the five counties where this has been allowed for 30 years. I also have great confidence in the hunters involved in this hunt when it comes to sharing the experience of colleagues in the five counties but also following the instructions that exist. As I said in a previous post, I feel that we have very responsible hunters in our country. This applies to organisations as well as individual hunters. As far as additional measures are concerned, it is clear that we are looking at a number of parameters for each decision. After a thorough work by the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and referrals from a large number of referrals, we came to the conclusion that this is also needed and that it is needed all over the country. The reasons I've already explained. Madam President, I would like What I am talking about is not just damage to forests and nature and traffic damage, but there is also an increasing problem that needs to be met. In the case of road traffic accidents, for example, it is clear that a large number of other measures are being taken. They try to secure traffic, make sure to set up fences and more. But we have also come to the conclusion that increasing this throughout the country can help to reduce the increasing pressure and thus the risk of road traffic damage to animals, people and property. Many thanks for the debate. We have reason to come back. It was the first time, but probably not the last time.
i-2079e40c704ff75e-115	Madam President, I would like Thomas Morell has asked the Minister for Environment and Climate Change how the government and he, within their area of responsibility, ensure that Sweden has a safe, stable and climate-neutral electricity supply in the coming winter. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. As Thomas Morell rightly points out, the load on the electricity grid will increase during the winter when the need for heating of our homes is greatest. This is why the Swedish Commercial Administration's venska k raftnät has procured that the Karlhamnsverket will be part of the power reserve between 16 November and 15 March each year until 2025. The reason why Karlshamnsverket has been operational during the month of September is that the high energy prices in Europe have made it profitable for the owner to produce electricity. The owner of the work Uniper has made the Karlshamnsverket available to the market for commercial reasons. The plant has not been ordered by the Swedish power grid to produce electricity for reasons of safety or because there has been a risk of power shortage. For the coming winter, S venska power grid in its report on the power balance in the electricity market estimates that the total installed power will be approximately 3,500 megawatts higher compared to the turn of 2020/ 21. As at the end of last year, the increase is mainly due to increased installed power of wind power. The government is working to ensure that Sweden has a secure, stable and climate-neutral electricity supply all year round. However, in order to meet the increased demand for electricity, operators in the electricity market need to make decisions on investments in new electricity generation plants. The Government has therefore taken several initiatives to create the best possible conditions for this. Among other things, the government is working on a national electrification strategy that takes a holistic approach to the conditions in the energy sector. Work on the electrification strategy started in 2020 and has now entered its final phase.
i-2079e40c704ff75e-120	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. When I wrote the interpellation, the Karlshamnsverket went on a full machine, if you can put it that way. It took 140,000 gallons of oil every hour. If you break it down there will be 2,333 liters every minute or 39 liters every second. There is quite a lot of carbon dioxide produced in such a plant. When we talk about moving to a fossil-free society, it gets a bit awkward if you produce electricity with oil and drive it out into the electrical system while I'm at home charging my electric car and think it's environmentally friendly. It rhymes a little bit. The Government says in its reply that it was profitable for the owner to produce the electricity in this way. It could be. But the electricity price down in Skåne also pulled off quite properly a while ago. It was up to 224 øre per kilowatt hour. That price was recorded on 7 October. The price reflects demand and supply. So it may be that there was no danger that the light would go out. In any case, however, the electricity produced had to be paid fairly well, and it was brought in from abroad. It is a bit unfortunate that we have ended up in the situation that we do not have enough energy production ourselves at home in the cottage. The electricity is still one of the most important types of energy we have for industry, for heating homes and for all the activities we have. We can only look at how much power is spent every day in this house. Putting us in a situation where we do not have enough indigenous energy, but where we have to buy electricity from outside at sky-high prices is not very good. I'm a little curious about what the government intends to do there in the future. The answer says that you have a strategy for electrification. That's great. But I would have liked to see that strategy years ago, that a strategy and a plan had been drawn up to meet energy needs. It's not just about generating electricity. It's just as much about getting the electricity out to the consumer. But there is not even a suggestion, and winter is approaching. We are now in October. We have one autumn month, November, left. Then we go into the winter. If we have bad luck we get a cold winter this year, even down in Skåne. If the price of electricity ends up at 224 øre per kilowatt imme, there will be a dramatic increase in costs for those who will heat up their homes. I think that the government has dealt with the energy issue in a awkward way. You're always one step behind. Electricity is extremely important to our industry. It is important for people's well-being and for them to be able to warm their houses. It is also important in the transition in our society that we should electrify the vehicles. Last night, television discussed the dramatic increase in new car sales of electric vehicles. But what will it do to sell electric cars if the contact is empty? I would like an answer to that from the Government.
i-2079e40c704ff75e-127	Madam President, I would like As indicated in my answer earlier, at the coming New Year's Eve Sweden will have 3,500 megawatts more installed power than we had last New Year's Eve. I suppose I can go as far as to agree with Thomas Morell when it comes to the importance of having access to electricity. However, Thomas Morell seems to have misunderstood some things about energy supply and energy policy. For the sake of order, I'm going to go through some. In Sweden, 99.2 per cent of electricity is produced fossil-free. This means that when Thomas Morell tanks a diesel car, 100 percent of the income is fossil. But when he tanks an electric car, the income is 0.8 percent fossil. So there is a huge difference between the two. It is true that we have insurance in Karlshamnsverket, which is sometimes fossil driven. But it is thus included in the 99.2 percent fossil freedom. One might wonder a little why the Swedish Democrats are so worried about the fossil content of Karlshamnsverket, which runs on average one day every two years, when the same Swedish democrats want to lower the price of petrol and diesel. That would make us use more fossil fuels and import more oil from the Middle East and make us more dependent on energy supply to Europe from Putin. It is clear that it is tempting for a Swedish democrat to believe that the world ends at Skåne's border. But we are connected with the rest of Europe. It is true that we imported electricity three days last year, even though we have an annual surplus of 35 terawatt hours. This means that we have 363 days a year to export electricity to our neighbouring countries, which is pushing away CO2 emissions there. That's something Thomas Morell should be happy about. It is also true that we import a few hours a year. Then what do we import? We import primarily fossil-free hydropower from Norway. I think 83% of our imports were hydroelectric power and electricity from Norway. What comes as number two? Denmark does. 13% of our electricity imports come from there three days a year. Of the three days, 96% of our imports come from Norway and Denmark. These are countries that, when it comes to low fossil footprints, can only be struck by Sweden. We therefore have a much better situation than our neighbouring countries, such as Finland, which depend on net imports. We have net exports and a large surplus. We have surpluses, and Finland is in deficit. We have suffered much less from electricity price increases on the continent than other countries. For example, France, a country that is very heavily dependent on nuclear power, has received significantly higher energy price increases than Sweden and significantly higher energy price increases than Skåne. The same applies to the Copenhagen region and the Netherlands. What, then, should be done? We need to increase the transmission capacity to southern Sweden. We need to review the distribution of electricity, and if it contributes negatively in that case, change it. We need to increase energy production in southern Sweden. This is why the government decided last week to limit the charges for offshore wind power so that Swedish grids can also expand offshore infrastructure and not just on land.
i-2079e40c704ff75e-136	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. I have not quite a hundred that those who live down in Skåne think the same as the Government just said that they have not been affected so much by electricity price increases. If you have to pay 224 cents per kilowatt hour, you're probably pretty tired of it. I'm convinced of that. What this discussion should be about is our opportunity to keep our industry going. The paper mill gave notice of 24 of the 75 employees. They turned off a production line. They couldn't afford to produce, because it was so expensive electricity costs. It has been in Dagens Industri and Sydsvenskan, among other things. Just read there. It's not just the price of electricity, to be honest. It is also the price of natural gas, because they also use it. There, the price has doubled sixfold. But one burden is placed on the other. Finally, it is simply not possible to keep a production going. Then you have to send people home from work. Ola Ringdahl is the CEO of Lindab. He's afraid of blackout. That's what he says. You have to look elsewhere for future production. It is ominous when our companies that support so many people in daily work start to look for other places to have their production on because they feel that Sweden cannot do this. That should be a reflection. The Government should also be concerned about this. I do. It's about people not being able to go to work because production is so expensive that you can't afford to keep it going. These were two examples. It is Klippan Bruk who had to pull down a production line and alert 24 people and then Lindab's CEO who says that you have to look at other places for future production. That's because the price of electricity is high. Then we can add another burden to this. It is that the diesel price is almost 20 crowns a litre. It also has a dramatic impact on all industrial production. You sit with two Svarte Petter. One is that the price of electricity to drive production is high. The second is that once you deliver your goods out to the customer, the transport is expensive. There are two things that the government has messed up with, if you are to put it simply. High energy prices risk industrial production. There is a risk that more and more people will come out into unemployment. That worries me, and it should reasonably also worry the Government and the whole government. If our industrial production starts to lose momentum because we can't secure energy, or energy costs are so high that it doesn't pay to run the business, we're in trouble.
i-2079e40c704ff75e-147	Madam President, I would like Just so that there is no confusion about this: I think the electricity price in Skåne is too high. I think the price differences in Sweden are too great. I have put forward political proposals to change this, and I am prepared to put forward more proposals to change this. In this regard, there is no disagreement. On the other hand, there are some differences of opinion. I'm going to try to get it out. One more thing we agree on. Low energy prices are good for Swedish industry. Low electricity prices and secure electricity supply are the foundations that have led the world's first carbon-free steels to establish themselves in Norrbotten. It is the foundation that leads to Europe's largest battery factory being built in Skellefteå. That is also why, I believe, Volvo gets the largest truck delivery on electric trucks worldwide. These are fantastic successes for Swedish industry, which I think both me and Thomas Morell are delighted about. Then I go to Morell's example. Let's start with Lindab. I've met Ola Ringdahl. I'm gonna ask you the same question, Thomas, that I asked Ola. Which countries and which areas are you looking at, since the Swedish electricity price is sometimes half or one third of the competitor countries? If you think the Swedish electricity price is too high, where are you thinking about moving? We have Europe's lowest electricity prices. It is reasonable that we should be concerned about price fluctuations in the price of electricity. But not for nothing, even the day with the highest price and the hour with the highest price was the electricity price higher in Copenhagen, Amsterdam and Paris. Which countries are we looking at if you are going to move because of the price of electricity? In the case of Klippan Bruk, it then crept out that it was not the electricity prices of renewable electricity that was the problem of Klippan Bruk. It was that you were dependent on fossil power. I think it is speaking for the whole of Europe right now. There is an unsound dependence on oil from the Middle East and fossil gas from Putin's Russia. If you have, you also sit in their hands. If we are to be able to push the prices of energy and manage to make ourselves independent of it, we must increase renewable production in Sweden. We're supposed to be independent of Putin and oil sheiks. Only then will we be able to continue to have Europe's lowest electricity price. We're gonna keep an eye on the business environment, and we're gonna keep an eye on the other. But it is not possible, as Thomas Morell points out, to the Karlshamnsverket and that it produces with oil for a few days and then lowers the price of diesel and petrol and in that way push up the emissions many times more than the Karlshamnsverket is able to produce. That, my dear chamber, is double standards.
i-2079e40c704ff75e-154	I would remind everyone, including the Prime Minister, that we are speaking through the President.
i-2079e40c704ff75e-155	Madam President, I would like It is precisely the energy cost that is extremely important for the industry to be able to keep production going. Still, stone is constantly being burdened. The criteria that govern Ola Ringdahl at Lindab I do not want to interfere with. But at least he has said that you have to look elsewhere for future production. I understand that it is too expensive to produce in Sweden. You have to look around for some other place to do it. If it is only the price of electricity or a combination of electricity prices and high transport costs, I leave it unsaid. The government had asked him. I guess he's also got an answer from him. There is a change in our society. As the Government said, Volvo has received a large order for electric trucks. Electric cars are being produced, and electric cars are being sold at an increasing rate. But it also requires both that we can produce electricity and that we can supply electricity. Otherwise, those cars will be ineffective. In fact, in our family, we switched cars last spring. We did not buy an electric car, but we continued with diesel for the simple reason that I pull quite heavily with the car. We discussed with the seller about this with rechargeable cars. They couldn't have more than three charging points at Bilkompaniet where we bought our car. I apologize for saying a name there. The reason was that the municipality will not expand the electricity grid until 2029. If they get more poles up, they'll put out the block. This is a concern. It is not just to produce electricity; it must also be ensured that it enters the poles so that it is possible to charge these electric cars that we now want to have on the market in the future.
i-2079e40c704ff75e-160	Madam President, I would like Let me start by apologizing to the President and Thomas Morell. The debate should, of course, be through the President and nothing else – midway! Madam President, I would like Thomas Morell is hiding behind Lindab and what he thinks. That is why, through the President, I would like to ask Thomas Morell: where does he think a company that is concerned about electricity generation and prices in Sweden could move? The answer was that he didn't know. That answer is easy to understand because all countries in the area have higher electricity prices than Sweden. Sweden has the most competitive electricity prices. Madam President, I would like I share Thomas Morell's concern that the rate of expansion of charging points is a little slow. Sweden is in itself one of the countries in Europe that has the most charging places. But if you are worried about this – why do you, as the Swedish Democrats, want to cut back the contributions that have led Sweden to lead the European summit for rechargeable cars? The reasonable thing would have been to support the government's initiative to get more charging places in place. Instead, Thomas Morell and the Swedish Democrats are doing the opposite: they are cutting back on support. There will be fewer charging points. It's getting harder to drive an electric car. Then, of course, customers will do like Thomas Morell; they choose to buy a diesel car and contribute to climate degradation instead of buying an electric car and contributing to the climate solution.
i-2079e40c704ff75e-164	Madam President, I would like David Perez has asked me, firstly, how the government intends to act to speed up the roll-out so that the objective of ensuring that all households have access to the fast internet by 2025 can be reached, and secondly, what I believe are the main reasons why the target has not been reached and that the target of 2025 does not appear to be attainable either. He has also asked me whether I intend to take any action on the basis of my conclusions. Madam President, I would like All of Sweden should have access to high-speed broadband and stable, high-quality mobile services. The government is working towards reaching the broadband targets. The long-term objective of the broadband strategy to 2025 is, among other things, that 98% of households and businesses should have access to 1 gigabit per second. The Swedish Post and Telecom Agency considers that it is possible that this target can be reached by 2025. According to PTS's mobile coverage and broadband mapping, 95 per cent of households and companies had access to 1 gigabit per second or fibre in the absolute vicinity in October 202 0, compared to c irk 9 2 per cent in October 20 19. By 2025 there are two further targets: 1.9% of all households and businesses should have access to 100 megabits per second, and 0.1% of all households and businesses should have access to at least 30 megabits per second. PTS estimates that the target of 100 megabits is not reached by 2025, while the target of 30 megabits per second may be reached by 2025. Sweden has, in international comparison, a very well-developed broadband infrastructure. In the European Commission's report DESI 2020 (Digital Economy and Society Index), Sweden ranks t on second place in the area of connectivity and in first place in the area of fast connection. The differences in access to broadband between urban and small towns and rural areas are narrowing, but there is still an uneven distribution of access in the country. To achieve these objectives, continued investment in network development, efforts by private, government and other public actors, as well as the demand for this infrastructure, combined with the willingness to pay by households and businesses, are required. The Government proposes in the Budget Bill 2022 that an additional SEK 500 million be invested in the roll-out of broadband throughout the country in 2022. A total of SEK 1.3 billion will thus be available to apply for broadband support during this year within the national support system that PTS is responsible for. According to its regulatory letter, PTS must ensure that all regions of Sweden with eligible buildings are eligible for the allocation of support funds. PTS shall promote good geographical dissemination of the support and ensure that different types of actors are eligible for support, especially broadband associations. In addition, a so-called letter investigator has the task of producing proposals for exceptions to the localisation principle, which, among other things, governs where municipal investments in broadband expansion can be carried out. The aim is to promote the roll-out of broadband. The mission shall be completed by 9 December 2021.
i-2079e40c704ff75e-172	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. As mentioned, the interpellation is about something that affects a great many Swedes around our elongated country, perhaps especially those who live in rural areas. It is gratifying that we are approaching the ambitious but necessary objective of the broadband strategy. But when it comes to whether it is achieved, we simply have to wait and see. What we actually know is that the government has failed in 2020; as the Minister himself has said. He's called it a failure. We were told that the government will provide more funds to accelerate the pace of expansion. But it is far from the means that are actually needed to achieve the objectives. The organisation All of Sweden will live has estimated the cost at SEK 22 billion to achieve all goals. We are in a situation where more and more of our public services are offered online. Banks and companies move their offices and, at best, refer to the possibility of visiting them in the neighbouring town or municipality. It must not become a permanent problem that rural areas lack equal access to fast internet. From the Swedish Democrats' side we see the problem and allocate 1 billion more than the government this year for this particular purpose. We know how important this issue is for the further development and survival of rural areas. The Swedish Post and Telecom Agency provides a very informative – let's say – map, about which I would like to tip the Minister and also those of you who listen to the debate at home. It can be found on broadbandkartan.se. It looks very nice at first, with good coverage throughout the country. But if you then change your attitude to include towns outside urban areas and small towns, the map immediately changes color. In Uppsala County, which I represent, only three out of eight municipalities get approved or green coverage, which indicates good coverage. Interestingly, for example, Knivsta Municipality – which is a relatively small municipality with a commuter strategic location between two large cities, Uppsala and Stockholm – has less access to fibre than it has on the whole of Gotland, which is also ten times as large. I think we all have examples of what it can be like when you are a few miles away from a larger urban area. You can then hear from the locals: We have no coverage today, because it is blowing or is a bit bad weather. It makes me think of an article from last spring in Dagens Nyheter, where one looked at the copper nets and that they would be extinguished. It showed that this was not in line with the operators' map, which showed good coverage when it was actually the opposite. Access to fast internet is an important component of infrastructure in our country, and the pandemic has made the need for good communication opportunities even more important. I would therefore like to take this opportunity to ask the Minister how he views the fact that citizens lack the opportunity to be part of society because they lack the fast internet and end up in so-called digital exclusion. But above all: how does the government intend to speed up the expansion process, which is extremely important for the future?
i-2079e40c704ff75e-184	Madam President, I would like All residents in Sweden should have access to fast connection in the immediate vicinity of where they live if we talk fiber or equivalent technologies, and where they normally live and work if we talk mobile coverage. With regard to the coverage maps, which David Perez refers to, I have commissioned the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency to carry out spot checks to ensure that the coverage indicated by the operator is also that which exists in reality. Otherwise, operators are obliged to improve it or compensate their customers. An agreement is made with the operator, and the coverage maps are part of the marketing. And as everyone knows, you must not engage in false marketing either in Sweden or in any other country. As far as the targets for 2025 are concerned, I believe that they will be achieved. We have two out of three targets within reach. The third is still not within reach, if we are to believe PTS's forecast. I believe that technological development will play a major role there. We will have fixed wireless, we will have 5G and we will have satellite that will help us achieve that goal in a cost-effective way. If it turns out that the extra money is not enough, I'm prepared to raise additional money. However, I wonder a little bit, Madam President, whether David Perez himself believes in the figure he mentions, namely that it would cost SEK 22 billion to reach the target of 2025. And if he believes in it, why have the Swedish Democrats not paid even a tenth of that amount in their budget?
i-2079e40c704ff75e-188	Madam President, I would like With regard to the figure that has been lifted up, I am not saying this. It is the organisation The whole of Sweden should live, and I assume that they in turn are based on the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency's number. It is, of course, a budget issue. Depends on your priorities. As I highlighted in my previous speech, the Swedish Democrats chose to go ahead with 1 billion more than the government actually presented. We may not go all the way, but we go much further than the government does. Nevertheless, I believe that the Minister and I agree that more needs to be done to speed up this work. I think we should be grateful for the work, often voluntary, that has contributed to the expansion of rural areas. I am thinking, above all, of the village networks. The government and the broadband strategy place great confidence in the market to solve the expansion. I could take a market example. This is about a homeowner who ordered fibre from a supplier who promised to do the work within a certain time frame. The problem is that the time frame has only been extended over and over again. This has been the case: When the person turns to the municipality, they blame the state. If you turn to the state, they blame the municipalities. This fiber solution remains unsolved. No one takes responsibility in this case. As the expansion progresses, many suppliers have also made it harder to get their calculations together. In the meantime, this person will have to wait, either for other projects to be completed or for his or her own to become more attractive. There are simply places on which market players will never build, precisely because it is not profitable enough. How does the Minister propose that we resolve the expansion in these very places? The fact is, Madam President, that the funds invested by the government in broadband will pay off in the short term, but also in the long term. It is also money that comes back in the form of more vibrant rural areas. They create jobs and a good infrastructure, which in turn leads to good public service. In his reply, the Minister points out that the government is providing SEK 1.3 billion in broadband support. At the same time, we know that the government is moving forward with, for example, a family week that is estimated to cost twice. Then I have to ask the question, when we talk about money: does the Minister think it is more important to have a family week than to spend more money to speed up work so that rural areas have good access to fast broadband?
i-2079e40c704ff75e-195	Madam President, I would like It is not often I agree with Swedish democrats in this House, but this is such a moment. I fully share David Perez's view of the importance of fast broadband, especially fast broadband in sparsely populated areas. That is why the government has contributed to the many billions that allow Sweden to have the best access to fast connectivity throughout the European continent. That's what makes you nowhere else in Europe can get faster or better connectivity in rural areas than you get in Sweden. This is what makes 95 percent of Swedes have access to fast internet in their immediate vicinity. This is what makes 99 percent of the Swedish population covered by mobile networks with good connectivity. But that's not enough. 95% is not all; 100% is all. That is why the government is providing additional funds. This is why the government, in order to avoid consumers or village teams being locked in by more or less accurate developers, has changed the form of support so that the customer cannot be locked up for two years without building broadband other than a sign on the farm. Signs do not provide connectivity; fiber or fixed wireless provides connectivity. That is also why I believe we will achieve this goal. There is a strong desire in Swedish rural areas for a quick connection. And if it was strong before, the pandemic has helped make it even stronger. Students have studied remotely. People have worked remotely. In fact, people have moved out of the big city to the countryside to work remotely and depend on a fast connection. Then, Madam President, when David Perez starts howling over the family week, when he himself does not even make a tenth of the money he claims is needed to build new broadband. David Perez has to do his homework. Home to the drawing board! Redraw the Swedish Democrats' budget so that it matches the rhetoric, and we can meet in the Chamber again!
i-2079e40c704ff75e-199	Madam President, I would like I probably don't howl half as much as everyone who lives in the countryside and lacks good connectivity at the moment. I'd like the Minister to think about that in the future. In fact, if we have 95% – these are also figures that the whole of Sweden will live has looked at – it is still about 10,000 people who lack the possibility of a fast internet and good connectivity. These are people who are somehow put in the dark – in digital exclusion, as is often called it. As authorities, companies and companies may close their offices and move, it is a fact that we lose the service that I think we should be able to provide for our citizens. Nevertheless, I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Minister for a fruitful debate. I believe that many at home have had a slightly clearer picture of what is being done and the Government's ambition for the broadband strategy. The pandemic has had an enormous impact on our society. We are all aware of that. But it has also accelerated the need for a connected Sweden. It is important that the government takes ultimate responsibility for meeting this need. With a year to go before the elections, I hope that voters have heard how the government chooses to prioritise this important issue and that it chooses to spend more money on a family week than on actually providing fast internet access to people in rural areas. Think about it! Thank you for the floor and thank you for the debate.
i-2079e40c704ff75e-203	Madam President, I would like Then the same voters should consider that the Swedish Democrats make the priority not to carry out the family week and not to spend that money on fast broadband to the countryside, so we have done it – interesting rhetoric but not so effective politics. A small correction: tens of thousands of people do not have a fast connection; hundreds of thousands of people still do not have a fast connection. That's what's important. We are up to 10 million people in Sweden, and we reach up to 95% who have access to fast internet in their immediate vicinity. That leaves us a long way to go. The advantage is that we have three and a half years and that these 95% figures are one year old. We also have a government that seven times last year's support for broadband. We have a government that also this year continues to provide broadband with additional funding, while hopefully we will conduct a family week to the joy of Swedish families with children. I do not think that we fundamentally disagree about the need for the Internet in Swedish rural areas. That is not what I think it sounds like in this debate. I think it sounds like we're actually quite in agreement. David Perez's problem, Madam President, is that he has not decided what it will cost to build broadband to the sparsely populated areas and therefore cannot put the right resources or measures in place. I am convinced that with the resources provided by the government, has provided and will provide, together with the technological development that is now going at a raging pace, all of Sweden's citizens will have access to a rapid connection by 2025.
i-2079e40c704ff75e-208	Madam President, I would like AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson has asked me what measures I intend to take to meet the growing need for increased electricity generation and to avoid regions in Sweden suffering from capacity shortages combined with high electricity prices. As AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson rightly points out, recent times have been characterised by high electricity prices and large electricity price differences between different electricity areas. There are several reasons for this, especially the fact that energy prices on the continent have been very high, especially for fossil fuels such as natural gas, and that the levels in the Nordic water storage facilities have been low. But it is important to remember that this is not a situation that only affects southern Sweden. High energy prices have been a reality throughout Europe, and electricity prices are, after all, governed by supply and demand for a common European liberalised electricity market. The differences in electricity prices between different bidding zones also have several reasons. These are due, among other things, to bottlenecks in the Swedish transmission network and to Sweden's export and import capacity. It is the electricity market players who decide on investments in new electricity generation. This is why the Council has taken several initiatives to create the best possible conditions to enable new investments in the Swedish energy system. By way of example, I can mention that the government intends to make a decision to assign Swedish power networks to the Swedish National Business Authority to extend the transmission network to areas in Sweden's maritime territory. It will significantly reduce the overall costs of connecting, for example, offshore wind power. The Swedish transmission network needs to be strengthened in order to overcome the capacity shortage and to remove the bottlenecks. Therefore, the Swedish National Power Agency triples its network investments over the next three-year period compared with the previous three-year period. As the pace of expansion needs to increase, it is also very gratifying that the Riksdag has supported the Government's proposal in the proposal Modern permit processes for electricity networks aimed at shortening lead times and making it easier to expand the Swedish electricity network. Finally, I would like to mention that Sweden is on an annual basis a net exporter of electricity with comparatively low prices and very low CO2 emissions. Today we have good access to electricity and the National Energy Authority estimates that this will be the case at least by 2050.
i-Hp8bMz4yr6AVEpNeezxQWJ	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer on electricity prices in southern Sweden! Energy prices on the continent are now high due to increased demand in the post-pandemic recovery, which the Government addresses in its response, and natural gas, which has replaced other forms of energy, is rising in price due to greater demand. This makes coal-based electricity production more profitable again. This also increases the price, which means that the price of emission allowances goes off to record levels. We also have missing deliveries from Russia – everything in different variants over time. We usually manage this in the Nordic region by having high levels of you in the water storage facility, but as the Government mentioned here, the levels are now low. What the Government did not mention, when it comes to low wind power production both at sea and on land that we can now read about, is that it sometimes does not blow, and if it does not blow, there will be no wind power. That could be the case. Friend of order might think that it may blow in northern Europe when it does not blow in Sweden and vice versa, but so simple is not reality, but often it is the same state everywhere, and then it is still wind. That is why we are keen to have a sustainable system 24 hours a day with base power that is not weather dependent. The Government is happy to use high electricity prices in Europe as an example to make us feel that it is not so bad here in Sweden or that we should not complain. However, I am not prepared to buy the Government's description in the part that means that we should be content with having higher electricity prices than we used to have. Swedish electricity generation has long been one of the world's cleanest and safest. Our hydropower and nuclear power produce clean electricity with reliable delivery. Today, the largest electricity generation takes place in northern Sweden, and then it is transferred to southern Sweden. Now, however, we see a variety of electricity-intensive industrial projects that establish themselves in the northern part of the country, which is fantastic, but it also affects the southern part of the country. Less electricity will be transferred to southern Sweden, as confirmed by an analysis carried out by Region Norrbotten and Region Västerbotten. Sweden's division into the four electricity price areas means that the price of electricity varies according to the electricity price area in which we are located. This makes the price of electricity different because the availability of electricity varies. In recent years, electricity prices in areas 4 and 3 in particular have been affected by higher electricity prices. It's about southern Sweden. One major reason why there are higher electricity prices in southern Sweden is the decrease in electricity production, which is the result of the closure of Ringhals l and 2. The reduction in electricity generation also means that it is not possible to transfer enough electricity to southern Sweden from northern Sweden. However, it is not reasonable that only southern Sweden should take all responsibility for the government's closure of fully functioning nuclear reactors. The Moderates believe that Swedish power networks should be given the task of reviewing the electricity price areas in order to reduce the burden on the population in southern Sweden. The Swedish Energy Agency writes on its website that the situation can be explained partly by the closure of electricity generation plants in southern Sweden, most recently the two reactors in Ringhals, and partly by the fact that Swedish power networks have limited the transmission capacity between the different areas but also to surrounding countries. They say that this is also partly a function of the loss of production capacity in the southern parts of the country. What the Swedish Energy Agency also writes is that it can be noted that the available capacity paradoxically decreased after the Southwest link was put into operation just before week 30. This is a situation that doesn't feel okay. We've been waiting a long time for the Southwest Link, and we haven't got it. As early as 2005, it was decided that it would be in place.
i-2079e40c704ff75e-225	Madam President, I would like The issue of high electricity prices is far too important to not get a serious answer. This is something that the people of southern Sweden actually expect from the government instead of the answer that Sweden has relatively low prices. When the price has risen by several hundred percent and people cannot afford to pay their electricity bills and are worried about what winter will be like, it is certainly no comfort that Sweden is a net exporter of electricity on an annual basis. I received an email this weekend from a retired man who told me that last year he paid 43.85 øre plus VAT per kilowatt hour, and in September this year the price was staggering 127.37 øre plus VAT per kilowatt hour. How can the Minister stand here and talk about relatively low prices? It is not just private individuals who are affected. In Scanian Klippan Bruk staff are told because of the high electricity prices, and it is certainly not the only company that goes into such thoughts. Sweden, as you know, belongs to the group of countries with the highest unemployment rate in the EU and deliberately runs an energy policy that throws people into unemployment. The Minister says we have a good supply of electricity. That's not true. Reality is something completely different. Companies in Skåne cannot expand because the supply of electricity cannot be secured. Polychemistry, Pågen, Kemira – the list can be made as long as possible. The Minister also mentions the high electricity prices on the continent. It is true that these are very high. They are, among other things, because Germany, with its enormous energy needs, has chosen to phase out nuclear power and thus made itself dependent on gas from Russia and on Putin's goodwill. There is an initiative in the EU to classify nuclear energy as sustainable in the EU taxonomy, but the government has refused to support that initiative. The government does not want it to be invested in clean, reliable and planable energy, as nuclear energy is, but rather sees oil power plants burning 140 000 litres of oil per hour. The Minister is talking about the transmission of electricity from north to south. Where will this electricity come from? Now Sweden will switch to fossil-free steel production. It takes electricity from two Forsmark reactors to switch SSAB's steel production from coal to hydrogen. Northern Sweden will need the electricity produced there and more. The government is rambling that Sweden should be a pioneer country in terms of climate adaptation, but in fact the government is doing everything it can to stifle companies' innovation power and initiative to go ahead in this regard.
i-2079e40c704ff75e-234	Madam President, I would like Boriana Åberg evicts a long line of false or possibly lying statements. I will try to counter the worst excesses and errors. First of all, with regard to the price of electricity, Swedish companies have Europe's lowest electricity price. Skåne's entrepreneurs have a lower electricity price than the entrepreneurs in the competitor countries. Even the days when we in Europe had the highest electricity prices, electricity prices in Skåne were lower than in Paris, Amsterdam and Berlin. Yes, I said that Sweden has relatively low electricity prices. Relatively, it means compared to others. And we not only have relatively low electricity prices; we have the lowest electricity prices. The Swedish Energy Agency estimates that Sweden's surplus, which today is 35 terawatt hours, will grow by 2050. If Boriana Åberg makes a different assessment than the Swedish Energy Agency, she is welcome to tell us what she is basing the assessment on and why she makes a different assessment than the Swedish authority. I would also like to say that nuclear power has a major and important role in Sweden's energy system and will have it in the foreseeable future. We also have hydropower, which is different from many countries in Europe. It will also be a large and important part of Sweden's energy production. Boriana Åberg takes up the Rock. It might have been nice if she had told us, like the interpeller, that they have a great dependence on fossil gas in their production and that it is the fossil gas price increase that causes the Rock to close one of its two production lines. It might have made the second message a little more credible. Boriana Åberg then reads a two-year-old list of companies in Skåne that claim not to have access to electricity. But all that was before the joint initiative taken by the government, which Boriana Åberg voted for here in Parliament. This has made it possible for companies to connect to electricity. It is an initiative that we have both actually voted in favour of. Why does Boriana Åberg pretend that she has never voted for the initiative and that these companies would have access to electricity, and not just those companies? According to the network operator Eon, all companies that have applied for electricity have had access to electricity in that electricity area. I have a small question for both Ann-Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson and Boriana Åberg. You are both Moderates from Skåne, and you have for a long time been committed to Skåne's electricity supply. I think you should have the honour of that. At the same time, we saw yesterday at SVT's News that Mikael Rubin, Mayor of Trelleborg, thinks that the tourism industry in Trelleborg is more important than Skåne's electricity supply and more important than the possibility of expanding Trelleborg's harbour. Therefore, he stops wind turbines, which according to the programme would correspond to 50 – 60 percent of Skåne's total electricity consumption. Then I just want to ask the two of you, do you share Mikael Rubin's opinion? Do you think it was right for the Moderates in Trelleborg to stop the supply of electricity equivalent to half Skåne's electricity production and that could have significantly suppressed the electricity price for Skåne's electricity consumers?
i-2079e40c704ff75e-243	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its continued response. The Minister for Energy has a fondness to say that we always have lower prices in comparisons. My question before was whether you are satisfied or if you would like to see it in a different way. There is also talk of good supply of electricity and of net exporters of electricity on an annual basis. The Government never speaks, as I see it, in terms of wanting to see another base power scenario in place long-term in southern Sweden to replace what was once built up in our country so that we would have base power in strategic places all over the country. There was a reason that it was where it was. In southern Sweden we are missing this. Whatever the case today, it was a mistake there and then, as I see it, to close down the Barse basin reactors in 1999 and 2005, when the state has not delivered safe production afterwards. In the vote in plenary on the closure of the Ringhals 1 and 2 reactors, we Moderates said that we still wanted it open and wide and that the government would look at the nuclear issue without preconditions before doing anything. You didn't even want to do that. My party colleague Lars Hjälmered asked at Question Time on Thursday a question about nuclear power based on the ten countries in Europe that have joined forces to protect Swedish and European nuclear power. The possibility was put in the government's lap, but Sweden did not sign the nuclear letter and took a fight but instead chose the decommissioning line. I note that France's electricity generation contains about fifty reactors which accounted for over 70.6% of its electricity generation in 2020. I also note that nuclear energy creates opportunities that are not replaced by weather-dependent forces. Those who say no to it then need to tell us what basic power we should have instead in the south of Sweden in order to get the characteristics that the production of nuclear power adds, if we are not to have nuclear power. At Thursday's Question Time, 14 October, the Minister answered the following question from my party colleague Boriana Åberg about electricity and the approaching winter with increased electricity bills: Joke aside. I don't know where the fun lies in this answer. There is real concern in Skåne. Perhaps we think that we can pay even more – it seems that way in the debate. In fact, everyone who lives in southern Sweden was cursed, if you may say so, by the situation. Perhaps a minister in Stockholm appreciates the fun of ralliing over the country, but those who live there don't appreciate it at all, and I think it doesn't matter which party you vote for. Minister for Energy Anders Ygeman has a rare sense of humor. At least I kept myself from laughing. And the same day I read the same headline as Boriana Åberg in Helsingborg's Dagblad about Skåne's electricity supply and Klippan's Bruk as announced 24 employees, regardless of what kind of energy it is about. You now close your paper machines. We now see the consequences in terms of high electricity prices and shortcomings in all production to keep up with the transition to a society with a high use of electricity. It is difficult to see the shift in the electrification strategy where the expansion needs to go along with the use. The design of the electricity market needs to be investigated. Today, the market is paying for energy. But there is no incentive to provide quality or effect, that is, enough energy at a given moment. An electricity system that pays for these characteristics would be more robust. Planned power lines such as nuclear and hydro power would replace these important functions of the electricity system. Security of supply is important. The Government is happy to respond to this.
i-2079e40c704ff75e-255	I would like to remind Members who wish to take part in interpellation debates that they must register during the first round. There is information on the rules of debate in this House but also on the Intranet.
i-2079e40c704ff75e-256	Madam President, I would like It is always exciting to listen to the Minister for Energy Ygeman. It's always someone else's fault. There's always someone else who's misunderstood. There's always someone else who's not telling the truth. But the reality is against the Minister, because both private consumers and companies in Skåne are very concerned about the high electricity prices and the shortage of electricity that will occur, especially when it gets cold in winter, due to the government's short-term and irresponsible energy policy. The Minister asked us what we think about municipalities saying no to the establishment of offshore wind power. I would like to remind the Minister of the right of municipal self-determination. Offshore wind power is not a miracle solution; it means even more subsidization and market manipulation. This causes other forms of energy to be knocked out. How does the Minister, who craves so much for offshore energy power, view the fact that the Chinese state company CGN owns wind power in Sweden? How does it feel to rely on China's goodwill for energy supply? Moreover, wind power requires 20 times more steel and 70 times more reinforced concrete than nuclear power for the same amount of electricity produced. One should not place responsibility on Skåne's municipalities for the government's failed energy policy.
i-2079e40c704ff75e-261	Madam President, I would like I note that neither AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson nor Boriana Åberg answer the question about wind turbines outside Trelleborg. It will be interesting because the municipal councillor in Trelleborg has expressed a concern about electricity shortages. The same municipal councillor who is concerned about electricity shortages stops a market investment that would give Skåne an incredible amount of energy and lower the electricity price for the shows. It would therefore have been interesting to hear what Ann-Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson and Boriana Åberg think about this action. It is easy to criticise the government, but it seems very difficult to criticise one's own party colleagues. As I said, it would have been interesting to hear them develop this. I would like to apologise to Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson for missing a question she raised in her first speech. She asked: Are you satisfied with the price differences between Skåne and the rest of Sweden? My answer is, no, they're too big. They need to be pushed down. They can be pushed down by local electricity production, which we had the opportunity to do outside Trelleborg. It could have quickly helped to lower the difference. They can also be pushed down by an increase in transmission capacity between northern and southern Sweden, through flexibility and storage and through stable energy production. If necessary, this could also be done through a review of the boundaries of the electricity price zones. We should not let that stone be unmoved in the attempts to push down Skåne's electricity prices. Let me also make a comment in the margin. Ringhals reactors were shut down on market and safety grounds. They did not meet the modern safety requirements required by European nuclear legislation. Therefore, on market grounds, the owners decided to close them. There was no possibility for the Riksdag to take decisions that changed it. It had infringed the Companies Act and the directives of the State companies and the rules applicable to private companies. An attempt is made to draw a myth that there was an opportunity to do so through a parliamentary decision. If Parliament had voted in favour of the Moderates' proposal for a decision that day, we would have had exactly as many reactors today as we have now. Of course, both Lars Hjälmered and Boriana Åberg and Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson know that. This is just a game for the galleries. As far as the Rock is concerned, it becomes extremely clear. What is happening in Europe also affects the Rock. Anyone who relies on fossil energy threatens the competitiveness of both European and Swedish industry. It is not the Swedish energy decisions that affect the Rock, it is Putin's lack of gas supplies and an increased demand for gas that is behind this. The only way to free yourself from this is more fossil-free and renewable energy. AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson further asked me if a capacity market could possibly change this and make it all more robust. Of course it would, but both the Moderates and the Social Democrats have said no to it. In addition to changing things so that they become robust, this would impose a great many billions on consumers in higher electricity prices when they have to pay for the capacity that is not needed during 362 of this year's days but that is needed during the remaining two three days. Both of our parties have therefore assessed that Karlshamnsverket's insurance and imports from other countries are better.
i-2079e40c704ff75e-269	Madam President, I would like Government Anders Ygeman continues to address Trelleborg Municipality and Mikael Rubin. I have not seen any intervention from him and therefore cannot reproduce what he has said or think anything about it. On the other hand, I know that the port is a very important issue and that there is a problem with expanding the municipality. He takes it very seriously. However, I do not know what he has said about offshore wind power, but for the Moderates it costs more than it tastes. Sources that, among other things, power companies say are far too expensive and that subsidies are needed. Indeed, subsidies should not apply to nuclear power or other types of energy, as the Government referred to in the discussion on market conditions and that it was Vattenfall itself that closed its nuclear power plant. We know what this was all about. We also know that under the surface of this myth there is something else that should never be addressed. A choice was made to push nuclear power there so that it would no longer be profitable, and that is why we do not have it either. This is a choice made by the government. That's the way it is. The electricity crisis is an almost deliberate result of the government's dysfunctional energy policy. Fossil-free electricity production has been shut down on purely ideological grounds. We can see that. Madam President, I would like I do not have much time left on this last speech, but I would like to apologise to my party colleague Louise Meijer for telling her that she could sign up for round two. She sat here with her papers and had prepared herself. It doesn't feel so good to me. I want to be careful whose fault it was.
i-2079e40c704ff75e-274	Madam President, I would like You never cease to be surprised. AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson says: They made a choice to push nuclear power there. But these elections made the Moderates and the Social Democrats together. Do you know what Ulf Kristersson said when we did it? On what is described today as an election to push nuclear power there, he said: We have saved Swedish nuclear power. In these words, then, Ulf Kristersson described the same thing, Madam President, that Ann-Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson now describes as pushing nuclear power there. In the Energy Agreement, we made it more economically advantageous than ever before to operate nuclear power plants in Sweden. Never before in Swedish history has nuclear power had such good economic conditions as now. That's why Ulf Kristersson was so happy. Nuclear power in Sweden was however planned in the 60's and was put into operation in the 70's. Even babies like nuclear power grow old. In addition, new safety requirements have emerged. And when new energy production is needed, one must be able to compete in the market. Boriana Åberg and AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson claim in this House that we are subsidising sea wind. We are making sure that it is possible to draw out pipelines at sea, just as we made sure that nuclear power lines can be drawn. Does AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson and Boriana Åberg mean that nuclear power receives dramatic subsidies? Just now it was said that we made a choice to push nuclear power there. The argument is not linked, Madam President. Sweden has an energy surplus of 35 terawatt hours of electricity. We export electricity to Finland, Norway and Denmark, and we have Europe's lowest electricity prices. However, we have problems with the impact situation in Skåne. The Moderates could have helped that by saying yes to the sea breeze. It would have pushed down electricity prices in Skåne, but they sacrificed Skåne's consumers.
i-2079e40c704ff75e-279	Madam President, I would like Alexandra Anstrell has asked me how I intend to ensure that the army commander has sufficient counsel over the army's activities to plan and implement the operations in an effective manner, whether I intend to set more clear and follow-up targets for the Armed Forces' activities and whether I intend to provide financial support for the period beyond 2025 to provide the Armed Forces with long-term planning frameworks. The background to the questions is the Swedish National Audit Office's review report Building national defence capabilities – the state's work to strengthen the armed forces (RiR 2021:23). Let me begin by stating that the Government welcomes the audit carried out by the Swedish National Audit Office and intends, in accordance with the provisions of the Parliamentary Order, to present in a letter to the Riksdag what measures the Government has taken or intends to take in response to the review report. With regard to the question of the army commander's advice over the army's activities, this is governed by the internal rules of the agency. Responsibility for the authority's management and obedience conditions and its development lies with the Swedish Armed Forces. The Swedish Armed Forces always have the opportunity to draw the attention of the Government to the need for any constitutional changes. In October 2020, the government left the Bill Totalförsvaret 2021 – 2025(prop. 2020/ 21:30) to the Riksdag, which in December 2020 made decisions in accordance with the Government's proposal. Based on the Riksdag's decision and the direction indicated in the bill, the Government has decided, among other things, on the development of the war organisation and the basic organisation, investment plans for the acquisition and maintenance of materials and targets for the development of the Swedish Armed Forces' operational capabilities until 2030. The purpose of the Government's decision is to clarify what the Authority should achieve within the framework of available means in order to achieve a good balance between objectives and means. The government has therefore already set clear and follow-up targets for the Swedish Armed Forces' operations. These objectives are balanced against the funds that have been added and thus provide the Swedish Armed Forces with planning frameworks to implement what has now been decided. In the bill, the government announces significant financial additions to military defence in the period 2021-2025. The Government also states that the financial framework 2025 will be prolonged from 2026 onwards. As regards the question of additional financial contributions in addition to those already announced, the Defence Committee after the 2022 elections will be given the task of starting work for the 2025 defence decision. The defence committee shall evaluate through a control post the implementation of the defence decision in 2020 in order to ensure that the reinforcement and cost development are in phase according to the Riksdag's decision on direction and financial framework. In the budget proposal for 2024, the Government will return to the Riksdag to ensure that the implementation of the defence decision continues as planned and with proposals on how to manage the planning framework for the period 2026 – 2030. The defence committee shall make proposals for the planning framework for this work. The final decision regarding the defence decision period 2026 – 2030 is made on the basis of the Defence Committee's proposal in the defence decision 2025. I don't want to anticipate the work of the Defense Committee.
i-2079e40c704ff75e-284	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. The Swedish National Audit Office has reviewed the state's efforts to strengthen the army forces in the recent review report Building national defence capabilities – the state's work to strengthen the army forces. The review clearly shows that there are shortcomings in planning, analysis, governance and implementation. The Swedish National Audit Office also points out that there is a misassessment of the starting point and that under-financing has both delayed and complicated the work. The Swedish National Audit Office writes in its report that it was a difficult starting point for the Swedish Armed Forces to carry out the major change work that Parliament's decision meant. This applies not least to the army forces, which, according to a decision, could act as two brigades and operate at a high level of conflict against a qualified opponent. The reality, Madam President, was that the Swedish Armed Forces lost important skills linked to national shortages and that personnel and materials were dimensioned in order to be able to carry out international efforts in the first place. Madam President, I would like If it's going to be right at the end, it has to be right from the start. Here it seems that the base plate looks a little different in reality compared to the intended position. Then you need to fix the situation and not pretend a little bit like it's raining. Now that the R.I.K. audit has carried out this review and came to the conclusion, among other things, that there is a lack of governance, the Minister says that the Minister and the Government will not come up with any clarification objectives but that those that exist are clear. Then I wonder if the Minister and the Government have even taken on board the report of the Swedish National Audit Office at all. Madam President, I would like Sometimes it is expressed that you are clear. The question is whether one has actually ensured that the recipient thinks that one is clear. There may be shortcomings. In this case, the Swedish National Audit Office has said that there are shortcomings in the governance. Yet the Minister chooses to make himself clear. If so, has the recipient's perception been ensured? You can think about that. If the operational capabilities of the army forces were not developed in the manner expected by the Riksdag during the focus period 2016–2020, what is the reason for this instead, according to the Minister?
i-2079e40c704ff75e-292	Madam President, I would like In connection with the 2015 defence decision, part of the egg arrangements was made which also included the addition of additional financial resources. This was later decided by the Riksdag. Thus, in order to comply with the 2015 defence decision, it became a higher framework to cover what was not covered right from the start. That question was initially dealt with quite energetically, may I say. It takes time to reverse the development of an international defence force and move towards a national defence. This applies to both equipment and personnel. This was the legacy that we had to take over when we got the government. It takes a long time to build military capabilities. A long series of previous misdecisions and misdirections by the Swedish Armed Forces had led to a situation where the need for recovery was extensive. I remember one thing that was very important, namely that military service was suspended. This had a significant negative impact on the entire Swedish Armed Forces. We have since reactivated military service. In large organizations, there is always a great deal of inertia when changing the direction. That insight exists. We've re-introduced military service. We have reintroduced the Brigade concept. We are now recreating divisional capabilities. We practice in brigade size. We're practicing between the defenses. Today we have more extensive and more advanced practice activities than before, both nationally and internationally, and our military capabilities in the army are higher than before. With the latest defence decision, we are increasing the production of equipment by about 200 percent. These are firearms, new belt wagons, anti-aircraft, artillery and replacement of new vehicles. Of course, there were problems regarding the defence decision in 2015, but do not forget that this Parliament took a number of additional financial decisions to compensate for this. We will, as I said in the interpellation response, follow up the National Auditor's report. We will reply to it in a letter to Parliament. We should not reduce the great change that has taken place within the Swedish Armed Forces and the positive trend that we are now working on. I have in my hand a document, namely the Swedish Armed Forces' own statement on the Swedish National Audit Office's report. They describe how they have worked in different ways to fix these things, which the Swedish National Audit Office, among other things, points to in their report. Then I would like to say that much of this work began even before the Swedish National Audit Office had presented any report and made its positions known. But I will not go too deep into that material, but I will return to it when we reply to the Riksdag in a letter about how we view the Swedish National Audit Office's report and how it should be handled. But now do not try the trick to reduce all the positive developments that have taken place in the Armed Forces and all the measures that have been taken to get this right! This certainly also applies to all the measures taken to change and improve economic governance. It is an extensive work that has been carried out on this point in the Swedish Armed Forces, and these are things that I have presented repeatedly to the Committee on Defence. Such activities are therefore well known. I have also personally had talks with the Swedish National Audit Office where I have gone through a wide range of measures that we have taken in this area.
i-2079e40c704ff75e-301	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the full answer, Minister. My first question to the Minister in this interpellation was, how does the Minister intend to ensure that the army commander has sufficient advice on the army's activities in order to plan and implement the activities effectively? I asked that question on the basis that the Swedish National Audit Office in its review notes that the operational capability of the army forces was not developed in the way that the Riksdag had expected during the focus period 2016– 2020. It is also believed that this can be attributed to both insufficient resources and that the starting point proved to be worse than feared. At the same time, the review report shows that in the Swedish Armed Forces' work to strengthen army units there are shortcomings in the effectiveness of both planning and analysis, as well as control and implementation. One of the recommendations to the Swedish Armed Forces in the Swedish National Audit Office's report is to ensure that the army commander has sufficient advice on the army's activities to be able to plan and implement the operations effectively. That is also what I asked the Minister about, but from a highly-responsible perspective – how the Minister intends to ensure that the army commander actually gets sufficient advice on the army's activities in order to be able to plan and implement the activities effectively. Here the Minister answers that it is something that is regulated in the authority's internal regulations and that responsibility for the authority's management and obedience conditions and its development lies with the Swedish Armed Forces. Finally, the Minister replies that the Swedish Armed Forces always have the opportunity to alert the Government to the need for any constitutional changes. That's kind of you. My supplementary question will then be: if it now emerges from a report to Parliament that it needs to be ensured that the army commander is given sufficient advice over the arm's activities, does the Minister not intend to follow up on this issue in particular? Creating national defence capabilities can be likened to a system where a variety of underlying business components and processes are interrelated and interact in complex chains. This is not a simple thing; I think we agree on that. The Swedish National Audit Office estimates that during the period of major cuts and focus on international efforts, the Swedish Armed Forces lost a lot of knowledge about both the individual parts of the system and how the system as a whole works. This has delayed and complicated the transition that the Swedish Armed Forces started with the defence-oriented decision in 2015. Madam President, I would like I don't really feel like this government and the Secretary of Defense are taking this report seriously. That is why they do not act on the issues either. Nevertheless, I must take this opportunity to ask the Minister if he has any idea of how the interaction between the armed forces and the government can be improved. The Swedish National Audit Office's report indicates that it has not worked perfectly.
i-2079e40c704ff75e-307	Madam President, I would like Unlike the previous government, which we took over after, we have good cooperation with the armed forces. Unlike that government, we conduct a dialogue in sensible and reasonable forms on how to solve different types of problems. This is one of the success factors in the development we are now seeing in the form of a step-by-step increase in military capabilities, which also practice in a more complex and advanced way. International cooperation has also been deepened, and I can also say that the Swedish Armed Forces have a very good team spirit overall. It is the result of effective cooperation. There is no lack of follow-up on various issues; there is an enormous amount of investigative work, questions and recurrent reasoning and dialogues. So there is no shortage of this point in any way. When it comes to the matter of advice, there is ongoing development work within the framework of the Swedish Armed Forces on how to balance matters of advice so that there is also justice between the various defence branches. The question is whether it is wise to engage in what are, so to speak, steering functions in the central defence management. Perhaps it is the case that we should use the order that prevails as a platform, instead of a dialogue, and that development and change work should take place within the framework of the Swedish Armed Forces. Perhaps it is a wiser model than to stand and demand from the government that we give one or the other directive. I do not think that we have a situation today where we have defence branch managers who do not have influence over their activities or a defence power management that does not work, but if the honourable Member has a different view, it is surely just to present it and state exactly what is to be done about it. The problem with this kind of criticism or a point of view from the Swedish National Audit Office is that it is often quite general and correct. It also allows for some interpretations. So these are not very simple issues where, in a simple political debate, we can say that we are doing exactly that. I am quite sure that today we have development work in all the branches of defence that are working well. But, of course, it can be improved. This is the case with most businesses; you can always improve, do more and do better. I would say that there is that work. Then it is well that such a national audit report should be seen as a support for a development work but that it is not the same as legislation or the absolute truth in different contexts. Therefore, the Swedish Armed Forces will state their views on the report and the Government will state their views on it in a letter to the Riksdag. When I say that this is a work that began long before the Swedish National Audit Office came up with its views, I really mean it. It is a work that began long before it, and in addition, we have actually addressed large parts – particularly through the last defence decision. So we have solid ground under our feet. To take just one point out of the pile – if we are to use that word – and because the brigades are being discussed: The Swedish Armed Forces state in their statement that the brigades have been reorganised with a regional division to shorten mobilization times and enable unitary storage. This is, as it were, a way for the Swedish Armed Forces to face up to this point and say: This is what we have done. This initiative was certainly taken a long time before it was time for some comments from the Swedish National Audit Office.
i-2079e40c704ff75e-315	Madam President, I would like I want to make it clear that I am not standing here criticising the Swedish Armed Forces. I am standing here questioning the government and its work on the Swedish National Audit Office's report and asking questions about it. The Swedish National Audit Office estimates that the defence-oriented decision 2015 was underfunded in relation to what the Swedish Armed Forces would achieve. The army's starting position was very difficult in relation to the position. In addition, the audit highlights that the costs of the essential security interests of Jas 39 E and the new generation of submarines, the A26, have been difficult to save and that these projects have crowded out other material projects. In reality, therefore, the army could not achieve what the parliament and government expected. Madam President, I would like At least according to my experience from my business background, it is quite common to use complaints, reviews or the like in an improvement work – an improvement work that the Minister was also involved in. I think that the Swedish National Audit Office's review should be used as a support in the improvement work. I think that would be good. I do not think it is general either, but I think it offers many good and concrete proposals that need to be reviewed. Now the government is still in its seventh year. This means that the government has a significant responsibility for the problems that exist within the army because of the under-financing of the defence. The whole time over these seven years, the government has actually worked to keep defence spending as low as possible, even though we have jointly gone to major investments in defence. This was the case with the three defence budget agreements concluded with the Moderates in 2015– 2019, and this was the case with the M-KD budget that finally bailed out the economy. It was also so in the agreement that was made with C and L in August 2019, and it was so right through the entire defence negotiations. Then it will be after that.
i-2079e40c704ff75e-319	Madam President, I would like You can choose to give any image you want of both defence negotiations and other things, but I can see that no government has since the beginning of the 1950s made such extensive efforts on defence as our government. It is certainly not that we have not wanted to invest money in the defence. To try to give a different picture than that is to give a nid image. I also think that parties that are deeply responsible for, among other things, the rest of military service should perhaps consider what they were actually involved in and caused at once during their reign. Such things create starting distances for others to take over and take over. I have explained twice now that we took the consequences of the fact that there was too little money in the first settlement and added additional funds to the settlement in 2015. This is something that we have decided here in Parliament and that we have agreed on, and yet we shall stand here and discuss some kind of under-financing that we have solved. It will be a political propaganda number that does not really correspond with reality. We were trying to solve the problem. We do not criticise the Swedish Armed Forces when we question the government. But it is the Swedish Armed Forces who handle a lot of this in everyday life, and then one goes into the other. You can't say you're not criticizing, because that's what you're doing, Alexandra Anstrell. Here's what I think: We're going to use this for something constructive. That's the government's basic attitude. We will answer about these things, but I am fully entitled to explain what we have done and how we have tried to fix things, even before the Swedish National Audit Office came up with its views.
i-2079e40c704ff75e-324	Madam President, I would like Alexandra Anstrell has asked me if I have taken note of the information that the Wagner Group may support the military junta in Mali and how it affects my assessment of the situation in the country. Alexandra Anstrell has also asked how I intend to act on the Swedish military operations in Mali if the Wagner Group is deployed by the military junta in Mali. The information that Mali's leadership is considering this cooperation is, of course, very worrying and taken very seriously. The government is actively following up the issue, and we are in close contact with our partners, including on the ground in Bamako and in the EU community, where we underline our view of the negative side of a possible agreement between Mali's leadership and the so-called Wagner Group. As part of this, on 27 September this year I sent a letter to Mali's Minister for Defence Camara in the transitional government in which I believe that an agreement with the so-called Wagner Group would have serious consequences, as well as the importance of respecting the timetable for the transition process and of holding elections as planned at the beginning of 2022. At the meeting of the European Intervention Initiative in Stockholm on 24 September this year, all the states present indicated the unacceptable nature of an agreement between the Malian State and Russian mercenaries. A final assessment of the consequences that would arise in such a situation will be made with partners when and if a possible agreement exists. At present, the ambition of a number of states is that such a thing should not be established. I do not intend to speculate on a course of events that we do not yet know or that has not yet happened.
i-2079e40c704ff75e-328	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. The Swedish UN contribution in Mali has for several years been made up of an intelligence unit with the main location in Timbuktu. Now the Swedish force has established itself in the city of Gao in the eastern parts of the country. In the past, there is and will continue to be a national logistics support unit located in Bamako. Sweden also participates in Task Force Takuba, a multinational task force that is part of the ongoing French-led operation Operation Barkhane. The Swedish contribution to Task Force Takuba is a helicopter-borne rapid response force that can, among other things, respond to unforeseen events. The Swedish unit consists of approximately 150 people. The Swedish Armed Forces have been operating in Mali since 2014. About 60 years ago Mali freed itself from colonial power France and became an independent country. The transformation from colonial rule to democratic rule has been a bit difficult and has long been paved by coup d'état and internal strife. This year, the last conflict is entering its ninth year. When, at the end of May this year, the Malian military arrested the President, the Prime Minister and the Minister for Defence and brought them to a military base in Kati, just north of the capital Bamako, it was yet another proof of the complexity and depth of the conflict in the country. For the coup d'état was far from the first in the country's history but was in fact the second in less than a year. Now international media reports that many in Mali are upset by the growing uncertainty in the country. There should be regular protests against, among other things, the presence of the French military, and it is accused of having made no difference in the fight against the jihadists. Those who protest call the presence of French soldiers an occupation and demand that they quickly leave Mali. Madam President, I would like UNSCR 2295 sets out the following priority tasks for MINUSMA: supporting the implementation of the peace agreement by the Malian Government and armed groups; promoting dialogue and reconciliation and reducing tensions between groupings; protecting civilian and stabilising population centres, including against asymmetric threats; countering asymmetric attacks on civilians and UN personnel; protecting UN personnel and property; promoting and protecting respect for human rights; and supporting Malian authorities in the security of humanitarian transport. This is going to be a bit difficult when you're going to support a government that's actually a military junta. Working for dialogue is amazing when it works, but right now it's actually only getting worse in Mali. We have armed forces personnel in and out of Mali doing an amazing job. If any of them listen... please! However, given the situation in the country and all the efforts we make and have made, how do the Minister and the Government intend to evaluate this in view of the results in Mali and other international efforts, for example in Afghanistan?
i-2079e40c704ff75e-338	Madam President, I would like We have a situation with a serious situation in Mali. We have now put forward proposals to continue our activities within the framework of Minusma until mid-2024. We have put forward proposals to extend our operation in Operation Takuba by helicopter rapid reaction force until March next year. We have said that we will then remain with about 20 people – a medical team plus staff – within the framework of Operation Takuba. All these operations are carried out together with other countries and with the mandate of international law that there is an invitation from the governments of the countries in which they operate. As regards the conclusion that we should withdraw with immediate effect because we have a problematic situation and as regards the spirit of the question, what to do if the Wagner Group gets contracts, I can only say that if the conclusion is now that we are to withdraw with immediate effect, the void will be filled by other forces and stakeholders who have values and views different from those we stand for. I want this to be clear so that the consequences are understood. It is not just to imply and lead the discussion into the fact that we are now leaving Mali, that is, that countries that embrace Western values of democracy should leave the country. In such a situation, it is extremely important to consider carefully what is said. That is why I stated in my reply that there will be consequences if we do something together with the Wagner Group in the form of contracts. What it will be, we will have to look at together with our partners and then come back to a discussion, which we shall of course have in a calm form. That discussion should not be based on the latest news report or on the latest opportunity to create a political click title. The issue is too serious and too complicated for such a thing. The perspective of what is going on must be clearly understood. There are terrorists, jihadists, drug smugglers, traffickers and religious extremists. There is a whole palette of different kinds of phenomena that can very quickly reproduce to Europe in the form of various activities that we definitely do not want. It can also be the result of being careless enough to quickly create voids. In order to accommodate and find a balance in the Swedish Parliament in relation to various actors, a proposal has been made for a withdrawal mid-2024. This makes it possible to phase out Minusma in an orderly manner, and it makes it possible to face unforeseen events in different ways. At the same time, by staying in Operation Takuba, we show that we are acting persistently, seriously and in the long term and that we are serious about the situation. I would also like to point out that we will, of course, also evaluate this situation, but we must have the main priority of managing everyday life in Mali.
i-2079e40c704ff75e-344	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for the full complementary answer. The situation is as it is in Mali, that is, the fundamental conflict lies in the fact that there are major cultural differences within the borders of the state of Mali. Who and who has been sitting on the real political power – those in the southern part of the country – have had a major impact on the other groups in Mali, especially in the northern parts, without having had much impact. For culture is said to eat organization for breakfast. Confidence in the state has, for obvious reasons, been at a low level in large parts of the country. The insights I gained from Mali when I was there more than two years ago were that the civilian and military efforts are not moving in pace. The efforts made today, and which have been made, are not sufficiently synchronised. Better civil action is needed, precisely so that culture cannot eat organisations for breakfast. Now the country is run by a military junta, and reportedly the military junta in Mali has asked the Russian Wagner group for help. So, Madam President, the Wagner Group is a paramilitary group that has deployed mercenaries in several conflict-affected areas in recent years, including Syria, Ukraine and Libya. They say the group has close ties to the Kremlin. Russia's Foreign Minister Sergej Lavrov must have confirmed that Mali has turned to a private military company in Russia to ask for help to combat jihadist groups. In my world, it is not reasonable for the Swedish forces in Mali to continue to carry out the same tasks in the country if the Wagner Group is actually deployed in Mali. With its great assistance and extensive work in Mali, Sweden has a strong brand in the country, and it would be a pity if such a brand were to be associated with the Wagner group. This is partly because the Wagner Group is as it is and because it can escalate the violence in the country even further. I was aware earlier that we can clearly see the lack of synchronisation between civilian and military operations. It won't help Mali. The stakes need to be more synchronised. If Mali cannot create democratic governance, it cannot succeed. I wonder how the Minister has worked to ensure that the civilian efforts in particular are more in line with the military efforts. What are the Minister's plans for this in the future?
i-2079e40c704ff75e-350	Madam President, I would like Do not imply with a word or a tendency that we would be prepared to accept that Sweden should be linked to the Wagner Group. I have made this clear in a letter to the Malian Minister for Defence, and we have jointly discussed this at the Ei2 meeting. Those in Operation Takuba are prepared to act together. There has been a great deal of work going on to make it clear to the Malian Government that this is not acceptable to us. Do not imply with one millimetre that we would accept this in any context. Alexandra Anstrell says the Wagner group is said to have close ties with the Kremlin. Yeah, it's got ties to the Kremlin. That's not what they say. That's what they say. It's clear. The group is an instrument of the Russian government's toolbox – although it is a company in the formal sense. That is the reality. Surely we have insight and control over one and the other, but we must not be too quick in action and lock ourselves in to the notion that if something happens that has not yet happened, we do so and so. We are not going to create a vacuum, but we have to be involved in maintaining the effort. Actors that we don't want to dominate in the future shouldn't get a safe lease into everything. There is also such an aspect. It is very important that Western democracies continue to be involved in an area such as Africa. There are extensive Chinese interests, and there are extensive Russian interests. The Wagner Group already operates in a negative way in a number of other countries. It is important to be clear on these points so that there are no misgivings in the discussion. I have also visited Mali on a few occasions. Care must be taken to develop the military part and to change the operational pattern – from time to time, to change military operations in order to be as effective as possible in everyday life. This is the basis for civil organisations and civil support to operate. It is also the basis for finding a balance between different groupings. I am definitely not satisfied with the situation in Mali today. On the other hand, I believe that the situation is so difficult that it cannot simply be said that we should leave Mali. Terrorism, extremism and crime are so hard realities that, if they are released, there will also be problems in Europe. This is a reality we cannot ignore. When we discuss these issues in parliaments in different countries, that breadth must be included in the discussion. Otherwise, poor, weak and poor analyses will be at the bottom of any decisions.
i-2079e40c704ff75e-357	Madam President, I would like The Swedish commitment to Mali can be traced back to 2004, when Sweden developed a two-year strategy for international development cooperation with the country. The strategy was extended for almost ten years until a new one was in place for the period 2015-2020. Sweden opened its own embassy in the country in 2011. During a period in connection with the military coup, the aid was frozen, but since 2013, Sweden has given Mali SEK 2.2 billion in aid. In addition, since 2014, Swedish soldiers and police officers have been in place through the UN Force Minusma. Sweden has also sent soldiers through Task Force Takuba and participates in operations via the EU, such as EUTM. I am thinking, Madam President, that if you always do what you have always done, it will also be the same result. I think that there is a need for prestigious discussions on international action in general and, in this case, Mali specifically. More of the same doesn't seem to work. It is not that simple, says the Minister, and I very much agree with that. No one thinks so either. That is also why we Moderates have repeatedly pointed out that we need an exit strategy so that this can be done in an orderly manner. But the government didn't want to listen to that. Over the years, Mali has received massive assistance and efforts from Minusma, Task Force Takuba and EUTM, and more. Yet things have not improved. We need to look at how we can achieve a better result. At the same time, we need to look at our business here at home and how this together can sync better. If we continue as before, yes, the result will probably be the same. I wonder if the Minister and the Government are going to evaluate this in any other way so that we can better bring the results with us as lessons for the future.
i-2079e40c704ff75e-364	Madam President, I would like I do not understand what the basis of Alexandra Anstrell is for saying that we have not wanted to listen to the issue of the exit strategy. Now we have put forward two proposals. One says we're going out at mid-2024, the other that we continue with Operation Takuba until the end of 2022. That is what we are presenting to Parliament, and I assume that is an exit. But the goal and the big solution to all of this cannot be that you have an exit strategy, and then applause breaks out and everything is great – while the misery in Mali continues. Some larger visions and some larger thoughts than an exit strategy or any date combined with evaluation, we must be able to perform in this context. We interrupted the military coup in August 2020. As a result of the military coup, we have suspended and frozen payments for new projects. This aid was subsequently resumed once Mali had met certain requirements of Ecowas. So there have been freezes on payments even in modern times. In conclusion, I would like to say that yes, we have now tabled these two proposals. It gives quite a lot of time and space, but it also gives the end points. We will have to use the time until then to look at how to value military operations versus civilian operations and what this should look like in the future. But these two propositions indicate the end points. I am, of course, prepared to discuss things without prestige, but I also want the feet to be on Earth and that you should have something more to offer than demands for exit and evaluation.
