i-731ba35192aa0270-8	Madam President, I would like Ilona Szatmari Waldau has asked me what measures I and the government intend to take to ensure that the Swedish Armed Forces assume their responsibility for both the pollution of Uppsala Municipality's water supply and other locations where the Swedish Armed Forces' operations have caused environmental debts. I would like to begin by saying that Uppsala Water and Waste AB have sued the state through the Swedish Armed Forces. The parties will meet in the district court. As a minister and a member of the government, I should not comment on ongoing legal proceedings. The government takes seriously the spread of high-fluorinated substances, called PFAS, in our environment. The Government considers it important that the Swedish Armed Forces have a high level of ambition when it comes to minimising the environmental impact of their operations. In 2020, the Government commissioned the Authority to develop an action plan for areas contaminated by high-fluorinated substances, known as PFAS. According to the Authority's instructions, the Swedish Armed Forces must take into account the requirements of the Authority's tasks according to the instructions, taking environmental considerations into account in their operations in peace. Within the framework of this environmental work, the Swedish Armed Forces shall contribute to the achievement of the generational goals for environmental work and the environmental quality objectives set by the Riksdag and, if necessary, propose measures for the development of environmental work. In order to achieve this, the Swedish Armed Forces have among other things adopted their own environmental policy and objectives for the Swedish Armed Forces' operations. The operations of the Swedish Armed Forces are, where appropriate, tested in accordance with the environmental code. The cooling power to remedy environmental damage is regulated in the environmental code, among other things. Furthermore, it is clear from the regulation with instructions for the Swedish Armed Forces that, in addition to the environmental code and to the extent that the Agency's resources allow, the Swedish Armed Forces will remedy pollution damage, including in accordance with the Authority's inventory of contaminated areas caused by previous military activities. The Environmental Code also regulates how responsibility is to be shared when several operators are responsible for an injury. It is always the person who takes a measure or carries out an activity that can cause or has caused a pollution that is responsible for preventing or remedying a pollution damage to a reasonable extent. To the extent that the Swedish Armed Forces have caused an injury, the authority has therefore to take action in accordance with the regulation that I have just mentioned.
i-731ba35192aa0270-15	Madam President, I would like Almost ten years ago, in the summer of 2012, it was discovered that one of Uppsala's water bodies had too high levels of PFAS. PFAS, which accounts for fluoro and polyfluorocarbons, is extremely persistent and very difficult to degrad. The high levels were discovered due to a study of blood samples taken from first-time mothers between 1996 and 2011. The study found an increased level of PFAS in several women's blood. By comparing the women's housing addresses, it was noted that it was in some residential areas in Uppsala that the blood samples showed twice as high levels of PFAS. Uppsala Municipality then chose to close several wells, and a water supply was kept closed for several years. But in a growing municipality like Uppsala it is not sustainable in the long term to keep an important water supply closed, so since 2015, the water supply with activated carbon has been purified at a cost estimated at 12 million per year in 2015. This cost is now spent on Uppsala residents' water bill. The Academy Hospital has its own water supply, which it chose to close in 2012. It has not been reopened, but the hospital is now taking the municipally purified v aktnet. Madam President, I would like Uppsala takes its drinking water from Uppsalaåsen. It goes through the city from north to south and passes the Swedish Armed Forces' area of Varna, where PFAS has been used. The area is just north of Uppsala city, where the Swedish Armed Forces have been conducting military operations for a long time. In its operations, the Swedish Armed Forces have used fire foam containing PFAS. Uppsala Municipality's studies point to the Swedish Armed Forces' activities at the Swedish Armed Forces as responsible for the pollution of PFAS in the water. Among other things, it has been seen that the levels are higher directly south of Ärna, and in the area there are elevated levels in groundwater, wastewater and stormwater. For several years, Uppsala Water and Waste AB has held a discussion with the Swedish Armed Forces about the situation and how the Swedish Armed Forces can assume their responsibility according to the principle that the polluter should pay for the measures required to restore. But no such deal with the Swedish Armed Forces has been made. With reference to the precautionary principle set out in Chapter 2. The Environmental Code encouraged Uppsala Municipality early on The Swedish Armed Forces to put in place measures to reduce the spread of pollution from their area, which has not been done. It is remarkable that the Swedish Armed Forces, in view of the long-standing use of PFAS in the placement of the aircraft fleet and the investigations carried out, have shown no willingness to assume their responsibility for the environmental debt that the operations cause to Uppsala Municipality and its inhabitants. Uppsala Municipality finally chose to sue the Swedish Armed Forces through its company Uppsala Vatten and Avfall AB. This measure is, of course, unfortunate as this should have been resolved a long time ago. I understand and fully respect the fact that the Secretary of Defense cannot discuss an ongoing dispute in court. However, I have two questions which the Minister should be able to answer. Does the Minister consider it justifiable that a dispute between two publicly funded activities should go to court? The Swedish Armed Forces' position is that PFAS emissions in Uppsala are time-barred and therefore the Swedish Armed Forces should not have to take responsibility for emissions. Is this consistent with what the Minister now says that to the extent that the Swedish Armed Forces have caused an injury, the authority has to take action?
i-731ba35192aa0270-28	Madam President, I would like Thank you for allowing me to interfere in this interpellation debate, which my party colleague Ilona has initiated here in Parliament! It is an important issue concerning our drinking water. I want to back up the band a little bit. I come into this area from the defence policy. To go back to the basics: We live in a society in a world of increasing climate change. It's obvious to all of us-- we live with it almost every day. Many of the wars and conflicts we see in the world have climate change as one of their foundations. Now we work a lot on total defence building. We are building up civil defence again and trying to broaden our view of what is a security threat in our society. There, drinking water is one of our most basic needs as humans. If it is something to defend in your society, perhaps it is the drinking water you should store first, because without clean drinking water we will not get anywhere. This is a joint responsibility for the whole of society and something for which the Swedish Armed Forces as a major authority in Sweden have a responsibility, but certainly not the only or greatest responsibility. I saw that today is a long interview with the Swedish Armed Forces' Sustainability Manager in the magazine Everything. I haven't had time to read it yet, but I know that the Swedish Armed Forces are active and take a great responsibility. I think it is important that we keep backing back and looking at climate change and civil crises and threats, but that we also think of climate and environmental issues in the Swedish Armed Forces as part of the people's attachment. If you are not a good example as an authority and do not behave in the areas that I think many people think are important, such as drinking water, then people's attachment is unfortunately at risk of decreasing. It is important to have a high level of credibility for the entire business. With my introductory speech, I would like to call on the Minister for Defence. That's a lot of good words. I think that the government is good in this area in its plans and words, but it is also important to ensure that the authorities take action. These are difficult things, but we are not doing this because it is easy. Much of what we do is actually difficult, but it is also this that makes it a little tempting to be a politician or a high head of authority. It is largely about solving a task, and that has the Swedish Armed Forces to do.
i-731ba35192aa0270-34	Madam President, I would like I think that the commitment to these issues is quite reasonable, just as the interpeller, as I understood it, thinks it is perfectly reasonable that I should not go into the current court case. It will be that I get into the back door if I go into these questions – if it is reasonable to go to court and if it is consistent with the Swedish Armed Forces' ambitions – but I do not intend to do that. The case is now being dealt with at district court level, and I cannot comment on that process. What I want to say, however, is that there are a large number of identified objects in Sweden that have nothing to do with the Swedish Armed Forces. The Swedish Armed Forces are only a subset of this. There are a total of 80 000 identified objects associated with PFAS and those types of pollutants to varying degrees. A small part is about things that are defence-related. The Government gave a mandate to draw up an action plan to be presented on 1 June 2020 for the areas contaminated with PFAS. These include air base-related, air flotilla-related and field-related issues. There are problems with the subject. This is because the Swedish Armed Forces, especially the Air Force, have a strong need to be able to eliminate a fire very quickly in order to save the aircraft driver or prevent the explosion of ammunition. There you need to be able to enter a plane body and cool down both equipment and armament. There are no funds on the market today that meet the requirements of the Swedish Armed Forces regarding extinguishing capacity. On the other hand, the Swedish Armed Forces participate in projects to develop other types of methods. When it comes to training activities, it has been redesigned to use only water in connection with exercises. The Swedish Armed Forces have invested approximately SEK 150 million in various investigations and after-treatment programmes since 2012. It works actively and finds alternatives, and follows the Environmental Protection Agency's quality manual when it comes to post-treatment of contaminated areas. Until 2025, there is a plan for how to deal with PFAS-polluted areas. It is a work that is already under way, and the planning can be summarised in eight points that are clearly linked to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's advice and guidelines. These include post-treatment of PFAS-polluted areas, investigation and planning for infrastructure that allows exercise interventions, functional testing of rescue vehicles that can be carried out in places with an suitability to minimise the risk of proliferation of PFAS substances, deepening of scientific foundations, new cleaning methods and treatment methods and replacement of current extinguishing agents. That is the kind of point. The Swedish Armed Forces' ambition is to go in that direction, but it is as they say: These are difficult things, and the results do not come with immediate effect.
i-731ba35192aa0270-40	Madam President, I would like As the Minister for Defence mentioned, the Government has commissioned the Swedish Armed Forces to report an action plan for contaminated PFAS areas. The Swedish Armed Forces notes that there is a lack of commercially available, sustainable and environmentally efficient technology to clean and clean PFAS contaminated areas at reasonable cost. It is also noted that there are currently methods for cleaning water with carbon filters, but that it is a very costly and non-sustainable process if it is carried out on a larger scale. At the same time, it is precisely this costly and non-sustainable process that the municipality of Uppsala has had to resort to in order to supply the inhabitants of Uppsala with water below the PFAS benchmark. When no decontamination is carried out where the soil is primarily contaminated, i.e. the soil of the defence, the method must be used in the water supply instead. In its action plan, the Swedish Armed Forces also states that it has requirements for increased military capabilities according to current defence decisions. In future defence decisions, this requirement is expected to remain, as is the expected growth of the agency. This means increased expenditure related to the Swedish Armed Forces' core operations. The Swedish Armed Forces therefore refer in principle to the fact that it cannot take responsibility for environmental pollution because the grant is needed to expand its core business, i.e. the military. It becomes even clearer when the Swedish Armed Forces refer in the action plan to reasonable costs. In my opinion, words cannot be used as reasonable costs when it comes to climate and environmental debts. One interesting thing in this context is that PFAS in drinking water was discovered in Uppsala 2012, which caused more people to take samples and discover that they had the same problems, often linked to the defense's fire drills with PFAS products. The Swedish Armed Forces mentions 2012 as the year when PFAS-polluted areas could be linked to the Swedish Armed Forces' operations. Yet it is questioned that the Swedish Armed Forces are responsible for the increased level of PFAS in Uppsala. It's something that doesn't really make sense. Madam President, I would like The Government also commissioned the Swedish Armed Forces to report by February this year on, among other things, the measures taken and planned for these areas and how the Swedish Armed Forces can increase the pace of work and how the Swedish Armed Forces have planned to deal with any future claims for damages under the rules applicable to damages. I note that in his reply the Minister does not mention the Swedish Armed Forces' accounts, which were submitted only a few weeks ago. Perhaps it is because he does not answer the question but rather shows that the Armed Forces will continue to duck and avoid remedying contaminated land. In his reply, however, the Minister says that the government takes the spread of high-fluorinated substances, so-called PFAS, seriously into our environment. The Government considers it important that the Swedish Armed Forces have a high level of ambition when it comes to minimising the environmental impact of their operations. But despite the government's high ambition – I agree that it is a high ambition – the Swedish Armed Forces are still allowed to evade their responsibility for PFAS. There is no high level of ambition either in the action plan or in the report. What are the Swedish Armed Forces and the Government prepared to do to ensure that the Swedish Armed Forces assume their responsibilities? Then I do not mean specifically for Uppsala, although of course I wish that the dispute could be settled out of court and withdrawn from there. What I wonder is: What are you going to do in all the places where the defense exercises have increased the level of PFAS?
i-731ba35192aa0270-49	Madam President, I would like I would, of course, like to agree with everything that my party colleague, Ilona Szatmari Waldau, says, that it is important to move from words to actions on these issues. I note that the Swedish Armed Forces' action plan against PFAS states that it should have a vision by 2030. I think it is a little too far away from these issues. These are vital issues relating to the contamination of our drinking water. I would therefore like it to be possible to work a little faster, but I understand that these are very difficult issues. I am pleased that the Swedish Armed Forces in this action plan is very clear that they want to do this together with the surrounding society. The Swedish Armed Forces are not a research authority in itself when it comes to these issues. But there are very many other parts of our society that are very good at doing this particular research. It feels good that you are clear in your action plan that this is something you want to do and do with those who are experts. You want to be an active party and perhaps push science ahead of you to actually say that it is serious now that something is being done. I am also pleased that this action plan states that one should work with an infrastructure around one's training sites that means that these problems will not continue. I think it is an incredibly important question to follow up and make demands on both the Swedish Armed Forces and the Fortifications Agency that they ensure from the outset that the physical infrastructure that exists is such that you can do the necessary cleaning and that you can ensure that you do not make the emissions that have these consequences.
i-731ba35192aa0270-53	Madam President, I would like I would like to remind you that the obligation to remedy environmental damage is regulated in, among other things, the environmental code. The instructions to the Swedish Armed Forces state that the Swedish Armed Forces must, in addition to the environmental code and to the extent that the Agency's resources permit it, remedy pollution damage in accordance with the Authority's inventory of contaminated areas caused by previous military activities. There are few other authorities, if any, that have a similar requirement. I think it is very important to know that it is that way, so that you keep it in mind when assessing the Swedish Armed Forces' efforts. I think that in the debate there is an undertone that the Armed Forces lack the will, interest and effective work on this. That is an opinion that I do not share. 280 so-called "smaller emissions" have been addressed in 2010–2020. During the same period, the Fortification Agency has initiated 63 post-processing measures. This applies to the PFAS area. I would also repeat what I said at the outset about the fact that some seventy seats have been examined with flying flotillas, air bases and shooting fields. So there is active work going on. The action plan for which I gave some overview, I not only judge as a few words, but these are very ambitious pieces. This applies, for example, to paragraph 3 about continuing to treat the Swedish Armed Forces' PFAS-polluted areas based on the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's advice and guidelines and according to the environmental code where it is environmentally justified for reasonable costs. Of course, one can always discuss what is in the words reasonable costs. However, the focus is on addressing this in accordance with the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's advice and guidelines and actively looking for new treatment and post-treatment methods on a scientific basis in order to increase the opportunities for sustainable and responsible follow-up to the Swedish Armed Forces' PFAS-polluted areas. It is a very clear focus and ambition on where you are going in this context, actively looking for new alternative extinguishing agents and methods to increase the possibilities for the Swedish Armed Forces to replace today's extinguishing agents containing PFAS substances in a sustainable and responsible way. This is being tried in collaboration with other authorities and social actors. I believe that the Swedish Armed Forces have a very clear ambition to work with these issues and take responsibility in these contexts. But you have to have extinguishers to be able to quickly eliminate a fire, to save an airman, to stop a situation where ammunition is at risk of explosion and also to enter an air body and cool down both equipment and armament. So there is a background and a reason why we have this means. This is not something that is used just because you want it, but because there is a lack of alternatives. That is why these points that I have outlined, and which are part of this plan, are so important and clear in my ambition. Do not talk down what is being done, but support it instead!
i-731ba35192aa0270-62	Madam President, I would like It was an interesting conclusion, that we should not talk down the action plan. But I think that the action plan, albeit ambitious, is vague. You've got your sights on 2030, and you talk more about your other tasks than about PFAS. I am not the only one who criticises this. If we check what is written in newspapers, we can see that there are a lot of different organisations in many different municipalities who are critical of this action plan that they believe does not provide enough evidence to see that the Swedish Armed Forces will do something. As far as the accounts that came in February are concerned, I know that only yesterday the Minister for Defence answered a written question. That's about the same answer I've been given. I also know that even members of parliament belonging to the government parties have been out criticising it for being far too vague, because it is not described as measures taken and planned. I therefore believe that the Minister of Defence may also need to listen a little bit to his own party colleagues and government colleagues who work with environmental issues in order to get a much stronger approach from the Swedish Armed Forces. Of course it's very important to put out fires in airplanes. But it must not be at the expense of our drinking water. Drinking water is incredibly important, as Hanna Gunnarsson said in her speech. We need clean drinking water, both to support ourselves in peacetime and in times of war. We can't use PFAS. I would like to end with a further complication in this matter by going back to Uppsala where the Swedish Armed Forces are now also blaming the Swedish Transport Administration. Now they want another state authority to take responsibility and costs for clean-up. I would also like to hear the Minister's reflection on this.
i-731ba35192aa0270-68	Madam President, I would like The action plan I refer to concerns the work and ambitions of the Agency up to 2025, and there are eight points related to this. With regard to what I reported recently – to actively search for alternative extinguishing agents and methods, and to find new treatment and post-treatment methods on a scientific basis, as well as the reasoning about infrastructure and to follow the Environmental Protection Agency's advice and guidelines – I actually think that there is a very concrete background in all of this. But it also shows how complex and difficult this is. As I said, I am not going into the matter with regard to the district court, and I am going into it if I start commenting on the question of the Finnish Transport Administration and the various positionings in a legal process. So I don't. Of course, it is good that such a debate is being held, and it is also good that there are other players involved in this type of discussion. All in all, it can lead to greater efforts in society as a whole to find the alternative methods of extinguishing. So it is not simply work to get there, but I think that all opinion formation is fundamentally positive. Then the other side of the matter must also be brought forward, and there I do not share the view that this issue is not taken seriously within the Swedish Armed Forces. That's what you do. Finally, action has been taken in a wide range of items, and a great deal of money has been invested. You put a job into investigations. It is a work that will continue, and so is the view of the government. We will follow it up in relation to the Swedish Armed Forces.
i-731ba35192aa0270-72	Madam President, I would like Caroline Nordengrip has asked me if I think it is reasonable for a person who is self-intentional to plan a non-medically motivated surgical procedure to be entitled to compensation from companies and society due to difficult bordering issues. She has also asked how I and the government follow the issue and whether I and the government are prepared to investigate the costs of surgical procedures that are not medically motivated and return to Parliament with suggestions on how to overcome the problem. It is central to the legitimacy of health insurance that the right compensation is given to the right person. At the same time, it is not always easy to define what is the right remuneration for the right person. On 31 January 2008, the Government decided on the comitology directives Review of the concepts of disease and work capacity and a uniform assessment of work capacity ( Dir. 2008:11. The study would describe and analyse the concept of disease and health insurance from the perspective of health insurance, among other things. The directives show that, in various contexts, there had been strong criticism of the fact that people who voluntarily and for highly personal reasons choose to operate, for example in the form of so-called beauty operations, are then entitled to sickness leave paid by the employer or the insurance. The investigation took the name of the Job Ability Investigation. In its final report of 2009 (SOU 2009:89), the Labour Force Investigation proposed that the right to sick pay and sickness benefit in plastic surgery operations should only include reconstructive surgery caused by congenital deformities, developmental disorders, trauma, infection or disease. This meant that certain operations financed by the county councils, now the regions, were also excluded. In the Swedish indications for operations in public health care, social factors and clothing problems are also included, which according to the study g soil delimitation difficult against the conditions b orde replaced in health insurance. The investigation concluded that the right to compensation had to be defined on the basis of purely medical reasons. As far as exactly which interventions are to be considered medically justified and where compensation can be paid in the event of reduced work capacity – there are of course more issues to consider in this context, such as the financial security of long-term sick leave due to complications. I do not rule out future changes in the right to reimbursement in the event of sick leave caused by certain surgical procedures. However, there are no such changes at the moment.
i-731ba35192aa0270-76	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. Since I took part in Parliament, I have exercised every year that non-medical procedures, or so-called beauty operations, should not be entitled to sickness benefit. I have done so because, as the Government stated, it is central to the legitimacy of health insurance that the right compensation is given to the right person. Beauty operations may entitle you to sickness benefit regardless of whether they are medically conditioned or not. According to case law, the ability to work of a person who has undergone an operation must be assessed on the basis of the pre- and post-intervention medical condition and not on the basis of the reason for the operation. This creates a considerable financial burden on both employers and the tax collective. It is expenditure that should reasonably be covered by the individual when he chooses to perform a non-medically conditioned procedure that reduces the ability to work. The right to sickness benefit applies, among other things, to employees, self-employed persons, owners of limited companies and job seekers. According to estimates by the Swedish Association for Aesthetic Plastic Surgery, about 25,000 plastic surgery operations are performed per year, and the interventions are estimated to increase by approximately 20 percent per year. It should be added that these are not recent figures, so some increase has already taken place. Many operations are also carried out abroad, as it is significantly cheaper for the customer. These are not visible in the statistics, but just as in operations carried out in Sweden, it has the right to recover at the expense of the employer and the taxpayer. The most common procedure is breast enlargement, and this procedure involves sickness absence for about a month. In the case of employees, the employer pays sick pay during the first 14 days, except for the first day which is the withdrawal day. After that, sickness benefit is paid from Försäkringskassan. So it is not a matter of small sums that entrepreneurs and taxpayers pay for what we call beauty operations. However, I see it as obvious that complications after surgery should give entitlement to sickness benefit, because it is not planned or self-chosen. That it can be so difficult to draw the line, I ask myself a little bit of question. If you wish to pay sickness benefit without first being referred to the procedure by a doctor, the assessment by the Social Insurance Agency should not be very complicated. I can also see that the example of a difficult bordering issue raised by the Government, namely social factors and clothing problems, could easily justify referral for intervention if the doctor believes that these are factors that pose major difficulties in the daily life of the patient. This would be a reasonable basis for sickness benefit. As I mentioned earlier, the number of non-medical interventions is increasing by around 20% per year, and the cost to employers and taxpayers will increase rapidly. The Government stated in its reply that there are no changes at the moment. However, the question has not been investigated since 2009, and my question to the Government is therefore: are the Government prepared to review the possibility of re-examining the scope and cost of non-medical interventions, as these have increased significantly since 2009?
i-HYsB3MWeEHGn4y8CDVwGzy	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Caroline Nordengrip, for the question! The preparatory work on the current legislation states that extensions to the scope of sickness insurance can be made by the courts creating or changing the case law or by the Parliament taking a decision to change the regulatory framework. For a long time, disease has been gradually developed through practice. Examples of how the concept of the disease has been extended in practice are the developments that have taken place in terms of the perception of grief, fatigue and surgery. In the case of surgery, practice has gradually developed so that the reason for the intervention is not attributed to any importance in assessing the condition after the intervention. Instead, the assessment shall be made on the basis of the condition resulting from the operation. That is what practice is like today. As I mentioned in my reply, the Occupational Safety and Health Investigation considered that the right to compensation had to be defined on the basis of purely medical reasons. The government does not rule out future changes in the right to reimbursement in the event of sick leave caused by certain surgical procedures. However, there are no such changes at the moment. Why, Madam President? Well, for the simple reason that we have an emergency situation in Swedish health insurance. We've got a lot of people covered up, even though they're still sick. We have serious problems with the fact that security is not there for many long-term ills. This has been highlighted during the pandemic due to the situation that a lot of people with long-term covid are facing, but it is actually a problem that we have had for quite a few years. Health insurance fails the citizens of our country, and the social contract is broken when people do not get the right to financial security in the event of illness. The priority for us in the government is to fix the health insurance that has been broken and to take measures, on the basis of the proposals that we already have on our table, particularly on the basis of the reports put on the government's table on safer health insurance, to increase the security of sickness and to ensure that people are not insured when they should be entitled to financial security. These include situations where people have not been able to complete their treatment or rehabilitation. Then it is incredibly important that you get to keep your sickness benefit and have the opportunity to end the care operation or rehabilitation. For us, this part is a priority. We have fast-tracked the proposal to amend the legislation for review at day 180 in the case of illness. This has, of course, passed through this House, and on 15 March the legislation will come into force. We also have a number of other concrete proposals for improvements and reinforcements to health insurance which are on our table and which we want to push through this year. This concerns, among other things, the examination at day 365 and the concept of It is also about how we can put a clearer focus on rehabilitation and on specific rules for older people who are close to retirement age and who are in a situation where they can be secured even though their ability to make a complete transition in the labour market is very small. These are priorities, and my assessment is that it is right to focus on strengthening health insurance. However, I do not rule out the possibility that the issue raised by Caroline Norden may be dealt with at a later stage. This is an issue that definitely needs to be looked at. We have an investigation, as Caroline Nordengrip mentioned, but it's a little old. This is an issue we need to look at.
i-731ba35192aa0270-93	Madam President, I would like I am pleased to hear that the Government thinks this is an issue which is not entirely unimportant and which should be looked at a little more closely, although, as I said, I think it is a bit more urgent to ensure the legitimacy of health insurance. I would also like to raise and ask the Government a little more about the limits for sickness benefit and the right to be on sick leave. If I understand this correctly, the doctor will, if necessary, write the applicant patient. Of course, a non-worker should be on sick leave; that is obvious. Furthermore, the sick leave from the doctor, which the Government is of course well aware of, becomes a basis for any sickness benefit to Försäkringskassan. The Social Insurance Agency then takes a decision on this basis together with other documents that may be needed to make a correct assessment of the right to compensation. When you have performed a beauty surgery, it is quite obvious that you are not fit for work, and the Social Insurance Agency's conclusion is that sickness benefit will be paid. With this, I would have said that any assessment for the payment of sickness benefit is individual. I would like to ask the Government: Can the Government see that it would be good to look at how to find a way to deny sickness benefit – just as the Government mentioned, there are many who are insured – in cases where it is quite obvious that the person has voluntarily and for highly personal reasons chosen to undergo so-called beauty surgery?
i-731ba35192aa0270-98	Madam President, I would like This is a question we need to look at in order to answer. The basis we have at our disposal is, of course, the basis of the Job Skills Investigation, which is still over ten years old. This is therefore a question that the government needs to look at and have a basis on in order to be able to answer. My assessment is that the issues that are most topical and urgent right now are the issues that are about ensuring that people are not insured even though they have not finished their care or rehabilitation. Many people today get rid of sickness benefit even though they have not even had the opportunity to start treatment or care. This has to do with the very edged and restrictive rules that exist regarding the right to sickness benefit at day 180 and day 365 in cases of illness. With regard to day 180, the amendment will, thankfully, enter into force on 15 March. It is gratifying that we were able to get a majority in this House to change these rules. However, I make the assessment that it is very important that we also work with the other legislative proposals that are on the government table. Caroline Nordenunderstand raised an important issue concerning the legitimacy of health insurance. We have a huge interest in defending and maintaining legitimacy and confidence in our social security, including health insurance. There are several aspects that need to be taken into account. One aspect is that the person who is ill must be entitled to the insurance to which the person has also paid. Another aspect is that we must combat fraud and organised crime in our social security policies; this is a very important part of the work to maintain confidence in health insurance, not least. A third aspect is that we must have a regulatory framework that corresponds to the general sense of law, i.e. the will of broad communities in our society. All these aspects are incredibly important for us to maintain legitimacy. Nevertheless, I would like to emphasise that insurance, combined with fraud and organised crime in health insurance and in social security in general, are very urgent issues that need to be dealt with here and now and which deserve our priority. This does not exclude that we will later also have the opportunity to look at the question raised by Caroline Norden in this interpellation. What the general insurance system should cover and not cover is also an important ethical issue for policy. These are issues that deserve attention and broader analysis.
i-731ba35192aa0270-105	Madam President, I would like It feels like it's pretty low hanging fruits, because it's pretty clear cases. As the Government mentioned, many people are losing their sickness benefit, and the number is increasing quite sharply. I looked at the Swedish National Audit Office's report The road to work after denied sickness benefit. It shows that the number of rejections of sickness benefit applications has increased sharply, 36,000 rejection decisions were taken in 2019. The figure for non-medical interventions is not very far away, but then you get sickness benefit at the employer's and taxpayers' expense without being called into question. For the legitimacy of the system, I think it should be easier not to simply have to pay out this money. I don't think taxpayers want to pay for this, to be honest.
i-SzFYVjHibwrZ3gZ9K8URZT	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Caroline Nordengrip, for the interpellation! Again, the answer to the question can only be given when we have a broader basis for analysis. However, I appreciate that issues relating to health insurance, the right to sickness benefit and the legitimacy of our social security policies are discussed and raised in this House. It is a commitment in this House that is needed to restore security in the event of illness and to restore people's confidence in our health insurance. It is reasonable, then, that there is also a broader debate on issues that have not been the subject of the investigations that are currently on the table with the government. I want to thank you for the interpellation.
i-731ba35192aa0270-112	Madam President, I would like Linda Lindberg has asked me whether I believe that the intentions regarding the reform of the health care allowance have been successful and, if not, whether I intend to take any action, whether I intend to act on the ambiguity of the use of normal parental responsibility and what measures I intend to take to make the assessments more equivalent across the country. As mentioned in the interpellation, I have stated in previous answers to parliamentary questions that the aim of the reform was not to tighten up the requirements or to save money but instead to create simpler and clearer rules for the compensation of children and adults with disabilities. The reform was intended to increase transparency, predictability and uniformity in the decisions and to create better conditions for monitoring the individual's needs. Work on the reform was carried out in cooperation and close dialogue with the disability movement. There has been broad political agreement on the need for reform and modernisation of the aid provided by the disability benefit and the care allowance. These benefits had been largely unreformed since the 1970s and 1980s. The proposals on the new benefits, nursing allowances and additional expenses were also voted through in the Riksdag by a large majority. The care allowance now provides the right and the opportunity for both parents to receive compensation and to distribute it among themselves. Linked to the benefit is also a right to shorten normal working hours even after the child is eight years of age. Each parent has the right to a 25% reduction in working hours, which makes it easier for parents who have children with disabilities to combine the care of the child with an employment. According to information provided, inter alia, within you, the parents of children with disabilities have received reduced or withdrawn benefits following the reform of the care allowance and disability benefit for the new nursing allowance and additional costs. Since it was not the intention that the compensation would be lower, either as a result of saving or stricter requirements, the Government is keen to understand for what reasons the compensation levels are being reduced. In November, the Government decided on a mission to the Social Security Inspection, ISF, to evaluate the reform. In order to be able to quickly get an initial picture of what may be the underlying reasons for signals of reduced levels in the transition to the nursing allowance, the Government asked ISF for an interim report, the interim report to which the interpeller refers in its questions. In its preliminary study, ISF examined 34 cases. The results are to be considered as indications for the further evaluation, which will be presented to the Government on 30 November this year. The vote will not preclude any action if it turns out that the intention of the law is not fulfilled and presupposes that we have the support of Parliament if action is required. In order to reduce the risk of households being able to stand without a decision or payment due to long processing times, the Government provided the Social Insurance Agency with the possibility, from 1 July 2020, to extend health care allowance pending a decision on the nursing allowance. In order to strengthen the processing and shorten the processing times of the nursing allowance and the additional reimbursement, the Social Insurance Agency has also received additional funds in the budget proposal for 2021 for these benefits. I continue to monitor developments closely, as it is particularly important for the government to ensure that families with children with disabilities receive the benefit to which they are entitled.
i-731ba35192aa0270-119	Madam President, I would like Thank you to the Minister who has taken the time to answer my interpellation! I hope that we can have an objective and good debate for those who listen and are interested in our thoughts about the care allowance and not least how we discuss the families that have actually been affected. I am thinking, on the one hand, of the long duration of proceedings and, on the other hand, of the financial consequences for families. I heard the Minister mention in his interpellation response that there was a great deal of agreement on the decision. Well, Madam President, it took a majority in Parliament to approve the reform when it was launched in 2019. However, the fact that there was a great deal of agreement on the proposal, I do not know whether I can agree with it, because several parties had different views on the proposal when it was discussed. From our side, we highlighted, among other things, the removal of the flat-rate sum for the blind and hearing-impaired to whom they had previously had an automatic right but who now had to be applied for in the form of additional costs. We also called for an impact assessment, particularly on disability benefit. Now in retrospect it can be seen that perhaps there should have been a slightly broader impact assessment for the changes. In fact, several consultation bodies also had some comments. The Social Insurance Agency flagged quite early because the time for the changeover was far too tight but also because the costs would increase significantly in implementation. As the Government says, the transfer has been corrected, so that even the old grant can still be applied for so that the long processing times will not affect families far too much. It is good that the government has taken on board the wishes; it was wise to do so. But it is easy to stand here and be hindsight today and think that one could have postponed the reform a little, so that the Social Insurance Agency could have made it. What I think has fallen to a large extent here is that the authority has been entrusted with tasks which, for various reasons, are not entirely feasible. It is extremely important to me that reforms and changes, particularly in the area of social security, are feasible and in accordance with what the law says. Then I think about both the working environment for the employees of Försäkringskassan and the individual affected. Here I can see that the government is failing in several respects. It gives the Social Insurance Agency unfunded assignments and tight timeframes, which, as has been said, affects both staff and those in need of the support of the social security system. I and the Government have talked about legitimacy in the past, which I noted was mentioned earlier in the debate as well, and that one of our greatest jobs is to safeguard that we have good legitimacy and a high level of trust in our authorities. We need to support and build on that. Giving assignments and tasks that are not feasible is really a direct self-harm behaviour on the part of the government, Madam President. That could probably be the case in this case. Not only does it necessarily have to be the law that is lacking, but it may also be the fact that there are shortcomings in the conditions, implementation, interpretation and application of the law. I have not received a direct answer to my question if the Government considers that the reform has been successful. The question is therefore again: does the Government consider that the intentions of the reform have come to an end, and does the Government believe that it would have been a different outcome today if it had given the Social Insurance Agency a little better conditions in terms of time and resources to use for implementation?
i-MkRUZuE5Wb2dq335NEL5EK	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Linda Lindberg, for the interpellation and for the commitment to the issues relating to our social security! The government's task is to restore people's confidence in our social security policies and to reverse the negative trend that has been in parts of social security. It has meant that we have received increasingly restrictive assessments of the right to the various benefits, which in practice has the effect that the security of people with long-term illness and people with disabilities has become weaker. This trend has persisted since 2008 and needs to be reversed. It is the government's policy in the area of social security to restore the security of long-term and disabled people and to develop legislation and governance of the Social Insurance Agency in close dialogue with the organisations representing disabled people and patients so that the needs of individuals are put in focus. The reason why the Government and the Riksdag chose to reform the previous benefits and introduce the new regulatory framework with care allowances and additional expenses was that there was a need to modernise the regulatory framework. In this way, we gave Försäkringskassan the conditions to put the individual's needs in focus, make individual assessments and move from a flat-rate to a more individualised trial based on the needs of each individual. Risks arise in each reform. That's it. It is clear that we can sit and do nothing at all about the various laws that regulate our social security policies, but the ambition is to act and reverse the negative trend and create safe and sustainable insurance for Swedish citizens. Then we must also dare to reform where we see shortcomings. In the context of the reform, risks arise which mean that the objectives of the legislator do not always have to be achieved if we are not on the ball and are prepared to adjust and identify shortcomings in the reform and simply tackle those problems. We – Parliament and government – implemented these reforms during the last parliamentary term, and now we see that we have a new application of the new benefits. There are indications, as I described in the reply and as the interpeller also mentioned, that these benefits are becoming more restrictive. As soon as those indications came out, the government chose to address the issue. We then assigned the inspection authority we have in the field of social security, the ISF, to monitor developments in law enforcement and report to the government during this year. If we see any shortcomings, if we see that the Swedish Social Insurance Agency acts in a way that conflicts with the intention of the government and parliament, then we simply adjust the law. We're ready to do it. Our starting point, as I also said in my reply, is that Parliament will work together to adjust the law if we see that there are problems with its application. We have been very careful – and I have stressed this since then as a Minister for Social Security – that the Government's ambition is not that this reform should lead to people getting more restrictive assessments. That is not Parliament's ambition either. If we now see from the ISF evaluation that this will be the case, then we must act quickly and adjust the legislation. Then let me say that Försäkringskassan is an authority with a strong economy. We can come back to that question in my next speech. It is not the case that the Swedish Social Insurance Agency has a weak economy, but rather the application of our benefits.
i-731ba35192aa0270-142	Madam President, I would like The fact is, however, that the Swedish Social Insurance Agency has asked for more money so as to be able to cope with reform changes, so to speak. The government has provided funds, but it is believed that this is not enough after all. The Government is aware that the Swedish Social Insurance Agency in the Government's latest regulatory letter is calling for its return with an action plan for the processing times now in mid-February, as has of course also been done. It can be noted that in January 2021, the processing time of the nursing allowance was on average 267 days and for the additional cost compensation 307 days. It's in the round nine months. The agency believes that it should be in balance and have a processing time of 90 days at the end of 2023. That's quite a long time, I think. Even if amounts are obtained retroactively, it can be devastating for families to wait so long for notification and payment from Försäkringskassan. Försäkringskassan is working feverishly to try to reduce the processing times, but they think that they work uphill. As the Government mentioned earlier, this autumn's loud criticism was directed at the fact that several families have actually received lower compensation and that it has not been in accordance with the Government's intentions. According to Försäkringskassan's own statistics that SVT has read, approximately one in three families has received reduced benefits or stands completely without financial support. The Government itself says that the purpose has not been to tighten the requirements or save money but instead to create simple and clear rules for compensation. The reform aimed to increase transparency, predictability and uniformity in decisions and create better conditions. I can spontaneously ask myself whether you really think it has become simpler and more transparent. I don't know if I can agree with that at this point. The ISF report states that it considers that the requirements for granting the nursing allowance have been tightened and that the thresholds and descriptions for the different levels are high. Then we have tightened up demands. ISF also pointed out in the consultation that there were vague descriptions that could cause problems of interpretation and application, and it is now shown in the pre-report that this was the case. For example, children with similar problems have received different levels of remuneration without the Social Security Inspection having been able to see that other factors would form the basis for the different decisions. We are therefore lacking in the uniformity of the decisions. The ISF also points out that there is a lack of clarity and variation in how to relate to the concept of parental responsibility and the comparison with children of the corresponding age and that this is also used to justify assessments that provide a lower level of remuneration. So there are several problems that have been discovered that are actually contrary to what the Government says about the fact that it was not meant to be. I must therefore ask again: does the Government intend to look at the ambiguity of the use of normal parental responsibility in particular? And what is the government's view that assessments vary so widely across the country?
i-731ba35192aa0270-152	Madam President, I would like Linda Lindberg will get an answer: Yes. We intend to follow this closely. It is also for this reason that we have commissioned the Social Security Inspection to continuously monitor and evaluate the application of the new regulatory framework. It was also against this background that we extended the possibility of extending the previous grant, in order to ensure that people are not harmed and that we are given the opportunity to evaluate and review the new applications and take the necessary measures. We will take the necessary measures to ensure that people have security on the basis of the purpose and objectives set out in the legislation on nursing allowances and additional costs. It is the duty of the government and parliament to ensure that the objectives and objectives set out in this House are also respected. If legislative adjustments are needed, we will help to enforce them. The thing about the regulations! I can assure Linda Lindberg and everyone listening to this debate that we are very careful. We follow developments closely and are prepared to act to adjust what needs to be adjusted. Then there are the processing times. I would like to return to the fact that the Swedish Social Insurance Agency has a strong economy. They have called for more resources to specifically work to reduce processing times, which is an important issue for the government. Therefore, they have been added more resources in 2021 and have also been given the task of clearly working to reduce the processing times for this benefit. We cannot be satisfied with today's processing times, to which Linda Lindberg refers. We cannot accept that parents and families are exposed to this difficult situation. We know that there are people who are affected financially very negatively by the long processing times. Even though they are compensated retroactively for loss of income, this is a very difficult situation for many who do not have savings or the ability to manage the economy. We need to keep our focus on the issue. We will do so in the dialogue with the Swedish Social Insurance Agency. A few days ago, I had a first dialogue with the new Board of the Swedish Social Insurance Agency, and I really stressed the need to focus on the issue of the processing times for these types of benefits. We will continue to hold a dialogue with Försäkringskassan and ensure that the resources provided for this year are used effectively to reduce processing times. We must also be prepared to take further action if we see that processing times continue to be problematic. An important component of social security is that the payment is made when the individual needs it. We have had this problem in recent years in several types of benefits, not only in Försäkringskassan's operations but also within the Pension Agency. Long processing times have become a major problem for many individuals with a vulnerable economy. We have therefore put a lot of focus on these issues in the governance of both these authorities. We have also added additional resources to the authority in question. I am convinced that these measures, our objective management and the increased resources will lead to a reduction in processing times, but this must be done at a rapid pace in order for us to be satisfied. We need to focus on people's needs.
i-731ba35192aa0270-160	Madam President, I would like It still feels safe to hear that the Government is very keen to reduce the processing times. I personally find it unacceptable to have to wait more than nine months. We are talking here about families who often have a tougher everyday life than others. It is extremely important that what we are discussing today be corrected. Often people's disappointment seems to be directed at Försäkringskassan when there are long processing times or problems. But really, the anger should land on the government, not on the Social Insurance Agency. I would like to highlight this, because the Social Insurance Agency may at times receive an unnecessary amount of criticism. In several regulatory letters, the Government has told Försäkringskassan that, for example, sickness benefits in health insurance should be kept low. Then of course there will be more rejections. It's as simple as that. Perhaps the previous reform was old, as the Government mentioned in the interpellation response. He said it had a few years on its neck. But what was the problem with it? Was it mostly that it was old and that you thought you wanted to do something new? I would like an answer to that. Today, there are almost 36 000 applications for care allowance in line, and 19 000 applications for additional costs are awaiting a decision from the Swedish Social Insurance Agency. These figures are from January 2021. It is believed that it will take a further three years before we have caught up with the problem of long processing times. Although Försäkringskassan has received an extra SEK 3 million, it is not possible to solve the problem. Therefore, my very last questions to the Government are: Was the old reform really so bad that it was worth this? What has really become so much better for the individual?
i-731ba35192aa0270-165	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Linda Lindberg, for the interpellation and questions! I am pleased that social security is getting more attention in this House. For a long time, the House turned its back on social security and pushed through increasingly restrictive rules for them, with the effect that people's security was damaged. It is gratifying that we are now seeing a different trend in this House and that we are being asked how we in social security can strengthen the security of people. That is exactly the direction we want for social security policy. I have focused on the question raised by Linda Lindberg at the end, that is, why during the last parliamentary term they chose to work on this issue and, together with the Riksdag, pushed through the reform. What stands out most clearly in the documents from both the government and the parliament is the desire to put the individual need in focus. We shall, of course, welcome this. If both the Government and the Riksdag agree that the various benefits, in social security, should put the individual's needs in focus, more individualised assessments are required. There is a need for less flat-rateisation and a greater degree of individual adjustment of the types of benefits. This is very good. It is clear, however, that such reregulation also creates risks, which I was concerned about. You simply have undesirable effects in the application of the law. I assume that the commitment we have seen in today's interpellation debate will remain if we note that changes are needed. Then we could have cooperation between the government and the parliament so that the regulations are adjusted in such a way that we achieve the purpose that the government and parliament set out in connection with the reform and the creation of the two new types of benefits.
i-731ba35192aa0270-169	Madam President, I would like Julia Kronlid has asked me why the government has been opposed for a long time to strengthen pension provision and whether we will investigate the Swedish Democrats' proposal to exchange a lower general salary contribution in the framework of employers' contributions towards higher pension provision. Reasonable and good pensions for our elderly are a fundamental requirement of a welfare society. A first step has been taken with the income pension supplement, which provides a much-needed increase for people who have worked a full working life but with relatively low wages. However, the government sees that more is needed to improve the financial situation of pensioners, and therefore the issue of pension contributions having to be raised high on the government's agenda and will be dealt with in the Pensions Group in the near future. The Pensions Group agrees that measures are needed for long-term pension increases, and the 2017 Pensions Agreement includes a review of the contribution level. This work is ongoing and includes, among other things, the production of analyses of different methods and a comprehensive impact assessment. Essential for the implementation of an increase in the pension contribution is the method and funding, which needs to be analysed, and consequences need to be investigated before decisions can be taken. Since 2014, the government has taken important steps towards higher pensions by raising the guarantee pension and the housing supplement, reducing the tax on pensioners, and agreeing on the reform of the premium pension. The first payment of the income pension supplement will take place in September, which is an important step towards better pensions. The next step is to increase the pension contribution so that contributions into the pension system can increase and Sweden's pensioners can have a more secure economy.
i-731ba35192aa0270-173	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister Shekarabi, for your answer! Pensions in Sweden have been far too low for a long time, and many of our pensioners live below the poverty line. Pensioners today receive a shamefully small share of the final salary in their pension when they have worked and worked a whole life. According to a study we have carried out, for example, an average 80-talist who enters the labour market at the age of 25 and works until he or she is 67 years old and has a final salary of 30 000 SEK per month will receive an income pension of only 13 600 SEK. This represents just over 45 per cent of the final salary, which is far from the target of at least 80 per cent. This is not acceptable. In the short term, the government has tried to patch and fix a broken pension system with the help of the pension supplement. Since we welcome every extra penny to pensioners, we have not opposed or tried to stop that addition. However, it has been a great disappointment for those who earn the least, who received only $2 (U.S.) extra a month — about two gallons (U.S.) of milk. The amendment also received a lot of criticism from a number of referral bodies. We have stated that this is not a long-term solution, although it may temporarily give some extra money in retirement. A longer-term solution would be to strengthen pension provision, as pointed out by the Pension Authority in its referral. We have therefore proposed for some time that the government should investigate the possibility of switching between higher pension provision and lower general wage contributions within employers' contributions in order to achieve higher pensions and at the same time avoid that entrepreneurs suffer higher taxes. The result would then be that the same person could receive an equal or higher pension without the need to increase the general retirement age at all times. Not everyone has the same opportunity to work at an early age, especially those with arduous occupations. However, the Government has opposed our proposal for investigation, and all parties in the Pensions Group voted against such a proposal in the Riksdag when it was up for discussion last Parliamentary Session. Nor was it supported this year by the Social Security Committee. On the other hand – and this was positive – the report and the debate showed something that Minister Shekarabi has also highlighted in her interpellation response here today, namely that there is an ongoing analysis and that work has now begun within the Pensions Group. The Government has also stated in the media that pension provisions need to be strengthened. I am pleased that the government is beginning to wake up on this issue late in the day. The first question I would like an answer to is: if there has been an agreement since 2017 to look at pension provision in the Pensions Group, which is not very transparent to the public and the rest of us in the Riksdag, why does this work only start now? Moreover, you Social Democrats have been in government for almost two terms of office. Is it perhaps that you do not agree with the Pensions Group about this? Is that why it takes so long, or why has it been so long? The second question I would like answers to is: if there are now investigations and analyses on strengthening pension provision, will these investigations be held behind closed doors in the Pensions Group, or will there be a public and transparent inquiry with interim reports and press conferences, so that we can all follow the investigation, which we are interested in, and see what possibilities there are and what options will then be on the table for decisions to strengthen pension provision? In the debate that we had here in Parliament a very short time ago, colleagues from both the Social Democrats and the Green Party said that the reason why they did not vote for our proposal was that this is already going on. But since what we are asking for is a public investigation, not just conversations behind closed doors in the Pensions Group, and since the Government is now saying that this is going on, I wonder: When will the investigation come? When do we get to read about it? When are there any reports? When will the government proceed with this?
i-731ba35192aa0270-183	Madam President, I would like I thank Mrs Julia for the questions. Perhaps I should inform those who follow the debate about what the Pensions Group is, because we have not described it. The pension group is a group that includes the parties that support the pension agreement from the 1990s. The decisions of the Pensions Group concern our pension system and are made by consensus. It has to do with the long-term sustainability of pension issues. It is desirable to have long-term sustainable decisions, as this concerns a system that needs to be sustainable over time. The Pensions Group includes a number of parties, and they have different entrances. Decisions are taken after negotiations when consensus has been reached on any matter. The government's entry into the pension issue is that contributions must be increased. We see a need to strengthen contributions to the pension system with a view to increasing pensions. Pensions in our country are too low for many employee groups. Large groups that have worked their entire working lives with relatively low wages, many of which in the LO collective, currently have too low pensions. They need a higher pension. We need proper work to raise pensions in the long term. But this needs to be complemented by pension increases here and now for existing pensioners. Our response to under-retirement cannot be that in 20, 30 or 40 years' time we can have an increase in pensions if we increase long-term contributions to the pension system, but also the existing pensioners who are on low pensions today and who have been involved in building up our country and our well-being deserve an increase in pensions. Against this background, the Government of the Pensions Group pushed the proposal for the introduction of a pension supplement that represents a pension increase here and now for existing pensioners. After a long period of negotiations, we reached a consensus in the Pensions Group on this issue. The parties agreed that the pension supplement should be introduced. It has now been voted through in this House and will begin to be paid out in September. That's very good. But we don't see this as a final goal. We're making the same assessment-- pensions are too low. There will be a need to raise pensions even after the introduction of the pension supplement. The method that the government would like to see and which we are pursuing in the negotiations in the Pensions Group is that the contribution should be increased, at least to the level that was promised in connection with the pension reform in the 1990s: 18.5%. The increase in the contribution to the pension scheme shall be used for pension increases. This is a process that's underway. For some time now, various types of investigations and analyses have been carried out, so that we get the right basis on our table. Of course, the work of the Pensions Group will also need to be discussed externally. Normally, when the Pensions Group reaches an agreement, all proposals that will become a reality are referred to, in accordance with the review requirement in the Swedish Constitution. It is important that we have an open and transparent debate on pensions. Both Julia Kronlid and I know that the pension issue is one of the issues that involve the Swedes most and that people are worried about. People are worried about getting too low a pension on the day they retire. There is dissatisfaction among existing pensioners. That is why it is extremely important for the pension supplement to become a reality in September. It is important that we also take the next step and raise pensions through an increase in contributions. But, of course, the issue needs to be carefully investigated, because it concerns a very important part of our pension system. The change must be sustainable over time, as the issue of pensions requires a long-term approach because of its nature.
i-731ba35192aa0270-191	Madam President, I would like I thank Minister Shekarabi for his reply. I still don't know what's going on. It is positive that the government's entry into the group is to strengthen pension provision. That's where we're in complete agreement. But what I'm still thinking about is: Why is it only now that this is being spoken out loud? We have been proposing such an investigation for a long time. The proposal has been voted down. Since 2017, it has been there that you should look at this, but it is only now that we are told that you are actually looking at it. Now I'm still not clear if it's just the government that wants the Pensions Group to look at this or if the Pensions Group agrees that it's important to look at. Maybe the pension group doesn't agree. I don't know, because I'm not sitting there. I do not know if the Government can answer that today or not, but it would be interesting to know. Would the government then consider putting forward a proposal to strengthen pension provision with our support? We think this is good. We are not in the Pensions Group and therefore cannot cast our vote there, but we could cast our vote on this in the Riksdag. Of course, it depends on how it is designed. We do not want it to increase the tax burden on entrepreneurs, but we support the view that pensions need to be increased and pension provision needs to be strengthened. I understand, of course, that it is good to have a long-term perspective and that the government and opposition parties need to have parliamentary talks in order for us to be able to get long-term solutions. It is something that I wish even in health insurance; it would be very important for it not to vary so much. However, it will still be a problem when it removes some of the public debate on pensions, which I think it has done. I am in favour of the Government saying here today that we should have a more public debate. I really think it's necessary. I think it would be unreasonable if things were to be locked up to the Pensions Group when there is support from other parties who are not sitting there. It will be a sad development. The question is again: why has it been so long before we start talking about pension provisions? We have talked about it before, but we have not heard. Now you're finally starting to talk about it. But why has it been so long? The Government points out that this is something that takes a very long time. Yes, and so it would have been even more important for these investigations to be launched even when the government came to power almost eight years ago. If you want a tree to grow up in time, you have to start by planting it, so that it can start growing. That's what can have an effect. So it is perhaps a little late to start talking about this now. It would have been done much earlier. What took the government so long to talk about the importance of strengthening pension provision? Now it's an emergency. We see how PRO, many different organisations and pensioners around the country protest loudly. When they arrive at retirement, they receive extremely little pension. The pension group has also raised the retirement age. That is something we have been critical of. Not everyone has the same conditions. Some are worn out much faster when they are in certain professions. This applies, for example, to bus drivers or child carers. They can't work that far up when they're old. It has also come to light in recent times that the disappointment there too has become great. They don't get as much as they might have thought from working a little longer even in low-wage jobs. The reforms achieved by the Pensions Group have not been sufficient. Now much more needs to be done. It is now becoming an emergency. When can we expect to see the investigation and proposals that we long for so that pensions can be raised for real?
i-CmC4R3ya2npXVzy43L5pEP	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Julia Kronlid. Julia Kronlid doesn't have to convince me or the government that the pension contribution needs to be increased. This is one of our top priorities in the area of pensions. We have been pushing this issue for a long time and most recently in connection with the negotiations that were in the Pensions Group in 2017. At least then we could get the other parties to review the charging issue. It is the review that is being carried out now and that will be put on the table of the Pensions Group during the year. We see a need for increased contributions to the pension system. It is the increase in contributions that leads to the possibility of increasing pensions in the long term, but that is not the answer to how pensions should be raised here and now. The answer to this is the pension supplement that the Government has pushed through in the Pensions Group and which has also been supported by the Riksdag. Now in September the payments of that supplement begin. It is not that we have been passive. The guarantee pension was raised last year. The ceiling of the housing supplement was raised. Now, in September, payments in the pension supplement will begin. We are actively pushing the issue of continuing to raise pensions. The issue of pensions is dealt with in a special way. The government acts on the basis of the division of power that we have in our constitution. However, pension-related issues are dealt with in the Pensions Group for the sake of long-term sustainability. The six parties involved have the ambition to take the decisions by consensus in order to manage the pension agreement and hence sustainable elements and frameworks of the pension system. This can never be opposed to the need for a general political debate on pensions. I'd like to express that. There is a great need to debate the issue of pensions in Swedish politics. The various political parties in this House definitely need to explain their views on the issue of pensions and their views on the need for higher pensions. We need a debate. I regret that this is the first interpellation that I have as Minister of Social Security on pension increases. You might think that's a good thing if you don't like interpellations. I see a need for us to have a debate in this House on pension increases and for all parties to be forced to take part in that debate and to share their thoughts on how to increase pensions. More accountability is needed on the issue of pensions. As far as we are concerned, this is an incredible priority. We will fight day and night to take the steps needed to increase pensions also in the long term after the pension supplement is implemented in September. We owe pension increases to our citizens. It is about all those who have been involved in building society, and who have made it possible for us to make progress in society that has funded welfare. All these people deserve a decent pension. The average pension for women in Sweden is SEK 11,800 before tax. It's too low a level. It's too low a pension. Now many will receive a pension increase through the pension supplement in September. But more steps must follow that increase so that we get to levels that are decent, with which people can be satisfied and that meet the legitimate expectations of the levels of pensions that the Swedish people have.
i-731ba35192aa0270-217	Madam President, I would like We agree on two things, Minister Shekarabi: pensions are too low, and they must rise. It's good so far. The question is just how fast it should go, why it has not happened before and how it should be done. I still want answers. I'm a little confused. In my debate with your colleagues from the Social Democrats and the Green Party last week, I think it was, we highlighted a motion. We want to see an investigation into strengthening pension provision. I questioned why it was voted down and answered: it is because we agree, and these investigations are already under way. So there is not just a conversation in which the government thinks we should strengthen pension provision. There's some kind of investigation going on. The answer also shows that there are ongoing analyses. This concerns impact assessments of what different financial solutions mean. Would it be possible to see them or not? That's my question. I'm very interested. It should be made transparent somewhere. Is it only when the Pensions Group has agreed that we will see them, or is it possible to see them earlier? I have received a reply that exactly what the Swedish Democrats are asking for is already going on. It is a study such as strengthening pension provision and changing it with lower wage contributions so as not to increase the tax burden on companies. I am still very interested in seeing the investigations that I have received information about actually being done. The Government also pointed out that the guarantee pension has been increased. That's very positive. We have highlighted in our budget that we want to increase it by an additional 800 SEK. It is regrettable that many people who have taken great responsibility for their homes and families and who have not previously had the same opportunities to participate in working life live at the poverty line. We certainly want that to change. I expect further reinforcement of the guarantee pension from the government, further reforms and a public transparent debate. I look forward to more debates with the Government on pension issues.
i-731ba35192aa0270-224	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Julia Kronlid. I look forward to more debates on the issue of pensions. It's necessary. We need to have a more public and more transparent discussion on how to increase pensions. It is important that all parties take part in this debate. We are extremely clear about what is the government's objective. We have not been waiting for the pension contribution increase process. We have been involved in pushing through an increase in the guarantee pension, an increase in the ceiling of the housing supplement and now the introduction of a pension supplement which increases the pensions of those groups who have worked hard and struggled in a working life but have low pensions. Pensions for the group that meets most will be increased by more than SEK 7 000 per year. That's good. These are much-needed increases in pensions. But our focus is that more needs to be done. I can assure Julia Kronlid that we take this issue very seriously. It is about the legitimacy of the Swedish pension system. It is about the private economy of our pensioners who have toiled, fought and built our society. When the Pensions Group has a basis that it wants to proceed with, there is a preparation requirement. This means that these proposals will be referred back to us. Everyone will then have access to the data and analyses that we receive on this issue. There is currently a wide-ranging work going on at the Ministry of Social Affairs, where this issue is highlighted. The question that the Swedish Democrats have not answered is how it is to be financed. I was told today that you do not want to increase the employer's contribution. But so far it has not been possible to give a picture of how the funding is to be made. We want solid evidence that also solves the issue of funding so that it becomes a reality, so that there really is an increase in pensions. I will focus on that question on the part of the government. It is an important part of the government's agenda.
i-731ba35192aa0270-231	Madam President, I would like Julia Kronlid has asked me what measures I intend to take to narrow the gap between the different assessments of the doctor, Försäkringskassan and Arbetsförmedlingen. Julia Kronlid has also asked me what measures I intend to take to prevent people from having their earnings set at zero due to the different assessments by the authorities and other bureaucratic rules. The Covid-19 pandemic has highlighted shortcomings in sickness benefit regulations. However, the fact that there are problems in health insurance, in particular when assessing work capacity against normal work at day 180 in the rehabilitation chain, drew the attention of the government even before the outbreak of the pandemic. Therefore, the investigation into safe health insurance was set up with people at the centre. The investigation has proposed a more flexible rehabilitation chain and how the Social Insurance Agency's examination of work capacity can be made more understandable. Based on the investigation's proposals, the committee has submitted a proposal to the Riksdag with proposals aimed at achieving a more flexible rehabilitation chain. This means that an assessment of the ability to work against normal work after day 180 should be possible if the reason for the insured person to return to work at the employer no later than day 365. This means that the person on sick leave will be better able to undergo the care, treatment and rehabilitation needed to return to work. It is estimated to foster cooperation between Försäkringskassan, employer and health care. The amendments are proposed to enter into force on 15 March 2021. The Government is actively working on the other proposals and intends to return. In order to prevent people from losing their sickness benefit, the Government has introduced a temporary suspension of the assessment of normal work after day 180 until the change of legislation enters into force. It shall apply retroactively from 21 December 2020. As a result of the criticisms made by the investigation regarding the lack of investigations and decision-making documents, the Government has given an assignment to Försäkringskassan to improve the quality of the handling of sickness benefit matters. The assignment concerns cases where sickness benefit is denied because the individual is deemed to be able to work in a normal job. I share Julia Kronlid's view that there is a need for increased consensus between doctors', Försäkringskassan's and Arbetsförmedlingen's different assessments. To achieve this, the government has given special missions to the relevant authorities. The Government has commissioned Försäkringskassan and the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare to work towards improved cooperation and dialogue between Försäkringskassan and the healthcare sector. The authorities are now working on three development areas. The first area deals with insurance medical data, information in medical certificates and the Swedish Social Insurance Agency's duty to investigate. The second area deals with how insurance policy support can be developed and better used. The third area concerns structures and working arrangements for a better dialogue between health care and the Swedish Social Insurance Agency. The Government has also commissioned Försäkringskassan and Arbetsförmedlingen to further develop their collaboration in order to prevent individuals from losing their sickness benefit-based income in connection with the transition between the authorities. This assignment has been given in the light of the Swedish National Audit Office's report, to which Jula Kronlid refers, as well as the final report from the national coordinator for a well-functioning sick leave process. People affected by illness should be able to rely on health insurance and community support. The starting point is that health insurance should provide security for all those who have reduced working capacity due to illness. No one should fall between the chairs because of lack of cooperation between the authorities.
i-731ba35192aa0270-241	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for the very effective reading of the answer! The legislative changes mentioned by the Government are something we welcome. We have long been asking for a change today in 180, and we look forward to more proposals being put on the table on the basis of the state inquiry that has been carried out. Madam President, I would like Last Tuesday I made a post in social media where I asked for examples from the reality of the particular problem that I raise in my interpellation: people who by Försäkringskassan are deemed to be 100% healthy and able to work get a completely different assessment from Arbetsförmedlingen or doctor. They are then enrolled in Arbetsförmedlingen with obstacles and lose their sickness benefit-based income. The response to this has been overwhelming. I read a story about a mother who suffered from mental illness and severe pain. She has been assessed by Försäkringskassan to be completely healthy but has been assessed by Arbetsförmedlingen to be too ill to work. One father told about his daughter with disabilities who was deemed to be able to work 100 percent by Försäkringskassan. But when she does, she vomits, faints, starts talking incoherently. One person writes the following, which I have been allowed to read out in a slightly shortened version. Hey! My daughter has been mentally ill for 15 years. She has been on sick leave by a doctor with three parental leave breaks. In the spring of 2018, when she applied for sickness benefit after maternity leave, she was declared healthy overnight by Försäkringskassan. They considered her to be 100 percent healthy even though the doctor had prescribed her 100 percent on the medical certificate. She was asked to stand as a job seeker at Arbetsförmedlingen because she was naturally not employed. The daughter registered as a job seeker on day one. During the enrollment call, Arbetsförmedlingen expressed that they did not know which job she could take. She needed more care, considered the case officer at Arbetsförmedlingen and recoded her to be prevented from taking a job. The daughter, along with me, her attorney, did everything in our power to get her coded back to... actively seeking... to protect her SGI. The employment agency did not give in because they thought she was too sick. This document meant that when it was time for a new application for sickness benefit, Försäkringskassan considered that she had not protected her SGI and therefore nullified it. She is mentally ill and has lost the joy of life. She also has suicidal thoughts. So that's how this person writes. It is untenable for people today to be caught in this kind of situation with such divergent assessments from different authorities. Madam President, I would like It is, of course, to be welcomed with the directives set out by the Government in its interpellation response to solving this problem, including the fact that the Social Insurance Agency and the Employment Service have been given the task of further developing their collaboration to prevent people from losing their SGI. However, I am not sure whether this problem really gets to the bottom of it. A basic starting point must be that a person who is deemed to be disabled by Arbetsförmedlingen and not to be employable and who is deemed to be ill by a doctor to be unable to work also receives the same assessment from Försäkringskassan and is entitled to compensation. Vice versa, of course, Försäkringskassan's assessment of a person's ability to work must be fully, or at least partly, consistent with the Swedish Public Employment Service's assessment of working capacity. Can Minister Shekarabi agree that this is how it should work? We in the Swedish Democrats have been proposing for a long time that the sick and long-term unemployed should only have to turn to one authority. It may be the only reasonable solution in the long term in cases involving the long-term unemployed and sick leave that what applies to them should be merged into an authority. Many, many governments have tried to solve the collaboration problems between Försäkringskassan and Arbetsförmedlingen, and however good the ambitions of the Government, I think it is very difficult to solve. We also believe that the system of SGI and the regulations on zeroing must be thoroughly investigated so that a person who has worked for a long period of time cannot be negated in this way. We have put forward proposals to the government instead to investigate whether this should be based on some kind of average of the income they have had. Would the Government consider investigating some form of such a solution so that people will not just be torn away from their SGI and be completely extradited?
i-731ba35192aa0270-254	Madam President, Julia Kronlid. The government's top priority in social security matters is to fix the health insurance that has been broken. Shortcomings in health insurance today are seriously damaging to the security of our society. People who suffer from long-term illness or who have a disability lose financial security and end up in uncertainty. they are not covered by the protection to which they are reasonably subject; It is against this background that we are now pushing to change and reform health insurance. The Parliament has voted through the amendment of the regulations for day 180, and that amendment will require effect in a few days' time, on 15 March. Pending the entry into force of the amendment, the government has put an end to insurance day 180, and now we are working intensively to push through the other proposals we have received on our table from the investigation into safer health insurance. This applies, among other things, to amended rules for day 365. It is also a matter of the important question of replacing the concept of a normal job, with that of a normal job, which is mentioned. We cannot have a situation in which people are judged against fictitious jobs, which also means that the decision of the Social Insurance Agency does not make sense to people. All those are absolutely crucial changes that are needed to restore the safety of disease. The problem that Julia Kronlid has, Madam President, is that her party, as it is now pointed out in the social debate, has chosen a way of working with two parties that are not content with this broken health insurance but want to go further and reduce the protection of health insurance. They are now proposing new restrictions, restrictions and deductions in health insurance which make sickness security even weaker. These are fine words and also good positions on health insurance which must be re-established. But how is it going to go with two parties which have a completely different view and which, in fact, in this House, now in recent years, have even proposed savings in health insurance? In their official documents presented in this House, they have not only contented themselves with the deterioration that has been pushed through in health insurance since the change of power in 2006, but want to see further deteriorations in health insurance. The message that should be conveyed in this House is: No, we should not go in that direction. On the contrary, we are going to reverse the trend in health insurance and restore the safety of the sick. Then we need to give priority to these issues. We must then be prepared to acknowledge that the security that exists today is not in line with the legitimate expectation that exists in our society. That's why we need to rethink and think right. The pandemic has given us new insights into what the shortcomings of health insurance mean in our society. But to be honest, these deficiencies already existed before the pandemic. So it is very good that we are now taking the step and reforming the 180-day rule. However, there are far more changes that need to be pushed through in order to restore the safety of disease.
i-731ba35192aa0270-264	Madam President, I would like It is no secret that there are issues in health insurance where I disagree with the Moderates and in some parts also with the Christian Democrats. But there are also parts where we have actually agreed. For example, we in the Swedish Democrats and the Moderates have pushed the government rather hard for people belonging to a risk group to receive compensation without a lot of glitch in the payments, as it has been. We have also agreed that much more needs to be done for those with mental health problems, who should not be hit by the tough deadlines, but should have a more individual adaptation in health insurance. Then there is the fact that we are a social conservative party. We are not a purely right-wing party. On welfare issues, we are further left. That is why we are needed in a composition like this, as a guarantee that welfare issues simply do not take an excessive right-wing turn. It's not a development that I want to see. One question I would like to ask Minister Shekarabi is why the Red-Green Government has tightened health insurance so extremely. After all, it is the Government's directive to Försäkringskassan to reduce the number of sick days that has made Försäkringskassan tightened up the assessments somewhat. During the time of the Alliance, there were several shortcomings in different time limits and different assessments that were made. But it was easier to get sickness benefits, and not as many were insured at day 180. It has increased apace since the Social Democrats came to power. Some write to me and say that it has never been as bad as it is now. Even the Alliance was nicer than the Social Democrats-- there are people who feel that way now. There were absolute shortcomings in health insurance during Reinfeldt's government; I agree with that. But it has not improved because the Social Democrats came to power. That is why I wonder: will the Government, which has the enormous advantage of being able to influence the authorities of the Swedish Social Insurance Agency and the Employment Service, now issue clear directives stating that the overriding objective is the well-being of the individual, financial security, the possibility of rehabilitation and the possibility of returning, at its level, to work again – not to save money and reduce the number of sick days? This is incredibly important. The directives and signals that come from the government have a huge impact on these authorities. Then there are certainly also shortcomings that need to be reviewed within Försäkringskassan, how these matters are handled and so on. And there also needs to be legislative changes – we are in complete agreement there. There's a question, too. The government is talking about day 365. We have a motion for this in a motion that will soon be discussed – we had the first reading today. There is a possibility that such an announcement will be approved and passed. There is, of course, support in Parliament for this. We are in favour of such a change at day 365. We have a motion for this in our motion. The left is for that. The Green Party is in the government with you and is in favour of it. There is a majority. Don't wait! Present the bill tomorrow! Or are you perhaps waiting for the support of the Liberals and the Centers? Is that where you disagree? Perhaps you do not want to get through such a bill with our support? What's the problem? We also have a request for this with the specified work. It is also in our motion, that is to say, that the government will come forward with these proposals from the investigation. The investigation is good. There are many good suggestions. We say no to this normal work. We don't want that anymore, because it's caused a lot of problems. This work is good, even though we might consider going a little further. We also have a motion to that effect. We also have a request for the rehabilitation allowance to be made more flexible. These motions will soon be discussed in plenary. I hope we can agree on them. I am also looking forward to the bill, because there is support in Parliament. You don't have to wait.
i-Nty24grz6qLaPmdchFdKvf	I would like to welcome the ministers. Questions are answered today by Minister for the Environment and Climate Change Per Bolund, Minister for Culture and Democracy Amanda Lind, Minister Anna Hallberg and Minister Per Olsson Fridh. An issue shall be of a horizontal and general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties. Minister for the Environment and Climate Change Per Bolund answers both general policy questions and questions within his own area of responsibility.
i-731ba35192aa0270-274	Madam President, I would like Sweden will be climate neutral, but we will also contribute to reducing emissions globally. The more fossil-free steel, forest products, electricity and minerals that Sweden can export, the more emissions are reduced globally. In short: Swedish exports can help reduce the world's climate emissions. Therefore, the Moderates want to see a new climate target to steer towards and maximise the climate benefit of Swedish exports. At the meeting of the Environment and Agriculture Committee today, we put forward a proposal to commission the Environmental Objectives Committee to develop a goal precisely for the climate impact of Swedish exports. We also want the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency to calculate the global climate impact of exports in the same way that is currently being done for consumption and emissions here in Sweden. Knowledge of the export climate contribution and a goal can be a steering year in our climate policy, so that we do the right things. My question to Per Bolund is: Is the government prepared to give this task to the Environmental Objectives Committee?
i-731ba35192aa0270-277	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jessica Rosencrantz, for the question! We have reason to be proud that we often have climate-smart industrial processes and that we have an industry that has invested and is building new technical solutions that we now see that the world's countries are very interested in. It was with great pride that I noted that Ursula von der Leyen in her speech on State of the European Union highlighted a single example of industrial investment, and it was the Hybrid project in Sweden. It shows somewhere how far ahead Sweden is. Of course, we should also be proud that we are helping other countries to achieve their climate goals. This is something that we know the Environmental Objectives Committee is already working on. They look at consumption-based emissions but also at the impact of Swedish exports. I would say, then, that this mission has already been allocated to the Environmental Objectives Committee. In the Environmental Target Committee, all parliamentary parties, including the Moderates, have a place. And Members there have full freedom to record ideas and suggestions themselves in the work of the Environmental Objectives Committee.
i-731ba35192aa0270-280	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. The mission of the Environmental Objectives Committee is to explore the possibility of introducing a target for consumption-based emissions. In addition, you can look at exports, as it says. Then my very clear question to the Government is: Does the Government consider that it is already within the Environmental Objectives Committee's mandate to propose a goal for the climate benefit of Swedish exports? Is it prepared to give an additional directive if it is not within the mandate of the Environmental Objectives Committee?
i-731ba35192aa0270-282	Madam President, I would like The environmental target committee has a fairly free and transparent mandate. They have also come in broad political agreement with very important contributions. I am thinking, for example, of the marine investigation that has now come up with the proposal that we should have a marine environmental law. I look forward to taking that decision further. I believe that the Environmental Objectives Committee has every opportunity to look at both consumption-based emissions and the importance of exports and the role it can play in reducing Sweden's footprint, but also other countries' footprints.
i-731ba35192aa0270-285	Madam President, I would like We have been able to share news about threats and violence against train crews for a long time. The situation has become so serious that SJ is considering not letting trains stop in Kumla at all because of extensive threats and violence on that particular route. Of course, the government can say: It has always been the case that the train does not stop in Kumla. It's an old Swedish tradition. Or you can say as it is: this is largely an immigration-related new problem in our country. It is the same kind of conflict that takes place in the areas of police, ambulance staff, social services staff and other representatives of public Sweden. My question to Minister Per Bolund is whether he believes that there is a limit at all to how extensive immigration-related problems Sweden can accept. How extensive problems can Sweden accept before the Green Party and the government adopt a restrictive and responsible line from the perspective of Sweden and the Swedish people?
i-731ba35192aa0270-288	Madam President, I would like Of course, threats and violence against officials, whatever their activity, are unacceptable. It may be bluelight staff or train staff at SJ or staff in other contexts. Of course, that kind of threat and violence should be countered. That is also why we are working very actively to tighten up legislation on threats to blue light personnel, for example, but it is also about strengthening the judiciary and the police. There we have a high-level objective of having 10 000 more police workers precisely in order to intervene more resolutely against all forms of crime. However, the government and also my line is that we should combat all crime and not specify whether it is crimes committed by people born in Sweden or crimes committed by people who were not born in Sweden. That's not the point. Of course, any crime should be prosecuted regardless of who committed the crimes.
i-731ba35192aa0270-290	Madam President, I would like That is precisely the problem. It is relatively benevolent to combat the symptoms of the problems but not the root cause, namely that we have had irresponsible migration that has created enormous alienation in our country. Crime germinates and continues to germinate as the Green Party and the government liberalise migration policy further. My question is whether there is any limit at all. Is there a limit to when the Green Party and the government can start rethinking migration policy in Sweden?
i-731ba35192aa0270-292	Madam President, I would like I think that question is completely wrong and, moreover, quite astounding. What there should be a limit to is the generalizations that Adam Marttinen and the Swedish Democrats do. You pull all people with a certain background over a comb and claim that it is only people's background that is the cause of crime. Adam Marttinen and the Swedish Democrats should remember that it is an extremely small fraction of people with foreign background who ever occur in criminal contexts. Why do Adam Marttinen and the Swedish Democrats give themselves the right to bring all these people together?
i-731ba35192aa0270-295	Madam President, I would like Although it has been 21 years since the Riksdag decided that Sweden would ratify the Framework Convention on the Protection of National Minorities, according to a recent survey, only one in four Swedes knows that Jews, Roma, Swedish Finns, Sami and we tornadoes are recognised as national minorities. Democracy, the rule of law, human rights and the protection of minorities can never be taken for granted – not in Sweden, not in Europe and not in the world. Minorities' right to protection must be constantly defended and upheld. As the Government is well aware, the process of changing languages that makes it impossible for many minority speakers to understand or speak their minority languages is inexorable. Therefore, the Center Party believes that efforts to revitalise minority languages are absolutely crucial and very urgent. My question to Amanda Lind is therefore: when does the government intend to come back with proposals for the establishment of language centres for meänkieli in Övertorneå?
i-731ba35192aa0270-299	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Linda Courage, for the question! I would like to start by saying that I share the view that the process of language revitalisation is a very serious issue that we need to take very seriously. Both the Swedish parliament and the government have a responsibility for our national minorities and minority languages. That is also why the government has increased the ambition of minority policy. There are suggestions on how we could develop language centres for all national minority languages, and those proposals have been out for consultation. We have also drawn up proposals for action programmes for national minority languages. These are out for a referral right now. I see before me that we will have a good and comprehensive basis for what steps we will be able to take in the future to strengthen the national minority languages. It is ultimately a question of human rights.
i-731ba35192aa0270-302	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. As the government's own investigation has shown, we must take a stand in the minority work. We must have less bureaucracy, more workshop and a higher gear in minority political work. It is positive that the government is taking many steps, not least with regard to the truth and reconciliation commissions that exist. It's like the former governor of Norrbotten Ragnar Lassinantti used to say: The person who doesn't know his story risks getting lost. Most of us are still souled by the future, because that's where the rest of our lives are going to take place. What concrete measures does the Government intend to take?
i-731ba35192aa0270-306	Madam President, I would like A concrete measure that is very important and which Linda Modig is concerned with is the appointment of a Truth and Reconciliation Commission in the case of tornadoes, kväner and lantalaiset. We have also provided funds this year to strengthen the national minority libraries, which is an important piece of the puzzle in how we can work to strengthen minority languages. As I said, proposals for action programmes are on the table, and we have proposals in language centres. I look forward to working on these issues with the Center Party.
i-731ba35192aa0270-308	Madam President, I would like Pandemine hits hard. Already over 2 1⁄2 million people have died from the virus itself, and more than 2 1⁄2 million people have died from society's management of the pandemic. The latter mostly live in the poorest countries in the world. Not only have more people died of starvation, lack of care and pregnancy – men's violence, including sexual violence, against women and children has increased in isolation. Fewer children receive education. The increase in poverty has led to more child marriages and pregnancies. Human rights activists, journalists and politicians have been imprisoned and even tortured and killed in the name of the pandemic. Our international solidarity is needed more than ever before. Then it is not enough to move money around within the aid budget, but more must be done. When does Minister Olsson intend to introduce additional aid to show that Sweden is also in solidarity with the world's population during a pandemic?
i-731ba35192aa0270-311	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Yasmine Posio, for the question. Indeed, the covid-19 pandemic has been a very, very difficult year for the world, not just in health matters. It has also meant an increased rights crisis and an increased socio-economic crisis in which so far more than 50 million people have been pushed out into extreme poverty. Violence against women has increased, and the MP mentions more things that are a direct consequence of the pandemic spreading around the world. In the difficult situation, the pandemic has also hit OECD member states hard. As an effect of this, a great many countries have now announced cuts in their aid and development cooperation. Instead of looking outward, they look inward. Sweden does not. We have stood up for our 1% target, and we have made it possible for Sweden to remain in solidarity with the rest of the world. With a Swedish economy which, after all, is doing a little better, Swedish aid is also increasing, and this means that we can continue to be supportive of the world's poor in the midst of the pandemic.
i-731ba35192aa0270-315	Madam President, I would like No extra money to get rid of the pandemic, that is. It is even more important for the government to support proposals that will allow us to get more for the money. One such proposal is to suspend the patent during the pandemic so that more actors can mass produce vaccines at a lower price. It costs nothing but allows us to obtain the number of doses needed so that not only the rich part of the world is vaccinated. Will Minister Per Olsson Fridh press for us to get quickly enough vaccines for the entire world's population?
i-731ba35192aa0270-318	Madam President, I would like Thank you for this follow-up question. With a one-percent target and a growing Swedish bni, there will also be extra funding in Swedish aid as well as extra funding to support those affected by the consequences of the pandemic. Sweden has entered the global mechanism of Covax. Together with the EU Member States, we have accounted for EUR 2.2 billion in order to obtain vaccines also in the poorest countries, a roll-out that we now see happening where 300 000 doses are delivered by mid-year. It creates great benefits and results here and now for the spread of infection.
i-731ba35192aa0270-321	Madam President, I would like The state of nuclear fuel storage is critical. The intermediate warehouse in Oskarshamn is full in two and a half years. By this summer at the latest, a government decision is required to start building final disposals in Forsmark, otherwise there will be devastating consequences when nuclear power needs to shut down in a few years' time. Today, the Committee on Defence has met with the expert authorities and the municipalities concerned. It is said that the government needs four opinions to make decisions. The Radiation Safety Authority says they're in favour of the application. Oskarshamn also says yes, as does Östhammar municipality. The Land and Environment Court has approved all parts except the copper capsule, which requires SKB to submit supplementary documentation to the Government. I am pleased to hear that a recent press release from SKB and, above all, from the Radiation Safety Authority, which says that it is giving the green light to this way. The question is therefore: when will the message from the government come?
i-731ba35192aa0270-325	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mikael Oscarsson, for an incredibly important question! This is one of the biggest environmental decisions made in our generation and perhaps many generations. It is about the disposal of one of the most dangerous substances known to mankind. It is also a decision that brews over 100 000 or perhaps even hundreds of thousands of years, and it therefore needs to be taken as seriously as it deserves. It is perhaps the biggest environmental test to be done in Sweden's history. As I said, we have had a rather long process there. Authorities have made their judgments, and the courts have had their proceedings. Views have also been received on the need to deepen the knowledge base and obtain more information. During the journey there will be more information, for example now in the form of this report from the Radiation Safety Agency. We will continue to follow the issue. There are still some processes going on, such as Espoo consultations with neighbouring countries, and we will of course take all the information into account at the rate it comes along.
i-731ba35192aa0270-328	Madam President, I would like The important message today from the relevant authorities is that there is now all the information. Now there are all the bases. Then the question which I think both the House, the Swedish people and the industry are asking themselves is: who will the Government listen to if he does not listen to the government's own expert authorities? What else does it take? Remember also these municipal councillors and chairman of the municipal council who appeal and want a timetable. When's the schedule coming? When's the message coming?
i-731ba35192aa0270-330	Madam President, I would like This is an issue that the government prioritises and takes seriously what it deserves. But there is a reason why legislation has said that it is the government that decides this issue. Otherwise, the matter would have been decided at the level of the authorities. This means that the government will conduct a comprehensive review of the material collected – a very comprehensive material. We will of course take note of the Radiation Protection Authority's report. But it came today, as I said, so the government has, by nature, not yet had time to take a position on it. As I said, there is also an Espoo consultation. I am a little concerned by the attitude of the Christian Democrats that decisions should be made before they have even received evidence from the authorities.
i-731ba35192aa0270-336	Madam President, I would like Sweden has long been one of the world's leading donors of aid to Belarus, focusing in particular on democratic support for an independent civil society. But Swedish aid has also gone to state actors over the years, something that for example the organisation Östgruppen had been very negative to. An example of this is the Raoul Wallenberg Institute in Lund's collaboration with the State Belarusian University BSU. Following the abuses and violence in connection with the elections, the then Minister of Aid decided to freeze a number of ongoing efforts involving state actors. It was a very good decision, but the question I would like to put to the Government is as follows: In the light of all the problematic aid efforts that have occurred, how do you ensure that the mistakes made are not repeated?
i-4y8rdwGbPWABtoecji4YoS	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Maria Nilsson, for the question. The shortcomings in Belarus in respect for human rights and democracy have long been very serious and well known. Yet the situation has deteriorated considerably since the elections. At the same time, we see in Belarus a very brave population that defies a repressive regime and continues to protest and fight for a better tomorrow. After all, aid to Belarus is intended to support the conditions for these groups to free themselves from oppression and create another Belarus. In this work, it has previously been – and in some cases still – considered important that we can cooperate with certain parts of the public Belarus where there are opportunities for change. But after the elections, we noted that these conditions have changed. Therefore, several projects have also been cancelled. What matters now is that we continue to monitor the situation and engage in dialogue with people on the ground.
i-731ba35192aa0270-342	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for the answer to my question! Of course, I share the government's analysis of the situation in Belarus. It cannot, of course, be ruled out, even if we all hope for another development, that Lukasjenko, supported by Vladimir Putin, can remain an illegitimate President for a further number of years. I very much hope that the Government agrees with the view that it would then be extremely inappropriate to resume funding for projects that can be linked to state actors.
i-731ba35192aa0270-344	Madam President, I would like Yes, Swedish aid does not aim for and should not go directly to supporting efforts that strengthen oppressive and repressive regimes like the one in Belarus.
i-731ba35192aa0270-346	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Hallberg. The border restrictions imposed by the coronapandemy have hit us who live in the border regions very hard, not least those of us as work commutes. They have had to consider whether they will be able to get to work and whether they will be paid this month. Some have even quickly arranged temporary accommodation on either side of the border to be sure of getting to work. Those who have not been allowed to come to work, who will replace them? I note that the issue of compensation for those who commute to Norway seems to be resolved, but major obstacles remain for others. A current example is Finns who take a labour market training course at Utbildning Nord i Övertorneå and find it difficult to cross the border to Sweden due to the 48-hour rule.
i-3ybp7YKtrFHogocrdYeZ9X	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Ida Karkiainen, for the question. Yes, Nordic cooperation has faced major challenges in the past year. We have invited our citizens and businesses to work and live at our borders, and the problems that have now arisen I think no one has been able to foresee. What we have done is to have an incredibly close dialogue with the respective Nordic government to solve problems with border barriers. We have eliminated over 30 border barriers, large and small, but there are quite a few left. In particular, the problem of major border barriers remains, particularly in the case of work commuting. What we do now is engage in dialogue with the Finnish Government. We have sorted out the major issues with the Norwegian Government in recent weeks, and we are continuing the dialogue with the Finnish Government. What I also need to do as a Nordic Minister for Cooperation is continue to pursue the proposal I have made to strengthen our dialogue before we make decisions that affect our border citizens.
i-731ba35192aa0270-354	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. It is gratifying to have that level of ambition and commitment to these issues. I think it's necessary for the future. More specifically, are there discussions about developing strategies for the Nordic border communities so that, for example, commuters do not get as bad as they have now?
i-731ba35192aa0270-356	Madam President, I would like Yes, we have a vision that the Nordic region will become the most integrated and sustainable region in the world. To achieve that vision, we need strategies and action plans. There are such in place, but they are to be there in 2030. It is too far ahead for us to be able to solve the problems for our citizens here and now, in everyday life. What we have done is to break down the strategies for tactical talks on how we solve the issue for question right now. That is what we are doing at the moment, including with regard to Finland and the border up in the Torne Valley.
i-731ba35192aa0270-360	Madam President, I would like On the news the other day we could hear that the possibility of limiting global warming to one and a half degrees is becoming less and less. Emissions are not falling, and the world's countries are not doing enough. This comment comes from Markku Rummukainen, Sweden's representative in the UN climate panel. He also says that the difference between one and a half degrees and two degrees in elevation is about hundreds of millions more people affected by climate change. Recently, Biden's administration has also described climate change as the world's greatest threat to human life and security. We already know that the world's poor are hardest hit by climate change, and we know that in Sweden and many other developed countries we live far above the planet's assets. But we do not want other countries in their development to embark on the unsustainable paths that we must now steer away from.
i-6BVCEbvaoiBB8gwYEQ5JZE	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Camilla Hansén, for the question! Since 2014, when the Green Party formed a government together with the Social Democrats, the climate-marked aid has increased by three and a half times. Then I compare the years 2014– 2019. Since then, it has continued to increase – only between 2018 and 2019, climate aid increased by 20 percent. We in Sweden are often the largest donor per capita to the major global funds for reducing climate impact, for climate adaptation and for preserving biodiversity and functioning ecosystems in the world. We are also a great donor and supporter of what is called nationally d futured c ontributions, NDCs, that is, the plans that each country makes to live up to the Paris Agreement. That is where we support the poorest countries. We are doing this with a view to the most vulnerable people – often women and often in small-scale farming in coastal communities, which are hardest hit by climate change. With them in focus, we are fighting for the climate and against climate change.
i-731ba35192aa0270-369	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. On Monday this week was International Women's Day, so I would like to draw attention to women in development and aid work. Women are particularly vulnerable to climate change, conflicts and direct discrimination. The Government has been appointed champion of the global movement She Decides, which is about girls and women having power over their bodies, their lives and their future. How does Sweden's efforts in the world contribute to achieving these goals?
i-731ba35192aa0270-373	Madam President, I would like Yes, I'm very proud to have become a champion for She Decides. We see that only as a consequence of the covid-19 pandemic has violence against women increased by almost a third globally. We see that forced marriages with young girls have increased as poverty spreads, and we see that the push-out effects on sexual and reproductive health and rights are evident worldwide as we now shut down communities and wrestle with covid-19. To stand up for a feminist development policy in that situation seems to me very obvious, and that makes me very proud.
i-731ba35192aa0270-377	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Minister Olsson. Swedish foreign policy should take its starting point in Swedish values and interests. For example, in Swedish interests, it is to maintain regulated immigration and that a person who has received an expulsion decision should also leave Sweden. A no must be a no. Both the Finnish Immigration Service and the Police Authority point out that the execution to a number of countries is made more difficult by countries refusing to receive their own citizens. These are countries that also receive assistance from Sweden. If a country, by not helping to receive its own citizens, is involved in creating a growing shadow society in Sweden, it is also reasonable for Sweden to reconsider its aid to that country. I am convinced that most people think this is entirely reasonable and that it is strange that this does not already happen. Is the government prepared to stop aid to countries that refuse to receive their own citizens who have been expelled from Sweden?
i-731ba35192aa0270-381	Madam President, I would like Swedish development policy aims to improve conditions for people living in poverty and under oppression. The withdrawal of support for people living in poverty, who are struggling to get their daily lives together, access to school for their children and food on the table, in order to force countries to accept citizens who do not want to return, who have applied for asylum and have been rejected, is counterproductive and useless. We need to face the root causes of an increasing number of people seeking refuge in the world. The number of people on the run has doubled in the last ten years. 80 million people on this planet are now refugees within their country's borders or beyond their country's borders. Then we must face the root causes, that is to say, the elimination of poverty. Reducing aid to reduce poverty is counterproductive, and the government will not contribute to that.
i-731ba35192aa0270-383	Madam President, I would like Let me say the obvious: there is, of course, a certain type of aid where corrupt regimes would only have been happy if Sweden stopped distributing this. This applies, for example, to support human rights defenders and democrats. But that is hardly the support to start with. There must, of course, be a test in any case to determine what is effective. If the government refuses even to do that test, it can only be said that the government does not see the major problems that Sweden has with return.
i-731ba35192aa0270-385	Madam President, I would like Magdalena Schröder is a little lost in the matter. It is clear that we should have an orderly migration policy, and a no on an asylum application means that you should no longer be in the country. However, making this conditional on the livelihood of other vulnerable people and poor people, on women's right to education and on safe abortions in the world is not very productive. On the contrary, it is counterproductive. I am pleased that Magdalena Schröder wants to protect the important aid for democracy, but we must not forget the long-term support for health and education and climate change either.
i-731ba35192aa0270-387	Madam President, I would like Two weeks ago, the City of Gothenburg chose not to award municipal grants to the study association Ibn Rushd. Gothenburg is thus the largest municipality that has stopped the distribution of tax revenue. This is because Ibn Rushd has cooperated with highly dubious operators. For example, there has been local cooperation with the Bellevue Mosque, which has long been associated with Islamist extremism. In Malmö, the study association collaborated with the Islamic organisation Millî Görüş, whose representatives have often expressed themselves racistally. Leading terrorist scientists and academics have also pointed out Ibn Rushd's links to the Muslim Brotherhood. The government has long referred to the introduction of democratic requirements, but that is not something we have seen of.
i-731ba35192aa0270-390	Madam President, I would like I thank Angelika Bengtsson for the question. When it comes to democratic conditions in the grant from the state, they already exist today. It is not about us developing something new that does not exist, it is about that there is a process to strengthen, clarify and create long-term conditions for our civil society to operate. But even today, Madam President, there is an opportunity, on the basis of the democratic conditions that already exist, to test state aid for various civil society organisations. It is precisely in the case of study associations that another minister is responsible for these issues. But there have also been reviews, and there is a development work within Studieförbundssverige. I want to be clear in this House that, of course, no state funds should go to extremism or activities based on undemocratic foundations.
i-731ba35192aa0270-393	Madam President, I would like If there are democratic demands in place today, why can extremists regularly take part in tax funds? The government's slowness is dangerous to our country, and it's sad that you don't realize it yourself. When will the government ensure that extremists do not take part in our tax revenue?
i-731ba35192aa0270-395	Madam President, I would like As Angelika Bengtsson knows, work is being done to introduce clarified and long-term democracy conditions. But for us to introduce them, they need to be able to be applied. That is why we are looking at the personal data conditions, and we are investigating the possibility of establishing a specific function that Säpo has requested so that we can tighten up the audits further. However, I would like to remind you once again that there are already democratic conditions today, and the Swedish Democrats' own youth federations have previously fallen under the conditions of democracy when it comes to the granting of grants.
i-731ba35192aa0270-397	Madam President, I would like My question is to Minister for the Environment and Climate Change Per Bolund, and it is about our nuclear waste. For many years, I have been following the long-standing and persistent work of my neighboring municipality, Östhammar, to be partly a nuclear power municipality, and also a pre-study municipality for the management of spent nuclear fuel. The entire organisation of the municipality is affected and involved in this complex issue, and the municipality needs to be informed. And Clab's almost full, as we heard earlier. The Government's own expert authority, the Radiation Safety Authority, has said that the application meets the requirements of the legislation to make decisions. But the Minister does not seem so sure, according to an article in UNT at the beginning of March. What studies remain to enable the government to make decisions on the matter? Does the government intend to take decisions during this term of office?
i-731ba35192aa0270-401	Madam President, I would like As I said in my previous speech, this is not just any question. This is an issue that, if we do not manage it properly, can have extremely far-reaching consequences for human health and the environment. It is one of the most dangerous substances known to the world, which can have enormous consequences over time. Furthermore, it is one of the biggest environmental tests that has ever been put on the government's table. Then it is also obvious that it takes time to understand the issues and make an overall assessment, which is, of course, the task of the government. We receive ongoing data from our authorities. A report from the Radiation Safety Authority was received by today at the latest, and we will, of course, include it in the overall assessment. I think Catarina Deremar understands that we cannot take a position on material until we have it, and once we have it, we need time to analyse it. To set an exact time for how long the review takes cannot be done at present. We take this issue seriously. People should feel confident that the solution that is then developed actually works.
i-731ba35192aa0270-404	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. It is also about a commitment that is required of both residents and management in the municipality of Östhammar to handle the question n for such a long time. I believe that the generation that has used this energy source should also take responsibility for the spent fuel. In Finland, the same...
i-731ba35192aa0270-407	Madam President, I would like On this issue, we share the assessment. This is also the basis for the legislation under which the Government is to examine SKB's application. This means that the generation that has used nuclear power should also take responsibility for the solution. At the same time, we need to make this assessment according to the legislation that Parliament has supported. This is also the task of the government; it is a major and urgent task. We must also ensure that the Swedish people can feel confident that the solution that will actually work 100 000 years ahead.
i-731ba35192aa0270-410	Madam President, I would like In February, it emerged that the German energy company RWE is suing the Netherlands for EUR 1.4 billion for its forward-looking decision to phase out its coal power plants. RWE does this with the support of the International Energy Charter Treaty investor protection clause, also known as ISDS. Fortunately, a process is now underway within the EU to remove investor protection from the International Energy Charter Treaty. I would like to ask Environment and Climate Minister Per Bolund whether he believes that it is reasonable for fossil companies to be able to counter climate change by suing states outside the ordinary judicial system. I also wonder whether the government intends to support the process of reforming the Energy Charter Treaty by removing investor protection so that companies cannot sue states outside the ordinary judiciary.
i-731ba35192aa0270-412	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jens Holm, for a very important question! The government's position is clear; we have also clarified it with regard to Swedish legislation. We want to review all relevant legislation so that it does not constitute an obstacle to climate action, but on the contrary enables Sweden to achieve its climate and environmental objectives. This applies to national legislation, where we have a great deal of work, but also to the legislation that exists at international level. There, the government fully supports the EU position that ECT needs to be modernised, not least in terms of investment protection. We therefore believe that it is natural for the EU to also participate actively in the negotiations currently under way in order to make ECT a modern agreement that responds to today's challenges. Even with regard to fossil fuel support, the government fully supports all EU proposals. This also includes removing and phasing out investment protection for fossil fuel investments.
i-731ba35192aa0270-415	Madam President, I would like This was a good news from the Minister for Climate Change – this has not really been the Swedish line before. This means that Sweden is pushing internationally for investor protection to be completely removed from ECT, the international energy treaty. This also means that the Swedish government does not believe that large companies should be able to sue states, at least not within Europe, with reference to ISDS investor protection. Is that so?
i-731ba35192aa0270-416	Madam President, I would like Of course, the government sees a great value in that we get investments and that Swedish companies can make investments in other countries. And, of course, some form of protection is needed if those investments are not to be put at risk because of, for example, legal uncertainty. However, we are very clear that we do not think it is good that regulations at international level can stop the transition to a sustainable society. There we fully support the EU's efforts to clarify in the ECT, the Energy Charter Treaty, that states cannot allow this to be a brake block in climate action.
i-731ba35192aa0270-418	Madam President, I would like We must put an end to the evasion of subsidies within the study associations. The Christian Democrats want a strong civil society, but people in this country who work hard and pay taxes must also be able to trust that the money goes to the right things. It must not be the case that taxpayers' money is being lost to criminals or to organisations with Islamic or otherwise undemocratic links. My question to Minister for Democracy Amanda Lind is whether she and the government are prepared to take steps to give citizens an external audit and scrutiny of the study associations' activities so that we can put an end to the fraud.
i-731ba35192aa0270-420	Madam President, I would like Again – the question of study associations is not on my table but on the table of Minister for Education Anna Ekström. But in general I can say that I and the government on this issue – that state funds, or public funds at all, should not go to extremist or non-democratic organisations – fully share the ambition expressed by Christian Carlsson. We have done various things to strengthen the work to counteract this type of element. It is, for example, a question of providing support to the contributing authorities and operators to strengthen their scrutiny. The work on democracy conditions also means that guidance has been developed for municipalities and other actors that distribute support, so that they can be helped to carry out audits and distribute support in a good way. However, I would like to end by saying that it is very important that we see all the great efforts that our civil society and study associations make and contribute to. I am pleased that the Christian Democrats want to continue to defend this.
i-731ba35192aa0270-423	Madam President, I would like I am aware of several of the measures taken by the government. But the fact is that it has not yet been said that it is prepared to give citizens an external audit and scrutiny of the study associations. I think we are already seeing the obvious need, and therefore my question is whether the Minister and the Government are not prepared to take action for such an external audit and review right now.
i-731ba35192aa0270-424	Madam President, I would like The questions in this House are, of course, to be asked in the course of my duties. But I know that Anna Ekström takes this issue very seriously. The Folkbildningsrådet has carried out its own review, and I know that action is also being taken in this area. I am once again given the opportunity to say in this House that tax revenue should, of course, go where it belongs. This applies regardless of the type of crime involved. We shall continue to take steps forward to strengthen this.
i-731ba35192aa0270-427	Madam President, I would like I have a question for the Foreign Trade Minister. It is about the EU's external trade policy, which is being reviewed at the moment with a view to adapting to the changing circumstances of global trade. In recent years, the trading system has been characterised by protectionism, resulting in increased trade conflicts. Sweden has stood up for free trade at a time when the World Trade Organisation has suffered from blockages and a lack of results. The European Commission's review, as I understand it, aims to reduce barriers to trade with a focus on open and sustainable trade. I understand that there are different aspects to this, but I would still like to ask the Minister for Foreign Trade how she views the review that the European Commission has now developed.
i-TQnxETGSVgaXKMAE6Pic6u	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Per-Per-Arne Håkansson, for the question! It is an incredibly important review that is now being carried out, even considering that Sweden is one of the world's most export-dependent countries. Therefore, Sweden has chosen to make seven thematic contributions to the review, many of them together with our like-minded countries. There are a total of eight countries that have supported this. Above all, we want to see greater transparency. We want trade to contribute to social and environmental sustainability. And we want to see that we can conclude more free trade agreements. It is gratifying to see now that the Commission has listened to Sweden and our like-minded countries. We are very pleased with the draft trade policy review that has come. These are strong initiatives in the area of sustainability. What we might have feared in terms of autonomy and strategic autonomy, we can still put on the account what is needed to be resilient and resilient. But we're gonna stay open. I am therefore very pleased with the conclusions that the Commission has drawn.
i-731ba35192aa0270-432	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much for your answer, Minister for Foreign Trade. I would like to highlight this, because it is very important for Swedish industry and for jobs and growth that we have a well-functioning trading system globally. The Minister mentioned a lot of issues where Sweden has particularly profiled itself in this context. Is there anything specific to emphasise in order to further develop a commitment to the importance of a well-functioning trading system?
i-731ba35192aa0270-434	Madam President, I would like The most important dividing line here is between openness versus solitude. There is a challenge, and that is why it is so important, not least now that the UK has disappeared from the negotiating table in Brussels, that Sweden continues to be a strong voice for open, free, fair and sustainable trade. All of this together strengthens Sweden's competitiveness and creates more jobs throughout the country.
i-731ba35192aa0270-436	Madam President, I would like Preventing natural disasters is more cost-effective than dealing with the consequences once they occur. In addition, both human suffering and other inconveniences are avoided for those affected. It is therefore very strange that the government has cut the budget for the prevention of natural disasters by two thirds. Municipalities applying for this money with MSB receive the answer that the money is basically already committed.
i-731ba35192aa0270-438	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Boriana Åberg, for an incredibly important and urgent question! First of all, what Boriana Åberg suggests is not true, that the government should have cut back on climate adaptation measures. On the contrary, we have made great efforts. I would say that no previous government has made as great an effort as this government on climate adaptation. On the other hand, we have chosen to redeploy the funds for adaptation to climate change and try to target the funds where they are most useful, that is, where the risks are greatest. You can compare it a little bit with the vaccination against covid-19. We have not vaccinated them all widely, but we have gone to the groups at risk, where there is the greatest risk of serious illness and death. In the same way, the government has directed the money mainly to Götaälvdalen, where our authorities and experts believe that the risks for for for example skids are the greatest. A skirmish can endanger property and not least human life. There, we have almost doubled the appropriations and also created more generous support schemes in order to address the problems where they are the greatest.
i-731ba35192aa0270-441	Madam President, I would like It is very difficult to predict where a natural disaster will occur. That is why I find it very regrettable that the money from the Swedish Civil Protection Agency has already run out at the beginning of the year. Municipalities applying will receive a blank ‘no'. What does the government intend to do, so that even municipalities that are not close to the area mentioned by the Government can be protected against natural disasters?
i-731ba35192aa0270-442	Madam President, I would like The government does a lot of things. We have a climate adaptation strategy that will be updated in just two years. We have commissioned SMHI to be an expert authority. We have commissioned Boverket to also support municipalities when it comes to settlements. We have commissioned the relevant authorities to initiate operations through a new regulation to 32 authorities and also to all county boards. In addition, as I said, we have invested a lot of money. I would like to welcome Boriana Åberg's and Moderates' commitment to climate issues and perhaps hope that the next budget that the Moderates lay hand on will not draw money away from climate work.
i-731ba35192aa0270-445	Madam President, I would like Sweden is the world's largest aid country per capita, with SEK 52 billion for 2021. That's a lot of money. In order for aid to be effective for both donors and beneficiaries, the government must make sharp demands on the recipient countries. One example is to require beneficiary countries to open up all relevant accounts of, for example, salaries and fees for auditing, so that corruption can be counteracted and the money can end up where it really should be. The second example, already mentioned by Magdalena Schröder, is that Sweden, for its part, should be able to demand a return agreement for recipient countries' citizens who have not been granted a residence permit in Sweden.
i-FG556hTYidiEQHr2sjjimB	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mats Nordberg, for these questions! As Minister for International Development Cooperation, it is not my portfolio to conclude agreements with countries on the readmission of citizens who have fallen into asylum proceedings in Sweden. On the other hand, it is my job to ensure that the government's support to various countries in the world also contributes to the opportunity for people to live without poverty and to be able to return to their home countries if they have been on the run, and they should be able to make it legally secure and with good prospects. There, of course, aid can play a role. Corruption should never be accepted. We call in the implementation of aid for good control and anti-corruption measures. Sida's corruption policy is always to prevent, never accept, always act, always report and always inform. The fact that we even know of many of the few cases of corruption that we sometimes discuss is proof that these systems actually work.
i-731ba35192aa0270-450	Madam President, I would like My question is: is the Minister in this case prepared to reduce or terminate aid to countries that do not meet Sweden's specific requirements for accounting? I would have liked to have added this and also to return agreements.
i-731ba35192aa0270-451	Madam President, I would like The question asked in brackets at the end has already been answered during Question Time, i.e. on the condition of assistance with return. We do not conclude aid agreements unless the parties with whom we conclude the agreements are prepared to stand up for transparency and audit opportunities, so that we can tackle corruption. Corruption is one of the greatest obstacles to development in the world. It is a priority in development cooperation to combat corruption in aid, if it occurs there, and of course also in the countries in which we work.
i-731ba35192aa0270-454	Madam President, I would like My question goes to the Minister for the Environment. In recent weeks, the debate on the disposal of nuclear waste from our nuclear power plants has become very topical. We have heard about this earlier here in Question Time today. Sweden currently has no nuclear waste disposal facility. The planning has been going on for a very long time, and it is of course an incredibly complicated project, both in terms of safety and construction, but also when it comes to communicating to future generations that you should not enter and dig into the site of the repository. It is important that the research and analyses are as clear and thorough as possible. In the recent past, the copper capsules in particular have been discussed. There are some criticisms of them. I wonder how the Minister for the Environment views the criticism that has been made about the safety of the copper capsules.
i-731ba35192aa0270-457	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Hanna Gunnarsson, for a very important question! This is one of the questions that has been asked repeatedly and where also leading researchers on corrosion linked to copper have raised major question marks and expressed great concern about how the copper capsules should be kept. That's a huge amount of time we're talking about. We are talking about hundreds of thousands of years in which these hugely dangerous substances must be kept separate from humans and the environment, so that we, our children or future generations do not suffer from radioactivity. That is also why we need to have a thorough examination of the repository. I can sometimes be alarmed by the tone of the debate that sounds like we should not take into account the question marks that have been raised and that this decision should be removed as soon as possible, with reference to the various needs that exist. I do not think this is a serious way of dealing with this issue. It's incredibly serious. It's a very big environmental test, and we're going to turn all the stones around. This also applies, of course, to the risk of copper corrosion.
i-731ba35192aa0270-460	Madam President, I would like I fully agree with what the Minister for the Environment said at the end. This is a very big decision that we should not speed up more than necessary, if we say so. As the Minister for the Environment is certainly aware, it is now ten years since the major accident in Fukushima, Japan, where an earthquake and a tsunami led to a nuclear accident. It reminds us of how important these questions are and how dangerous this is.
i-731ba35192aa0270-462	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Hanna Gunnarsson, for the follow-up! Yes, it is important that we also allow ourselves to remember. We must not forget the risks associated with nuclear power at all its stages – from mining, which we know poses quite a lot of risks to human health, to transport and to nuclear power itself. Fukushima is an example where it has had enormous consequences that you have not managed to operate safely. It is estimated that only the costs of clean-up will be EUR 7 000 billion, so as not to count all the human lives that have been put at risk. This is an issue that we need to take seriously as it deserves.
i-731ba35192aa0270-463	Madam President, I would like This summer we worked intensively in the Migration Committee towards an absolute deadline that put an end to further negotiations. It was because we wanted to give Parliament, consultation bodies and the Law Council the chance to get the time needed to handle such a comprehensive but also important matter as the new migration policy. The final report has been referred, but in December a completely new proposal was made to supplement what has already been presented, which means that large groups can stay in Sweden despite the rejection of the asylum application – as the Migration Agency has pointed out and as the Liberals have correctly stated, this leads to increased costs and increased search pressure. The bill list states that this bill will land on the Riksdag table on 8 April, despite the fact that the legislative texts have not even been referred to the Swedish Law Council. Can Minister Bolund tell us when this bill will land in the Riksdag and when it will move to the Law Council for a Law Council referral?
i-731ba35192aa0270-467	Madam President, I would like I thank Mr Eklind for the question. It is true that an investigation, the Migration Committee, has looked at legislation, which is also part of the January agreement. That work has now been completed. However, there was no collective majority for all the proposals resulting from the work of the Migration Committee, but there were hopeful majorities where different parties were found that were behind different parts. We have a responsibility to take these proposals forward and develop them and also to see how we can create workable legislation. The January agreement also states that, among other things, we should have a humanitarian basis of protection, and work on producing proposals in this area continues in the Government Office. I cannot anticipate this work, but we are working intensively on these issues and will present proposals to Parliament when they are ready. At the moment, this is not clear.
i-731ba35192aa0270-472	Madam President, I would like The Government may apologise, but the question is raised because we have a government in which one Party supports all 26 proposals that were put forward while the other Party reserves itself against 23 out of 26 proposals. We read in the media and on social media how to take each other in the ear when you have different positions in migration policy, and hence the concern about whether the bill will come about and whether it can become sustainable in the long term when you disagree so deeply. Is the delay due to disagreement?
i-731ba35192aa0270-475	Madam President, I would like I do not share the rather sweeping description of our cooperation. On the contrary, we have shown that we can find solutions to all the issues that have landed on the table of the government, and we will continue to do so. To take each other in the ear rather characterizes the conservative side of Swedish politics, where some parties go out with sweeping generalizations if, for example, religion and other parties react strongly and grab them in the ear. This is not how this government works, but we work structured with our proposals and will of course come forward with them and present them to the Riksdag.
i-731ba35192aa0270-479	Madam President, I would like We read almost daily about China, about the existence of concentration camps with forced sterilisation, torture, slave labour, and more. We also receive extensive reports on how to slaughter people for their organs. These are blatant violations of human rights. It would be bad enough if it ended there, but it doesn't. Today, the Chinese Communist dictatorship has decided on a new electoral system in Hong Kong, which was previously democratic. Not least in the light of the government's alleged pro-democracy offensive, I ask Minister Hallberg: Is the government prepared to work for trade restrictions against China?
i-731ba35192aa0270-482	Madam President, I would like I thank Markus Wiechel for the question. Sweden's relationship with China is characterised by both challenges and opportunities, as stated in the letter on issues related to China presented to the Riksdag in 2019. As far as the trade relationship is concerned, we have, as an example, an agreement in principle between the EU and China on an investment agreement. These kinds of agreements and agreements allow for increased trade but also greater transparency and an increased opportunity for dialogue and impact on China. Stopping trading with China is not the solution when it comes to influencing difficult issues of human rights, the environment and climate, but trade is one of the few tools to really bring about change. When we get the trade and investment agreement in place, we will make full use of the strengthened institutional framework.
i-731ba35192aa0270-488	Madam President, I would like A democracy offensive means being offensive and acting proactively and directly. I do not think anyone in this House is in favour of completely stopping dealing with China, but we must act actively. Especially as the government claims to have a democratic offensive, one can expect a little more action on this issue. It's not just about Hong Kong. We see China becoming increasingly aggressive against Taiwan. Why isn't the government acting offensively?
i-731ba35192aa0270-491	Madam President, I would like The government acts and addresses these issues in every contact with China, and these contacts become more frequent when you have a trade exchange. Not taking advantage of the opportunity of trade would be to not stand up for our values and our expectations of progress in terms of democracy and human rights. But we do that every time we have that kind of dialogue. Trade is thus a tool that enables it to influence in the right direction.
i-731ba35192aa0270-495	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of Culture and Democracy Amanda Lind. In the last month, the Swedish Press, Radio and Television Agency's proposal for new regulations on the distribution of media support has caused much debate. Like alternative media, the trade organisation Newspaper publishers have expressed concern about a beauty assessment of the media to be supported and that other changes would create an indirect link between the distribution and follow-up of media support by the state and the self-regulatory media ethics system. These are, of course, serious fears. How does the Minister intend to act to ensure that new regulations for the Media Support Regulation do not open up for MPRT to condition media support based on media reporting when it is given a more prominent role than size of edition etc.?
i-731ba35192aa0270-498	Madam President, I would like I thank Mr Emilsson for the question. Let me first say that it is the Media Support Board at MPRT that has to test whether an individual news medium meets the requirements for media support as expressed in the Media Support Regulation. The regulation itself was developed in a broad political process in which all parties were concerned that democracy conditions, for example, should not be introduced. It is possible for the Authority to decide on the rules. The draft regulations are in the process of being consulted, and of course I understand both the principled approach and the concerns expressed, for example, by newspaper publishers. I therefore welcome this debate, because these are difficult issues. The authority has chosen to send this proposal for a referral, and now it has to take a position on the views expressed.
i-731ba35192aa0270-503	Madam President, I would like Like parts of the industry, we have concerns about the risk, in particular, of the application and interpretation of the proposal for a referral. If arbitrariness in the selective selection of eligible persons arises when the authority itself thinks that the government has been diffused in the regulation, it may ultimately hamper journalistism's room for manoeuvre and, in the worst case, lead to a politicised media support board.
i-731ba35192aa0270-504	Madam President, I would like A free and independent journalism is, of course, absolutely fundamental, and this characterises my work and that of the government. The Agency has the possibility to issue regulations, and the proposal has been sent out for consultation. The decision has not yet been made, but you should first take note of the comments and referrals that come in.
i-731ba35192aa0270-507	Madam President, I would like For more than a year there have been tangible problems in our border areas. Among other things, the Norwegian restrictions have hit the local business community, which is connected to Norway and which is directly dependent on Norwegian consumers for its survival. Early on, both small and large players flagged because their stores were gaping empty and the Swedish support measures were not sufficient. At the same time, there have also been major problems for commuters who usually work in Norway but are now excluded from the country. The Nordic cooperation and integration of the region have been thoroughly stress-stressed, and the government has not satisfactorily solved the problems that have arisen. Does Anna Hallberg intend to take further action in this area?
i-731ba35192aa0270-510	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Tobias Andersson, for a very topical and urgent question! As I said to previous questioners, it has been a time of examination in the last year of Nordic cooperation. I would like to say that we will resolve the question of when they arrive. What we Nordic ministers and co-operation ministers need to do, as well as the Nordic governments, is above all to ensure that we get a better dialogue, a better collaboration function and a model for co-operation in crises. It has turned out that our emergency preparedness did not cover the entire Nordic region. As far as the ability to influence another country and that country's decision on border barriers, border restrictions and so on is concerned, I do not think that either I or Tobias Andersson believe that we can or want to do this in relation to the other Nordic countries. But what we can do, which we in the Swedish Government have done very clearly in recent weeks, is to influence and have a dialogue when it comes to minimising the consequences. We see that this has been a success for the border commutes.
i-731ba35192aa0270-513	Madam President, I would like I think it is quite clear that cooperation with our Nordic neighbours has not worked sufficiently during the pandemic. Although we all agree on the importance of a well-integrated Nordic region where we relieve and facilitate each other, several complications have arisen. I am convinced that this would not have been the case if the government had acted more forcefully on this issue.
i-731ba35192aa0270-514	Madam President, I would like I do not agree with Tobias Andersson that we have not acted vigorously. We have acted from many parts of the government, and many ministers have had intensive contacts and have also been able to solve a lot of border problems. But I agree that we have not managed to keep Nordic cooperation together during the crisis, and this shows that we need to have a different model of cooperation. As Swedish Minister for the Nordic Region, I have proposed this very thing, and I will continue to propose it at the next meeting and at future meetings so that we can have it in place. We must face crises better together in the Nordic countries.
i-731ba35192aa0270-516	Madam President, I would like We must do what is necessary to restore security in the event of illness and ensure that we do what we can to ensure that social security provides people with the security they deserve at different stages of their lives. It is clear that the development that we have had since the changes in health insurance in 2008 has meant that the security of the sick has become weaker and worse, and that has serious socio-economic consequences. It also has serious consequences for our society. It is therefore essential that we do what is necessary to change the regulatory framework, that we do what is necessary in terms of audits and evaluations and that we do what is necessary in terms of the development and governance of the authority in question. All these processes are under way by the government. What concerns me, Madam President, is that there still seems to be a notion in a couple of parties in this House that social security is a bad thing, that social security is to be a source of income for other expenses and that the security of the sick is not a good thing for our society. It happens to be the parties that Julia Kronlid's party wants to cooperate with. This raises questions about what happens in a situation where these parties have the opportunity to set the agenda for health insurance. Will we go further in a more restrictive direction in health insurance, and what security do long-term ills and people with disabilities receive? It is not fine words that solve the challenges that we have in health insurance, Madam President, but it is action. And action, in this case, means legislative changes. As far as I know, there are two parties in this House who, in the middle of this year, in the midst of a pandemic, have proposed austerity in health insurance, in other words the continuation and radicalisation of the very restrictive approach to insurance in our society. We must dare to say this: there is another way, and that way is to believe in the insurance model and believe that we have a common responsibility in this House to do what is necessary to restore the security of long-term ills. We have to believe that the aims behind the creation of health insurance, which became universal in 1953, have served this society well, that the security of long-term illness and disability is something that benefits society as a whole and that the deterioration of social security systems does not create incentives for work but makes society less secure. That is what has happened since 2008. I agree with a number of the issues that have been debated here, but the question that remains unanswered is: how is it to be done in a constellation where two of the parties have the goal of gradually dismantling health insurance and is based on the strange logic that the loss of security for long-term ill and disabled people creates incentives for work? Does Julia Kronlid agree with this idea – about the contradiction between socio-economic security for people with disabilities and long-term ills and the labour incentive in our society?
i-731ba35192aa0270-522	Madam President, I would like The attitude of social security as a cash cow to take money from it seems that the government and the Social Democrats have had. It was during the refugee crisis, I think, that the Minister for Finance said that there must be some reductions in, for example, the LSS and health insurance. We have seen the consequences of this. We do not agree with this approach, but rather in our budget we have increased the resources for health insurance. If people are long-term ill, I do not think that the threat of insurance is what helps them to return to work. However, I think that people should not just be left behind in long sick leave. We need to do much more in terms of prevention, rehabilitation and support. There is an investigation from the Swedish National Audit Office about what happens after denied sickness benefit, and that is far too bad support for people today. They do not receive sufficient rehabilitation, and they do not receive sufficient care, as we also have a care in crisis. There is much more we can do, but out-insurance, of course, does not help anyone to get healthier. It is clear that we have this attitude in all our health insurance policies, as the Government can read in our committee motion and our budget. No, pretty words don't solve health insurance. Action solves it. I said in my previous speech that we have made proposals for the government to proceed with the legislative changes that need to be made today and which relate to 365 and specified work. When can we see this bill on the table? Nor have I received an answer as to whether the Government is willing to proceed with investigating that it should not be able to become zeroed from its SGI as it is today, but rather that it should be calculated from an average of the income earned during its life and that it should not be thrown out of SGI. Will the Government really take this seriously, that one should not fall between the chairs?
i-731ba35192aa0270-527	Madam President, I would like I thank Julia Kronlid for this interpellation. The answer is that we will act to push through the proposals on the table of the government, which the investigation into safe health insurance has put forward. These are proposals aimed at increasing the safety of long-term ills and at increasing the safety of people with disabilities. It is clear that workers' organisations, patients' organisations and the whole movement of civil rights demand this because it is a matter of basic security. Then it is also reasonable for us to push these proposals through. I am incredibly proud of the fact that the change to the regulatory framework for review at day 180 will enter into force on 15 March. It is a huge step that we increase the security and flexibility of the assessment of the entitlement to sickness benefit on day 181. It is happening so quickly now that it will enter into force in a few days' time. I am careful to emphasise that the other legislative proposals on the table of the Government, which the report on safe health insurance has put forward, are necessary adjustments to the regulatory framework that we have for health insurance. If we want a minimum of security for the long-term sufferers, these proposals should be enforced, and that is the direction of the government. We are currently working on these proposals. It is of the highest priority for the government to work on these regulatory changes in parallel with the work that we have on the development of the governance of the Swedish Social Insurance Agency, where we have a new board, and special assignments that the Swedish Social Insurance Agency has received on the issue of the handling of health insurance matters – the investigations in health insurance matters. I am convinced that regulatory changes combined with the development and management of the Social Insurance Agency's activities together will lead to better health insurance with security for those people who need support from this benefit.
i-731ba35192aa0270-533	Madam President, I would like Kristina Axén Olin has asked me how I believe that all students' knowledge should be made visible, and what measures I should take. School is crucial to the future of students. We know that school is important for children's and pupils' learning, safety and health. The government is therefore continuously working to support schools during the pandemic and to identify how the covid-19 pandemic has affected education. With regard to the national tests, I would like to point out that it is the National Board of Education that decides whether the tests are to be carried out or not. The decision of the National Board of Education to cancel the national tests is not desirable, but necessary. The Swedish National Agency for Education considers that, due to high absence and disease-protection aspects, there are not sufficient conditions for carrying out the tests in such a way that the purpose of the tests is achieved. It is a difficult balance to decide to set up important opportunities for assessing students' knowledge development. At the same time, it should be borne in mind that the purpose of the national tests is primarily to support the rating. They are not designed to monitor the development of knowledge over time. The decision to postpone Pisa 2021 for one year until 2022 is taken by the OECD, together with the participating Pisa countries. Many countries have not had the opportunity to conduct the planned pre-study in 2020, and many countries would not be able to conduct the test this year, partly because students do not receive teaching at school premises. I regret that Pisa cannot be carried out as planned, but at the same time it is unrealistic to require teachers and students to carry out both national tests and Pisa as usual at a time when virtually nothing else is normal. I am concerned about the consequences of the pandemic for students' knowledge acquisition. That is why the focus must be on teaching. The school needs to focus on the students receiving the education they need and are entitled to in order to reach the knowledge requirements in school and to ensure that the pandemic does not adversely affect their learning for a long time to come. The Swedish National Agency for Education has made sure that schools have access to rating support that teachers can use. Like national tests, these assessment support should support the teacher to make an equal and fair assessment and rating. The Government has commissioned the Swedish National Agency for Education to carry out supportive actions in connection with the pandemic and to monitor its consequences and evaluate the measures taken. The mission includes developing specific support to facilitate parts of the training that are particularly difficult to implement during the pandemic. The State's school inspection will also examine the distance and distance learning that has been conducted and the consequences that this teaching has for pupils' ability to achieve the goals and their health. Of course, the best thing would have been for national knowledge measurements to be carried out as usual. But it has not been and is not as usual this academic year. I will continue to monitor closely how the pandemic affects students' knowledge development. Swedish students have not had the same good conditions for their learning during this time. They will not be left alone to deal with that burden. Together, we have to make the best of the situation, something that the teachers show every day.
i-731ba35192aa0270-540	Madam President, I would like I thank Minister Ekström for her reply. Even before the pandemic, I and we Moderates were concerned about the situation in Swedish schools. We know what the labour market looks like in Sweden. You have to have at least a high school degree and preferably more to get a job. Yet we have a school that annually leaves over 16 000 pupils without upper secondary school qualifications and without a comprehensive school degree. Since the pandemic came, students and schools have had an incredibly difficult situation with a large absence among students and teachers, cancelled lessons and, of course, elements that cannot be carried out. This summer, the OECD decided to postpone this year's PISA survey for at least one year. I find that very unfortunate, because the test could have given knowledge about the knowledge step in real time. Later last autumn, the National Agency for Education decided to cancel this year's national exams for all grades except grade 3. It is so serious that the Teachers' Union has now come to the Education Committee a couple of times. They want us to ensure that they do not have to give grades in all grades, because they do not consider themselves to have any basis on the children's knowledge. We Moderates are deeply concerned about the consequences of this pandemic when it comes to pupils' acquisition of knowledge and knowledge. I have therefore asked the Minister for Education, Anna Ekström, in my interpellation, how she believes that all pupils' knowledge should be made visible and what measures the Minister takes. In the answer, the Minister of Education tells about how the Swedish National Agency for Education and the Swedish School Inspectorate, via various principals, follows part of the work. But no one is following the students' skill pace.
i-731ba35192aa0270-548	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking Kristina Axén Olin for putting her finger on a very sore point. It is incredibly important that every student who leaves the school has the knowledge needed to make it through further studies, the labour market and life. That is why we need to make a strong effort to ensure that students bring these skills to upper secondary school. But, Madam President, for those students who do not pass upper secondary school in one step, we must give opportunities to make up for the latter by several steps. This is why the government has expanded the knowledge boost and increased the number of places in Komvux and in the folk high school. I would particularly like to emphasise the importance of folk high school to ensure that those students who have not passed school have a chance to see what it is like to succeed in school. There, the folk high school with its pedagogy and its attitude towards the students over the years has proved to be a very good way for students who need a second chance and another chance. The number of places we have expanded the folk high school, Komvux, the university of applied sciences and the university is impressive. It is very good in these times, when we are in the midst of a pandemic where so many students go out of high school and comprehensive school and may need to close the gaps in knowledge in the future. Kristina Axén Olin also addresses the need for a grade support for the teachers, i.e. support to put the right grades on each student. I can say that I partly agree with Kristina Axén Olin in this regard – it is important that teachers receive this support, and it is important that the Swedish National Agency for Education ensures that there are grades supporting material for the teachers. At the same time, one of the teacher's core tasks is to assess and rate. The teacher must be able to do that normally. Even with national tests, the teacher has the ultimate responsibility to give a fair and equivalent grade. This is done with the support of national tests but with their own professional skills as the absolute last guarantor. I am aware that the teachers' work and the task of rating are particularly difficult in a pandemic year, Madam President. There are many things that are particularly difficult during a pandemic year. The only objection I have with regard to the facts of what Kristina Axén Olin mentions is that, as I understand it, the reason for the Teacher Association's demand to avoid having to grade certain grades during this year is to seek ways to lighten the teachers' workload. I have not heard the Teacher Association say that the rating is too difficult for their members during this year. It is also a core task for the members of the Teacher Association and the other organisations. Madam President, I would like We have a difficult situation in Swedish school. One of the difficulties is to give grades when we cannot hold national tests, but I do not see how to get to that problem without placing a very heavy administrative burden on teachers. Therefore, my conclusion is that the best thing we can do is to give teachers as much time as possible to teach – peel away as much as we can from projects and development work, such as the new curricula, and instead ensure that as much as possible of the teachers' precious working hours during this stressed year can be taught. I think that is the best way to achieve equal and fair grades, Madam President.
i-731ba35192aa0270-554	Madam President, I would like It's not the grades I think are important. I think they're rather uninteresting in this pandemic. What is important to me, however, and what I think is so worrying, is the students' knowledge pace and how to find out every knowledge gap that every child has. I do not want to think now about how we can then compensate the debt by finding solutions with more places at Komvux and folk high school. I welcome this too, of course, but it is among the children who attend primary school now that we need to see what there are gaps in knowledge – and how we fix them as soon as possible. I've been looking at how other countries do, and that's very impressive. I think you can get a lot of good ideas. In other countries, efforts are being made to reduce the debt of knowledge. For example, Estonia, which has good results, has, in addition to national tests and exams which are now being carried out, electronic diagnostic tests where teachers can detect each child's lack of knowledge. There are also internal evaluations of schools, and now even more e-tests are being developed to measure the knowledge gaps of each student. In Finland, EUR 84 million has been spent on hiring retired teachers, hiring special teachers and increasing teachers' working hours. A further EUR 71 million has been allocated to ensure the quality of school and all children's opportunities. In England, the government has set up an expert group just under the government that follows the work of the schools. It has introduced a recovery premium for those schools that have introduced some kind of national education programme for the most vulnerable students. In addition, 1.3 million digital devices – computers, iPads and routers with Wi-Fi connectivity – have been distributed in England to children who cannot take part in remote and distance learning because they do not have access to the technology. In Sweden, we Moderates have requested that we follow every child's knowledge gaps. The National Agency for Education should be given the task of carrying out some kind of test so that all children's needs can be measured. We have proposed that the school heads scan which children do not have access to the technology, so that we can help so that all children can participate in remote and distance learning. We have also suggested trying to hire retired teachers, teacher students and others to help increase the number of hours at school so that children can make up for their teaching. All of this is rejected by the Social Democrats. I do not think we are doing what other countries seem to be doing and that they understand the seriousness of, Madam President and the Minister for Education. We must look at every child's needs now, and at every child's right to school education. We must try to fill the gaps as soon as possible, not in a few years' time, when they are in folk high school or college age.
i-731ba35192aa0270-562	Madam President, I would like What if I came from another country and would describe what was done in Sweden during the pandemic year? Then I would start by telling you about the school billion that the government, together with the cooperation parties, has ensured that the Riksdag has been able to make decisions on. It is currently being paid out to Sweden's schools. I could also tell you that the government has introduced opportunities for, for example, retired teachers and teachers at risk to teach from home if it is not appropriate to come to school. I could have told you that we keep national tests in grade 3 for the simple reason that they are needed precisely for diagnostics and for us to be able to follow the students' early reading and writing development. The samples are a piece of the read-write-count guarantee that applies. I could have told you that we have decided to hold distance learning but with the opportunity for students in need of special support to enter the school. We provide the opportunity for students who do internships to come to school and the opportunity for students who do tests and trials to come to school. I could have told you about the large investments in one-to-one that have meant that a very large proportion of Sweden's high school students and secondary school students have access to different types of units. I could also tell you about the opportunity for students without, for example, a good connection at home to come to school and study at a distance. Above all, however, Madam President, I would have told you that Sweden is the country that has kept primary school open for almost the entire pandemic. We have made it possible to close schools and switch to distance learning if necessary for regional reasons, for reasons of disease protection or because there is a lot of infection in a school. I had also told you that the government did all this with the support of special legislation, which was developed in broad agreement and in good cooperation with the Riksdag. Madam President, I would like During this pandemic, Sweden has had a very difficult task to ensure that schools have been able to keep open and that teaching has been possible. My assessment is that the Swedish students are better equipped than students in many other countries precisely because we have been able to keep the school open so much, and I am very grateful and happy about the strong support I have had from so many of the parliamentary parties in the hard work. However, I am very aware that it is teachers, principals and other staff at school – and not least the students themselves – who are responsible for the most important and hardest work. In a pandemic, it is difficult to maintain school, and we must ensure that teachers' time can be spent on teaching. In that situation, getting started with some new kind of test to be handed out to the teachers, which they have to spend time administering instead of teaching the students, I think would have been misused time for the teachers and misused opportunities for the students. In the situation we have, we do best to give teachers the best conditions and as much confidence as possible to score. Should it then turn out that we have knowledge gaps and knowledge gaps, the students should not stand alone, but the whole society should be there and ensure that they are helped to close the gaps. The most important thing we can do, however, is to ensure here and now that the gaps in knowledge do not arise.
i-731ba35192aa0270-571	Madam President, I would like The problem is that we discover the gaps too late. For many years we have been in Swedish school, at least I think, providing the help and support that children and students need when it is almost too late, although it is never really too late. In any case, support should be put in place earlier. The problem now is that we do not measure each student's knowledge pace and how the student feels, unlike other countries that do, and who think it is important to see individually exactly what support to put in. Today we had a visit to the Education Committee by the Director General of SPSM, the Special Educational School Authority, who spoke about children with special needs and children with different functional variations. The SPSM told us that it does not work for these children during the pandemic. What is also quite frightening and, I think, clearly is that the Special Educational School Authority reports that the principals around Sweden – if you ask them – say that it works quite well but that the children say that it does not work well. In the same way, this whole pandemic is also the case with ordinary primary school. What we do with the Swedish National Agency for Education and the Swedish School Inspectorate is ask principals, teachers and principals how it goes, but we do not ask each individual child what it loses, what needs it has and how we can help. If we do not start doing so very soon, Madam President, I am concerned about the future of how we can discover what gaps and shortcomings children have had during this difficult time. I think it would be deeply unfortunate if we waited until it is too late.
i-731ba35192aa0270-576	Madam President, I would like Kristina Axén Olin is absolutely right that it is very important to capture knowledge gaps early. This is why we are working hard on various proposals for language preschools and the like together with our cooperation parties, but also because we have introduced a read-write-count guarantee that is now in force. There, the national grade 3 test is an important component, and this test is also retained. The reason why the Swedish National Agency for Education has decided to cancel the national tests is that it is assessed that the tests cannot be carried out in a legally secure and infectious manner. This is sad. I like the national tests; they are good and play an important role in the Swedish school. I would have been much happier if we had been able to implement them, but I understand the Swedish National Agency for Education's decision. In a pandemic, you cannot carry out tests insecure and legally secure, and the different signals we get from both the regular school and from the university about how easy it is to cheat on different forms of digital tests should be right for reflection. Madam President, I would like The Swedish school has a tough task during this pandemic. My conviction is that the most important thing we can do is to ensure that the school is kept open, to work even harder to ensure that it can be kept open in a safe way and to ensure that teachers can use their working time for the most important thing, namely to ensure that students have as much knowledge as possible. In the tough and tough priority, I am convinced that it is better for teachers to devote their time to teaching than to measuring the knowledge that they would otherwise not have been able to provide.
i-731ba35192aa0270-579	Madam President, I would like Roger Haddad has asked me how the government will act to prevent extremists from carrying out preschool and school activities, how the government intends to tighten up the School Inspectorate's mission around preschool activities, and whether the government intends to tighten up the legislation so that it also covers the activities of educational care. Let me begin with the fact that the vulnerability of children and young people to extremism is a serious and urgent matter for the government. Extremism and radicalisation do not belong in preschools and schools. Our work to strengthen the school's work on the democratic mission and to counter all forms of extremism continues. All principals of the school system, that is to say, both municipal and individual principals, are responsible for ensuring that the education is carried out on the basis of the rules laid down in the school constitutions. All education in the school system shall be designed in accordance with fundamental democratic values and human rights, such as the inviolability of human life, the freedom and integrity of the individual, the equal value of all people, equality and solidarity between people. Everyone involved in education should promote human rights and actively combat all forms of abuse. The same applies to educational care. From 1 January 2019, new provisions on suitability testing apply to the ownership and management circuit of individual principals. The rules create the conditions for checking that the owner or manager of a school has not only sufficient resources, experience and knowledge, but is also law-abiding, inclined to fulfil his obligations to the general and otherwise appropriate for the task. Persons who otherwise have control over their activities are also subject to the suitability test. The Swedish School Inspectorate's review includes obtaining evidence from, among other things, the Swedish Police Authority. In each individual case, the School Inspectorate may decide whether additional information should be collected from other authorities, such as the Swedish Companies Registration Office, the Swedish Enforcement Authority or the Swedish Tax Agency. The supervision of individual preschools by municipalities is also subject to the ownership and management review. I note that the strengthened rules for ownership and management testing introduced by the government have already been used and have been a necessary tool for detecting and stopping inappropriate principals from running as important tax-funded welfare activities as preschool and school activities. For educational care there is not the same ownership and management test as in preschool. Individuals who carry out educational care may be entitled to a grant, and it is the municipalities that decide on a grant. In order to be awarded a grant, the principal must, among other things, be in a position to comply with the regulations in force. Municipalities must also supervise individual educational care carried out in the municipality. The Government has commissioned a special investigator to make proposals to strengthen the quality of educational care (dir. 2018:102). The investigation was set up in the light, inter alia, of the need to strengthen the supervision of individual principals. The mandate was presented on 11 June 2020 in the report "Strengthening quality and equivalence in leisure and educational care" (SOU 2020:34). The study proposed, among other things, increased demands on the principal of educational care and that municipalities should have supervision of compliance with the requirements. The report has been referred and the proposals are currently being prepared within the Government Office. The Government also prepares proposals from the report on NYA Confesional Schools (SOU 2019:64) which may require additional requirements in the ownership and management review. The government is prepared to review the need to take further measures that may be needed to stop inappropriate principals and to ensure that all children and students receive a safe and sound education.
i-BMbLRLkq5qtX2WNpcTfZV6	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Education Anna Ekström, for the answer to my interpellation! Liberals have for many years raised the issue of domestic extremism and radicalisation and the need for action against terrorism. I note that we still have major problems, not least at local level, with increased radicalisation and with environments that support, fund and in different ways reinforce the violent Islamist extremism in our society. Some of the people or organisations, Madam President, who make use of this also concern the activities of preschools and schools. I do not think that the government is really responding to the demands I am asking for in order to stop these activities. According to the Swedish Security Service, we still have about ten preschools and schools in Sweden run by public funds where the people are linked to violent Islamist extremism or terrorism. Let me be extremely clear and clear: these people should under no circumstances be allowed to run preschools or schools with public funds in Sweden. These problems have been known since 2015 in connection with Board decisions in the municipality of Gothenburg and since 2017 in connection with the Swedish Defence University's report and analysis. In 2019 they were noticed in different media, and most recently – in 2021 – we discovered that there is a current case in the municipality of Gothenburg, where a preschool is run by people in the violent Islamic environment. This shows that the Swedish Government has not done enough with regard to national school policy – otherwise we would not have stood here today to discuss these issues, Madam President. Several of these things, such as tightening up the ownership and management test and tightening up the School Inspectorate's mission, sound good, but the problem remains. I have heard both social democrats and environmentalists comment on this and write very angry articles in the paper. But it does not help, but these preschool and school activities are still being conducted. I do not think that the Swedish School Inspectorate has a clear enough mission to have a national responsibility for both educational care and preschool activities in terms of permit testing and quality monitoring. On this point, I do not really get an answer, I mean, from the Minister for Education, Madam President. Liberals have also asked questions specifically about educational care, for it is clear that these people who do not have the best interests of the child or school are abusing and exploiting the rules. One day they start a preschool, and when the municipality – I am talking about large municipalities with capacity and resources – gets to them, they change some people in their business, create another administrative activity and call it educational activity or educational care and then get to continue. These are the gaps that we in the Liberals think must be closed, and they must be closed immediately.
i-731ba35192aa0270-598	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Roger Haddad, for a strong commitment to this issue! Thanks also for the fact that, through our parties in the January agreement between the Social Democrats, the Center Party, the Liberals and the Green Party, we have decided that we will work together to increase the opportunities for the School Inspectorate to close schools with major shortcomings, both independent and municipal. There is work going on within the Government Office. I am proud of the fact that we are following the preparation procedures resulting from our Constitution and I am hopeful that we will be able to come back with various forms of regulation as a result of that work. That is one of the many reasons why I think our joint January agreement is good. In addition, paragraph 57 of the January Agreement provides for the introduction of a standstill for independent primary and secondary schools with a confessional focus. It's not really preschools, but it's still a nearby business and an area where we work together to implement the start-up stop. I think it will be very good, even if it does not concern preschools. I am also very grateful that Roger Haddad touches on educational care. We are used to discussing preschool in this context. And I am, like Roger Haddad, very upset about the cases that are discovered where extremism prevails in Swedish preschools. Swedish preschool should not be a place of thumb for extremism or violent Islamism. Swedish preschool should be a place where you learn and play. One should not be exposed to the type of extreme events described by Roger Haddad. The possibilities of stopping this type of activity will increase significantly once we have jointly drawn up proposals under the January Agreement. Madam President, I would like I am also very pleased that Roger Haddad brings up educational care. We have for far too long allowed educational care to go a little under the radar in the political debate. And I am very pleased that the government has set up a proper investigation that has gone to the bottom of the problems that exist in educational care, and which has also made a number of sharp proposals. These are proposals that deal with very far-reaching issues such as the closure of new forms of educational care, but also a series of proposals that tighten up the possibilities for control and various forms of downtime. I look forward to proceeding with these proposals in due course and hope for good cooperation with Roger Haddad in this work.
i-731ba35192aa0270-603	Madam President, I would like It is not helpful for the Social Democrats to refer to the proposals that the Liberals are pursuing. I know what we're running. The fact that the start-up of independent secondary schools and primary schools was added to the investigation was on our initiative. It was not included in the inquiry initiated by the Social Democrats and the Green Party on 8 March 2018. But these are politically lost years. The fact that there are still about ten preschools and schools in our society run by people associated with extremism is a result of the fact that the state has not really been involved in development. I repeat, Madam President, these preschools are not something that has been popping up now, in the spring of 2021, but we have known about them for at least four five years. There are municipalities, such as the municipality of Gothenburg, which is one of the municipalities involved, which have the capacity and ability. They have made attempts, both in 2017 and 2019, to access these businesses. But that is not enough, because the people behind these activities are constantly finding new loopholes in the school law and in the regulations. I believe that it is a failure of the current school policy that they have been able to continue their activities. If you do not call the activity educational care instead of preschool, you can also apply old permits that the operator has had and can then expand or start their business. It is the children who are affected by this. We have very strange examples, Madam President. A municipality is closing down on a business, just as it is expected, but you keep the children and the staff and even keep the premises but put up a new sign and get to continue. We know that the people who run this business are not suitable and that they should not receive a single tax krona in order to be able to conduct this business, where they directly or indirectly expose children to an environment that we should not allow in Sweden. That is why we believe that the School Inspectorate must be given a more central role also in relation to individual preschools and educational care. I cannot quite see from the government's response today that there are any such plans. Otherwise, the government will be happy to clarify whether the Swedish School Inspectorate will have an expanded, clearer mission nationally to handle educational care and preschools. Not all of our 290 municipalities have the same ability, knowledge, competence, information and economics as the municipality of Gothenburg, but we have other municipalities that have also experienced the violent Islamist extremism. I have mentioned Borås and Gothenburg, and this also applies to Örebro, Umeå, Gävle, Söderhamn and Eskilstuna. This is a major problem which unfortunately reinforces and confirms the picture shown by the Swedish Security Service, that when it comes to school activities, there are people who still today in Sweden with official permission from the Swedish National Agency for Education or local, municipal decisions and with public funds can continue to carry out this activity.
i-731ba35192aa0270-610	Madam President, I would like A lot of the things that Roger Haddad is now raising up, such as what I fully agree with is a big problem, that you can reuse old permits and let them appear in new preschools or schools, are areas where there are now proposals that are coming out for a referral or have been out for a referral. We are now working together on the proposals, including within the framework of the January Agreement. I am just as upset as Roger Haddad about the fact that we have even had to create an opportunity for the School Inspectorate to have contact with national police organisations or with the Swedish Security Service before granting permits and deciding on various forms of action. One pinches his arm when one thinks that we have had to introduce that kind of regulation. I am pleased that we have increased the opportunities for the School Inspectorate to take into account information from such bodies. But really, Madam President, it is absolutely absurd that the Security Service is involved in matters relating to preschools. Roger Haddad says this is the result of a government failure to keep up. It could also be said that this is the result of Sweden having developed a school market for many years, where it has become a right to run a school and where the right to run a school is included in a bundle of rights that are almost to be regarded as freedom of business. As a result, it will be difficult to close these gaps. And just as Roger Haddad says, the result is easy that the state subsequently laws and patches into a system that was actually not supposed to result in the things that we now see. Had Parliament in the 1990s, when my party but other parties did not push through the possibility of a very large freedom of establishment for preschools and schools, had any idea that this would lead to us having preschools and schools run on extremism and Islamism as a goal, I wonder if it had been thought possible. Here we are. I will fight hard for us not only to plug the gaps but also to build a school system and a preschool system based on each student's right to knowledge and education and not having the right of traders to run businesses as a starting point. I hope that until we get so far together, we will be able to patch and cook and make sure that we take proper action to ensure that preschools, schools and educational care are not carried out in the way described by Roger Haddad.
i-731ba35192aa0270-615	Madam President, I would like No, there is no right, the Minister of Education, to start an individual preschool or an independent primary or secondary school. It is the municipalities that grant permission for pre-school activities, and it is the State's school inspection that, after a review, grants or rejects a permit. I do not want it to spread errors from the Social Democrats in order to criticise the free schools in general when there are no arguments for why, for seven years in government, radicalists, imams and these violent environments have failed to stop from continuing to receive public funds to start preschools and schools. This debate is about those who abuse the school law. You've had seven years to change this school legislation. You have done nothing in recent years to stop the establishment of secular schools, but it is the Liberals who have contributed to the establishment of the inquiry into this – not the Green Party and not the Social Democrats. I want to be extremely clear on this point. The fact that we have educational care that is not subject to sufficient rules cannot be blamed on the opposition. That we still have businesses, about ten, where one can get away with using old and unused permits or where one can put up a new sign or find loopholes all the time, must surely the Social Democrats and ultimately the Minister for Education actually take responsibility for? I'm not in the government. I'm not a minister of education. I haven't had the opportunity for the last seven years to correct this. We have pushed through the call for a ban on the establishment of new secular schools, but that is not enough. We must tackle the problem of educational care and the violent extremists.
i-731ba35192aa0270-619	Madam President, I would like Yes, and that is why it is so good, Roger Haddad, that we have introduced much more stringent requirements for ownership and management testing. This will allow us to now close preschools and schools that are not up to date in a way that we could not before. That is why it is so good, Roger Haddad and Madam President, that we have decided in the January agreement that we will work together to increase the opportunities for the School Inspectorate to close schools with major shortcomings – both independent and municipal. And that is why it is so good that, together in the January agreement, we have signed up for a ban on the establishment of independent schools. I am pleased that we have done so, I am proud that we have been able to do so together and I am very grateful for the cooperation that we have. I am also very pleased that we have come up with proposals on how to reform educational care so that pedagogical care can be the form of care that it is supposed to be. It is true that the proposal also includes a stop to establishment. In the Government Office we will now go through and see what we will proceed with, but one thing is for sure: I am very interested in the important proposals that have emerged from the investigation and that deal with increased opportunities for municipalities to make demands and increased opportunities to close operations that do not meet the standards. I am very pleased that we now have such proposals on the table. Growing up in an old, honest family day-care home, it hurts me when I see that educational care and family day-care are associated with extremism and Islamism. I'm going to fight hard for us to clean up, and I'm very happy to be able to do it side by side with Roger Haddad.
i-731ba35192aa0270-623	Madam President, I would like Roger Haddad has asked me whether the government will introduce an opportunity for the School Inspectorate to intervene against schools with a low percentage of qualified teachers, whether the government will amend the School Act so that today's opt-out rule is tightened up and how the government views the Liberals' proposal to impose requirements on principals who employ unauthorized staff to train the person in question in the context of their employment. The school law is clear. A person who has a licence as a teacher or pre-school teacher and is qualified for certain teaching may conduct the teaching. As a general rule, qualified and qualified teachers are responsible for teaching in Swedish schools. A l honorer must also have teacher ID in order to be able to grade independently. There should be no uncertainty at all about this for school principals. We have a shortage of teachers that has grown up for a long time. In recent years, the attractiveness of the teaching profession has increased and more trained teachers have been employed in school. The number of teachers and the number of graduates has also increased. In addition, there is a high degree of retention in the teaching profession compared with other comparable occupations. But as long as there is a shortage of teachers, schools will have to employ unneeded teachers. The exemption provisions contained in the School Act are intended to ensure that principals who fail to recruit qualified and qualified teachers can nevertheless offer teaching to students. If there are no qualified teachers available, or if there are other specific reasons with regard to the pupils or children, the Education Act allows another teacher to teach. As a general rule, an unauthorized teacher may only be employed for one year at a time. Such a teacher shall be appropriate to carry out the teaching and, as far as possible, to have an education corresponding to the training which is competent. The State's school inspection ensures that schools comply with laws and other regulations. If the supervision identifies recurrent shortcomings that significantly affect the conditions for pupils to reach the objectives of the education, the resources of the teacher must be analysed at the school. The Ministry of Education has referred a memorandum with proposals aimed at giving the Swedish School Inspectorate increased opportunities to close schools, both municipal and independent, when serious maladministration in the activities has been identified. I agree, of course, with Roger Haddad that it is important that unauthorized teachers who are present at school today have the opportunity to educate themselves. Further training of teachers, VAL, is an education path for professional teachers and preschool teachers who do not have a degree. During 2020, the Government has reviewed the regulations governing education and invested more resources in, among others, training places so that more teachers with long professional experience and also preschool teachers can take part in the education. In addition, the pilot project also trains the initiatives of work-integrated teacher training by providing funding for the coordination and recruitment of students. According to the Education Act, H uvudmannen must ensure that staff at the preschool and school units are given opportunities for competence development. The Government has proposed in the Council of Law referral some efforts to increase teacher competence to clarify that this obligation applies to all the activities for which the principal is responsible. The provisions are proposed to enter into force on 1 July 2021. It is of great importance that all pupils in Sweden receive a high-quality education with qualified and competent teachers. It is therefore essential that principals comply with current rules on, among other things, the employment of teachers and the development of staff and that they use as far as possible qualified and qualified teachers in teaching. The government intends to follow this issue closely in the future.
i-731ba35192aa0270-632	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Education, for the answer to my interpellation, which concerns the priority given to unauthorised persons seeking vacancies in the country's schools before trained qualified teachers. That is not something we from the Liberals can accept. This debate is about sending a signal to the principals that we should raise the status and attractiveness of the teaching profession. Oc h shall we enhance the teaching profession and re-establish respect for Sweden's teachers we cannot have an application in the country where unauthorised teachers are admitted even though there are qualified applicants. The signal and message from the national level to those who want to become teachers and those who attend teacher education, take student loans and spend four five years of their lives on this should be that it should pay to educate and invest in itself to become what I think is the most important profession in society, namely teachers. That is what I am trying to raise here in the debate on behalf of the Liberals, Madam President. The school inspectorate should get stronger tools in its toolbox. I have asked that you be able to go into school units today where, for example, you have 60% ineligible staff. This would not in itself be a basis for criticism, but when the State's school inspection enters, a broader quality assessment and supervision must be carried out before criticism can be levelled. I think the issue of jurisdiction is so important. There is nothing more important, Madam President, than for all pupils to meet educated qualified and qualified teachers. This has proved to be crucial for the quality of teaching and for the establishment of a school of knowledge. In some municipalities and regions there is a combination of lack of teachers and the fact that for various reasons the right combinations of subjects or the right qualifications for the current school form cannot be obtained. But we also see examples where you abuse the opt-out clause a little bit, that is, you can hire unauthorized people in one year at a time. The consequence has been that vacancies are not advertised. You don't advertise them in public. It does not give trained graduates or job-seekers any chance to apply for these services. We in the Liberals have therefore asked the government whether it is prepared to tighten up the opt-out. As things stand, we do have a lack of teachers, but we must not forget that there are also thousands of teachers who have left the profession but are prepared to come back under the right conditions. We also have a number of thousands that are examined every year from higher education institutions and universities. Given that education should pay off here in Sweden, the message and signal to them must be that we will do our utmost to give them the chance to enter a workplace after they have invested in themselves.
i-731ba35192aa0270-639	Madam President, I would like I stand here in the speaker's chair nodding as Roger Haddad speaks, and I continue to do so. That's because Roger Haddad is so right. This is a very big problem in Swedish school. The lack of teachers leads to major problems. Among other things, it leads to too many students receiving an education that is not of the quality that it could have kept. Too many students simply get less chance of learning a lot in school. It is also a major problem, Madam President, that the shortage of teachers is unevenly distributed. We know that it is much harder to find qualified teachers in Jokkmokk, for example, than in Vännäs. Principals who are close to a higher education institution where teachers are trained usually have easier access to qualified teachers. It is also incredibly difficult to ensure that we have more teachers. I know it is a job that Roger Haddad has been extremely committed to for many years. Through our joint work in the January agreement, we are increasing the opportunities for more people to become teachers through different kinds of reforms. I would also like to point out another point in which I believe that I and Roger Haddad agree, namely the importance of a clear and state presence. With paragraph 54 of the January Agreement, we are opening up a state regional presence. My conviction, Madam President, is that a state presence increases the possibility of providing the necessary support to the principals to enable them to create further training opportunities. These are opportunities that may be needed for existing staff who teach to be able to receive the further training necessary for them to obtain their qualifications and their identification. Madam President, I would like My conviction is that the major shortcoming is not about more legislation, more control and more sanctions, but the big shortcoming is that we in Sweden have allowed the teaching profession to become too unattractive. We have allowed this together. Roger Haddad is keen to point out that the responsibility for the government lies with me; it is me and my party who are responsible and have had the government power for a number of years. That's exactly right. I feel a very great responsibility of my own to really try to help strengthen the attractiveness of the teaching profession. With hard and stubborn work to strengthen the attractiveness of the teaching profession, with an increased state presence that can mean more support for the principals in the form of, among other things, opportunities for further training and competence development and with good opportunities for teachers to have the further training and competence development that, for example, a professional programme can mean, I hope that together we will be able to strengthen access to qualified teachers. In doing so, I also hope that we can strengthen access to better education for the country's students.
i-731ba35192aa0270-645	Madam President, I would like Yes, there are regional differences. That is why we have agreed to remote and distance learning, which will take effect during the summer. This means that if the principals do not get a qualified teacher locally, they should be able to use this code. However, we see examples in larger cities, such as the Stockholm Council and also in residential cities, where vacancies are not advertised. Instead, it is chosen for various reasons – it may be economic or other factors – to extend the employment year after year. Even if it is done one year at a time, this physique, the valve, is used in a way that, I believe, is harmful if you want to raise the status of the teaching profession, and it goes against the signal and message that we want to send here to future and current teachers in the labour market. Madam President, I would like I do not really hear that the government is prepared to give the School Inspectorate a special opportunity to intervene against school units that have a very large proportion of unauthorized teachers. It would have been good if we could have taken the path proposed by the Liberals. In some areas, districts and municipalities there is a very large proportion of unauthorized teachers. In addition, the proportion of unauthorised persons in the country has increased overall for a few years. It hits particularly hard on vulnerable areas and schools with socio-economically tougher student backgrounds. Those students who need trained teachers most don't have that today. This does not contribute to the equivalence of the country. State regional presence is not enough either. We are discussing this. The liberals want a government headship that does not depend on the finances of the individual municipality or on the local school board's chance to have an interest or high ambitions for the school. The state must take greater responsibility for teachers' salaries and training. However, pending the Liberals' proposal, we believe that the School Act should impose a requirement on the principal – the municipality or a free school – who currently hires unauthorised persons at his school. The requirement should mean that you have to train such a employee as quickly as possible pending either obtaining a qualified teacher or with the obvious goal that the person you have hired becomes eligible. In reply to me, the Minister for Education says that you should look at what opportunities can be given. I am aware of the legislative referral that is now out, but we in the Liberals believe that the proposal is too weak. We want to highlight, signal and get to grips with the problem of the priority given to unauthorised persons before the competent authorities, which is, in fact, very remarkable. As long as the gaps are there, it will be like this. It is not enough to say that one should clarify the responsibility for the principals to offer or enable further training. You have to make clear demands: If you do not get ahold of someone, you can hire an unauthorized person, but then you should also take your responsibility as an attractive employer and ensure that the person in question becomes eligible for primary or preschool education. In this way, we increase the attractiveness, level of education and quality of school.
i-731ba35192aa0270-651	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Roger Haddad, for reminding us of something that is important and really has its place in the debate! We will, from 1 July, have an opportunity in Swedish schools to carry out remote and distance learning to a greater extent than we do today. One of the reasons for introducing remote education is that, despite great efforts, some principals have not been able to find qualified teachers. In line with the spirit of Roger Haddad's interpellation, the background is that the best thing is if a student is taught in the classroom by a qualified, certified and trained teacher. I believe that Roger Haddad and I agree on this. But if it is not possible to obtain remote teaching by a qualified teacher is better than teaching that is not up to date and where the teacher is not qualified. That is the rationality behind the new rule that will be introduced. Roger Haddad sees it as problematic that a person who teaches without a licence or ID can be extended year after year. Of course it's problematic. The best thing is if you have a qualified teacher. But, Madam President, if there is no such thing, I can well imagine that, for the sake of the children at school, it is still better to have a teacher who stays for a few years, even if that person does not have adequate identification or competence, compared with constant staff changes at that post. The fact that this applies in particular to small children seems to me to be quite obvious. Madam President, I would like I am quite convinced that it is a wise way to continue to expand the opportunities for further training and supplementary education, but also the great effort that is now being made – and which I believe will be very important in the light of the pandemic – where, together and with the support of the January agreement, we are expanding the opportunity to become teachers through complementary educational education. In the current labour market situation, I am convinced that there are many people who have seen their position on the labour market fundamentally changed by the shock suffered by the labour market during the pandemic. This applies, of course, to teachers for smaller children as well as teachers for higher ages and, not least, vocational teachers, where there is a glaring shortage in the Swedish school. Madam President, I would like I will continue my work to ensure that there is a good chance of further training. I will also continue to work to ensure that we strengthen the School Inspectorate's ability to intervene against schools with large and recurring shortcomings. Together with Roger Haddad, I will fight hard to ensure that we can strengthen the attractiveness of the teaching profession. In fact, that is the most important thing: that people themselves want to become teachers of their own free will. If we are to get there, we must, as Roger Haddad says, say clearly and clearly that Sweden needs trained teachers and that educated teachers should be treated well in Swedish schools.
i-731ba35192aa0270-657	Madam President, I would like We work together on the quality of teacher education in order to increase throughput and reduce drop-outs. We also have national training efforts. But that is not what the debate is about. Otherwise, Madam President, I would not have been standing here. This applies to proposals that we have put forward in addition to the January agreement: the School Inspectorate must be able to intervene against school units that have a very large proportion of unauthorized teachers teaching in the classroom. Consideration should be given to tightening the opt-out in order to signal that this valve cannot be used as many times as there are qualified applicants who wish to be considered for the job in question. We also need to tighten up the requirement for the principals to train their staff. I understand that you can bring in someone unauthorized, but it's not a teacher. A teacher in Sweden has a teacher's degree and is qualified for at least one subject, or you have taken an academic path where you have completed your education and completed an educational semester or two to become and call yourself a teacher. I think we should be very clear that not just anyone should be able to enter the classroom and get permanent employment or start grading without having attended a teacher training course. That's not how we raise the attractiveness of the teaching profession. I do not think that the Minister for Education Anna Ekström means that either. The problem is that the current rules, the current gaps, the current exemption provisions and the current lack of clarity in the School Inspectorate's mission, but also in the requirements for the principals in terms of continuing training, contribute to the fact that some municipalities and certain free schools still choose to employ unauthorised persons despite the fact that there are qualified applicants. We must never accept that.
i-731ba35192aa0270-660	Madam President, I would like The school law is clear. It is trained, qualified and certified teachers who are to conduct teaching, and it is trained, qualified and certified teachers who are to grade. The principal shall employ qualified teachers. The possibility of hiring a person who is not eligible is available when you cannot reach someone who has this qualification. I would also like to take this opportunity, Madam President, to say that I hope that during this interpellation debate I have not used the word If I did, it's a mistake on my part. That's what happens to the best. It is important to really make sure that the word a teacher is used for those who have a teacher training, a teacher's degree, a qualification and a licence. This interpellation is very important. There is, says OECD's Pisa Manager Andreas Schleicher, no school system whose quality exceeds the quality of teaching and the quality of the work that teachers are given the opportunity to do in school. If we are to ensure that we can maintain a high level of knowledge and good equivalence and equality in Swedish schools, we must work together to ensure that we have access to qualified and well-trained teachers throughout our country and for all schools and students. I am very grateful to Roger Haddad for the opportunity to discuss these issues. I am also very grateful for the commitment shown by Roger Haddad and for the good cooperation that we have – although, according to Roger Haddad, in just part of this area. It's still a good cooperation, so thank you for that!
i-731ba35192aa0270-664	Madam President, I would like Boriana Åberg has asked me what measures I am prepared to take to raise awareness of the atrocities of communism and what I intend to do to ensure that state aid is not granted to organisations that want to abolish democracy and that, for example, aid that has already been paid can be recovered. In the instruction to the Living History Forum, the government has introduced a special mission to inform about communism's crimes against humanity. In order to reach particularly important target groups, including children and young people, the Living History Forum has developed educational material and focused in particular on the crimes against humanity committed by the Communist regimes of the Soviet Union, China, Cambodia and East Germany. Other examples of the agency's work include witness accounts with survivors from labor camps in the Soviet Union and China as well as the exhibition Gulag: What Grandpa did not tell you, which can also be downloaded from the agency's website. As a minister, I do not make decisions on my own concerning state subsidies to NGOs. Having said that, since I took office, I have made it clear that state subsidies should not go to organisations that act in violation of the fundamental values of society, as expressed in the form of government and in the international conventions on human rights. It is not only a question of such organisations not participating in the aid, but also of risking undermining the credibility of the entire aid system. A strong and independent civil society is central to our democracy. In order to ensure that government grants to civil society organisations are based on democratic values, the Government appointed an investigation in 2018 to review the democratic conditions and how they are applied. The report, which was submitted to the government in March 2019, contains proposals for a clearer and uniform democracy condition for the state grant to civil society organisations. In parallel with the process of a new democracy, the Council has also taken other measures. Among other things, from 2 020 onwards, the Swedish Agency for Youth and Civil Society has received increased funding for its administrative allocation in order to strengthen the management of grants. This has made it easier for the Authority to apply the existing democratic conditions one. The government intends to return during its term of office with proposals for a new democracy condition.
i-731ba35192aa0270-669	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. The reason I initiated this debate is Young Left's recent party program, which says that the organization's goal is to build a communist society. It is an insult to all who have been murdered or lost in other ways because of the atrocities of communism. But it is also a serious threat to the future for all of us when a parliamentary party has a youth federation that openly proclaims its contempt for democracy and human rights. For communism, that is exactly what it means: dictatorship and a lack of respect for human dignity. It is sad and shameful that in Sweden today there are people who yearn to return to an anti-human society. One really wonders: What exactly in Communist society attracts Young Left? Is that coercive collectiveism? Is that the mass terror? Is that the gulag system? Is it the mass famine that arose because of financial mismanagement? There are 23 communist regimes and Marxist guerrillas who have murdered 110 million people in the 20th century. These are facts that Young Left is ignorant of or chooses to ignore. In his reply, the Minister lists what the Living History Forum can assist in making visible the crimes of Communism against humanity. Obviously this is not enough. It requires more than a campaign of enlightenment, which by the way is called the crimes of Communist regimes against humanity, and not as it should be called: the crimes of Communism against humanity. There's a big difference. It points out that the campaign does not concern the ideology of communism, but the concrete crimes committed under the Communist regimes of the Soviet Union, China, Cambodia and the GDR. It can be reminded that when the Living History Forum was to launch its campaign on the crimes of Communism, there were fierce protests from, among other things, history researchers and history teachers. There are the basic problems, Madam President. In Sweden, we have not dealt with communism as an ideology. There, the Minister has the opportunity to make a difference. In Sweden flirting with communism is ignored. There are countless examples of this. Every year the Lenin Prize is awarded to some left-wing intellectually-received writer, poet or journalist who accepts without shame a prize bearing the name of one of the worst mass murderers in history.
i-731ba35192aa0270-676	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by emphasising that some of the absolutely worst crimes in humanity in modern times have been committed by communist regimes. There is a reason why the Living History Forum was commissioned to highlight communism's crimes against humanity. I mentioned some examples in my introductory speech, Madam President, about how the Living History Forum works and has worked on this issue. Within the framework of their assignment, they have developed films, factsheets, reports, student material and classroom exercises specifically designed to fit in grade 9 and in high school where it is so important to reflect on these issues. There are also teacher guides and classroom arrangements that can provide support for teaching teachers in secondary and secondary schools. In 2019 the Living History Forum invited the 30th anniversary of the fall of the Berlin Wall to a seminar and published an anthology on the fall of communist regimes in Central Europe and the historical events leading up to it. I would like to say, Madam President, that the Living History Forum takes this mission very seriously. Of course, it acts as an independent authority when it is working on these issues. I want to come back to what I said in my answer. For me, as Minister of Culture and Democracy, it is absolutely self-evident, and has been a guiding principle for me ever since I took office, that the public funds that we distribute should only go to activities that are compatible with the fundamental values of society. It doesn't matter what organisation it is or what ideological direction it is. Of course, if you go into violation of the democratic conditions that we have, you should not be granted aid. Then it is not I who test the NGOs. In this case, it is the Swedish Agency for Youth and Civil Society that carries out such an examination. We had a Question Time here earlier in Parliament where I had to answer some questions about the work on democracy conditions. It is important to emphasise that there are already democratic conditions in place today that require applicant organisations. Already today, organisations have been convicted of violating the democratic condition. This applies, for example, to the youth federations of the Swedish Democrats a number of years ago. This work is also carried out independently by the authority. It is equally important that we work to develop a legally secure long-term democracy condition. It is in order for civil society to know what applies and for the organisations that distribute this money to have better opportunities to review, gain information and make wise decisions. Madam President, I would like It is about safeguarding our broad civil society. It is important not to suspect widely but to protect the support. In this respect, I note that only a few days ago, the Moderates announced that they wanted to cut back support for ethnic organisations. I don't know if Boriana Åberg is behind it. I still find that regrettable. The Moderates do not refer to the fact that it is a violation of the conditions of democracy that seeks to remove the economic conditions for these associations and that part of our civil society. I believe that the money should go to those organisations that meet the conditions of democracy. It's very important. But we must stand up for and protect a broad civil society.
i-731ba35192aa0270-686	Madam President, I would like Let us stick to communism and its atrocities, which are the subject of this debate. I am aware of the various programmes of the Living History Forum. I would argue that it seems that the information does not go forward. In addition, there is a contradiction between the work of the Living History Forum and how, for example, communism is portrayed in the mass media or is spread by sympathizers. One example is that a now deceased cultural personality told on television that his favorite guests to invite to dinner were Lenin and Stalin. No one reacted. The program was not interrupted. No upset articles were written. There were no consequences whatsoever for the person concerned. There is a lot to learn from our neighbour Denmark. In Denmark, unlike in Sweden, after the Cold War, there has been a lengthy and fierce deal with communism involving the political, mass media and historical science sphere. The Minister for Democracy has a great responsibility to ensure that the same happens in Sweden as well. The Minister said in his reply that state subsidies should not go to any organisations that act in violation of the fundamental values of society as expressed in the form of government. That is very true. To work for a communist society is to do just that. It is acting against most of the first and second chapters of the form of government. In a communist society there is no respect for the equal value of all men or for the freedom and dignity of the individual, but vice versa. In a communist society, freedom of expression, assembly, information, association and religious freedom do not exist – there is no freedom at all. I have experienced this, and I will do everything I can to ensure that no one else in Sweden has to experience it. When I went to school, we were taught that we lived in the best of societies, while in the West they were poor and oppressed. We waited for hours for everything – bread, milk and toilet paper. There was rationing on electricity and rationing on water. Criticism of the lack of supplies resulted in prison sentences or labor camps under inhumane conditions, so no one dared criticize. There was a built-in police apparatus, and all opinions were recorded. Neighbors were spying on each other, and the Angivary was rewarded. When you got a letter, it was already read. You couldn't make confidential calls by phone because you knew they were being bugged. All this happened in the best of societies – the same communist society that Young Left wants to build in Sweden. Is the Minister for Democracy sure that Young Left meets the democratic criteria that exist to receive state subsidies? Young Left received 1.6 million as late as January this year.
i-731ba35192aa0270-695	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by saying that I very much respect Boriana Åberg's strong commitment to these issues. As I said in the previous speech, communist regimes throughout history have committed terrible abuses of humanity. These, of course, are also terrible examples mentioned by Boriana Åberg. Madam President, I would like In my role as Minister of Democracy, I am inspired by the values that Boriana Åberg highlights: freedom of association, freedom of expression and our democratic society with free media and with free art and free culture. But, Madam President, I also have to relate to the independence of the authorities. It is not my role as a minister to examine or comment on which NGOs have been supported. It is the role of the Agency, in this case the Agency for Youth and Civil Society issues, to test the organisations applying for association grants. What I am doing, and what I have done, is strengthening the Authority's ability to carry out audits to see whether the organisations seeking the funds meet the requirements and the conditions of democracy. It is also about what the organisation works for and how it is structured. Even the democratic conditions that we have now led to organisations being denied access to funding. It's happened before. I am working hard now to bring about new democracy conditions that are long-term and clearly defined and that will work in a legally secure way. We will strengthen the ability of the authorities to both review, monitor and ensure that the organisations applying for grants meet the requirements of the fundamental values. We have taken a step on the advice of Säpo to investigate the possibility of establishing a new function to support contributing authorities in finding out if there are activities of an extremist nature that should be known. It is not always certain that it is in the light. Boriana Åberg wants to talk about Communism. I would like to point out that in her interpellation, the honourable Member asks me what I want to do to ensure that state aid is not granted to organisations that want to abolish democracy. There are, Madam President, different organisations of different colours and directions that may not meet the conditions of democracy. I am committed to working broadly and to ensuring that no organisation that does not share the fundamental values of society will be able to benefit from our public support. Nevertheless, I would like to come back to the fact that it is clear that I am doing this to ensure that tax funds go where they belong. I believe that our taxpayers are entitled to this. But it is also about ensuring that our broad civil society can feel a sense of security in being able to operate without being influenced by who and what ideological color governs the Ministry of Culture, for example. You shouldn't throw the baby out with the bath water. That is why I was concerned about the Moderates' move to withdraw the association contributions to ethnic organisations. These are youth organisations and national federations, and we also have our national minorities. It is about participation and language, and the association support contributes to an important organisation there. That's what I want to say anyway. Then I would like to come back to the fact that I have great respect for Boriana Åberg's commitment, and I share the disgust of communist regimes' crimes against individuals and humanity.
i-731ba35192aa0270-706	Madam President, I would like In this we are in complete agreement: no organisation that wants to abolish democracy should receive a single penny of our tax money. This applies to both communist and Nazi organisations; both of these ideologies are just as abominable and very comparable to each other. There we are united. Then I do not think that the government has fully exercised its responsibilities. The Swedish Agency for Youth and Civil Society's website says that it is the government that formulates the purpose and lays down the rules for the grants financed by government money. The fact that Young Left has been able to get 1.6 million while openly proclaiming that they want to build a communist society means that the mechanism does not work. I therefore hope that the new conditions for democracy really close all the holes. Anyone who wants to abolish democracy should be totally middleless, and not only that – it should be publicly dissociated from communism, as has been done in Denmark. The government has wanted to take the role of a moral superpower fighting for human rights and freedoms. Let the government begin at home! Let it settle with Communism once and for all! In all places where communism has been a social ideology, human rights have been most severely oppressed. That's why we need to help keep things clean.
i-731ba35192aa0270-710	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking Boriana Åberg for an interesting debate. We agree on one thing: it is essential that we have a clear democratic condition for the state grant that clearly marks against anti-democratic actors. As I mentioned earlier, the government, including through the mission to the Living History Forum to inform about the crimes of communism against humanity, has taken steps to increase knowledge of the atrocities of communism. That, Madam President, is an important piece of work. Through the work of the Living History Forum to reach different target groups, including pupils and teachers in primary school, the knowledge in society about communist regimes' crimes against humanity increases. Of course, state aid should not be granted to organisations that are not democratically structured or do not respect the ideas of democracy in their activities. This is clear to the government, and it is an issue on which I myself have been working since the day I took office. Then it is the Swedish Agency for Youth and Civil Society that examines questions about grants, for example for political youth organisations. If the conditions for the state grant are not met, i.e. if an organisation does not respect the ideas of democracy, for example, MUCF can recover the grants. The authorities have also become much better at examining and monitoring grant applications. Unserious organizations are stopped, and that's good. Now we are going to design a new democracy condition for state grants that will hold both for today's situation and for tomorrow's. It's not that simple, and it takes a little time. But it is my firm conviction that the result will be good. Finally, I would like to stress how important civil society is to our democracy. Sometimes, here in Parliament, we tend to forget about it when we focus on those organisations that are problematic. I think that all the millions of volunteers who, often on a non-profit basis, work for a better world deserve our respect.
i-731ba35192aa0270-716	Madam President, I would like Martin Kinnunen has asked me how I will ensure that a new media support regulation does not open up for the Swedish Press, Radio and Television Agency to condition media support based on how the media choose to report. He has also asked how I will ensure that the proposed changes do not make it more difficult to conduct free and independent journalism in Sweden. Finally, he has asked whether the government today sees a problem with the media receiving media support not carrying out responsible news media and whether, if so, I intend to act in any way. A broad party political agreement forms the basis of media support and its aim of strengthening democracy by promoting public access to independent news media throughout the country. The support will contribute to a diversity of general news media with high quality editorial content. What the Swedish Press, Radio and TV Agency, MPRT, is now proposing is not changes to the Media Support Regulation. What is proposed are changes to the Authority's own regulations on media support. The Council may lay down certain provisions of the Regulation. No decision on amended regulations has been taken by MPRT, but the proposal is the subject of a referral on 12 March 2021. The relevant professional organisations and media stakeholders thus have the opportunity to express their views on the proposal and its design. It is the Media Support Board at MPRT that has to test whether an individual news medium meets the requirements for media support. Neither the government nor I as a minister should have views on which individual news media are being supported.
i-731ba35192aa0270-719	Madam President, I would like The Minister for Culture briefly describes what has happened in the Riksdag, that the Government has issued a decree and that the Swedish Press, Radio and Television Agency is now working on updating its regulation regarding media support. What I do not understand is the concern that in any case I feel about how this regulation, and by extension the current media support regulation, risks affecting the freedom of the press and the freedom of the media to feel that you can report anything. I hear no concern about how state aid to the media is now being changed through the Media Support Regulation. Now you update the regulations, so that's a change. Otherwise, the government usually has a high tailings when it comes to interfering with other countries' media regulations and worrying about what is going to happen. Madam President, I would like I see problems with both the regulation and the regulation, both the old regulation and the proposal for the new regulation. In the past we had a system in which we had quantitative rules determining which newspapers would receive support and not. You would report a certain number of characters, there would be many different topics, there would be the right number of subscribers and so on. It was more like working with an Excelark. However, this change to the regulation, where there are now wordings on high-quality responsible news media, changes this. The authority is well now learning what this means. At least in the case of contacts that people in my party have had, the authority states that it feels that the wording of the regulation is unclear and that that is why it now continues to work on the regulation. We do not understand that the agency is very excited about the changes and think that this is positive and good. It is more that you feel compelled to change the regulation because of the regulation, which you think is unclear. You're working your way to what it really means. I am a little worried when the regulation, with wordings on high quality content and responsible news media, now leads to proposed wordings in the regulation that the media must not contribute to the dissemination of incorrect or manipulated information, must not call for crime and should refrain from publishing that misleads around established science and knowledge. This crime thing is easy to decide. We have a judicial system that's trying out what's criminal and what's not. But what is established science and knowledge or manipulated information is very difficult to determine. This has been the response of both press freedom experts and publishers themselves. My question is: does the Minister have any concern as to what this will lead to? Is it clear that the regulation adopted has produced the desired result? We have seen a round of media support that has been paid out with this regulatory framework. Do you see that the work carried out by the authorities is in line with the approach taken when deciding on the regulation? Or do you see any concern about what this will lead to and perhaps it was not supposed that the authority would in this way test what is true and not true?
i-731ba35192aa0270-725	Madam President, I would like First of all, of course, I understand the principled approach and concerns expressed by newspaper publishers, for example. I welcome this debate, both the one that has taken place and the one that is taking place now. These are difficult questions. We should remember that the agency has chosen to send out a proposal for a referral in an open process to a number of industry organisations and also to other relevant media actors, including Newspaper publishers, where they have the opportunity to present their views, arguments and suggestions at this early stage. This round of consultations will continue until tomorrow, and then the Authority will have to take into account the views it has received before taking a decision. After all, the Authority has not yet taken a decision on changes to regulations. I would also like to emphasise that, politically, this is the adjustment or decision-making of regulations, something that the authority itself has to take care of. I want to raise my eyes and back the band a little bit. It is important to remember what the situation in Sweden looks like with press and media support. The media support we now have and the regulation that applies were something that was worked out and adopted by Parliament in broad political agreement. It is basically a matter of having a media landscape in very rapid change. Pre-aid or operating aid has long been a very important part of safeguarding media pluralism and free journalism throughout the country. For example, securing the second newspapers locally in one place has traditionally been an important way of operating pre-aid. This has become less and less relevant as the media industry has restructured and as journalism has increasingly moved to digital forms of distribution. That, Madam President, was one of the reasons why the new media support was created – to be able to support journalistic white spots around the country where there is neither a first nor a second newspaper. Supporting innovation in the media sector was also an important wish that existed when these support was set up. The new editorial support we set up last year when the coronapandemy hit Mediesverige hard. Many journalistic jobs were at risk when many publications faced a potential bankruptcy and the advertising market fell sharply, while we had major and more structural challenges in the media sector. Then, Madam President, the government acted quickly. We adjusted a number of existing aids. We set up the new editorial support, which could go out widely and not just to those who previously qualified for pre-financing. We strengthened the distribution support and gave the opportunity for free newspapers, for example, to get into this. These urgent efforts, Madam President, have saved many journalistic jobs. The government has been active throughout its term of office in safeguarding free and independent journalism. Then, of course, we should not hide the fact that as the media landscape changes and technology-neutral support is now being created, it will also be a more difficult issue to draw the line on which publications should receive state aid. It is not the case, Madam President, that all journalism today is funded by the state. Of course, that is not the case. I think that in this discussion we should respect the fact that these are difficult balances. I would like to come back to the fact that I am defending the open debate that is now on this issue. But it is the Authority that has an opportunity to issue regulations. And, again, decisions are not yet taken by the authority.
i-731ba35192aa0270-734	Madam President, I would like The Minister gave an account of the support we have for media companies in Sweden. I am not at all a supporter of this support. I'm not. I like free media, and I think the media will be more free without government interference. But now we have support systems, complex systems, with which the authority has a lot of work. Then it must, I think, be easy to judge. It must be easy to decide who is to receive support and who is not to receive support. Then it should not be a subjective assessment of which newspaper is good and which newspaper is bad. I see that the regulations that are now coming are the result of the examination of applications made by the Media Support Board last time. There are a few cases that have been highlighted in some media. It's about some web magazines. Applications were rejected from two alternative media sites. I think I can agree that they are not of very high quality. There are no sites where I usually read, but it is still interesting to look at this. The Media Support Board concluded that a site did not meet the quality requirements. According to the Board, articles containing content that did not appear to be based on science or fact were published. I'm with you. What they published in one case is not what I perceive to be true. An article with an anti-vaccine message was mentioned. I personally think that vaccination should be carried out with the vaccines that authorities have come up with are effective. Then the Board blames the newspaper for also releasing writers outside the conventional system thinking. I do not know whether it has anything to do with democracy or anything like that. In fact, I do not know exactly what it is based on, but with such a formulation you are a bit on a sloping plane. What can happen is that a newspaper is worried about letting in a columnist. It can be an electrical allergy, a climate denier or something else that I don't believe in and that I believe there is science that speaks against. But then the question is: Should the newspapers feel that they cannot have writers to market a different opinion just because we have a consensus on science on one issue? That's the question. With this sort of regulation, which is ultimately based on the regulation, I am concerned that the newspapers are afraid to publish certain information. It damages confidence in the freedom of the press in Sweden, and at least I am deeply concerned about that. I think that the government and all parliamentary parties should be self-critical. The bill was decided a few years ago, and the writings on responsible journalism and high quality were included. I wonder: why is it important that it is stated in the regulation? That's what leads to the Authority having to do this test in which to try to assess the facts on these sites – whether it's true or not – and whether they go beyond conventional system thinking or whether they're too skeptical about vaccines and so on. Is it reasonable for authorities to assess matters in this way? Or could there be reason to change the regulation so that it becomes clearer and so that we go back to a more quantitative evaluation of the applicants?
i-731ba35192aa0270-743	Madam President, I would like It is not as simple as saying that we should go back to purely quantitative, so to speak, demands for press and media support. It was quite simple when it came to the number of subscribed editions, from which operating aid, according to the old pre-aid, was based. We have agreed in party politics that aid that is completely technology-neutral needs to be established – we have also agreed with the media sector on that. As the media landscape changes, one cannot lock in to a support model around subscribed editions in paper magazine form. We have all agreed on that. However, a technology-neutral support that can be given regardless of whether it is subscription, otherwise paid or free of charge means, of course, that the circle of potentially eligible will be very wide. It is reasonable for media seeking State aid to meet certain basic criteria. But that said, it is also important that the criteria are as objective as possible in this digital environment. However, I would like to say that it is clear that this is more complicated than when we are dealing with paper magazines. When the regulation was drawn up, the starting point was that we should find the most balanced balance possible in this. For example, it was a requirement for a responsible publisher and a requirement to follow good media ethics. There were two things. On the other hand, we – both my party and the Riksdag – abstained from moving forward with the proposals that were made on purely democratic conditions. It was about getting as far away from the content as possible. With regard to the current process, it is the Media Support Board that is working on the regulations. Nothing has yet been decided, and as I have said before, I welcome the discussion and can certainly understand the fundamental concerns raised by, for example, newspaper publishers. But, Madam President, my guiding principle both during the pandemic and throughout my time as Minister of Culture and Democracy has been – and is – that I shall protect free and independent journalism in Sweden. It is a rapidly changing time where we need to make many different efforts to ensure that we have a media diversity in Sweden. It is about continuing to support the paper magazine in parts of Sweden and for those groups that depend on the paper magazine to get their daily news. You're not supposed to create lock-in effects anyway. It aims to create opportunities for innovation and for digital transformation to continue. We have seen a rather formidable development during the pandemic. New steps have been taken in an innovative direction. It is also about safeguarding the support for the white journalistic spots that are around the country. Madam President, I would like I am proud of the press and media support system we have today. Martin Kinnunen said it himself. This is a system which Martin Kinnunen wanted to abolish immediately at least in 2015. That, Madam President, would harm the media pluralism that we have in Sweden today.
i-731ba35192aa0270-750	Madam President, I would like There are always problems or challenges when you have government funding for companies, associations or newspapers. We politicians, and probably the voters too, do not want to see madstolle associations and madstolle magazines receiving this money. We think it should be sensible associations. I listened a little to an earlier debate in this House about a Communist Youth League receiving a lot of tax money. Many people get upset about it: Why should the Communists have money? We don't like communists. It is not compatible with our view of democracy and so on. But the simple thing there and the simple thing here is to remove the subsidies, so that the parties can finance their youth associations themselves and so that the press and the media fund themselves. That's what I think, because it creates freedom. But that is not what we are discussing here, but now we are discussing how the complex system we have is supposed to be. I believe that the government is satisfied with its regulation. There is no problem with how the regulation has become a reality when it has been tested. That is precisely what I wonder: is the government satisfied with what the regulation has led to? Is that what you were thinking? Is there any idea of reviewing this? I also wonder: what contacts have been made with the authority in this regard? Have you had continuous meetings and been sued by this? Has the Minister received information indicating that the Authority considers the regulation unclear? It is a signal that we have received from several people who have had contact with the authority in recent weeks. Both our members of the Culture Committee and our member of the Media Support Board have heard this from people working at the agency. Is it something that the government has been informed about: that the authority finds the regulation unclear? Is there any need to review the regulation?
i-731ba35192aa0270-755	Madam President, I would like A broad party political agreement is the basis and purpose of media support. This has included the development of criteria that are as objective as possible in the digital environment, where the definition of general news media is partly more complex. I share Martin Kinnunen's view that it is crucial that there should be a large arm's length distance between politics and journalism and the media. That is also why it avoided writing things that have to do with democracy conditions, for example, when the regulation was drawn up. The starting point has been to find a balanced balance. The Press, Radio and Television Authority is then able to issue regulations. I believe that this policy should not go into too much detail by means of regulations. Proposals for changes to the regulations have been drawn up and submitted for consultation. It's an open process. I welcome the debate. These are difficult questions, and it is important to stress once again that the Authority has not taken a decision. The referral period is still ongoing. It is not I, as a minister, who has to comment on which individual publications have been supported or not by the authority. Then, of course, we must continue to pursue an active media policy. It is a rapidly changing landscape. The government and I have shown that we have been prepared to act quickly to support journalism and save journalistic jobs during the pandemic both by lowering the thresholds and raising the support we have seen needed for journalism to reach out throughout Sweden. It is a fundamental democratic issue. Journalism should be free and independent, and I will continue to work for that.
