i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-0	Mr President, I would like to The budget for 2022 is based on a joint proposal from the three opposition parties The Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats, who have joined forces and agreed on a proposal that will now become Sweden's state budget for 2022. Through the common budget, we are now beginning work on tackling social problems, by allocating tax money to reforms that increase security, lead to more people in work and strengthen welfare. Mr President, I would like to As has been said, we are here today to debate the part of the budget relating to Category 1, the Kingdom government, more specifically the report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs (KU1). Within this area of expenditure, central government and several important authorities, state subsidies and missions are financed. In total, the appropriation for category 1 amounts to SEK 17.2 billion. The Constitutional Committee supports the joint proposal of the Moderates, the Swedish Democrats and the Christian Democrats. The proposal includes a total investment of SEK 40 million to the Government Office in 2022, in addition to the Government's proposal. The aim of the initiative is to strengthen the investigative services through additional resources to the Government Office, in order to increase the conditions for carrying out investigations in three priority areas. I will develop these. Firstly, we propose that the Government Office be added SEK 10 million more for 2022 than the Government proposes to finance an investigation into individuals' rights and freedoms and the independence of courts. Swedish protection for our common rights and freedoms needs to be constantly reviewed and strengthened. We believe that the fundamental rights of individuals need to be strengthened. In particular, the State should be given increased liability for legal costs in disputes relating to the rights and freedoms of individuals. The enhanced constitutional protection that exists for certain rights should include more rights, such as property rights and freedom to conduct a business. There should also be an obligation on the State to protect individuals from violations of human rights and freedoms by other individuals. The independence of the courts should be strengthened, and consideration should be given to the appointment of an independent body from the Riksdag and the Government responsible for the preparation of appointments of judges. The current constitutional committee has an important mission, but the government's instructions for the investigation have not been sufficient. We believe that the 2020 Constitutional Committee should be given a broader mandate or that a new committee should be set up. That is why we are providing additional funds for this in this budget. Secondly, we propose that an additional SEK 25 million be allocated to the Government Office, in addition to the Government's proposal, in order to speed up investigations to produce new legislation against gang crime. Despite the serious situation that Sweden is in, the government has so far been reluctant to take the necessary measures, and the investigations that the government has set up have been given too long time frames. That is why we are putting additional funds into the budget in order to be able to examine and produce new legislation more quickly. The measures to be investigated are the possibility of pro-active secret interception and data reading against gang criminals, greater possibilities of deporting gang criminals and greatly increased penalties for crimes typically committed in the context of gang crime. A new rule in the Public Access and Confidentiality Act, which allows other authorities to share information with the police, should also be investigated. Thirdly, we propose that the Government Office be added another SEK 5 million in 2022, in addition to the Government's proposal, to investigate a grant reform so that it will always pay better to work. Mr President, I would like to Over the years, the Moderates have placed a strong focus on prevention of violent extremism. We have presented a series of measures to combat and prevent extremism, but there is still much more to be done. Sweden is a free, open and democratic society based on fundamental values such as democracy, the rule of law, individual freedom and mutual respect and tolerance. Freedom of religion is a fundamental pillar of our democracy. At the same time, there are violent and extremist forces and a large number of individuals who challenge transparency and defy the rules of democracy. Extremism is a threat to democracy. Not infrequently, extremism threatens the individual's practice of religion. Priority must therefore be given to strengthening the security and security work of individual churches and religions. We propose that the general election and democracy grant be added another SEK 10 million compared to the government's proposal, in order to strengthen and increase the security of individual churches and communities. By strengthening the protection of religions, we safeguard the right to a safe practice of religion. Mr President, I would like to In order to finance the investments we make under Category 1, the grant to the county administrative boards is reduced by SEK 80 million in 2022 compared with the Government's proposal. This means that we do not provide funds for regional climate change change for 2022. Mr President, I would like to Sweden needs a new course. This budget plays a role in the changes that will take place in 2022 in Sweden. With the budget from the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats, the necessary work is now being started to solve the social problems that Sweden has by allocating tax funds to increase security, get more into work and strengthen the welfare of the Swedish people. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I would like to support the committee's proposal.
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-17	Mr President, I would like to One human being, one voice – all people's equal right to be part of the rule of the society we live in. It is society's most basic expression of equality between people. ..................................................... So said Sweden's first female Prime Minister in his government declaration. This year it is 100 years since universal and equal suffrage was practiced in our country for the first time – a victory for democracy. That is why it feels a little extra solemn to be able to stand here today and debate Category I. Next year there will be general elections in Sweden. Every citizen then has the chance, and I would say the duty, to make his voice heard. The election requires responsibility and points out which direction you want Sweden to take. The more people who vote, the greater the legitimacy, and the better the governing assemblies will reflect the views of the citizens. It is therefore wise, in the run-up to the general elections, to provide money to increase voting turnout in groups where it is often lower – young people, born abroad and people with disabilities. Money for well-informed school elections is also one way of increasing voting turnout in the long term. The Sami are our indigenous people. It is therefore important that we now have in place the consultation system that will strengthen the Sami people's right to influence and participation. In addition, there is also a strengthening of resources for the Sameting. The budget provides funds to support the organisation of national minorities but also funds to preserve national minority languages and to build up language centres for Finnish, Yiddish, Meänkieli, Romani Chib and Sami. This is good and long awaited by our national minorities. The Human Rights Institute will be set up on 1 January. It is an important piece of the puzzle for the long-term work and will play an important role in ensuring human rights. Mr President, I would like to There is relatively large party political agreement on much of the content of Category 1 as well as on the budget as a whole. The changes of the Moderates, Christian Democrats and Sweden Democrats affect some percentage of the budget. Yet the trick has succeeded in putting hooks on the important role of county boards in the energy and climate transition by cutting 80 million from the budget bill's proposal, money that would have gone to the county boards' work on energy and climate change. The reduction in funding risks having a serious impact on business. This can lead to slower expansion of the electricity grid, a lack of electricity supply and an increase in electricity prices. This would hit the Swedish base industry hard. One example that can be given is the conversion to carbon-free steel production. It is particularly remarkable that the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats, who often want to present themselves as friends of the business community and who are now talking loudly about expensive electricity prices, choose to cut off money that could contribute to a better functioning electricity supply. The reduction is very unfortunate and highlights the problem of lack of decision-making and preparation for decisions. That is not how a country can be ruled.
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-27	Mr President, I would like to Sweden has received a new course. In order to set such a course, it has been necessary to compromise to a certain extent. Compromises are often necessary to safeguard what really matters. A broad consensus on constitutional issues in order to safeguard our country's democracy is an example of something that we Swedish democrats work for in committee and support. It is also a fact that it is precisely through broad, constructive political agreements that the budget base that we Swedish democrats have now voted through together with the Moderates and Christian Democrats, that the parliamentary process is being strengthened in practice. When all parties talk to each other and real issues rather than empty symbolism can be on the agenda, our government is strong. Sometimes, however, it can be easy to forget that our democracy also depends on external conditions for it to work. In a situation of highly escalating crime, the legitimacy of the rule of law is under threat. In a situation of considerable social friction between different cultures, trust in society is threatened. If we want a functioning democracy that holds together over time, such social development may make it necessary to compromise with individual budget lines. The question is what compromises are being made, how much and, above all, why. Our partners in the budget, the Moderates and the Christian Democrats, broadly share a similar view of the current situation in the country. Mr President, I would like to Threats and violence against our citizens when they practice their religion we can never accept. That is one of the priorities of the budget, where extra funds are being given to the security of the religions. Gang crime is one of our society's greatest threats. Innocent people are victims of widespread gang crime on a daily basis, and we must overcome this. Just a month ago, there was a shooting outside a grocery store in my neighboring municipality. The bullet went right through a car window for someone who was in shopping and who was there for a completely different reason than getting a bullet through his window. It could have ended very badly. In order to tackle gang crime, new legislation needs to be put in place, and there we are putting in place the means to speed up the work. Now, for the first time, we have taken a real step towards working together – thoroughly and uncompromisingly – against the difficult social problems that Sweden is suffering from. We look forward to doing this and thereby strengthening Swedish democracy. Having said that, I am in favour of the committee's proposal for a decision.
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-35	Mr President, I would like to Sweden celebrates 100 years of universal and equal suffrage. We celebrate this anniversary in memory of the years 1918-1922, when the Riksdag made a number of decisions that gave all grown women and men the right to vote and stand in elections. Liberal democracy is one of mankind's best inventions, perhaps the greatest. No other government delivers the same justice, freedom and benefit, from the individual's ability to shape his own life to society's ability to jointly make good decisions. Civil and political rights protect the individual from state oppression and limit the power of the majority over the individual. People's will will will be channelled through effective administration within both the Government Office and the Riksdag, with respect for different minorities and the rule of law. It shall be reviewed by independent media. A large part of the political institutions that are designed to ensure this are located in Category 1 Kingdom government, which we are dealing with today. Swedish democracy must be continuously developed and adapted, equipped and defended, in a changing world. The public institutions whose task it is to implement the policies supported in general elections must do so in an efficient and transparent manner. I will come back to what needs to be further focused. Mr President, I would like to The Centre Party abstains, but we have a special opinion on our policy in Category 1. Among other things, we are pressing for something that is actually a matter of economic policy but is linked to the area of expenditure. Among other things, we want the Government Office to take the lead shirt around regulatory simplifications. The government has delivered targets for regulatory simplifications that are in themselves quite good. However, they must be followed up with robust measures regarding both the Council of Directors and governance within the Government Office. That is why we are providing additional funds. In addition to this, we want to increase the international outlook in this area by creating a sound basis and a study on regulatory simplification in different countries. We want to examine whether it would be appropriate to differentiate legislation according to the size of the company, as small companies live under different conditions from large companies. All this should of course be done with the law and legal certainty in the driver's seat. Another area of economic and environmental policy that is currently of paramount importance is licensing and supervisory guidance. We want to give the county boards additional funds to make this examination and guidance more effective, so that, for example, the mining cases that are now waiting for decisions really come to a decision. In all well-functioning democracies, the issue of national minorities is what defines the level of democracy in many ways. On the important issue of the rights of national minorities, we want to set up a language centre for meänkieli in Övertorneå. The Center Party is also concerned about the development of the media, particularly in rural areas. We still have a lot of people reading a paper magazine, even a few days' newspapers. They can be a very important source of information when it comes to what is happening in your neighborhood but also give a picture of what is happening outside your village or community. Reading the local newspaper is part of central democracy. In the media support available in the expenditure area, we want additional funds to be added so that the pre-support for few-day newspapers is listed. Mr President, I would like to Defending Sweden is about defending the modern as well as the historical Sweden that many of us love. It is about equipping constitutions and institutions that guarantee the rule of law, the rule of law, democracy, human rights and the protection and promotion of national minorities. And on the subject of equipping our institutions, I regret to say that I am increasingly becoming aware of the pressure to which authorities, managers and administrators are exposed. Sometimes it's a matter of pure threats and sometimes just unpleasantness. This may not be a new phenomenon, but I am concerned about all the signals that I receive about how agencies are exposed to pure intrusion into the business, how individual administrators are hanged out on social media and how government officials need to change their address or take other measures to protect themselves. Mr President, I would like to This is not okay, and we who decide on the financial framework must take it seriously in the future. Swedish civil servants' tradition must be protected from external influences, so that decisions can be made legally and neutrally. All in all, it has to be said that, even from a security point of view, it has to be strengthened in order to renew government policy. Mr President, I would like to I note in the Prime Minister's declaration of government, among other important things, an organisational change. The Crisis Management Office is transferred from the Ministry of Justice to the Council of State Committee. The Center Party has been clear about this in the past through announcements, among other things, and we are pleased to see that this change is now being implemented. Finally, it paints against Christmas, and I would like to wish the President, colleagues in committees and officials in the cabinet a well-deserved Christmas and New Year's rest.
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-50	Mr President, I would like to The Left Party is fighting for a more equal, sustainable and fair society. We want to reduce gaps and strengthen welfare with efforts that provide better quality, better working conditions and more jobs. And not least, we want to see a welfare that includes both more and guarantees the security that one has the right to expect when one has retired or suffered from illness or unemployment. In the Left Party Budget Movement, Red Policy for a Green Conversion, we propose a re-launch of the Swedish economy after the coronapdemine. We also want to see a major green and modern transformation of society that creates development and jobs throughout the country. Our proposals increase the security of people through strengthened social security and safer working conditions. We provide better conditions for small businesses, and we are expanding both the infrastructure and the transport sector. Through left-wing politics, we create a welfare that benefits everyone, from the birth hall, through school and working life, and to the elderly with a need for care. Crisis management today, apart from dealing with the effects of the pandemic, is also about repairing the major damage that the dismantling of our common welfare over the last 30 years has caused to our society. It is an economic policy that is based on the idea that the rich should benefit, that power should be handed over to the market and that everything that is democratic and politically governed is a burden and should therefore be privatised. Mr President, I would like to Neo-liberal economic policy, which has been implemented by both bourgeois and Social-Democratic governments, has made 10 per cent of the population of Sweden have as much as 75 per cent of the total wealth. We have one of the world's most lopsided distributions of wealth and property income. Taxation is low, and Sweden has no wealth tax. The underfunding of welfare, the climate crisis and the high level of unemployment are linked to tax cuts. When the wealth of a few gathers, it is not used to invest in our common welfare. The Left Party wants to change this. We now need investment in our common. That is why we propose the introduction of a tax on large wealth and an increase in the tax on capital income in order to finance increased resources for the common. CO2 emissions and unemployment are to be reduced, and economic equality is to be raised. Our budget allocates approximately SEK 72 billion more than the government did on reforms to speed up the green transition, strengthen the rural and municipal sectors, and upgrade security systems and health care. Mr President, I would like to The left-wing party budget should be seen as a whole, even if this debate is about the parties' proposals in category 1. I would therefore like to set out the proposals and priorities that we have. We are investing over SEK 30 million in the Sami Parliament. This could allow for a language initiative that we all know is very urgent. In fact, the urgency of the situation for the Sami languages cannot be sufficiently underlined. At the same time, Sameting's resources are severely limited. For example, the Sami library, which is a resource for the whole country, has only a mid-term service today. We also want to introduce scholarships for Sami language studies and provide the Sami Ethical Council with increased resources for the repatriation of Sami remains and sacred objects. Mr President, I would like to Unfortunately, the Government's Roma inclusion strategy has not had the intended effect either. In last year's budget, the government put in a small amount of SEK 11⁄2 million in the special allocation available to the Roma minority, which we criticised. Now there is more money set aside – SEK 12 million – and we are pleased to see that the government has made an investment of SEK 15 million that has not been removed in the budget reservation of Moderates, Sweden Democrats and Christian Democrats. However, the Left Party believes that more needs to be done. We therefore allocate SEK 10 million to our budget. The responsible county administrative board for Roma inclusion calls for a more long-term solution, which is not based on short-term projects and lack of continuity. A report from 2017 showed that only 20 municipalities were working on the Roma inclusion strategy. It's too bad. We believe that work on Roma issues needs to be brought together at a national centre or authority, as the Commission against anti-Ziganism has proposed. Mr President, I would like to In an increasingly digitised world, where data about us is collected and stored almost all the time, it becomes important that it is done correctly and that data about us is not disseminated in an uncontrolled way. The Privacy Protection Authority, previously the Swedish Data Protection Authority, is the authority responsible for protecting all our personal data, such as health and economics, so that they are handled correctly and do not end up in the wrong hands. Every year, companies and authorities report thousands of notifications to Imy when personal data has been leaked or incorrectly processed. Nevertheless, the Authority expects that there is a large number of darkness that is not reported. It can be about leaks of everything from patient information to data from a customer register. Last summer, Ekot reported on how three different banks had leaked website visitors' phone numbers and email addresses to Facebook. It was only in connection with Ekot's review that the banks discovered that this had happened. Imy estimates that the mission is underfunded by approximately 20 million annually. This has resulted in a strained situation on the authority, with long processing times for, for example, camera surveillance permits, and that desirable oversight activities have not been carried out. The government uses this fact, that Imy is overburdened with work, in its argument that integrity-impairing efforts, such as camera surveillance, should increasingly require permission instead of actually ensuring that the authority is given the opportunity to fulfil its mission. We in the Left Party defend the important privacy protection work, and we therefore propose an investment of 10 million this year and 20 million coming years to enable Imy to fulfil its tasks, including inspections and supervision, as well as handling of notifications in connection with GDPR and the Camera Protection Act. We also propose a 10% reduction in the allocation to the Royal Court and the Royal Palace State, as well as a reduction of the MEPs' fees and additional payments by just under 132 million.
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-69	Mr President, I would like to You get very good ideas when you listen to the debate, and I found the last speech particularly interesting. I would like to begin my contribution to this debate by saying that we are more in agreement than we disagree. The Kingdom budget is over 1,200 billion. The M-KD-SD budget includes a redistribution of around 20 billion. This should be contrasted with the fact that it is actually 1 200 billion that we agree on. I would therefore like to take this opportunity to underline what Mr V has said and what the Vice-President of the S has said, that is to say, to highlight the strengthening of the situation of the Sami and Roma people and the creation of a new Human Rights Institute. We all support this, including the Christian Democrats – who have not been very involved in this issue. What does an M-KD-SD budget add, which would not otherwise have existed? Improvements, I would say. In this area of expenditure it is about SEK 40 million, which means a strengthening of the Government Office, among other things. As we have already heard, the KU supports a joint proposal from the members of the Moderates, the Swedish Democrats and the Christian Democrats on the appropriations for 2022 under Category 1. In total, the appropriations within the expenditure area amount to approximately SEK 17.2 billion. Last Wednesday, the House decided on the overall budget, and today we are going to contribute a breakdown within our spending area in the KU1 report. The committee considers, with the support of the KD-M-SD budget, that the allocation 4:1 the Government Office, etc. will be added another SEK 10 million for 2022 compared to the Government's proposal, to finance an investigation to strengthen individuals' rights and freedoms and the independence of courts. The founding committee should be given a broader mandate or a new committee set up. The committee believes that the fundamental rights of individuals need to be strengthened. In particular, the State should be given increased liability for the costs of litigation in disputes concerning the rights and freedoms of individuals. The enhanced constitutional protection that exists for certain rights should include more rights, such as property rights and freedom to conduct a business. In addition, the committee believes that consideration should be given to whether an obligation could be imposed on the State to protect individuals from violations of human rights and freedoms by other individuals. The independence of courts should be strengthened, and it should be investigated, among other things, whether to appoint an independent body from the Riksdag and the Government to be responsible for the preparation of appointments of judges. As regards the appropriation 4:1, the Government Office, etc. A further SEK 25 million will be added for 2022 compared to the Government's proposal in order to speed up investigations in order to develop new legislation against gang crime and to stem new recruitments to criminal gangs. The measures to be investigated are the possibility of pro-active secret interception and data reading against gang criminals, greater possibilities of deporting gang criminals and greatly increased penalties for crimes typically committed in the context of gang crime. It is also a question of introducing search zones and systems of anonymous witnesses and making it a crime to be in gangs. A new rule in the Public Access and Confidentiality Act that allows other authorities or, for example, municipalities to share information with the police should be investigated. Another item of SEK 5 million within the envelope 4:1 is about the Government's proposal to investigate a grant reform. In this regard, I would like to highlight in particular the introduction of a job premium for the transition to work in the form of either a payment or a tax relief that reduces the marginal impact on those who move from support to work. These are measures to prevent total benefits and benefits from making it unprofitable to work as well as a division of responsibilities between the state and the municipality for the long-term unemployed. An item of SEK 10 million within the 6:1 grant will be added. Then it is a matter of increasing the security of the religions. We know that in the Third City of the Reich, Jews are not safe. We know that people are persecuted on the basis of their religion, their beliefs, also in Sweden. We want to strengthen the security of these religions. Having said that, the budget presented by the S-MP Government was not entirely wrong, but with these changes it was even better. That is why I support the proposal in the committee's report. I would then like to refer to the specific opinion of the Christian Democrats in the report. Freedom of religion and belief is an important issue to take into account in the design of Swedish development cooperation. It is about freedom from coercion, freedom of expression and non-discrimination. Against this background, I and the Christian Democrats believe that the government should ensure that all diplomats receive education and training on issues relating to religious freedom. The government should also instruct a special ambassador to work towards strengthening respect for religious freedom. I would also like to say something about Jerusalem and the Embassy in Tel Aviv. Well aware that it is a question of what the government has on its table, the Riksdag may nevertheless have a meaning. From the opinion of the Christian Democrats, I can say that Jerusalem has never been the capital of any country other than Israel or of any people other than the Jewish. The Christian Democrats believe that the Swedish Embassy should be moved from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem at an appropriate time. In view of the fact that the KU has for a long time considered that Parliament has no role to play in making decisions on matters relating to the organisation of the foreign administration or changes in the rest of the external representation, I therefore choose not to reserve myself in favour of the demands for exercise on these issues – but I support them and believe that the government should listen to us.
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-84	Mr President, I would like to I do not just want to ask Mr Skånberg in private, but I have a question that I would like to ask here about the Christian Democrats' draft budget in this area. Yesterday, the Sametinget plenary session was opened in Kiruna. A week ago, the Swedish Church publicly apologized for the abuses and discrimination that the church had historically subjected the Sami people to. It is indeed clear that the church here is at the forefront of the state. The Christian Democrats' draft budget reduces the funding for the Sameting, 3:1, by 6 million. The same is not mentioned at all in the Christian Democrats' motion for Category 1 or in the Christian Democrats' budget. The national minorities are not mentioned either.
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-87	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to say that the abuses that have taken place against the Sami people, from which I myself count any gene, are indefensible. I want to do my absolute best – and so do the Christian Democrats – to ensure that this is not forgotten and that they are given an apology. That the Swedish Church does this is founded on a decision made by an independent, independent church. As a private person, I can value and encourage it and think it is good, but as a politician I cannot interfere with what a church or a religious community does. However, I take note of this and see it with satisfaction. The state is another thing; it is on our table. I think it is important to strengthen the situation of the Sami people, and this can be done with a redistribution within the allocation. It is true that there is a decrease, but it is not true that we do not want to strengthen the Sameting.
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-90	Mr President, I would like to With the Left Party budget, the Sameting would be added over 30 million. Our intention would be to direct that money specifically to a language initiative, because we know how urgent the issue is. It is not a secret either, but we have often debated it in this House. Words also need to be followed by action. In what way is the situation of the Sami strengthened when the Christian Democrats lower their funding for the Sameting by 6 million?
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-92	Mr President, I would like to What if the Left Party and Jessica Wetterling had been involved in the negotiations? Then it would probably have been different. Welcome to do so in the future!
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-93	Mr President, I would like to Liberals are putting their own budget option, which is to be seen as a whole, and so I am abstaining from the position and instead presenting a specific opinion in the area of expenditure. This opinion states, among other things, that the policy must deliver if Sweden is to be strong after the worst crisis in modern times – a crisis that never seems to end. The Coronapendemy has meant that many have lost their lives, that others live with serious health consequences of the virus, that many have lost their livelihood and that all of our foundations have been tested. In the midst of this, we in the committee are particularly aware that citizens' rights must not be curtailed, even in times of crisis, and that is why we see the importance of public power always being examined. Liberals also see that this review needs to be strengthened. Year after year, we get the JO's official report that shows this. The number of complaints from citizens is increasing every year, and the need for oversight and audits by the Parliamentary Ombudsmen is doing the same. I know that all parties in this House see the importance of having the JO to uphold the rule of law, but the Liberals also provide funds for this – SEK 4 600 000 more, to be exact, than is proposed – to ensure that the JO is able to carry out its mission. It is cold in many ways in Sweden right now. Access to electricity is a prerequisite for security and sustainable growth. Since 2019, the county administrative boards in Stockholm, Uppsala, Västra Götaland and Skåne have analysed the prerequisites for security of electricity supply within the government mission called Trygg power supply. It is estimated that the use of electricity will increase further in the coming decades, but electricity will not be produced where it is mainly used, i.e. in southern Sweden's metropolitan regions. On the consequences of this, I would have been able to tell you a lot – about companies that are not set up, about jobs that are missing and about the unhemulable electricity bills of individuals today and tomorrow – but it is another debate. We need capacity in the electricity grids so that electricity can be transferred from producer to consumer at all times of the year without disruption. Part of this work is based on the fact that county administrative boards can develop common methods, create procedures and tools and coordinate forecasts of future electricity requirements. That is why increased resources are needed. It is gratifying that the government, in line with the January agreement, commissioned the County Administrative Board in Östergötland to prepare the establishment of a national cross-sectoral centre of expertise against honour-related violence and repression. Liberals want to broaden their mandate to include the task of proposing how authorities can better work towards a structured collection of data and statistical information. We all know too well here how important it is to have access to reliable and clear data when we debate and how difficult it is otherwise to lift a problem. Therefore, the Liberals contribute SEK 35 million in total to the government's draft budget, i.e. what fell. The budget that we are now having to debate has, in this particular point, removed SEK 80 million from the government's proposed budget. Mr President, I would like to If you have the goal that the Roma who turn 20 in 2032 should have equal opportunities in life as the non-Roma, which should be absolutely obvious, as the government has with its strategy for Roma inclusion – then you must also take on board the evaluation made by the Stockholm County Administrative Board at the top of the government. Year after year, it is clearly pointed out that efforts are too limited, too short-term and for project-based ones because of the lack of resources, among other things. Therefore, from the Liberals in our budget, we spend SEK 10 million on the grant line Actions for the national minority Roma in order to create better conditions for the implementation of the Roma inclusion strategy. Mr President, I would like to It's a turbulent period we're going through. The area of expenditure that we are now debating can sometimes seem dry and distant to many, but it is clear that what we have to deal with today behind tables and footnotes is an important part of creating a robust and safe country for everyone who lives here.
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-104	Mr President, I would like to Together with the rest of the world, Sweden has been fighting against the covid-19 pandemic for a year and a half. The situation is still very uncertain, while the economy is recovering rapidly, more are coming back to work and new opportunities to solve societal problems are created. The Green Party has fought in the government and parliament to change Sweden. It is clear to us that the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats are moving forward with changes to the budget bill that in a crucial time are driving Sweden in the wrong direction. Today we are debating Category 1. Since, in the first stage of the budgetary process, the majority of Parliament has given a different direction to budgetary policy than we wish, we are abstaining from taking a position on the distribution of appropriations in Category 1. We refer to reservation 1 in the Financial Committee's framework report. Mr President, I would like to The right parties make substantial reductions for the county boards – a total of 80 million – compared with the government's proposal. The money was intended for regional conversion, the Energy Step and the transformation of business. The much-needed funds for regional development measures for re-starting are rejected. Today, the county boards are the spider in the net for the work of companies, municipalities and other actors to succeed in the climate transition. They are responsible for coordinating and implementing regional climate strategies. They are also responsible for enabling other actors to do more for the climate. All of this is to be done in order to achieve the objectives that Parliament – we in this House – have set itself. M, KD and SD pull the carpet away for this important work. I'm sorry about that. The activities of county administrative boards in this area were already under-financed. The withdrawal of state funding also means that applications for additional funds, such as EU funds, are made more difficult by the fact that the co-financing requirements cannot be met. This means that the county boards will no longer be able to afford important projects that can reduce emissions. I'm sorry about that. My question to the right-wing opposition is therefore: who do you think should pursue the implementation of regional climate strategies instead? Who will ensure that we reach Parliament's climate targets at municipal and regional level? If we are to succeed in a climate transition worthy of the name, it must cost. For what is more important to prioritise than a sustainable climate change and our children's future? Mr President, I would like to JO is a very important social player that promotes the country's democratic system and protects the rule of law in public Sweden. JO's decisions have great legitimacy and impact. Recently, the JO's official story came. For me, the story is a clear proof of the challenges we face. Behind the reference numbers are stories of people who have been mistreated by public Sweden, by the institutions of democracy. I am distressed when I read about young people who are beaten at Sis-hem, or held in custody for many months without a detention hearing. As a member of the Constitutional Committee, I know that it is for these people that I work every day. I would therefore like to encourage my colleagues in the Riksdag to continue to protect the JO's important tasks and activities. Legal certainty is one of the most valuable things we have in Swedish democracy. Otherwise, I refer to our particular opinion.
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-114	Mr President, I would like to There is no doubt that the Green Party is passionate about democracy, indigenous rights and minorities. Our former Minister for Democracy, Amanda Lind, has demonstrated this every day in her mission. The Red-Green Government's budget bill, which was first put on Parliament's table, strengthens the culture and language rights of national minorities and strengthens the protection of the law against discrimination. After the turn of the year, the Institute for Human Rights is established in Lund to promote and preserve human rights at national level. Racism, hate crime and intolerance do not belong in Sweden. Activities to combat or prevent racism receive increased support. On Monday, Magdalena Andersson was elected Sweden's first female Prime Minister. Rarely have we had more reason to applaud in Parliament's Chamber. Many in this House were also touched by the historic moment. We now have an extremely competent and driven Prime Minister. That's what matters. She's a woman, too. That's the historical thing. Democracy remains strong in our country. This shows, not least, the parliamentary work of the last few weeks. Some may be surprised that I say so, but there have been rapid and revolutionary changes in the political situation here. It may seem busy, and it can sometimes be difficult to predict what is going to happen. But the fact is that Parliament's work is ticking, and we stand here and continue to deal with the budget. A strong democracy is not something you can take for granted. In Sweden, most people are satisfied with how democracy works, but we still need to continue to develop our democracy so that it is strengthened. It does so by involving more and more people in it. It is threatened when those involved are silenced, that is, when elected representatives, opinion-makers and journalists are threatened with silence or choose not to say what they want to say in the public debate. Important work is under way in the 2020 Constitution Committee. That's where I represent the Green Party. We in the Committee are working to strengthen the protection of democracy and the independence of the courts. These are important measures that are being investigated, including not being able to change the constitution too easily. Among other things, the Green Party wants to make it more difficult to change the Constitution by making the intermediate choice required for a constitutional amendment to be a regular election. Despite the Committee's important and sometimes, I will admit, not quite easy assignments, I would like to send something to you who listens. Together we are the ones who strengthen democracy. You can only do a certain part in a constitutional investigation. Do not be pleased to vote only every four years! Get involved! You can join the party that you usually vote for. Then you are involved in strengthening Swedish democracy. I mentioned briefly the Human Rights Institute, which is set up on 1 January. The Institute is given an important task in monitoring compliance with human rights in Sweden. This is a pledge from the Green Party that is now being honoured, and we want to continue to strengthen the independence of the Institute. Therefore, we have exercised that an investigation needs to review the possibility of protecting the mission and the form of management in the constitution. On the basis of the commitment to fundamental rights, as I hear in the Constitutional Committee, I believe that there is an opportunity to find a consensus on this important issue as well. I look forward to discussing this. Mr President, I would like to Both Swedish elected parliaments are meeting today. I would like to say a few words about the policy of the Green Party for the Sami people. The policy of silence for the Sami people has reached the end of the road. The relations between the state and the indigenous Sami can almost be described as an open wound, both historically and in our present time. The structural racism and discrimination suffered by the Sami people throughout history still have consequences today. But something is happening. The Sami perspectives and issues increase in visibility around society, including through the Swedish Church's apology to the Sami people, as previously mentioned. What surprises me a little in the budget that has gone through is that there are no priorities for these issues. Either that means that the issues at this stage are not important enough to negotiate, or that the work of the previous government is satisfied. It will be an important task for the new government and the new minister responsible not only to continue the work that is going on but to constantly want a little more. Because when rights are strengthened, there is resistance among those who are concerned that this means that their rights are being weakened. In particular, I would like to stress the importance of a consultation procedure, which we in Parliament are preparing, and of the Truth Commission that is being set up. It is high time that the Sami people could speak out in decisions that affect them and that they should receive redress. Remember, this committee is supposed to protect the constitutions! This means safeguarding the opportunity of the Sami people and all ethnic, linguistic and religious minorities to maintain and develop their own cultural and community life. Keeping and developing are keywords. I can assure you that the Green Party will continue to monitor these issues in current cases in the future.
i-C8eXov2WBGRUTbiMitFUsU	Mr President, I would like to The proposal proposes an amendment to the Act on the Authorisation to issue certain degrees. The amendment introduces an authorisation for the government to decide that the International Maritime Organisation shall have the right to issue degrees through the World Maritime University in Malmö. One consequence of the proposal is that the principle of public access will not be applied. If you compare with other higher education institutions, such as Chalmers University of Technology, Jönköping University and Stockholm School of Economics, transparency will be lower, as the other independent higher education institutions are added to the appendix to the Public Access and Confidentiality Act, which means that the principle of public access applies. The Left Party believes that it is important that there is a possibility of transparency in activities that carry out government functions in Sweden. There are several reasons why it is valuable and also provides practical benefits, for example, that you can compare criteria for grading and examination in a transparent way. Several consultation bodies expressed the importance of transparency, but the government and the Education Committee have chosen not to listen to them. The principle of public access is a constitutionally protected principle aimed at strengthening democracy. By deciding not to allow transparency, the principle of public access is in danger of being undermined, which is very serious. The principle of public access should always apply when an independent operator carries out the exercise of public authority. It is just as bad that a grading and graduate university is not covered by the principle of public access as private-run primary and secondary schools do not. When student results are counted as business secrets, something is seriously wrong. When the Left Party initiated the principle of public access to independent schools, we received support from the Social Democrats and the Green Party. But this time the Left Party alone stands for openness and transparency even in higher education. Mr President, I would like to The World Maritime University should be added to the annex to the Public Access and Confidentiality Act, so that the possibility of transparency is safeguarded in accordance with the Left Party's reservation, to which I now request approval.
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-137	Mr President, I would like to Maritime transport is an extremely important industry for Sweden. I, who are from the Gothenburg area, know not least what important role the Port of Gothenburg plays for Sweden and for the entire Nordic region. The shipping industry has a great need for skilled labour, and the industry itself sees this as one of its most important issues for the future. Training in the maritime sector has major challenges. They are expensive, and the search pressure is unfortunately low and very unequal. Today, at university level, only Linnéuniversitetet in Kalmar and Chalmers University of Technology in Gothenburg are available as universities with a maritime orientation, and there are only seven upper secondary education programmes. The industry is working hard together with municipalities, schools and higher education institutions to increase interest in maritime industries, and in recent years we can see a slight positive development in search pressures, both at upper secondary and higher education levels. Today we can add another small measure to strengthen interest in these courses: the possibility for the World Maritime University to issue Swedish degrees in the maritime field. Mr President, I would like to The International Maritime Organisation (IMO) was established as early as 1948, and Sweden has been a member since 1959. It is the International Maritime Organisation that produces legal acts and recommendations governing international shipping. As a result of these tasks, World Maritime University, WMU, World Maritime University, was founded in 1983, because a world knowledge centre for higher education and research in the maritime field was needed and needed. We are of course proud that one of the places where the education is conducted is located in Sweden. There has thus been training in Malmö since 1983. Against this background, it is very positive that we are now finally providing the conditions for another university, WMU, to issue Swedish degrees in the maritime field. You could say it's about time after almost 40 years. We are very much in favour of this becoming a reality. It can help to strengthen the supply of skills in the important shipping industry. Mr President, I would like to The IMO and, by extension, the WMU are inter-ethnic organisations. This makes the issue more complex from a legal point of view. The Government has clearly stated in the bill the conditions for transferring an administrative task to an intergovernmental organisation. In connection with the committee's discussion of the issue, the Left Party has highlighted the issue of transparency in a follow-up motion. The Left Party considers that WMU should be added to the Annex to the Public Access and Confidentiality Act. This would mean that the provisions of the Freedom of the Press Regulation on access to public documents by public authorities should apply mutatis mutandis to the individual bodies WMU and IMO. We Social Democrats do not share this view. Nor do the other parties in the committee. It is clear that the scope of transparency is sufficiently wide based on the requirements of all those who are authorised to issue degrees according to the Exams Act. WMU will participate in the follow-up and evaluation of the education carried out by the Office of the University Chancellor, UKÄ, and each year draw up a written quality report to be submitted to UKÄ. All these documents are subject to the UKÄ's principle of public access. There will thus be good opportunities for transparency regarding the proposed management task. Mr President, I would like to The preparatory work on the Public Access and Confidentiality Act makes it clear that an assessment must be made on a case-by-case basis of whether an individual body should be included in the Annex to the Public Access and Confidentiality Act. It is true that the exerciser argues that certain individual training providers have been included in the annex. However, the vast majority do not have it. This applies, among other things, to the University College of the Red Cross, Ersta Sköndal Bräcke College and Sophiahemmet. In this assessment, bodies wholly owned or operated by the State or which allocate State resources shall be more closely related to the inclusion in the Annex. This is not the case with the World Maritime University. The State element is only part of the range of activities and is not entrusted with the allocation of State resources. The reasons why, among other things, Chalmers University of Technology and Jönköping University were included in the appendix are precisely the strong link to government funding and that the activities are mainly financed by state funds. In the case of the School of Economics, only those parts of the activities related to the allocation of training grants are included. Thus, the right to access public documents does not apply to the activities relating to the issue of degrees or any other part of Trade activities. Mr President, I would like to The issue has been dealt with in the bill. We share the view that there are no particular reasons to include IMO and WMU in the Annex to the Publicity and Confidentiality Act. This again does not mean that there will be a lack of transparency in the activities. There will be access via the Office of the University Chancellor to all the information required regarding the implementation of these programmes. There is also, of course, the possibility of revoking the transfer if it should in any way prove that WMU does not provide the documents required by the UKÄ to follow up and review the training courses. However, we hold it too unlikely that such a situation would occur. With this, I would like to call for the committee's proposal to be approved.
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-149	Mr President, I would like to Sweden's relations with other countries and international organisations are vital to promote Swedish interests around the world. Category 5 is one of the smaller areas of expenditure but has very important items of expenditure. Not least for Sweden's reputation in the world, we need to prioritise this area. This reputation has received a lot of criticism and negative publicity in the world in recent times due to the coronapandemia and the lack of management that has now definitely been identified by the Corona Commission. There is a need for targeted efforts to rebuild confidence. Some foreign media have even spoken of Sweden as a pariah country. In addition to this, there is the negative reporting on crime, which has greatly escalated in Sweden. Developments in this area have been disastrous and have had a major impact on foreign media. The risk is now obvious that the image of Sweden as a country with a rule of law that is unable to guarantee the security of its citizens is holding fast. This would be very damaging to the image of Sweden abroad. Ruining a trust can go very fast. But it takes years to build a new trust. Here the work needs to be started and intensified immediately. In order to promote Sweden's role in the world, there is the Swedish Institute, which has the task of increasing Sweden's attractiveness in the long term. One way in which this happens is that the Institute has leadership programmes that provide scholarships to future leaders and executives in different countries. These will then have an opportunity to come to Sweden. The system of scholarship recipients needs to be fully utilised. The Swedish Democrats want the Swedish Institute to be tasked with drawing up a list of countries that should be prioritised when it comes to these selections. The Swedish Institute also conducts various forms of leadership programs. It is worth drawing attention to some of these good examples that show what Sweden can contribute to on the international stage. One of these programmes is She Leads, which actively promotes the promotion of future women leaders in Saudi Arabia and their relations with their counterparts here in Sweden. The focus on gender equality is particularly important in the MENA countries, and these programmes should be able to be developed so that gender equality can be spread to those regions where it is really scarce. This is indeed a priority for gender equality policy in the right areas and should be a matter of course for a government that has a high profile on gender issues. Mr President, I would like to Category 5 also includes the Authority's Inspection of Strategic Products, which controls war and dual-use items. Dual-use items are essentially civilian products which also have a military use. Sweden manufactures, develops and exports many products that fall under control because we are a high-tech country with large exports. This means that we can also have our own defence industry and that we can provide other democracies with armaments so that they can defend themselves. This is something that has become increasingly necessary in a world of many aggressive dictatorships. This industry is something to be proud of, and it gives Sweden a unique influence in the world. But it also means a responsibility to maintain a high level of control of these products. It is therefore essential that monitoring is continuously monitored and that criticisms of the functioning of the control system are followed up. One of these issues is post-control, where the government has been very slow. A post-control system is now several years behind schedule. The Swedish Democrats have pointed out on several occasions in this House that a post-control system needs to be put in place immediately so that war material is not at risk of detour. Such a system is not yet in place, despite the fact that a very rich one today wants to introduce this system. This is deeply remarkable. Mr President, I would like to A category of expenditure such as Category 5 covers a very small part of the total state budget but should not be underestimated. In this area, there are many initiatives that can yield multiple benefits if the right priorities are set. Similarly, there is a great risk that Sweden's reputation abroad will be damaged if wrong priorities are made or if investments are significantly delayed or not. In some areas of expenditure this has been the case, and I hope that the newly appointed government will avoid repeating the mistakes that have been made in the past.
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-158	Mr President, I would like to This is a rather special debate, I suppose. As regards Category 5 International cooperation, there are three reservations from the Center Party, the Left Party and the Liberals about the direction of politics. Otherwise, there is nothing else but the abandonment of some of the parties. However, most parties form a majority in favour of the committee's proposal in the report. I note that the Moderates, the Swedish Democrats, the Christian Democrats, the Social Democrats and the Green Party are behind the bill and the report. Mr President, I would like to It does not really sound like that when you listen to the debate. It's a bit of a special situation. We in the Center Party do not take part in the decision on the budget itself. Our budget fell when it was voted last week. That is why we will abstain from voting if there is any vote at this stage. Mr President, I would like to We would still have liked us to have received increased funding for border center activities to strengthen the Nordic region. . Post pandemic and with the experience we have had, we want to work to increase the opportunity to build common labour markets in our Nordic border areas. There we need to make special efforts, and we think that we should have contributed funds to this. We also think that Sweden should have lifted this with our Nordic neighbours so that they would do likewise and thus start a real reconstruction of the common border areas, which are so important to many people. Mr President, I would like to The liberal world order is not without flaws. Nevertheless, it has created prosperity, stability and opportunities for the world's states, for us, to solve common challenges. That is why we still see that it is worth fighting for, and it must be at the heart of Swedish foreign policy to defend and promote liberal democracy. This means a foreign policy that stands up for human rights, which supports the rule of law building, which combats corruption, strengthens women's rights and opportunities and strengthens cooperation with other liberal democracies. This goes hand in hand with a development cooperation policy that stands up for the 1% target, with a trade policy that promotes free trade and with a security and defence policy that means that Sweden takes greater responsibility for our and our partners' common security. At a time of new challenges in the form of growing oppression in the world, more authoritarian leaders and fewer democratic countries, Sweden must be a clear voice for liberal democracy. This is an important characteristic, speaking of what was said earlier, for the Swedish profile internationally. If that image were to be damaged, the Swedish image would really be damaged. That is why it is extremely important to stand up for liberal democracy. A lot of people are trying to undermine it. Russia, our great neighbour, has recognised good knowledge in this particular area too. It is about the country using its entire toolbox with all policy areas and being able to focus on the need to destabilise other countries, especially with a focus on liberal democracies. It is therefore important that Sweden does not speak one language in our international policy when we act, another in diplomacy and a third in security policy. We, too, must use our entire toolbox to build security and build the work for our goals: to safeguard our liberal democracy. On the part of the Center Party, we have emphasised that we should strengthen our Russian skills. The centre that has been set up is a good one, but we think that we should start a process of establishing, in dialogue with NATO, a NATO Centre of Excellence for Russian knowledge in Sweden. Mr President, I would like to Among the authoritarian structures and states, it is not only Russia that challenges us. China claims to be a democratic dictatorship – an exciting constitutional comment! This dictatorship, too, has the role of strategic actor throughout the field. It is visible also in our part of the world. We see a clear escalation of conflict in the South China Sea and Chinese military, diplomatic and economic pressure on Taiwan. That is why we in the Center Party believe it is important that we emphasise the need to respect the UN Commission on the Law of the Sea and permanently uphold the 2016 arbitration decision that the Chinese claims in the South China Sea have no legal basis. It is also important for what is happening in Sweden's neighbourhood, in the Arctic, that we can uphold the principles of the law of the sea. Of course, we also point to those who have been arrested by authoritarian leaders and dictatorships. We mention Gui Minhai and Dawit Isaak, where quiet diplomacy has not been successful. We know that there is a special group looking at their case, but it is important not to forget them for that reason. It is important to continue to lift the demands for their release. Mr President, I would like to Every person's right to his or her body and health, including sexual and reproductive health and rights – in other words SRHR – the right to ownership and self-determination and, not least, the right to influence and power in society, are extremely important. It should be obvious if you have a liberal approach to feminist politics. The Center Party considers it important that Sweden's foreign authorities are given a clear mandate to work on these issues, with gender equality and LGBTI people's rights and with minority opportunities. I have just spoken with representatives of the opposition in Belarus. These contacts highlight the importance of supporting those groups that want to be actors for democracy and for human rights. They must have our support; it must be a clear mission. Gender equality is both an objective in itself and a prerequisite for eradicating poverty and freedom in the world. It is therefore important to combat anti-liberal and traditional values, which in many societies are cementing patriarchal structures. With this in mind, Mr President, I would like to vote in favour of reservation 1 in paragraph 2.
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-174	Mr President, I would like to We are debating the state budget today. But it is not the government's budget that we are debating, but the change in the government's budget by the Moderates, Christian Democrats and Sweden Democrats, which is permeated by national conservative values. How did this happen? Whose fault is this? I'd say it's the Center Party's fault that it happened this way. And it is important to remember that this is the third time in seven years that the Center Party is involved in bringing down the government's budget and creating political chaos in Sweden. It shows that it has become part of the DNA of the Center Party to create chaos and not take political responsibility. In 2014, the Center Party and the Alliance had lost power. Prime Minister Fredrik Reinfeldt resigned directly on the election night. He saw where they were barking. The Alliance was smaller than the Social Democrats, the Green Party and the Left Party. But the center-party urge to stifle a newly-saved S-MP government was too great, so the alliance parties joined forces and put forward a common budget. It was a budget that the Swedish Democrats could vote for if they wanted right-wing politics. And that's what happened. The government's budget fell, and Stefan Löfven announced that new elections were waiting. All he had to do was wait for the three-month rule from his appointment, and a new election would be announced. Only then did the bourgeoisie sober up, and the December agreement became the solution for minority governments to pass their budgets even during the rest of their term of office. The next time the center parties were on the go was after the 2018 election. They set up a lot of red lines and couldn't decide whether to go to the right or left, but they were looking feverishly for the broad center of Swedish politics. Annie Lööf was even commissioned to probe herself, but none of mine could be found. During these autumn days Sweden lacked a government. Instead, the State's executive activities were carried out by a transitional government with S and MP with very limited mandates. The mandate was so limited that when the transitional government was legally obliged to present a budget, it decided to present the same budget as the previous year, even if it meant that we would celebrate the Year of Bergman once more. The Presidency of the Nordic Council, which was already completed and had been passed on to the next country, would also be allocated money for another year. To make all this clear, the budget was given a dull grey colour, which did not match the happy colors of its predecessors at all. The Left Party declared that we were not going to present our own budget in this shaky political situation. But the bourgeois opposition parties could not hold back and presented their draft budget which was far more far-reaching than the government's sparse proposals. The Moderates and Christian Democrats even went so far as to put forward a joint proposal – all to attract the Swedish Democrats to vote on their very proposal. Although the Center Party was in intensive negotiations with the S-MP government, it could not allow a technocrat budget to go through. Instead, the Moderates, the Swedish Democrats and the Christian Democrats were once again allowed to create chaos. This wasn't their fault – you just followed the practice. So we arrive at 2021. The day before yesterday Sweden finally got its first female Prime Minister in Magdalena Andersson, and yesterday a new government was able to take office. But they didn't get their budget through. That's what the Center Party had decided to do. Instead, a budget negotiated with the Swedish Democrats was released. For the first time, a racist party gained power over a Swedish budget, despite the fact that this time they had to interfere in the complete spagat on the same superkaoson day a week ago. And this, one tries feverishly to assert, was the practice. This calls Kerstin Lundgren a clear voice for liberal democracy. I'm a little more doubtful that it is. Because even if the President tries to blame Sweden's smallest party, the Green Party, the truth is that the Center Party is the party that repeatedly throws Sweden into political chaos. The losers always become the Swedish people. But it does not care about Europe's richest party, for they follow practice – their own practice. At least some kind of practice is maintained in this area of expenditure. The proposal from the blue-brown gang in M, SD and KD is in any case exactly the same as the government. It is good that you have some common sense when it comes to paying membership fees to international organisations and other things that exist in this area of expenditure. Russia is today a threat to security policy, first and foremost to everyone in Russia who opposes the rule of the Kremlin and who does not fit in with the society that Putin wants to build. For Russian LGBTQ people, feminists, indigenous representatives, environmental movements and leftist activists, their own regime is a daily security threat. Russia's imperialist policy poses a direct threat to the population of its neighbours, Ukraine, Georgia, Belarus, Moldova and the countries of Central Asia. Thirdly, the Putin regime poses a security policy threat to Sweden, a threat to be taken seriously. If Russia develops in a more democratic direction, it will pose a less security policy threat. Therefore, the Russian opposition – not any parties or so, but the real, courageous opposition consisting of LGBTQ activists, feminists, human rights defenders and environmental movements – needs the support of the outside world. They are now threatened by terror stamping and being called foreign agents. To support them is to support democratic development in Russia and improve security for the outside world. This year the government has presented a good initiative for increased support for the Russian opposition, a proposal that the Left Party has put forward for several years. The only mistake in the effort is that the word cybersecurity has been thrown in the middle of a list of important things. Although cyber security is an important issue that is most likely to grow and grow in the future, this focus must not go beyond support for the Russian opposition, independent journalism and Russian civil society. This appropriation should therefore continue to focus on the important inter-people exchanges, support for Russia and cooperation in the Baltic Sea. With that, Mr President, I would like to endorse the Left Party's reservation number 2. Also note our special opinion on the budget, as we believe that the budget is a whole that should not be broken up in individual parts.
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-190	Mr President, I would like to It was almost impossible not to heed the appeal that we could all hear in Håkan Svenneling's general statements on the budget and history in this House. For although we are talking about international cooperation, Mr President, I noted that the majority of Mr Svenneling's interventions were not about it but about something quite different. As I understood it, Mr President, it was about Håkan Svenneling hoping that an agreement with the Social Democrats and the Green Party late Tuesday evening, an agreement which he probably negotiated and approved, would have a government basis together with the Center Party. The Left Party may dream of that, Mr President, but when I hear how Håkan Svenneling argues, it is quite clear that it is very far away. I cannot see that Håkan Svenneling gave some examples of finding a common solution or that it was the liberal values that Mr Svenneling and the Left Party stood up for. Okay, I heard about Russia there at the end. It was perhaps a small connection to Russia having an old history in Håkan Svenneling's party.
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-193	Mr President, I would like to Kerstin Lundgren is always free to take lines on me. I have no need to seek them. However, I note that, like the President or Annie Lööf is holding press conferences, I can also use my time in the Swedish Parliament Chamber to explain what I think is wrong, and I do not think it is the smallest party in Sweden that is responsible for the political chaos we have ended up in. I think that responsibility lies with the Center Party. This is because you have interfered in complete spade, point in all directions and try to stick to some practice in a way that makes no one understand what you are doing. That is why I want to use my time to explain why I think that the Center Party has a responsibility to stand up for a racist party not to be allowed to negotiate the budget in the Swedish parliament. But this has now been achieved by acting in the way it has done. The Left Party signed an agreement, which Kerstin Lundgren was on, the day before the Prime Minister's vote. We have long been very clear with the Social Democracy that we need to be negotiated in order to have our mandates, and that is what we got. We got a pensioner's agreement, a November agreement, a Nooshipeng to pensioners for really big amounts. Up to SEK 1 000, Swedish pensioners will be able to receive at the end of next year. I'm incredibly proud of that. Therefore, I was also prepared to press yellow and release Magdalena Andersson as Sweden's first female Prime Minister. But I was also prepared to vote in a way that led to the budget being passed. It separates the Left from the Center Party at this point. The Center Party, on the other hand, has set up a lot of rules that are completely absurd in political contexts. My starting point as a politician is that I do not have a majority of my own, but must negotiate with other parties. I have decided one thing, namely that I do not negotiate with the Swedish Democrats. However, I am prepared to negotiate with all the other members of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and I am prepared to do so every day on matters where we have common interests. If you decide in advance that some people should not talk to each other – liberals and Moderates should not be allowed to negotiate with each other, because then I will not settle with them – you really sit on the edge of the pot.
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-199	Mr President, I would like to It's exciting! I hear that Håkan Svenneling is pleased that he has negotiated with the Social Democrats and the Green Party, i.e. with the government. But he is also critical that he should not be allowed to negotiate. Who has prevented him from negotiating? He's obviously been successful. I congratulate you on your success in negotiating, Håkan Svenneling. Then it is well up to each party to do exactly the same and decide who you want to negotiate with. Mr President, I would like to I almost heard Håkan Svenneling say that if one had not succeeded on Tuesday night he would probably have been prepared to vote red to the Prime Minister. But he would not have voted greenly on the budget, but then the budget decision on Wednesday afternoon would have been exactly the same as the budget he now has. He might have also supported the budget for Category 5, together with the Moderates, the Swedish Democrats, the Christian Democrats and the Green Party.
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-201	Mr President, I would like to Kerstin Lundgren may try to live in parallel worlds, but the fact remains. It was that the Center Party fell the government's budget which means that we now stand with a budget negotiated with the Swedish Democrats. The Left Party did not negotiate the budget. We followed all the rules of the Center Party. But you were so pissed off that we were invited into the heat that you couldn't help but lie down in complete spagat, Kerstin Lundgren. I think that's what happened last Wednesday. The Left Party has a long tradition of cooperating with the Center Party in other Nordic countries. We run 22 municipalities in Sweden together with the Center Party. But here, in the Swedish Parliament, you have decided: You will damn well not cooperate with the Left Party. It's okay with me. You'll certainly have to make that choice. But you must have some form of stringency in your actions towards a government. Now you have really succeeded in creating political chaos in Sweden, and I intend to stand in this pulpit and declare it over and over again. You are responsible for this chaos. ( TALMANNEN: I would like to urge Håkan Svenneling to express his indignation without profanity in the next post. )
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-205	Mr President, I would like to The red-green farce continues. It is regrettable to hear this. This is not what Sweden or Swedish voters need. I think there will be more and more people looking forward to September next year, when we have a change to this ongoing game. Mr President, I would like to In this context, there may not be a large amount of money in Category 5, which we are debating today. In terms of the entire budget, SEK 2.2 billion is a modest amount. However, in substance, the activities in the field of international cooperation are of vital importance. As the bill says, it is about securing Sweden's interests in connection with other countries. With the anxiety and instability that prevails in our surrounding world, it is crucial that we from Sweden take our share of responsibility for security and peace. Sweden shall support and actively contribute to efforts in peace promotion, security promotion and conflict prevention activities. Firstly, we are doing this by supporting and actively contributing to the multilateral work of the EU, NATO, the OSSE and the UN. Mr President, I would like to The Christian Democrats stand for a value-based foreign policy. It is a policy aimed at strengthening peace and democratic development and ultimately contributes to understanding, reconciliation and human rights. Christian-democratic foreign policy is basically an expression of the fact that we all have a responsibility for our neighbour. Human dignity is universal and must never be reduced by ethnicity or geographical boundaries. Furthermore, foreign policy should promote free trade. Free trade and a market economy are the way to increased prosperity – the tool for lifting people and communities out of poverty. At the same time, international trade agreements should be used more widely as a political lever against the harsh and authoritarian regimes that systematically violate human rights. On the basis of these principles, foreign policy will promote Swedish interests in the world. Sweden should be an active player in the international collaboration bodies where we operate, from the Nordics to the global ones. Mr President, I would like to The committee's report states that international cooperation is a prerequisite for the success of Sweden's foreign and security policy. The central arena for Swedish foreign policy is and remains the European Union. The strength of the European Union lies in the common values and in an historic capacity, as has been shown, to overcome contradictions and contribute to peace. The fact that the EU Member States speak with one voice in foreign policy is crucial. Without unity, Europe's countries become players in the margins. Without closer foreign policy cooperation, Sweden's ability to make a difference is reduced. If the EU does not act otherwise. In the absence of a common European policy, we have increasingly seen how autocracys such as Russia, China and Turkey have moved forward positions in terms of geopolitical influence. We have seen this not least in the Middle East. This weakens the work on democratic reforms and human rights, as we see around the world in countries such as Syria, Iran, Belarus and Venezuela, to name but a few examples. Mr President, I would like to With fundamental values of human dignity and human rights, Swedish foreign policy must never compromise. When these values are challenged today by dictatorships and militant Islamism, it is more urgent than ever before to build peace and security together with others. We do this within the framework of the European Union, and we do so by strengthening links with our Nordic and Baltic neighbours. But we are also doing so by deepening transatlantic relations and cooperating with the defence alliance of Western democracies. NATO cooperation has long been central to both our own security and that of Europe. The Christian Democrats expect the government to act on the grounds that there is now a majority in parliament for a Swedish NATO option. As a party, we maintain that Sweden will apply for full membership of the Defence Alliance as soon as possible. As the Secretary-General of NATO has made clear, this is a crucial difference between membership and partnership. With this, Mr President, I support the committee's proposal.
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-218	Mr President, I would like to Personally, I am more upset about freedom in the world than about who is talking to who in the Swedish Parliament. I'll try to express this outrage over the freedom without swearing. On the Liberal side, we have had our own draft budget, which has fallen. That is why we will not be in favour of anything in this respect. However, we have a reservation on the direction of policy. We request the approval of reservation 3 in paragraph 2. We believe that the objective of all Swedish foreign policy must be democracy and human rights. After all, human rights and democracy are interdependent; it is not possible to have one without the other. It is not possible to have democratic free elections without freedom of organisation or expression. Without ownership and the right to control one's own body, one cannot have prosperity or human rights. Therefore, freedom of expression, property rights, the rule of law and things that follow – free trade, the right to abortion and democracy – are fully interlinked. This must be the focus of foreign policy. This report is, of course, about cooperation and relationship building in the world. We believe that the most important thing for Sweden is to be a clear and transparent player in European cooperation and to build close and deep diplomatic relations with democracies in parts of the world that are outside the European Union, for example with the United States or with democracy Taiwan. No matter where in the world you are, Sweden will be there and build deep relationships so that we, as democracies, will work for peace and freedom together. Mr President, I would like to It was interesting to listen to the Christian Democrats earlier. There was talk of a value-based foreign policy. That is something the Liberals also want to see. It is a word used by the government of our Baltic neighbour Lithuania. They use the term value-based foreign policy to describe a foreign policy in which they stand up for democratic values, no matter what resistance they face. It stands up for democratic values, such as freedom of expression, as freedom of ownership and as the rule of law. Whether you meet a China that tries to bully you to silence or a Russia that uses hybrid warfare to silence your democratic aspirations, you stand up for democracy. It is something that we Liberals would like Sweden to do, too, that despite China's bullies and despite pressure we stood up much more clearly for and have the deep diplomatic relations with Taiwan, for example. Mr President, I would like to The Liberals, however, are a party that also represents a feminist foreign policy. For us, there is no dividing line between a valuation-based and a feminist foreign policy. On the contrary, we see that it goes hand in hand. The right over our own bodies is what gives us freedom of expression and organisation, that we decide over ourselves. The right over your own body also makes the right to abortion incredibly important, and it must apply wherever you are in the world. Sexual and reproductive rights are a priority for us. And feminist foreign policy is a priority for us. It is about participation in society and democracy in full, but also about the right to one's own body. We believe that abortion must be recognised as a human right. Of course, feminism cannot stay beyond Sweden's borders. We must also have a feminist domestic policy. Therefore, Liberals' commitment to recognising the right to abortion as a human right abroad also responds to our demand for the right to abortion to be included in the Swedish constitution. It must never be violated, no matter where in the world it is. Mr President, I would like to Another thing that goes hand in hand with value-based foreign policy is to promote LGBTI rights throughout the world and in all our foreign policy. Once again, it is a cornerstone of our democracy to respect human rights and minority rights. Whether it is religious, ethnic, cultural or for that matter the rights of sexual minorities, or whatever it may be, democracies like Sweden and our allies – I have mentioned the United States, Taiwan, European countries, and there are many more – need to stand up together for a value-based foreign policy. We must not give in to dictatorships when, for example, China is trying to push us to do something else. Mr President, I would like to This report is about our relations. For me, it is absolutely essential that if you are going to have a tough and straight policy towards China and Russia, you also need to have good relations in essence. It is therefore important that Sweden not only talks about its foreign policy regarding the regimes of the Kremlin or Beijing, but also devotes ourselves to building interhuman relations between Swedes and Chinese and between Swedes and Russians. We shall make sure that we have good relations, so that we have a good basis to stand on even when we conduct an offensive foreign policy. Mr President, I would like to We mention a number of things in our reservation that are part of this with a valuation-based and feminist foreign policy. One such thing is that Swedish embassies abroad must be free zones for people who are either oppressed or persecuted or who work for democracy and human rights in their countries; that often goes hand in hand. Another such thing is that dictatorships must be thrown out of the UN Human Rights Council. It is terrible that countries that themselves abuse their peoples should be allowed to sit on the UN Human Rights Council. A third such thing is that Sweden's work needs to be intensified when it comes to getting the people imprisoned abroad, such as Gui Minhai and Dawit Isaak, who have been mentioned earlier in the debate, acquitted. The government's work to get them acquitted needs to be rejected, because they are not free. And then that work needs to be intensified. Once again, I would like to add what the report is about and which is incredibly important: relations. Here in Sweden it is natural that the debate is about the Swedish people sitting in different prisons abroad, because of their struggle for rights, human rights and democracy. But there are other people from other democratic countries in similar situations. Again, the work is not only about what Sweden does but also about what we do together with others. We believe that this needs to be intensified and that we need to be more armed with other democracies. Mr President, I would like to In conclusion, we believe that democracy must be the primary objective. We must never give in when other countries are pressing for us to give in to human rights. And we need to intensify that work. That is why I support our reservation.
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-234	Mr President, I would like to It is not easy to be a voter and understand what is happening in Sweden and Swedish politics right now or what budget is actually being debated and decided on here in Parliament. When you listen to Markus Wiechel from the Swedish Democrats, this debate is about, among other things, the shortcomings of the government, but not much about the alternatives of the Swedish Democrats. When listening to Kerstin Lundgren, the debate is about the joint proposals of the Social Democrats, the Moderates, the Swedish Democrats, the Christian Democrats and the Green Party. When you listen to the Left Party and Håkan Svenneling, the debate is about the state budget but really about the budgets of the Moderates, Sweden Democrats and Christian Democrats. When you listen to the Christian Democrats and Lars Adaktusson, it is a description that is apt, although I do not agree with it, of this as a red-green farce. And the Liberals' Joar Forssell eloquently describes how the Liberals view this budget area. There is much in what he said that I think many of us agree with fundamentally. It is not easy to be a voter and understand what this is all about. It is clear that there were long negotiations between the Moderates, the Swedish Democrats, the Christian Democrats and the Liberals to arrive at an alternative to the budget presented by the Social Democrats and the Green Party. Liberals dropped out. I shall not comment on the stage of the negotiations, for I have no knowledge of that. But they dropped out. Finally, in overtime, one might say, the Moderates, the Swedish Democrats and the Christian Democrats put forward a new proposal, a new budget, another budget, as they want to put it. The overtime was even going on after the Finance Committee had had its meeting and the proposals should have been put on the table. I do not know if it is an expression of a new kind of work line, working overtime in Parliament and in committees. Then it has continued. The overtime has evolved into extra meetings in, I believe, virtually all the committees here in Parliament to deal with the proposal that a week ago won the majority here in Parliament as regards the budgetary framework. It is therefore about how much money should be spent in each policy area. Is there a big difference? It is for each person to make his or her assessment. It's about 20 billion kroner. For the individual, there is no doubt a lot of money, whether they are stored in the mattress, in the bank account or at Swish, but in a state budget, SEK 20 billion is not very much money. It is a state budget of a total of SEK 1 137 billion. This means that what the Moderates, the Swedish Democrats and the Christian Democrats claim to agree on is approximately 1.75 percent of the state budget. Yes, they agree on this 1.75 percent of the state budget. It is about how they want to change the framework, as we say here, that is, how much they spend in the respective spending area. But when we get to the spending areas, it cracks up. Then there is no agreement, at least not in the field of international cooperation. In their so-called special opinions, the three parties state the following text, which is contained in the opinions of the respective parties: there is no proposal for a common foreign policy orientation in the draft budget for these parties. This is not my description of the moderate, Swedish-democratic and Christian-democratic budget failure or the budgetary option, but it is their own description. They have no common policy in this area. Madam President, I would like In fact, it is not possible to govern Sweden responsibly in this way. In the 2018 budget decisions, we had a similar situation. It was described as a napkin sketch that was set against an extensive government budget. Now we have a situation with a budget option that is even vaguer and weaker. There is always a risk of taking power words and upper words, because there can be inflation in them. But if what gained the majority in 2018 was a napkin sketch, what should you call this? Well, not even a napkin sketch, I guess, will be the final judgment. We should not exaggerate the differences in Swedish politics, especially in foreign policy. It's one of my cane horses as chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee. It's important that we stick together. It is in the interests of our country's security. We do so in very many areas of foreign policy, although there are also dividing lines. However, to argue in this budgetary process that there would be enormous differences between what was achieved last week by the majority in Parliament in terms of the framework and what was put forward in a solid work by the government would still be exaggerated. It is, Madam President, a rather weak opposition option that we see being set against the government's budget. It is a tangible joy in the three parties that have agreed on this – especially in one of them, who feels that they have finally come into the heat. It may not have taken so much heat to make them feel that way, but they are very far from being a serious government alternative for Sweden. I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved.
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-245	Madam President, I would like Let me begin by saying that I find it regrettable and very sad that the Social Democrats are playing down how serious it is that we have received a budget which the Swedish Democrats have been involved in negotiating and which is also adopted by the Swedish Parliament. You can, like Kenneth G Forslund, speak in purely economic terms and find that the difference is some small per mille, but politically this is very serious for Sweden. To use Kerstin Lundgren's words, it is incredibly problematic from the perspective of liberal democracy. Here we see clearly that national conservative values have an impact in a budget that the Social Democrats are supposed to sit and administer. I think it's sad. I do not think that it should be played down in the way Kenneth G Forslund, Magdalena Andersson or the incoming Finance Minister does. It is clear, however, that Kenneth G. Forslund has listened to this debate. Yesterday I sat in this Chamber listening to the declaration of government. One of the things I considered at the time was why feminist foreign policy was not mentioned in the government declaration.
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-249	Madam President, I would like In principle, I can agree with the very serious fact that these three parties are designing something that they claim to be a common budgetary option. However, as an alternative, I think it is very shrewd – not because I dislike their policy, because I do so every day of the week, but because it is a poorly worked-out proposal that cannot be managed by the country. It's ominous. If this is to be a government option that is possibly to gain a majority in the next election or have the opportunity to govern after the next election, I have the exact same criticism as Håkan Svenneling. Of course, the fact that we are going to negotiate budgets with the Swedish Democrats at all is very serious. There are elements of the policy that neither I nor Håkan Svenneling want to see. At the same time, however, we must be honest: in terms of the amount of money involved, it is a very small success for these three parties. If it took them this long to come up with something that is 1.75 % of the state budget in overtime, I do not really know how to do it when they are going to put together an entire state budget, if they are going to have to. I think that is the serious perspective. I do not want to play down the right-wing political elements. I take them very seriously, but I also take the shortcomings of their proposals very seriously. As far as feminist foreign policy is concerned and it was not mentioned in the government declaration yesterday, I can say that I have also taken note of it. It is not excluded, but it was also a long declaration.
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-253	Madam President, I would like There is much in this that Kenneth G Forslund and I agree on. That is why we are now debating. Many other committees have had much more absurd and clumsy areas of napkin sketchy expenditure served separately, where they are now trying to sort out the chaos. However, I think it is serious that feminist foreign policy is not mentioned in the government declaration. I hope it will be a one-off incident on the part of the government. It was now that the Social Democrats were alone that so much positive and good would happen. That you then lose out on what has been the hallmark of social democratic and environmental party foreign policy since you took office in 2014 I find very sad t. After all, there were spirit sentences in the government declaration that went that way, and if we want to be benevolent, we can take it to heart. But it should have been possible, in half an hour's speech by a newly-responsive Prime Minister, to poke in that Sweden conducts a feminist foreign policy, for that is something to be proud of. And we agree that we are proud of it. That is something we stand up and say every time we meet international representatives.
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-255	Madam President, I would like It is not that feminist foreign policy is deliberately excluded from the government declaration. It is a long declaration covering many different aspects of politics and what the government wants to do. I am confident that the government will continue to pursue a feminist foreign policy. All these declarations, whether government declarations or foreign policy declarations, are compact and comprehensive. It is always possible to point out afterwards that something was missing. It doesn't all fit in the declaration every time. But the important thing is what policy is actually being pursued. We shall continue to conduct a feminist foreign policy with this Social Democratic Government.
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-257	Madam President, I would like I understand – or I think there are many of us who understand – that it can be difficult to deal with the disappointment on the part of the Social Democrats that the opposition budget has been passed. It's not the first time it's happened. This has happened earlier during the term of office. We have a term of office in which the government skills of the Social Democrats have turned into a parody, given that we have now voted on Prime Minister in this House – what is it? - three or four times. It's almost hard to keep the chaos in order. But it feels very much like you are a bad loser when you call this a napkin sketch and minimize the work that has been done. Serventskiss was also the term launched by Kenneth G Forslund's former party leader, Stefan Löfven. This description does not, therefore, come from the parties behind those draft budgets. This is not what I was going to discuss with Kenneth G. Forslund in the first place, but I was going to mention the three Swedish citizens who are imprisoned in dictatorships or in authoritarian countries. The options in this area are in this area of expenditure. After almost eight years of government, zero has happened in these cases – nothing. These people are still in prison under hideous and disgusting circumstances. Their human rights are being violated. At least a couple of these people have a health that puts them at risk of their lives. I wanted to ask Kenneth G. Forslund how he views the failure to get them released.
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-261	Madam President, I would like No, I'm not so disappointed that you got your financial perspectives through, Lars Adaktusson. I'm worried. I am concerned about the quality of the work ahead, on which we will base the rest of the parliamentary work. It's too weak. Then I can have views on the political content. I will probably always have views on, for example, the policies of the Christian Democrats – that is one of them. But this needs to be formulated and presented in more solid documents than you have managed to do now. I can admit that I have probably also lost count of how many Prime Minister votes we have had. You have to go to the calendar and figure it out. Then it applies to the three imprisoned Swedish citizens. This is a serious and serious issue that Lars Adaktusson raises and in which we are all committed. We are discussing this regularly in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and in other configurations as well. When Lars Adaktusson says that zero has happened, one can think that the Swedish government and the Swedish Ministry for Foreign Affairs have done nothing. It's not like that. You're working on this. But what must happen above all is not something that can happen here in Stockholm. It has to happen in Beijing. It has to happen in Tehran. There must be a decision there to set them free. That is what, unfortunately, in the last row, we are extradited to in these three cases – I suppose we are now thinking of the same three cases.
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-265	Madam President, I would like I note that the concern that Kenneth G. Forslund is talking about is obviously not shared by his party leader, the Prime Minister, who has said that he is prepared to govern this budget and that there are no major problems. These are messages that don't really make sense. Well, things have to happen in Stockholm, not just in Beijing, Tehran and Asmara. And there are proposals for measures that have not been implemented, such as the diaspora tax on Eritrea and the clear link between the release of Dawit Isaak and development aid. Over the years, the government has not wanted to do this. I would like to ask: are you prepared to do so now that nothing else has succeeded?
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-267	Madam President, I would like Above all, it is the diaspora tax, which Lars Adaktusson mentions, which is interesting. There are countries that have legislated very specifically against such taxes. The picture we get is that there is no tax treaty, that as a person with dual citizenship, you could report that tax charge and that the legislation we have would not be legal. Unfortunately, the propensity for registration may not be as great as me and Lars Adaktusson would like it to be. I do not rule out the fact that we may need to go further at some point in the legislative process. This is not an acceptable order.
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-268	Madam President, I would like This joint direction and direction is exciting. However, I have to ask: is it not the case that there is a common focus on the area we are currently talking about, category 5, between the Social Democrats, the Environment Party, the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats? I can't see it's anything else. Everyone's behind the government bill. It is also an exciting picture, which I think there is reason for the House to reflect on. Then, Madam President, you can think of something about the previous shift in line. I see that the Left Party does not support the budget for which they voted green last week. Now they choose not to support the very budget and direction to which they then voted in favour. This is also a reality which Kenneth G. Forslund did not touch, Madam President. But I also have a question. There are many exciting meetings going on right now. We have a ministerial committee here in Stockholm. We also have a conclusion to a ministerial meeting in Riga, a preparatory meeting for NATO Summit. That's interesting. The committee's text, supported by a large majority, states that the NATO option is being prepared in the Government Office. I hope that Kenneth G. Forslund will be able to ease some of the forgiveness when it comes to that preparation and see if there is anything else but just a no. After all, there is still work going on, and the committee has also stressed the importance of this in the course of the journey.
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-271	Madam President, I would like Yes, like Kerstin Lundgren, I note that, despite their common budget, the Moderates, the Swedish Democrats and the Christian Democrats, as they put it, do not have a common foreign policy orientation in their draft budget. They then land in practice in support of government policy. This is an odd situation – I can agree with Kerstin Lundgren. As I said, it is not easy right now to be a voter in Sweden and to understand what is happening. I do not wish to pre-empt the preparation of the NATO option in the Government Office. The government is allowed to present the results of it in good order when they feel ready to do so, I think.
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-273	Madam President, I would like We also have the fact that the Left Party chooses not to support the budget that they voted for last week. There is clearly a lot going on in politics. After all, some of us do what is customary; we give up when our budget has fallen. Then we have had the waiver as a model also in the budgetary decisions before. Madam President, I would like The NATO option and its preparation are, of course, an important issue. Now we have a minority government that is even smaller, and then it is urgent that this particular issue be dealt with seriously so that there is no further conflict. The chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs said that he sought a common understanding in this area, and I think that we should try to find a common understanding here too.
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-275	Madam President, I would like I'm not going to promise you a consensus on the NATO option. However, we should of course have serious preparation, and it is important that we talk in different ways. I definitely think so. The actions of the Left Party, I believe, are best discussed by Kerstin Lundgren with the Left Party. It was done in a previous replica here, and it was clear that there were comments in both directions on what is practice and not.
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-277	Madam President, I would like When you listen to Kenneth G Forslund when he talks about how he listens to other parties' suggestions, you clearly hear crocodile tears from Rosenbad. Clearly, the position of the Social Democrats is that their budget should always remain untouched through this House. It's a self-image called good. If the alternative is so weak, it means that the government's budget is far weaker, because it did not win. As far as the solid work that is characterized by who is not allowed to anchor his budget with whom. Madam President, I would like Our amounts are equal in this budget. Then the content of the same, that is, what you do with the money, becomes all the more important. Things are happening in far Asia. We see a China that grows and shows muscles in a way that we are not used to in the world society. We see a China that is aggressive against its neighbours and also against other countries that are not neighbours. In China's immediate environment there is Taiwan, the Republic of China as it is officially called. Taiwan is an important hub for democracy and tolerance in Asia. Therefore, we from the Moderates want Sweden to create opportunities for increased contacts in research, civil society and business with Taiwan and upgrade our presence with a House of Sweden. My question is: is this something that the government, the Social Democrats, can support? We also want to initiate a free trade agreement between the EU and Taiwan. Is this something in which the government, the Social Democrats, can support us?
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-283	Madam President, I would like No, my ambition is not that the budget of a government and a social democratic-led government should always remain untouched. It is one of the rules of the game, parliamentarism and the forms of decision we have here in Parliament that changes can take place. If there are such changes, or even proposals for changes that the party in question does not even believe itself will ever go through, it is normal, however, that such things are usually better prepared and more elaborate than what has now been put on the table by the Moderates, the Swedish Democrats and the Christian Democrats. I think you have failed there, Mr Rothenberg. It is not a judgment of the political content. I have specific comments on this, which I gave examples of in the line shift with Håkan Svenneling. But this isn't a solid document. It is not a solid counter-alternative to the government's budget, and it is ominous of what this government option could mean if you actually end up in government after the next elections in one way or another. That is my great concern in this context. The amounts are equal, says Hans Rothenberg. That's exactly right. Then he says that the content is therefore all the more important. Yes, and that's why you should have specified the contents. But you make it very clear that you do not have a common understanding of the content. So far, that government option didn't really hold up at all. I know that Mr Rothenberg has a great deal of commitment to Taiwan. I share the commitment to people's freedom, freedom of expression and rights. Then we have questions about exactly how to do it.
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-287	Madam President, I would like Then we will have one more turn when I can find answers to my specific questions. Kenneth G Forslund says that it is a failure from those who got their budget through the Swedish parliament. But the failure of those who did not get their budget must be much greater. There should be a time for self-awareness. Sweden's new Prime Minister says that this budget can be ruled on, and therefore I think that crocodile tears should perhaps be turned into telling a little more about what you want to do with your own foreign policy, especially since the amounts do not differ. What I am expressing is the moderate approach, and I look forward to receiving answers from Kenneth G. Forslund on the House of Sweden in Taiwan and the EU- Taiwan Free Trade Agreement.
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-291	Madam President, I would like O m The Moderates, the Swedish Democrats and the Christian Democrats have been able to agree on changes to the budgetary framework that are 1.75 per cent of the total budget, it is 98.25 per cent that you have not changed, Mr Rothenberg. Is it, then, an M-SD-KD budget or the previous government budget on which the government continues to rule? For the most part, it is surely the previous government's budget that is being passed on. I believe that Sweden would benefit in many ways from the fact that counter-proposals had been expressed more clearly, more thoroughly and with a common policy, which you yourself say you do not have.
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-293	Madam President, I would like Kenneth G Forslund, there are eight political parties here in the Swedish parliament. We have a multi-party system. For this reason, there are also different directions, and of course different parties think differently. In other words, it is not a two-party system. That is something that I think is positive. I think it is good that we can show the voters that we have different views on different issues, but I also think it is valuable when parties can sit down and have constructive talks. An example of such constructive talks is what has happened between the Swedish Democrats, the Moderates and the Christian Democrats, where we have actually agreed on important positions to improve this country. What Kenneth G. Forslund said earlier about this budget not being used to run the country says directly against what both his current and former party chairmen have said, i.e. former Prime Minister Stefan Löfven and Prime Minister Magdalena Andersson. As Kenneth Forslund has also said, there are no major differences, but we are talking about 20 billion. What I wondered about, that is, what is so dangerous, did not belong to this area of expenditure, because here we are relatively in agreement. But what's so dangerous-- is it the investments in the police and the judiciary? Is that the investment in pensioners? Is it the effort to improve working conditions and health care? Is this so dangerous that Kenneth G. Forslund is so worried about steering the country on these changes?
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-297	Madam President, I would like Of course, parties should think differently; the question is well how different the Moderates, the Swedish Democrats and the Christian Democrats thought when they sat on overtime and would try to get along. There was little agreement, more than 20 billion and how these would be redistributed within the overall framework of just over 1 100 billion. In this area of expenditure, there is explicitly no agreement on any change in the content of the policy. You all write that, Markus Wiechel. The next area of expenditure that we have to deal with in the Committee on Foreign Affairs will be debated next week, and there we have an interesting ongoing discussion on the interpretation of how the billion to international aid should be earmarked and what that earmarking should mean. However, we will have to come back to that next week, so there will be more episodes of this. What is worrying about your budget, Markus Wiechel, is the distributional political profile in it. It's a typical right-wing budget where the poor get poorer and the rich get richer. It may be a policy you want to pursue, but I can see that it is not a policy I, as a Social Democrat, want to pursue. Then there is the strategic and structural aspect of this: the Swedish democrats feel, as they put it, that they have entered the heat. They have to negotiate budget with the Moderates and Christian Democrats. It is a bridge that I, for my part, would not want to let the Swedish Democrats over, I can say.
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-300	Madam President, I would like I do not really know where Kenneth G. Forslund gets this with the poor getting poorer and rich getting richer; we are making serious efforts on health care, on people who need help and on pensioners, and we are investing in getting rid of involuntary shared tours. That is a lot of important efforts that I thought the Social Democrats would welcome, but that is clearly not the case. As many others have said, what we see and have seen with the Social Democratic rule is a red-green mess. It is a weak government that only thinks of power above all. It completely ignores the substance of the matter. The responsibility for the government getting its budget through is the government. The responsibility for the government holding together is, is, is and is astounded, also the government. I understand that Kenneth G. Forslund is sorry about what has happened recently, but one cannot actually blame his failures on a constructive opposition.
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-302	Madam President, I would like What this is about, namely that this is a right-wing budget where the rich are getting richer and the poor are getting poorer, is not the result of police efforts and the things that Markus Wiechel wants to make a positive issue of. Instead, it is the introduction of an additional job tax credit. This is because taxes will remain high for disabled people. That's where the injustices lie, Markus Wiechel. That is the classic right-wing politics. I am a social democrat and want a fairer Sweden. Therefore, I do not want to make these changes and introduce tax cuts for those who earn a lot, as Markus Wiechel wants. There goes the dividing line in Swedish politics. That is clear, and that is what the voters have to take a position on.
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-304	Madam President, I would like I should like to congratulate Mr Kenneth Forslund on not going to debate the budget. This report also deals with a wide range of requests from exercise time, and I have a question about one of these. After all, I from the Liberals and Kenneth from the Social Democrats agree that we should have a feminist foreign policy. We are united in this. But from the Liberals' side we also want to put forward the importance of having a value-based foreign policy. Among other things, we have had a request that we should not give in to democracy in the world because of other values and other reasons. For example, dictatorships put pressure on a small democracy like Sweden not to stand up for human rights. Then we must stand straight for precisely a value-based foreign policy. A neighbouring country to us, Lithuania, has done this. Their government has introduced a value-based foreign policy. One step in this has been the establishment by Lithuania of what may actually be called an embassy in Taiwan. This has been followed by a long series of threats from the dictatorship in China, of course – economic threats, diplomatic threats etc. – to our small, democratic neighbour Lithuania. Lithuania, however, has stood by itself. My question to the Social Democrats is simply whether the Social Democrats in the Riksdag, represented by Kenneth G. Forslund in this debate, will stand up for Sweden, too, to follow Lithuania when it comes to establishing deep diplomatic relations with Taiwan – although it is the case that the dictatorship in China is trying to bully us to do something else.
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-308	Madam President, I would like I think what Joar Forssell points out, namely a value-based foreign policy, is something that is very important. We are in a situation in the world today where democracy is being pitted against authoritarian forces and where, unfortunately, authoritarian forces and systems have won a great deal of ground over the past ten years or so. We also see authoritarian forces gaining ground here in Sweden, which is very worrying. This is happening within the EU. EU membership is obviously not a guarantee against authoritarian tendencies, forces and system changes. I therefore believe that having that basis for foreign policy will even be very important in the future in order to safeguard democracy in the world. The former Social Democratic-led government introduced its democratic initiative, and I assume that it will be continued by the current Social-Democratic Government. That is one way of doing that work. I can imagine, and guess, that Joar Forssell and the Liberals have thoughts of more clearly establishing and explaining in various documents what a value-based foreign policy would mean and be. The content of this kind of direction I think we Social Democrats, Liberals and probably representatives of some other parties here in Parliament are quite in agreement. When it comes to Taiwan: Sweden has a one-China policy, so for the Swedish part I do not see it as topical that we should open any embassy. On the other hand, we should not fall back on Chinese pressure. On the contrary, I stand up all the time for everyone's freedom of expression.
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-312	Madam President, I would like I'm glad. One of the things that the Liberals pursued in the January agreement was that we should have a democracy focus on aid. We agree with the Social Democrats that we should have a 1% target, and I am pleased that the Social Democrats are now also going to continue the democratic effort that is taking place widely in foreign policy. However, I would like to stop on this issue, because it is clear that we as small democracies in the world need to help each other. I believe that in this relationship creation it is not only about Sweden going out and telling the world how to do it, but we also need to learn from the world. Taiwan was ahead of us in having a woman as leader of her country; we got it just recently. Lithuania has gone ahead of us in standing up to China and standing up for Taiwan. I therefore wonder: what other values does Kenneth G. Forslund sometimes think can overcome democracy and prevent us from doing the sort of things that Lithuania has done?
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-315	Madam President, I would like I am sorry, Joar Forssell; perhaps I did not quite understand the last question. After all, this relationship with Taiwan is something that we know there are countries that have strong opinions that have views on at all. It is not at all impossible that after this debate there will be various expressions of opinion and protests against what Joar Forssell has said. I will stand up for Joar Forssell's right to say those things and to have those views even if I do not fully share them on exactly how to do it and how to organise the relationship between Sweden and Taiwan. As chairman of the committee, I have done this to Lithuania when they have been criticised and attacked for their policies. As far as democracy in aid is concerned, I would say that this is a demand which the Liberals have been pushing for a long time and which we have also listened to for a long time.
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-319	Madam President, I would like Let us return to the debate. It is therefore the Foreign Affairs Committee that is now debating its area of expenditure, but of course it is always exciting to have a tense debate that covers larger areas. Madam President, I would like It matters who decides, both in Sweden and in the world, and what those who have been trusted to decide do. As far as this particular budget area is concerned, we have been given an educational explanation by several, there is support for the bill that the Red-Green Government put on Parliament's table earlier this autumn. I choose to make a few cuts in the green policy in this area. Foreign policy must be sustainable, humanitarian, feminist and solidarity. Swedish foreign policy should be at the forefront in the fight for human rights and democratic and sustainable development. The Green Party wants to pursue inclusive cooperation to promote peace where women and young people are given place when peace is negotiated. Sweden's work in the EU and the UN will help put pressure on states that oppress their or other states' citizens so that repression ceases. Feminist foreign policy builds societies. Where women are given power and influence, peace is prolonged, and where women are admitted to the labour market and can both own and use the land, poverty is countered back. The Green Party will closely monitor whether feminist foreign policy continues to be a priority in Swedish foreign policy and will note if this is not the case. Is climate change part of this budget area? You can think about that, but for me it's obvious. The link between degraded ecosystems, climate change, hunger and conflicts is clear. The world's work for peace therefore also needs to involve reducing emissions and working with climate adaptation to reduce society's vulnerability. I allow myself to float a little from this particular committee's area and say that this is about reducing the cost of emissions, it is not something that we can do in Sweden if we are to take a global responsibility for climate change. The climate crisis is the great destiny of our time. It requires strong climate policy here and everywhere else, now and by everyone. It requires global cooperation. On a limited planet, a growing population cannot consume natural resources and burden the environment in the same way as people in rich countries have done so far. This was a great debate and a great deal of work at the climate summit in Glasgow. More pressure on the environment together with competition for land, water and other resources increases social tensions and can contribute to conflicts both within and between countries. The conventional approach to safety therefore needs to be developed. Everything suggests that climate impacts and conflicts about natural resources will increasingly affect ecosystems and people's lives in a significant way in the future. In order to prevent future resource wars, mass displacements and new ethnic conflicts, efforts to reduce climate change and support climate change adaptation are therefore urgently needed. In the Green Party, we defend Sweden's freedom of alliance. We want to see Sweden as a clear, global player for active peace-building and conflict prevention work. Diplomacy is our main line of defense. International cooperation is crucial for peace and security in the world and for meeting global threats to man and nature. It is important to stand up for the international laws that prevent large states from exploiting those states that are weaker. Sweden is a small, non-aligned country that needs to cooperate with others to protect people's security, freedom, democracy and human rights, now and in the future. We have an important role not only to stand up for democracy in our country but also to support those who stand up for democracy in other countries and to support people who protect freedom, if it is close to us as in Belarus or further away as in Taiwan and in many other countries that none of us have mentioned in this debate but as we know there is. Today, members of Parliament meet Svetlana Tichhanovskaya, who has initiated the Belarus Co-ordination Council for a peaceful and democratic Belarus. Here in Parliament, I have initiated, together with colleagues, a network for a free and democratic Belarus. We'll meet this afternoon. This is an act in the everyday work of the Riksdag in which we, as a group, stand up for democratic development, meet each other, talk to each other and support each other in that work.
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-333	Madam President, I would like Many thanks to Camilla Hansén, also for her commitment to Belarus! It is with me and my fellow Member Maria Nilsson, among others, that this network has been started. I think it is incredibly good that we stand up together on this issue. We are two small parties that like democracy. We have that in common. We and the Green Party also have this in common with Lithuania. They are small too, and they stand up for democracy. My question is about Taiwan, just as my question to the Social Democrats just now did. There, the Green Party has a congressional decision that it wants to recognise Taiwan as its own country. That is, of course, a very radical position and a position that I think is good, but it is a position that stands out among the parties in Parliament. The Liberals and the Green Party have cooperated very much on the issue of Taiwan, including in the European Parliament, where we have taken many initiatives together. We both want to see deep diplomatic relations with Taiwan, as well as deep cooperation in many areas, and we both want the Taiwanese people to be in charge of their own future. That is what is at the heart of this – the democratic nature of this. But during the time of the Green Party in the government – it ended quite recently – this commitment may not have come out much. Then my question is whether, now that the Green Party is given a free role in the Swedish Parliament, we will see more of this commitment and whether there will be a request from the Green Party for the Social Democratic Government to recognise Taiwan just as the Green Party Congress's decision is.
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-338	Madam President, I would like Yes, the smallest parties in the Riksdag are those who have taken the initiative to form a network together, and it is great that we do it together. I would also like to take this opportunity to emphasise, now that all the parties are here, that when it comes to a free and democratic Belarus, Parliament is united in that it is something we want to see. During various meetings today, many people meet with the Belarussian delegation and belarusian civil society in Sweden. As far as Taiwan is concerned, I am delighted that you, Joar Forssell, are giving me the opportunity to talk about the congressional motion that was approved where the Green Party says that Sweden and the EU should push for Taiwan's independence. You also said something that is very important, and it is about the Taiwanese people. It is their will that is the important thing in this context. I see that it will be a rather long process in which we need to act in a strategic way and, above all, in conjunction with others. Then I understand that expectations of the Green Party's delivery in government were very high when it came to the fact that the decision we made at the Congress in October should already have made a mark. Perhaps we would have liked that, but it would actually have been too fast for the process that still has to happen.
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-342	Madam President, I would like It is interesting to debate the internal affairs of the Green Party. Essentially, the commitment to Taiwan is not new, but what I would like to point out is that the Liberals and the Green Party, together with others, have been pushing the Taiwan issue in the European Parliament for a long time, and longer than since the Congress decision was taken. Nevertheless, there is a Congress decision by the Green Party to recognise Taiwan. I welcome this type of step; I think it is positive. Of course it has to be a process in which we do things together. That is why it is so interesting that Lithuania has taken the lead in de facto setting up an embassy in Taiwan. If one country takes precedence, it will require other countries to come along, otherwise it will never be together. If not now, when? Then my question remains: Will the Green Party push the Taiwan issue harder in parliament now than could be done in the meantime in government?
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-345	Madam President, I would like Now we gather as a green opposition party in the Riksdag. We will highlight issues that are important to our party. It will also be possible to do so in a new way when we do not have the responsibility of a government party, but our task will now be to show where the Green Party stands. It will be felt on foreign policy issues. This will be evident in the environmental and climate debate. It will be felt in the defence of nature, in the defence of democracy, in the defence of minority and Sami rights and also in the freedom of Taiwan.
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-346	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to support the committee's proposal for a decision on this matter. Sweden's foreign and security policy shall be based in Swedish interests. Our common values in terms of human rights, democracy, the rule of law and the market economy should guide Swedish action on the international stage. It shall be predictable, balanced and transparent. In the international organisations where Sweden is a member, including the EU, Sweden should be a strong and clear voice for the principles of the rule of law. In addition, Sweden will include work against human trafficking in international agreements and in diplomatic relations with other countries. Furthermore, the Swedish Government will actively work to ensure that the values of the rule of law, human rights and development and growth are also obvious elements in the international work on the implementation of Agenda 2030. Madam President, I would like China and Russia – two major powers rooted in the most devastating ideology in history, Communism – have slowly but methodically developed in a direction where human rights, democracy and respect for the rule of law can now be sorted under the archives union curiosity. This affects entire societies and states but also individuals on a personal level. It takes the form of violations of women's rights, which is one of the greatest obstacles to equality and democratic and economic development in the world. Active work is needed to encourage more countries to introduce anti-discrimination laws and to criminalise hate crimes against LGBTI people. Madam President, I would like In many places, freedom of the media is also under severe pressure from authoritarian regimes. Journalists are imprisoned, newspapers are closed and websites blocked. Sweden has an important task in international cooperation to support free media and to work for journalists to be able to work freely without threats or risk of imprisonment. The importance of this attitude, to work internationally towards this development, can be exemplified too well by the fact that the two Swedes Dawit Isaak and Gui Minhai have been imprisoned in another country for a long time. Despite the delicate circumstances surrounding these detentions, the Swedish Government must apply all available methods to enable them to be released immediately and to return to Sweden. Madam President, I would like It is the external movements that Sweden's foreign policy must relate to. In the long term, China is challenging the Western world order based on a liberal market economy and respect for the sanctity of the individual. In the short term, Russia poses a threat to Sweden's immediate environment. What began far away in Georgia and continued in Ukraine is creeping ever closer through the tension fields around Belarus and Poland's borders. Sweden now possesses a unique Russian competence. Through good knowledge of security policy developments in the area, this contributes to Sweden's security. Therefore, we Moderates want to review the possibility of creating in Sweden a so-called NATO Centre of Excellence for Russia's research. Knowledge gives power, and lack of knowledge gives the opposite. Russia's unpredictable behaviour is in itself a reason to create stronger links between the Nordic and Baltic countries. It also gives strong reasons for Sweden to apply for membership of NATO. In this context, the government's position is far behind, to the detriment of Sweden's defence capabilities and security. Madam President, I would like The world is so big, so big, and Sweden's role may seem small. But Sweden's role in the world depends on the desire for its own commitment.
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-356	Madam President, I would like It is the EU's taxonomy regulation for sustainable investment that we are debating today. First of all, I would like to support our Amendment No 1 on criteria for scrutiny in delegated acts to the European Union's green taxonomy regulation. On 28 November 2019, almost exactly two years ago, we stressed in a divergent position on taxonomy that we are concerned that influence from other countries where the forest sector plays a small role in the economy may lead to Swedish bioeconomy investments based on forest raw materials not being assessed as green investments. It's been two years. We have talked about this very much, but the concerns remain. Madam President, I would like According to statements by the then Minister of Finance and later Minister of the Environment Per Bolund, the Swedish government has supported taxonomy's creation in the EU from the outset. Yes, Sweden should even have run it. It is therefore remarkable that taxonomics has so clearly treated Sweden's basic bolts for sustainable economic development, namely hydropower, forestry and biofuels from the outset. In fact, the conditions of taxonomy have been set in such a way that, in practice, they have initially excluded these areas from being classified as sustainable. This damages confidence in Sweden as one of the world's most successful countries in energy production and forestry. It also damages confidence in our sustainable and renewable forest products, which we actually need to invest in developing. Hydropower was expanded in Sweden in the late 1800s and early 1900s. As a result, our long-term electricity generation has been able to take place with negligible CO2 emissions. The fact that hydroelectric reinvestment was not, at least not from the outset, intended to be classified as sustainable by taxonomy indicates that something is wrong with the principles of how it is constructed or how it is interpreted by the European Commission. Wood-based biofuels are one of Sweden's most important energy sources, of the same magnitude as hydropower and nuclear power, or larger. After the energy crisis in the early 70s, a fantastic development has taken place to exploit bark and other residues for industrial heat and heating plants. This must be one of the very best examples of sustainable manufacturing. Everything that we take out of the forest is used – saw timber saw gas, pulpwood turns into paper or packaging material and the rest, at least very much, turns into heat energy that was previously created with oil. Yet it has been very difficult to get the European Commission to consider our bioenergy as sustainable. Perhaps the most amazing thing is that Swedish forestry is not considered sustainable. With Gro Harlem BrundtlandBrundtland words, economic, ecological and social sustainability will be the cornerstones of the concept of sustainability for forestry. Our forestry, and for that matter Finland's, probably meets all three criteria better than any other country. Our forestry has been able to produce more and more timber for almost 100 years. This has created work across the country and is the basis for one of our most successful export industries. At the same time, the conditions for biodiversity have increased in the used forest. We are constantly developing this, and the process continues. The fact that we have managed to maintain economic sustainability without financial support such as agriculture should be noted more often by the EU. On the contrary, it is perhaps the relative freedom of forestry, at least in the past, from EU bureaucracy that is the problem for the European Commission. Madam President, I would like The most important success factor for Swedish forestry has been the long-term rules of the game that have given forest owners the freedom to develop their forestry within the framework of the rules. Cooperation between forest owners and supporting authorities has also been of great importance. Thanks to good forest management and a safe and affordable supply of electricity, we have also had investors willing to invest in a constantly modernised forest industry. This is particularly important now that the forest industry needs to develop products such as wood-based textiles, bio-based plastics, new building materials and new liquid biofuels. Madam President, I would like The opposite of these success factors is hindering authorities and regulations that are created far away from the owners, without knowledge of the users' reality. Unfortunately, that category includes taxonomics. The proposal that we are debating today is not primarily about what is environmentally sustainable, but about the regulations that are needed in Sweden when taxonomy comes into force. The majority of the committee has chosen to support the Government's proposal. However, it is important to consider how taxonomics works and how it has apparently been prepared. This is crucial for whether Sweden should take legislative action for taxonomics or whether we should primarily ask for further scrutiny. The Swedish Democrats believe that the European Commission's proposal for taxonomy criteria was unbalanced from the very beginning. It would not have given the homework to turn them into a task force under a European Commission based on wrong and one-way positions from the start. Delegated acts, as they were, should not be used in as broad a context as they did in this case. At the beginning of October this year, the European Parliament voted in favour of the taxonomy regulation. Only a Swedish Social Democrat and no Swedish environmental party voted against. On 15 November this year, however, the Agriculture Ministers of the EU Council of Ministers called on the Commission to be more balanced and to take into account the social and economic contribution of forests. We know that government relations have been messy, but it is nevertheless worth noting that Sweden's Rural Minister Ibrahim Baylan did not participate in one of these meetings with the Agriculture Ministers. In our reservation number 1 we use forestry as an example, but I hope I have been able to convey that the problems with taxonomics are much greater than that.
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-370	Madam President, I would like The legislative changes concerning taxonomics are not really so spectacular, but I'll take this opportunity to talk about taxonomics in general. We're really worried about where it's going. Overall, I can say that the Center Party is very positive about taxonomics. We see the need for standardised criteria for sustainable investment, preferably at European level so that there are no national rules. Emissions are cross-border, and so should the rules. But what we are concerned about – it is a very large one, but, I can say – are the demands on individual actors, criteria that go beyond existing legislation, the decision-making process and the forthcoming proposals. I will go deeper into these points. As far as the requirements for individual actors and activities are concerned, it can be said that they are set hard and without an overall view of the climate change as a whole. Forestry is and has always been a key industry in our country, but now 330 000 individual forest owners are at risk of being classified as climate criminals. This will have a huge impact on the market, as it risks leading, for example, to large furniture manufacturers requiring compliance with EU rules and taxonomy. This will directly affect the level of forest owners. This is completely unreasonable. Many of the regulations also go beyond the previous sustainability criteria and the current regulatory framework. Let me take one example: the framework directive on water and hydropower. There taxonomy will go further than what we ourselves have set up. This means that we will have additional investment needs that delay climate change without any benefit to either the environment or climate. It's more like a brake pad. The Center Party is also concerned by the lack of technology neutrality in the Commission's proposal for delegated acts. It's not going right. Madam President, I would like Nevertheless, the main obstacle is the decision-making process. The Taxonomy Regulation requires delegated acts. Such acts automatically mean that we are shifting a great deal of power to the EU. It regulates at a level of detail that is totally unreasonable. The climate act adopted was primarily negotiated by 35 experts from the banking sector. Industry representatives were not allowed to participate, including the political side and the parliaments. In the end, it will be a procedure where you will vote yes or no. In order to achieve a 'no' and a'stop', a two-thirds majority, that is to say a qualified majority, is required. This means that we have shifted a great deal of power at a detailed level to the European Union. This is certainly not good and does not provide the democratic basis that we should have. Let's take a look ahead. It is with horror that I stand here and see what is about to happen. We have received the first delegated act on climate change, but four or five more are on their way. What's leaked out of the working groups really scares me. I'll give you a few examples in a moment. We can already see the effect that taxonomy will be governing how to define sustainable investments in the future, and this will have spill-over effects. What is written in there will be pushed into other regulations. I'm going to go over some examples of why me and the Center Party are very worried. The working group that has now put forward proposals on agriculture comes up with these proposals. This does not mean moving forward automatically with the Commission's proposal, but the proposals are still on the table. It is a question of there being no animals on watercourses. The percentage of ploughed land shall be minimised. The crop rotation must have at least five crops. As a result, the cultivation of grassland and maize disappears. No single crop shall comprise more than one third. No crop from the same plant family may be present in the same field for more than two consecutive years. This means that all grassland will disappear, which is the basis for Swedish animal production. You must not replace the cover, you must not change waterways and you must not convert more than 1 hectare of forest land into arable land. There are also detailed rules for the type of feed in the feed state. So you are hearing the level of detail that the EU expert group is about to steer up. It runs counter to all the know-how and tradition we have in Swedish agriculture. When you look at the proposals made by the working group on forests and bioenergy, you can see that it is exactly the same there. It has been suggested that no kerb may be larger than 3 hectares for coniferous forests. You have to have at least three tree varieties per area, of which at least 20 per cent of the area for each tree species. Forest roads must not be built. You must not use planting in what is called close to nature areas. And we must not have bioenergy from food or feed crops, which we really need, for example, to develop biogas production in this country. Overall, this points to many fronts in the completely wrong direction. It breaks Swedish tradition when it comes to both agriculture and forestry, where we have used farming as the main principle. I am pleased that the Prime Minister declared in the Government Declaration that we should not have any detailed EU management of Swedish forests. But I can also say that if this is to become a reality, there will be a need for a much more forward-looking government to act in a forthcoming delegated act than we have seen so far. This is a huge challenge. Should we not succeed in this, I am extremely concerned that the ultimate thing that can happen is that we are launching a Swedish svexit movement, and that would be the worst thing we can achieve in this country. Madam President, I would like I request the approval of reservation 2.
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-386	Madam President, I would like At this very moment a huge change is taking place in our society – a green industrial revolution. We move away from old fossil production and introduce new climate adapted. In this work, Sweden has taken the lead. By being at the forefront of the climate transition, we are creating the new jobs here in Sweden. It attracts great attention and interest around the world, and the willingness to invest in green jobs is great. It is actually bigger than there are projects to invest in. It's a challenge. Another challenge in terms of the widespread desire to invest and place climate-friendly is to also agree on what is climate-friendly. There has long been a strong demand from the financial market to overcome greenwashing – I hope the President will excuse the English expression – in other words that it claims to be very climate-smart and environmentally friendly while in fact it is not. It is important to find some common standard so that one can agree on which standards should apply. This is what the EU's taxonomy is a response to. It is intended to be a uniform assessment and standard that financial markets and investors can make use of. It should be made clear to all producers, states, investors and small savers. The EU's taxonomy for green investment has been widely debated. We heard examples of this earlier. Of course, it has also been debated in other parts of Europe. It makes sense. Taxonomy is very important. It will be an important tool for controlling money flows to what is considered green. And of course everyone wants their own industries to benefit, or at least to be treated correctly in Sweden's case. There are, of course, great opportunities for those countries that are far ahead and have interesting investment targets. Madam President, I would like This particular report does, of course, concern taxonomy, but it is not about these more controversial definitions and classifications of what is environmentally sustainable. This is a separate issue, which several speakers have already touched on. The classification is of course important, and the Swedish Government has taken a very proactive role in this work to highlight our Swedish industries and show how they contribute with climate benefit. Not least, it is the forestry issues that have been highlighted very strongly by the Swedish Government. Instead, this case concerns the legal and regulatory framework of taxonomy, such as the information that financial market participants must provide in brochures and annual reports, the appointment of the Financial Supervisory Authority as a supervisory authority and the establishment of rules on measures and sanctions for infringements by Member States. This is important to design and adopt, regardless of the taxonomic classification itself. Madam President, I would like In connection with this report, there have been some motions. None of them is about these very legislative measures, but instead concerns the content and the design process of taxonomy itself. In this way, they neither question nor affect the proposal that the report deals with. Therefore, this legislation and the bill have a combined support in the Riksdag. The way taxonomy is then designed and its content remains an important issue. It is dealt with in a separate process, in which the Finance Committee has been very active and in which the Swedish Government has also been very active in influencing the EU. It is, as I said, very important to continue this work with the delegated act that has been presented and with the coming ones in the future. At the same time, there are of course great opportunities for Sweden in this regard. We are already seeing the increase in investment in green change in the country, as well as the demand for more investees. Sweden is far ahead, and we will continue to be far ahead in the climate transition. It is also about future jobs here in Sweden and about Swedish industries being able to grow and continue to develop while taking our responsibility for climate change. I therefore support the committee's proposal and reject the motions and reservations.
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-396	Madam President, I would like The chairman of the committee, Åsa Westlund, gave a very balanced speech. We are not really discussing taxonomy as a matter of fact. I'm completely clear on that. At the same time, however, it is not possible to turn a blind eye to all the threats that we see in the future. I chose to list an incredible amount of detailed proposals, each of which is absolutely terrible for Swedish agriculture and forestry and the development of bioenergy. In some way, history means that we are not fully convinced that the previous government was sufficiently bent forward and acted forcefully enough. We see that there are a lot of common wordings in the EU that the government chose not to sign in support of the Swedish line in relation to forests. That's where they chose to stand by the side. My simple question is: Does Åsa Westlund support my concern about this form with delegated acts and what it can lead to for Swedish development in general?
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-399	Madam President, I would like I thank Lars Thomsson for the question. I certainly share the honourable Member's concern about the level of detail of these delegated acts and also the concern that the Swedish reality is not reflected in the work carried out in these expert groups. Not least in the case of forests, our reality differs from that of other European countries. But this also applies largely to Swedish agriculture. It is important for the newly appointed government – as for the former – to be active and influence the processes in order to have an impact also on Swedish reality. I would like to say, however, that we have achieved some success in the previous advocacy work. Many countries have been irritated, but at the same time I am convinced that we need to work even harder to gain a greater hearing for the sustainability that we drive for, not least, hydropower, forestry and agricultural activities in Sweden.
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-401	Madam President and Åsa Westlund! Thank you for your answer. I think we have quite a lot of common ground on these issues. The second aspect is also worth highlighting. I see this as a major democratic threat. When we come to such intervention efforts against our basic industry – that's what we're talking about – that we can't be in charge of more than saying yes or no, in practice we'll never be able to say no because there won't be a qualified majority. This is the first part. Then there are two more, four or five delegated acts, including on social issues. How do we know where they're landing? My concern is that if it is not possible to control this better than for the first delegated act, we will see a Swedish svexit movement set in motion. Many will say that it is not possible to be in this association and that we must leave the train. It would be totally reprehensible at this time when we really need larger instruments to work together on the major issues, not least the climate issue. Does Åsa Westlund share my concern about the democratic aspect of the taxonomy procedure? What does the government intend to do?
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-405	Madam President, I would like Once again, I thank Lars Thomsson for the question. The EU has a working method to work a lot with delegated acts. It is one way of dealing with more detailed aspects of legislative work. However, I very much share the view that there is a concern that the EU has already been close to going too far in adopting politically controversial decisions in delegated acts. In fact, that is not the intention of this kind of procedure. Then you should start from the legislation and then build on it to establish more details. Here are the controversial decisions in the delegated acts, and that is not a good procedure. Now the Swedish parliament has asked the government to object to the delegated act in substance, and that is, of course, what the government is dealing with. I cannot answer for future decisions. We do not even know what the delegated acts will look like. The government will have to come back to how to stand up to them in the future. However, I certainly share the concern that there will be a lack of democratic transparency and democratic control if controversial political decisions are adopted in delegated acts rather than in the real underlying legislation.
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-408	Madam President, I would like Today's report deals with legislative measures relating to the EU's decision on taxonomy. For the sake of any audience, I'll start with a brief background on what taxonomy is. I think that's a question many people are thinking about. In spring 2020, the EU Council of Ministers adopted a regulation on the concept of taxonomy. It is a tool that should classify which investments are environmentally sustainable and not. The rather strange concept of taxonomy means that a definition is established at European level of what counts as a sustainable investment and that a standard is created that will have a major impact on the financial industry – and, by extension, companies that need loans and share capital. It will also steer investments in sustainable or green funds. As some have pointed out, it is likely to have other effects, such as governing public procurement and perhaps governing various forms of certification, eco-labelling and the like. Basically, it is a reasonable way to create greater clarity in the EU, but only if it is done in a democratic and reasonable way. We Moderates stated early on that it is extremely important that the regulatory framework is not distorted, and that it is important to monitor what its impact on Sweden is. We were gradually reached with serious concern that taxonomy threatened a number of Swedish industries and that the government had lost control of the issue in the EU and also shown a very limited commitment. One example mentioned was that Sweden sent officials at lower levels when other countries sent ministers to various negotiations. Concerns included the forestry industry, hydroelectric power, bioenergy, waste incineration, mining, the steel industry, nuclear power, the car industry, the IT sector and the real estate sector. There are more examples. Everyone was at risk of being considered non-sustainable. This would make it difficult to raise capital and attract investors. In an extension this would threaten Swedish jobs, Swedish welfare and Swedish energy supply. I think that Lars Thomsson gave clear and detailed examples of how forests and agriculture, for example, would be affected. I and three other Members raised the issue with Minister for the Environment Per Bolund on 26 November last year during the Parliamentary Question Time, and that is what I know for the first time in parliamentary debates. The Minister's answer was astounding and showed that he was not really very familiar with the issue or with the consequences of the proposal for Sweden. There were several of us who thought the government's passivity was almost astounding. On 8 December last year, I had two interpellation debates with Per Bolund on this issue. Three other members of Parliament also took part in the debates. Let me sum up our points of attack against the government. They were as follows: In fact, the government and responsible ministers believed that the proposal would not impose mandatory regulation on anyone, as Mr Bolund said in the debate. We pointed out that this is completely wrong, because the requirements will reproduce throughout the food chain down to the smallest companies. It was also clear that the government had not realised the seriousness of the issue for Sweden but had allowed more activist officials to conduct the negotiations instead of lifting them up at ministerial level and also involving the Prime Minister. It was also clear that the government believed that the proposal is fundamentally good for Sweden, despite the fact that there is enormous concern in many different industries for Swedish jobs and energy supply. I listed a number of threatened sectors in my speech, that is to say those I have listed earlier here. All risked the loss of competitiveness and aggravation of capital supply through the current proposal. It also became clear that the government seemed to lack a plan and an agenda to try to change the current proposal at the last minute. Surprisingly, the question was taken lightly and said that there was plenty of time, even though it was already five to twelve. As far as I am concerned, I also believe that the Green Party has basically always liked the current proposal because in practice it seems willing to sacrifice most of our society for other purposes. Letting the Environment Party ministers and ministries deal with this issue in the EU has been like putting the goat as a gardener. I noted in my last speech in the current interpellation debate that I had been a Member of the Riksdag for more than 14 years. During these years, I have seen many EU proposals coming and going, both good and bad. But I never think I have experienced a proposal that has the potential to so incredibly seriously harm Sweden as taxonomy. And at the same time, I have not experienced such a great ignorance of the meaning of the proposal and such total inaction on the part of the government in trying to stop proposals that have an unreasonable effect on Sweden. Then, a year ago, I concluded my speech by saying that, now, it is up to the government and responsible minister when it comes to protecting Swedish interests. Today it has been another year, and now I have 15 years behind me as a Member of Parliament. But my picture hasn't changed. Taxonomin is a serious threat to Swedish welfare, Swedish companies, Swedish jobs and Swedish energy supply. Madam President, I would like Since December last year there have been many tours around taxonomy, where the opposition has shot the government in front of it. On 22 June this year, the Moderates notified a different position when the matter was before the Finance Committee. This resulted in a joint position between the Center Party, the Swedish Democrats, the Christian Democrats and the Moderates, in which we stated that the Swedish Government should object to the delegated act on taxonomics, in order to safeguard the hydropower and forestry conditions and work to gather a majority for that view. Madam President, I would like In today's report, we have moderated two specific opinions. Under paragraph 1, we would like to point out that although the current bill on taxonomics does not, as some have pointed out here, directly concern issues relating to what is environmentally sustainable or not, there is reason to summarise and underline the problem that taxonomic implementation risks to Sweden and the EU. It risks damaging competitiveness and energy supply and threatens the necessary investments in, for example, new nuclear power. In the current situation of record electricity prices due to lack of electricity, there is every reason to worry even more about the importance of taxonomy in the future. An overly rigorous assessment of the concept of sustainable energy supply risks leading to serious energy shortages. The writings about water and forest also risk endangering Swedish hydropower and forestry and also creating major problems for agriculture. The government must increase its commitment to the continued process of taxonomy in order to protect Swedish interests, for this can end badly for the forest, hydroelectric power and agriculture. In paragraph 2, I would like to recall the joint position of 22 June, which I mentioned earlier, which we had together with the Christian Democrats, the Center Party and the Swedish Democrats. That is still the line that a majority in the Committee on Finance has put forward as a Swedish line. Taxonomin is still a threat that hangs over Sweden. The Swedish government must increase both the activity and commitment in all matters relating to taxonomics in order to defend Swedish interests. The work done so far by the government on this issue is simply not good enough. Finally, I would like to point out what some, including Lars Thomsson, have mentioned here about what this issue means for Sweden and the view of the European Union among the Swedish people. Membership of the EU requires the commitment of the Swedish Government to stand up for Swedish interests in every situation. This is crucial to Sweden's confidence in membership of the EU. What the government is in danger of doing if you do not deal with this issue correctly is to create an opinion against Swedish EU membership, and I do not think anyone in here really wants that. We want the EU to work, be good for Sweden and have strong support in Sweden. However, the path that the EU is on now with regard to taxonomics is moving in a different direction. Unfortunately, it is not just taxonomy that the government has failed to do. We know how badly the negotiations on the recovery fund were handled. We know how Stefan Löfven opened Pandora's box with the social pillar, which has meant that we now have a proposal in our lap on minimum wages in the EU. And we know how these issues harm Sweden and create resistance in Sweden. It's time for the government to get its act together.
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-432	Madam President, I would like The debate is about legislative measures relating to the EU's green taxonomy regulation. The Christian Democrats are in favour of the taxonomy regulation and the development of standardised criteria for sustainable investment. However, the fact that there are requirements for individual actors or activities without an overall view of climate change is not good for Sweden's hydropower, forest or nuclear power. Many of the criteria go beyond existing legislation and risk delaying the transition and national environmental and climate objectives. In addition, democratic support is lacking. The EU's Green Taxonomy Regulation sets out criteria for determining whether an economic activity is to be considered environmentally sustainable. The aim is to help investors identify and compare investments from environmental considerations. In order to be considered environmentally sustainable, an activity under the Regulation shall, inter alia, contribute significantly to one or more of the environmental objectives of the Regulation. At the same time, it shall not cause significant damage to any of the environmental objectives. Madam President, I would like The current bill on taxonomics does not concern issues of environmental sustainability or non-environmental sustainability, but there is reason to emphasise the problem that taxonomic implementation risks to Sweden and the EU. Taxonomy risks hampering the competitiveness of the European Union and its ability to reduce emissions and secure the energy supply of its Member States in a sustainable manner. In order for us in Sweden and the EU to meet our climate and environmental objectives, more clean and fossil-free electricity will be needed. This requires nuclear power, wind power, solar power, renewable energy production, new technologies and the exploitation of the forest's full potential. Madam President, I would like The European Commission's proposal on taxonomics has a negative impact on conversion and business conditions. The negative aspects of taxonomics are considering the positive aspects, at least in terms of the overall picture. Writings about water and forest are formulated in a way that may endanger Swedish hydropower and Swedish forestry. The delegated act does not take a technology-neutral view of the different power modes and deviates from research and evidence. The government should defend important Swedish industries, energy sources and other Swedish interests. Madam President, I would like For us Christian Democrats, the situation of nuclear power is particularly worrying. At present, there is a great risk that it may be classified as non-sustainable. Nuclear power is needed and important for the foreseeable future. We have seen developments in other countries where nuclear power plants were closed – these countries have become more dependent on imports of electricity from coal power. Madam President, I would like In Sweden we have witnessed that the closure of some nuclear reactors has also made Sweden dependent on coal and oil power during certain times of the year. Due to the closure of a few nuclear power plants in recent days alone, we have experienced an extreme price increase in the electricity market. Industries have had to stop production and slow down the rate of expansion due to the shortage of electricity. In this situation, the government chose to go down to Brussels in violation of the decision of the EU Board and do not support those Member States that want nuclear energy to be included as sustainable in taxonomy. It is irresponsible action, not least towards the business community, which is in the midst of a change, including electrification. Madam President, I would like As an adaptation to the EU's green taxonomy regulation, the government proposes to introduce additional requirements for financial market participants and some major companies in terms of environmental sustainability disclosure. Among other things, the Government's proposal means that fund managers and other financial market participants should explain more clearly how environmentally sustainable their financial products are, and some major companies should provide additional information in their sustainability reports. In addition, fund managers should also provide information on environmental sustainability to the Pension Authority so that the information can reach pension savers, and this will be a prerequisite for the Pension Authority to approve an application to conclude fund agreements. This, Madam President, is a good proposal which we from the Christian Democrats support. Madam President, I would like The government should object to the delegated act on taxonomics in order to safeguard hydropower and forestry conditions and to work towards a majority in the EU for this view. In addition, the Government should request an extension of the time limit for opposition to the delegated act on taxonomics by two months. I therefore support the two joint specific opinions.
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-447	Madam President, I would like We are here today to debate the report of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, Section 18 Community planning, housing and construction, and consumer policy in the government budget for 2022. In this report, it is not the policy of the previous Red-Green Government that becomes a reality; the prints of the blue-brown budget are clear. Since the Green Party entered the government in 2014, together with the Social Democrats, we have taken greater national responsibility for building up housing shortages and building up Sweden. We have again had a national housing policy, which has led to more housing being built than it has been since the days of the million-dollar programme. But with M's, SD's and KD's budget, which has now won, investment support for rental housing is withdrawn and support for energy efficiency improvements in residential blocks is abolished. It's both tragic and irresponsible. Madam President, I would like Many construction projects are planned around our country right now, where investment support is part of the calculation. It is housing that is really needed. The sudden phasing out of investment aid within a few weeks of the Parliament's decision today will drastically change the conditions for these planned projects. It is clear that many planned construction projects will be delayed or completed with significantly higher rents and, at worst, lower energy performance. The investment support has had the function of setting the maximum rent, which has enabled one to get state aid for more people to afford to live. A high proportion is at risk of not being built at all. In addition, the proposal strikes particularly hard at weaker markets where investment support has been crucial for projects to become a reality at all. There, housing also needs to be built in order for the whole of Sweden to be able to live. Madam President, I would like I am a member of one of Jönköping's two municipal housing companies. We have Vätterhem that builds homes in attractive locations. There, the customer base usually has the possibility to request apartments even with higher rents. I myself am a member of the municipal housing company Junehem, which builds housing in small towns, crane municipalities and almost rural areas. For Junehem, this is an extremely severe blow to the stomach. Several of the projects we have planned for over the next six to eight years are now in danger of not becoming a reality. It is projects in municipal parts in Jönköping municipality that really need apartments so that the elderly who now live in the villa can demand an accessible attractive accommodation in the same place that they have lived for several years or large parts of their adult life. Thus they could walk the dog in the same forest, pick mushrooms, and socialize with their neighbors. I am really concerned that these apartments will not become a reality when investment aid disappears. Madam President, I would like Whether it is a budget or a bill we are debating, in the debate on housing policy we are talking a lot about new housing and new production. Then we should know that new production is a very small proportion of the housing available in Sweden. That is why I was very proud and pleased that the red-green draft budget also included investments in existing housing. Many older multi-detached houses have major renovation needs and thus climate challenges. That is why support for improving the energy performance of apartment blocks is extremely important. Dismantling this aid, as the committee is now proposing, is very unfortunate, because it is an important contribution to speeding up the absolutely necessary energy efficiency required in multi-residential buildings around our country. Such measures are necessary to reduce the climate impact of these properties and not least to meet the climate challenge we are in the middle of. Madam President, I would like I believe that more national responsibility is needed to manage to reduce both housing shortages and homelessness, and that is why it is extremely sad that the blue-brown budget is cutting down on the money needed to build more rentals with reasonable rents and energy efficiency of older multi-residential buildings. Is it now that we see a political direction that wants us to move from a national responsibility to once again dump the responsibility for housing policy on the market and on the knees of the municipalities? We've tried that before, and we see the results. I don't think we should try it again. Earlier today, I attended a seminar organised by the City Mission, where their latest homelessness report was presented. I can only say that in order to solve the problem of homelessness in Sweden, which is part of housing policy, more national responsibility is needed, not less. Madam President, I would like The red-green draft budget also deals with consumer policy, and under the heading of the policy there is a section on environmentally sustainable consumption, which I would like to mention briefly. This is an important and really green impression in the draft budget, of which we in the Green Party are extremely proud. Consumer behaviour plays a significant role in achieving more environmentally sustainable consumption, which is in line with the national environmental and climate objectives as well as the previous Red-Green Government's ambitions in the circular economy strategy. I am counting on the Social Democratic Government to take this work further. Effective information can make it easier for consumers to make more environmentally sustainable and circular choices. However, consumers have different conditions for taking in and acting in accordance with the information. It is therefore gratifying that we can read in the Red Green Government's draft budget that we want to step up our efforts to facilitate information for consumers so that they can make sustainable choices. I support our particular statement. I am not in a position to apply for a reservation. We do not have a reservation, because our spending framework is greater than the committee's proposal.
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-462	Madam President, I would like The German writer Thomas Mann has once said that the external circumstances of the ascension often appear only when the descent has become a reality. With such a simple and ingenious sentence, we could start this debate. The upswing that we have seen since 2014 is enormous. Not in 30 years has it been built as much as now. During the period 2015 – 2018, more housing was started than during all eight years of power of the moderate-led government. Of course, we are proud that we have started the construction of housing. 11 per cent of Sweden's GDP consists of contributions from the construction sector, and residential building is an essential part of this. That is why we Social Democrats have set ourselves a target of starting half a million homes by 2030. At such a pace, we can both build up the vast deficit and keep the economic wheels going. A high level of housing construction is important for those who can get a new home and for the workers who get a job. And as growth increases, it is important for all of us. Madam President, I would like In the budget that the right-wing conservatives have pushed through, the most effective tools of housing policy are removed from the toolbox and replaced by nothing. Investment aid has contributed to tens of thousands of new apartments. About 50 000 apartments have been granted the aid. These apartments have been built with significantly lower rents than would otherwise be the case if they had even been built. The investment aid is not just a financial contribution to the tenant, which receives lower rent. It is also an enabler for the construction of rural areas. Today's accounting rules make it hard when it is impossible to build on places where the ability to pay is weak. People are therefore already finding it difficult to ask for new apartments, even with investment aid. With the removal of investment aid, it becomes even more difficult if there is even something new to ask for. The answer to the question of how to build rental apartments in rural areas, a question that many local politicians are currently struggling with, is investment support. But the answer to why the investment aid is removed is probably quite simple. The right-wing conservatives do not give much for rent. Only a few weeks ago, we debated the Government's proposal to strengthen the protection of tenants. It became clear that the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats give very little for the security of tenants. The positions of the Swedish democrats in particular were very clear to whom they represent. The financial elite are as interested in the security of the tenants as they are in the investment support. SD is doing what they can to please the elite. Madam President, I would like The climate crisis is not something that affects the right-wing conservatives very much either. The reduction of CO2 emissions tax in a situation where the Paris Agreement is more or less in a ventilator is a very clear example of that. But that is the case when you represent the groups that are making money from the crisis we are in. The abolition of support for energy efficiency is therefore perfectly logical. Why energy efficiency today when you can fantasize about nuclear power in 25 years' time? The aid would also mean lower rents for those who have their houses renovated, and this would mean that the juicy rent increases that need to be made would not be so high. But why should you give tenants a lighter everyday life when you don't like rental law as a phenomenon? The fact that Thomas Mann was right also shows the process surrounding the management of the budget in recent weeks. The right-wing conservatives begin by making a new fadäs. The lessons from the last time they were on the move and abolished investment aid and thousands of apartments disappeared overnight do not seem to have sat down. This time too, it was close that many of those already granted aid would not receive it. This time the napkin sketch had been replaced by a pickpin. Now the right-wing conservatives know, of course, that the state must comply with agreements entered into. But that 23,000 apartments suddenly seemed to be unsupported was a newly discovered blunder from which it took less than 24 hours for the right-wing conservatives to back off. What we can say is that it is more important for the right-wing conservatives to push through ideologically motivated haste than to take into account the reality in which we actually find ourselves. But it doesn't stop there. New questions have arisen, and the right-wing conservatives have not been able to give any answers whatsoever. They have no idea. This is how it is: Sweden will get money from the EU's recovery fund. That aid is based on the introduction of the investment aid and the renovation aid. The right-wing conservatives cannot give any guarantee whatsoever that we will receive the money from the European Union. The simple reason is that there are no such guarantees. By pulling away the carpet for sustainable Swedish housing production, the right-wing conservatives' progress risks costing Sweden billions. Combined with removing the carpet for housing production and thus growth, it is evident that the economic credibility that the Moderates once had, albeit undeserved, is now completely lost. Madam President, I would like The budget that goes through this House is mostly Social Democratic policy that the Social Democratic-led government put forward. Improvements in health insurance, social security pensions and unemployment benefit levels would never have been on Parliament's table in a budget bill if it had not been for the Social Democrats. That they are still there is because M, KD and SD only agreed on the parts where they knew they could get along. M and KD would never have accepted that social democratic efforts would remain or improve health insurance if they had negotiated a budget from the start. Instead, reforms would have been meaningless to ordinary people, as the family week is now a clear example. Time with the children you can give from the right-wing conservatives, but you have to pay for it yourself. It's a class policy that kicks hard down. In the light of this, the betrayal of housing policy by the right-wing conservatives is even greater, for there there has been no problem at all in getting along. It's quite obvious. Almost no other area is as clinically dismantled as housing policy. One might ask why. The answer, as I pointed out earlier, is that housing shortages fatten the financial elite by increasing rents and raising property values. M and KD can go up to the office and tell their – I was saying clients – well done work. As a social democrat, I can only draw the attention of the Swedish people to what the elections this autumn will be about. On the one hand, there is a Social Democratic option that makes improvements for people here and now and builds a future that everyone can be involved in and that is sustainable. Against this stands a right-wing conservative bloc that with precision divides society to benefit those who already have at the expense of tenants, workers, students and our elderly.
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-474	Madam President, I would like Let me begin by thanking Ola Möller for a very good speech. I agree with almost everything Ola Möller said. There are very good things in the government budget. That is why the Left Party supports the government's budget in the second place. As I said, there are improvements in health insurance and other things that I think are very positive and good. There are also efforts to increase the pace of housing construction and energy efficiency, which we also think is very good. But we also know that it is the blue-brown budget that this government will govern. There, as Ola Möller mentioned, there is a complete lack of investment in housing policy. The aim is to remove investment aid. The aim is to remove the support for renovation and energy efficiency. We know what the consequence is. There will be no housing. I will also take a line on the representatives of the parties behind this budget. Ola Möller may wonder why I don't ask them the questions. I'll do it. Ola Möller can be calm about that. It is Ola Möller's party that sits in the government that governs the country with this budget. How will you handle this? Will you implement a proposal that removes all support for housing construction?
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-479	Madam President, I would like I thank Momodou Jallow for his fine words. It warms to hear them. Of course, I'm worried too. We are now moving in a direction where housing construction is deteriorating, where rents are raised for tenants and where the interest of the market becomes superior. We know the market is an excellent servant but a terrible master. I think that, in the current parliamentary situation, the Social Democratic Government was the only possible formation of government that could take place. To take responsibility for the country, we had to do this. This means that once the Riksdag has made the decision to reduce the money in this regard, that is what we have to deal with. It's boring. I wish, of course, that we could build a majority to invest in fulfilling the intentions of the Constitution to give people the right to safe housing. We must simply do so that in the elections this autumn we will drive housing policy and fight to get it on the agenda. It is clear that we should be able to secure people's right to housing and protect tenants, it must be left-wing politics that takes responsibility. This applies economically but also to keep our systems of party models and similar living. That's the boring answer. It is again the parliamentary situation that has an impact. In such a situation, we take responsibility. But I have great confidence that the Swedish people see that it will have an impact on jobs when you reduce housing construction in the way that the right-wing conservatives suggest. We know that working methods and unemployment are an important issue to discuss in this context.
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-485	Madam President, I would like It feels like déjà vu. When we had a debate on the January agreement, it was the same. It is the Social Democrats who run the country, but they have neoliberal policies. They said: we cannot do anything, because we have an agreement with the neoliberal parties. It's the same thing again. We have a new Minister for Housing, Johan Danielsson. In an interview in Studio E tt, the question was asked how he himself arranged his first home. He replied: When I moved to Stockholm and started working, I bought a condo in Aspudden. It is his advice, such as for young people: You should buy housing. He refers to the investigation under way. I'm worried about that. It refers to an investigation that will produce proposals to facilitate first-time buyers. However, regardless of the proposals made by the investigation, that is not what is needed at this stage. What is needed are rental apartments. That's worrying. What do you think of this?
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-489	Madam President, I would like I am not going to review the reply of the newly appointed Minister of Housing in P1. If I interpret Momodou Malcolm Jallow correctly, the Minister for Housing answered a direct question about how he got his first home and not about what advice the Minister for Housing had for people to get a home, and there is a difference. I agree with Momodou Jallow that referring to the parliamentary situation is a sad answer. But the voters have given us a result to relate to. Since the Social Democrats were the only possible government leader in the current situation, this is what applies to: The difference this time between the January agreement and the current government is that the Left Party has been involved in voting this government again. I don't remember if you pressed green or yellow. Actually, I don't remember. In any case, we have negotiated that issue. It is a clear step forward from the perspective of the Left Party. I think the comparison is a bit harsh to say that for the Left Party it is now the same as with the January agreement.
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-493	Madam President, I would like It is always fun to come to the chamber debates and take part of Ola Möller's literary cannon. Last time he began by quoting Goethe. He said then that the master appears in his limitations. I note that this time, too, Ola Möller slightly oversold her speaking time. It is not without being struck by the cognitive dissonance that prevails around the Social Democrats' approach to how we use our tax funds. One is the biggest critic of what one claims to be unjustified gains in welfare when it comes to soft sectors. But there is no problem at all with pouring billions of dollars into private construction companies. Of course, there are some who feel it is welcome. But the question is: is it really an effective way of using our common money in a country that is struggling with significant problems and difficulties? The moderate answer to that question is no, simply because aid has proved totally ineffective. It has turned out that what is being built in many cases had been built anyway. It has turned out that those who moved into the apartments could have requested and been able to afford the apartments even if they had been built without the support. Yesterday there was a report from SBAB showing that in some parts of the country we now have an over-establishment of rental apartments, while far too little is being built of the form of accommodation that is most in demand of all, namely small houses.
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-499	Madam President, I would like I am well to blame for being a substitute in the debate when it comes to taking over speaking time to get a speech together. I'm a beginner at work in this context, so that may have been the reason. It is an interesting comparison with profits in welfare. In practice, the investment support means that tenants receive lower rents. This means that the local community gets new housing so that you can get life and movement in villages and cities where this had not been the case before. This enables people to have better opportunities for work commuting. Profits in welfare mean that older people and students pay with their future, health and well-being to fatten capital. That's an essential difference. It suggests a certain incomprehension from Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin about the nature of the phenomena that he even once chooses to draw that parallel. As far as the construction of small-scale houses is concerned, I share the view that there is a need for higher production of small-scale houses. The difference between us is that the Moderates put the small house production against the tenant. For a social democrat it is both. Of course we want to build more small houses. One issue we need to address is the question of land. It's at the municipal level. There I know that many of Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin's colleagues in the country on the municipal side are very stingy about giving access to new construction and detached plots. The question is why not the whole of Danderyd, Lidingö or Täby, where people would really like to live, teeming with construction projects. This is not because the Swedish parliament does not want it, but because there is a councillor from the Moderates who stops and does not give people the opportunity to build small houses where they want and dream of living.
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-505	Madam President, I would like That's a truth with modification. A wide range of the area protection provisions which today lie as a burdensome break across a very large part of our land area are governed by this House. You haven't done a thing about it in the last seven years in power. That is the basis of the problem. Another problem is that during this parliamentary term they have consistently voted against all the proposals we have put forward to make it easier to build small houses. It has been about reforming surveying, ensuring that it is possible to build more easily outside of the detailed plan and reforming the zoning institute, just to mention a few examples. But for you, there is only subsidy policy. Madam President, I would like For those who only have hammers, all problems look like a nail. That sums up the social democratic housing policy. For the Social Democrats, housing policy can only be subsidies in one column and no regulatory simplification, and that is a problem.
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-508	Madam President, I would like It is interesting that Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin here highlights truths with modification. More houses are being built now than in last year It has risen by 13 per cent. More houses are being built, and the number is increasing during the time of the Social Democraticly led government in power. You can't live in a simple rule. Had it been that regulatory simplifications were the way to tame the market, a huge amount would have happened. If there is anything we have been doing in this House, it is a simplification of the rules. Why don't you go out there and talk to a building manager? From PBL 2011 to today, it is a mess of new rules, which basically only makes the processes longer and more difficult. Instead of continuing to believe that we can live in regulatory simplifications, it is the demand side that we need to discuss. And then investment support is the solution to the housing crisis.
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-511	Madam President, I would like As regards housing construction and the ability of the housing market to supply housing for the hundreds of thousands of Swedes in the housing queue, very little has changed since I stood here a year ago. Then it felt like we had a broad political consensus that something needs to be done about the rental market. The study on free renting was ongoing, and on the basis of the directives it had received, it looked promising: from 1 July, rents will be set free in new rental rights if the landlord and tenant agree on it, and we will, in parallel with the regular regulated rental market, have a portfolio with more market adapted rents. Two parties are pleased that the proposal was stopped. The Left Party and the Swedish Democrats are both opposed to any change aimed at creating a housing market similar to that we see in many of our neighbouring countries, Madam President. What characterises such a market is that you can get a home without waiting time, often at a cost equal to what you can afford and with a standard and a location that corresponds to what you are prepared to pay. Madam President, I would like On June 21 became a tough day for me as a spokesperson, when the Moderates joined the Left Party and interrupted the reform of the renting that we agreed to carry out. When it became clear to them that it was the wrong party that was about to succeed, the bill fell heavily on the January agreement and the reforms in the housing market that were there. Now it is up to the Moderates and Christian Democrats to show how they are prepared to counter the housing shortage and segregation in the housing market and to speed up the construction and renovation of the million-programme areas with the foothold of the Swedish Democrats on the brake. It is possible to complain, but the way to accomplish something yourself has never been longer than it is now for Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin and Larry Söder. I know what criticism you have had to endure because you blew the chance while it existed. It is 207 out of 288 reporting municipalities that indicate a deficit of housing in the municipality as a whole. It is mainly new ones in the housing market that find it difficult to enter. Young people, students, new arrivals and job seekers, but also older people and people with disabilities, cannot get a home," says Boverket in its annual housing market survey. It is a gradual improvement, but far from what would be needed. And it makes it absolutely clear that the housing market must be fundamentally reformed. The building subsidies that are now maintained for one year and then phased out are in fact completely inadequate. More and more construction companies and real estate companies discover that they can get money if they build according to the regulations that the government has set up. In the long run, it is an unsustainable policy to subsidise all the tens of thousands of rental apartments that are needed. To travel Ola Möller : You can also not live in an investment aid. Support should, if available, be directed to the weakest housing markets, where housing is needed but no construction companies dare to invest. Support should be directed to housing for those households that cannot afford to demand a home and that landlords are forced to deny because they do not meet income requirements. I welcome the study on socially sustainable housing policy, but I believe that it is not enough just to turn the systems on when they are fundamentally wrong. Sweden is ready to discuss how a new social housing sector, based on models from similar countries, can ensure that for selected target groups housing is built and provided. These are households with limited financial resources suffering from structural homelessness. The Stockholm Stadsmission report, to which Emma Hult referred, was presented earlier today. It underlined what the Center Party had been the first to demand: a new social housing sector that will tackle structural homelessness. Despite the fact that the Center Party has helped to improve and sharpen investment aid while we were negotiating budgets, we have always advocated a different policy, which places pressure on costs and strengthens the conditions to build on market principles in most cases. Madam President, I would like Sweden is recovering from a pandemic. For us, the most important thing is to create growth in the economy, to push down unemployment and long-term unemployment, and to strengthen job creation and entrepreneurship. This will require budgetary efforts to finance, among other things, new start-up jobs and at the same time to remove employers' contributions for those who employ the unemployed. Climate policy with green conversion starts to produce results when we see battery factories and successful attempts to produce fossil-free steel. It has already created a build boom in the affected cities, Luleå and Skellefteå. We continue our efforts and extend it to energy storage, hydrogen production, modern recycling technology and emissions. A new fleet of fossil-free heavy goods vehicles is being expanded with special premiums. In order to make use of all renewable electricity produced mainly through wind, water and sun, the power grids need to be expanded and modernised. The conversion of the fleet includes both passenger cars and agricultural and work machinery. Efforts on renewable fuels and electricity in aviation need to be made if people are to be able to move again. Sweden is an elongated country, Madam President, and aviation is just as necessary as a comprehensive electricity network with good capacity and broadband to all households. Climate change is happening here and now. We need to build communities that can cope with increasing amounts of water on hard surfaces in our cities and that can lead off floods, reduce mud risks along beaches and stop eutrophication in the watercourses in the event of ever-closer centenary rains. The Center Party wants to make the biggest effort ever to expand broadband. We light street lighting, upgrade, extend and frostproof the road network in the countryside and keep sandwiches open to create the conditions for people to build, live and operate outside the big cities. Simpler beach protection is not part of the budget, but it will help small towns to grow and that you can build new ones and build next to lakes and streams. Without taking a single crown from taxpayers, we are boosting the construction of housing in those parts of Sweden where rigid and unreasonable beach protection regulations prevent it from happening. In order to stop shootings, drug trafficking and threats and violence against women, we are strengthening the legal chain and giving the police the opportunity to show themselves in the vulnerable areas, to investigate crimes and to prosecute criminals, women's abusers and rapists. Preventing gang crime is the most important thing. For us, it is important to highlight the good examples from vulnerable areas that, like Gårdsten in Gothenburg, have turned the development around by involving the residents, being clear about the demands and interacting with the local traders. The renovation of our most vulnerable areas and the energy efficiency of 60-year-old homes from the million-year programme are perhaps our biggest challenge now. Close to health care, good schools and vocational training that give way to working life are other areas we invest in the budget of SEK 35 billion extra that is partly financed by reductions in the area of expenditure that is being debated here today. These are re-priorities that I can justify because I see, and have described, other needs that are more important than many of those in Category 18. Madam President, I would like I regret that Sweden has a housing market which in itself requires billions of taxpayers' money annually to compensate for its lack of functioning. Sweden really needs more housing, but we also need to reduce building costs, build more wood and simplify planning processes to shorten the time from idea to ready-to-use housing. Lantmäteriet needs to shorten its processing times and graze the queues to the building formation. We believe that their activities should be challenged by other actors. We believe that open and free data from the survey can make it easier for all actors who want to help build communities – municipalities, state, authorities and not least the construction companies. Madam President, I would like I would like the debate on housing policy to follow us into the election year. Nothing can be more important than creating safer and more modern housing in vulnerable areas, reducing overcrowding and putting an end to criminal takeovers of housing associations and the black trade in rental contracts. To build a variety of homes with garden cities, detached homes and rental and tenant-ownership rights in the way that is now done along the Norrland coast where jobs are created we see as positive. We believe that investments made by the Center Party in green conversion, security, care and schooling and in strengthening rural areas with ownership of the forest and easier beach protection contribute to this.
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-537	Madam President, I would like When I listen to your policy and when I hear Ola Johansson's speech, I hear whining about market rents. I feel like you haven't moved on from that. The majority of the Swedish people have spoken and said: we do not want this. The scientists have spoken. All empiricism has spoken against it. We have shown here in Parliament that it will not go through. Just let it go and move on. It is this cognitive dissonance I constantly refer to when I talk to the Center Party. You just don't want to think you can be wrong. What research says is rightly meant. You are right regardless of what the Swedish people say, which they claim to represent. You just think so. Drop it! As long as the Left Party is here, we will never accept market rents. I would also like to say that all the policy of the Center Party is to make everything worse for the tenant. The aim is to remove the support for renovation and energy efficiency. The Center Party wants to profile itself as a green party, and I do not understand how this rhymes with that profiling. You want to be a green party but still want to remove the particular investment that will help with energy efficiency. How does that make sense? The aim is to remove all support related to housing construction, but hypocrisy comes with regard to aid that goes to the rich. All the support that goes to the wealthy, to the owned stocks, is the Center Party very willing to invest in. When it comes to 140 billion in root since 2009, it is not a problem. But when it comes to 16 billion people going to tenants, it sounds every time from the Center Party: No, we don't want that. Why?
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-541	Madam President, I would like We can see that this is an ideological debate. Momodou Malcolm Jallow and I will never agree on the basic view of what drives society forward and what creates investments that benefit everyone living and living in Sweden. Here we can very much agree that we are not in agreement and probably never will be. Why do I not let go of the question of reforming renting? Because we know that the current system, the utility value system, which had its strengths at one stage, is out of date and hinders the new investments and renovations of, for example, the million-dollar programme that we talked about earlier. We were jointly in the civil committee outside and visited a municipality near Stockholm where we were quite clearly able to take part in the research that says that the utility value system has exactly the effect on new investments, new construction and renovations that we do not want to see. That Momodou Malcolm Jallow in his line refers to research in this field, I think is hair-traveling. Most experts, even within our authorities who are responsible for housing issues in Sweden, agree that there is a criticism of the system that Momodou Malcolm Jallow is so happy to defend. There is also experience from other countries, not least Finland, Austria and the Netherlands, which show that there are other ways to go than the Swedish model in this case. So we can agree that we do not agree. When it comes to energy efficiency, we see great opportunities with the energy declarations that exist and the climate declarations that are being produced. I believe that strong but also uniform demands on the construction industry, or on property owners in this case, is the way forward. I am also convinced that we have not seen the end of the development of sustainable construction in, for example, wood and industrial processes in residential construction, driven precisely by the profit interests of private companies and the concern to cater to a market that screams for housing.
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-545	Madam President, I would like If I understand Ola Johansson correctly, it is bad for the environment to invest in energy efficiency. That is what it means. We have an investment in energy efficiency, and then the Center Party says we have to remove it. If we do, it's good for the environment. I don't understand. It doesn't make any sense. Explain to me: How can it be good to remove a venture whose sole purpose is to improve the environment? How can it be good to remove it? You have to explain that, if not for me, for your own voters. There is also a deep contempt for tenants in the Center Party. Last week we had a proposal here to strengthen the position of tenants. The Center Party and Ola chose not to support it. I still can't let it go. This was the only proposal to strengthen the position of tenants, and then the Center Party says: No, you should be evicted. You're supposed to be homeless. Why? You now have the opportunity to explain.
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-547	Madam President, I would like I note that the initiative which Momodou Jallow is now celebrating is new. This is support that we do not have in our budget option, nor is it in what won Parliament's approval. I was quite clear in my speech. I was even so honest that I said that the Center Party is not investing in Category 18 because we believe that other things are more important in this context. In fact, we believe that there are greater and more important efforts to make in the field of energy and climate than those that Momodou Jallow is asking for. I am absolutely convinced that a tougher position on the part of the state is at least as effective. Nor is it in the interests of any property owner to allow his stock to decay, perish and consume more energy than is necessary. That is our view. I've been talking about energy storage, too. I've been talking about investments in hydrogen. I was going to talk about a bonus malus system that makes us switch our fleet of vehicles to fossil-free vehicles, and so on. When it comes to the view of tenants, we disagree with Momodou Malcolm Jallow.
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-550	Madam President, I would like Ola Johansson mentions 21 June as some kind of lowest point for the Centre Party's shares in this parliamentary assembly during its term of office. The fact is, however, that this is only the date when what the rest of us have already known since the January agreement was concluded came into the hands of the Center Party, namely that you have conducted a charade and have not pretended to be dependent on a party on which it turned out you were dependent. Ola Johansson's problems have existed since he concluded the January agreement. For a full term of office, he has now had to go around pretending that he fundamentally supports and believes in investment aid. Now we get lip service after the January agreement has fallen. Investment aid is not something to hang from the tree; we should not have that at all. The problem with this, Madam President, is that the Center Party is in a fantasy world that has no bearing on what the Parliamentary Assembly looks like. Then you have to pretend to advocate things that you are not for, and then when reality comes to grips with the meaning of your heart. The reason you could do this is that M, KD and SD have negotiated a budget together. The reason it went through was that we received the support of the Center Party in the decisive vote. But you don't want to pretend that either. Madam President, I would like The problem of the Center Party is to pretend that you are in a place in Swedish politics that does not exist.
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-555	Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, my speaking time was not sufficient to conclude the answer to Momodou Jallow. I would add that we are thinking of the tenants. We are thinking of those tenants who would like to become tenants, that is, those who are farthest from the housing market. These are not at all thought of by the Left Party. It protects its own interests and the existing tenants. I suppose you should, but you have to broaden your perspective. I would like to say to Mr Carl-Carl-Oskar that 21 June was a fateful day for the discussion on how we are reforming the renting model. I believe that both Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin and myself believed in the proposal that was about to be presented. I also see Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin nodding in agreement. I can promise Momodou Malcolm Jallow that I will not raise this issue any more unless I am told primarily by the Moderates how they intend to push this issue forward. Will the Moderates bring the brake pad – the Swedish Democrats – to reform the rental model? Then I am very pleased and can join the Moderates in arguing for it. I am absolutely convinced that this is something that needs to be done. Given that we do not have a reform of renting, we are forced to pay private construction companies to build, and that is a system that we want to get away from. When we in the Center Party negotiated the model of investment aid, we were very careful that this should be sharpened. It would be a pot for the rural communities, and it would be possible to set some of the stock aside for social purposes. These things were not in the system before. There were also ideas on how this could be developed in the future. With the position we have today, I am absolutely convinced that we need to get away from subsidy policy. We need to get proper incentives for housing construction. There I think Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin and I are quite in agreement.
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-561	Madam President, I would like After all, it is not objective circumstances in reality that have changed, but only the parliamentary situation of the Center Party in this House that is turning 180 degrees. However, it is quite important where you land on this issue. As for 21 June, this was about whether or not there was confidence in the government. It didn't, because you had made a deal on false premises. You had pretended that you had a majority that you did not actually have. The treatment of Parliament with charades, as if it were a playhouse, of course undermines confidence in the institution we are now in. I hope that the centre party's lesson from this is that it is beginning to relate to the parliament that exists, both during the time remaining before the elections and after the next elections.
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-564	Madam President, I would like In the mail box there was a small red writing produced by a think tank close to the Moderates. It describes what the ideal housing section looks like. It is a party that advocates the kind of reform in the housing market that the Center Party has been responsible for all along. I think that this calls for Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin and his party colleagues and co-workers to ensure that they too are included in the circle of parties that meet the think tank's demands on how a good housing policy needs to be designed. I note that the Center Party has been the first on that track.
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-566	Madam President, I would like Here we are again. In the Left Party Budget Movement Red policy for a green transition, we propose a re-launch of the Swedish economy after the coronapdemine. We want to see a major green and modern transformation of society that creates development and jobs throughout the country. Crisis management today is also about repairing the major damage that neoliberal economic theories have caused to our society in the last 30 years. For too long political development has been dominated by the dismantling of our common welfare and our security systems. Madam President, I would like The underfunding of welfare, the climate crisis and the high level of unemployment are linked to the lopsided redistribution policy we have in Sweden. When the capital is collected by a few, it is not used to invest in the common. We in the Left Party want to change this. Instead, our policy creates welfare that benefits everyone in society – not just the rich. All of this is clearly reflected in our motion for Category 18. As part of the agreement we in the Left Party made with the two previous government parties, the Left Party supported their draft budget in plenary because our own draft budget had fallen. However, Madam President, at the final stage of the committee's preparation of the budget proposal – the day before the planned adjustment – M, SD and KD submitted a joint draft budget. This has made the process more difficult. The Left Party believes that the government's draft budget as a whole is better for Sweden than the blue-brown option we are discussing here today. The right-wing proposal is permeated by national conservative values which the Left Party can never support. Madam President, I would like Since, in the first stage of the budgetary process, the majority of Parliament has given budgetary policy a different direction from that of the Left, I wish to abstain from taking a position on the distribution of appropriations in Category 18. The Left Party's proposal under Category 18 is part of the Left Party budget option, which is a whole. The Left Party budget for Category 18 for 2022 includes a major investment in housing for those who most need it in Sweden's housing shortage, i.e. an investment in all the people in our society who do not have large resources at the bank but who still need safe and long-term housing. Our budget is characterised by a high ambition to transform into a modern, green society. The construction and energy sectors play a very important role in the transition of society, and this must be clearly reflected in a budget for Parliament's expenditure category 18. Overall, the Left Party allocates approximately SEK 6.3 billion more than the blue-brown budget for Category 18 for 2022 and just over 5.7 billion more than the government's own draft budget. Madam President, I would like The need for investments in urban planning, housing supply and housing construction is considerable. The housing shortage is great, and the need for rental apartments with reasonable rents is enormous. Dwellings must be built, and they must be built climate-smart. In addition, the existing multi-dwelling stock is in great need of renovation and climate adaptation. If the state does not support this important economic adjustment, it will hit the very poorest tenants in society. With climate-smart investment aid, society can contribute to all of this. The profit is a climate-smart society without homelessness and exclusion. Madam President, I would like When the government now chooses to reduce support for energy efficiency by as much as 1.2 billion, as the blue-brown budget proposes, the Left Party instead chooses to increase support by just over 2.2 billion compared to the right's budget. In order to further increase the pace of building climate-smart rentals with reasonable rents, the Left Party will increase investment support for the organisation of rental housing and housing for students by SEK 2 billion compared to the committee's proposal. We also want investment support much more clearly to be linked to climate objectives than it is today, and higher requirements for climate-smart housing should be imposed when support is granted. Madam President, I would like In addition, in order to increase the construction of multi-dwelling buildings made of wood, we propose the creation of a new appropriation of SEK 1 billion – investment aid for the construction of climate-smart multi-dwelling buildings made of wood. Increased industrial wood construction not only provides climate benefits but also contributes to job creation outside the cities, precisely where jobs are so much needed. Another important reform of the Left Party budget is about top government loans. This also aims to increase the construction of rental apartments with reasonable rents, and it also helps to increase competition in the construction sector. Madam President, I would like In addition to this, we propose that municipalities should be supported in their efforts to develop climate-neutral construction plans and that different actors should receive support for projects that contribute to creating climate-smart neighbourhoods. In addition, we are making proposals that would increase accessibility and make it easier for more people to access society on equal terms. Madam President, I would like Let me talk about the budget of the right-wing parties – the blue-brown ones. It is not refugees who have created the problems in the Swedish housing market, as the brown people claim. Nor is it investment aid or energy efficiency aid that has created housing shortages, homelessness, overcrowding and increasingly segregated residential areas. Instead, it is the right's own liberalisation and dismantling of state housing policy that have laid the foundations for today's situation. The liberalisations began in the 1990s and have since continued as soon as the bourgeoisie had a new moment in power. The fact that the Social Democrats have largely accepted the changes made by bourgeois governments has paved the way to where we are today. In just a few decades, housing was transformed from being a part of welfare, a social and human right, into a private matter. Today, the dwelling is a simple commodity, like any other commodity. Madam President, I would like Now it goes on. The intention of the budget presented by Parliament's blue-brown parties is clear. With a single brush stroke, the housing policy that finally, after so many years, began to take shape is being deleted. Investment aid will be phased out and will be phased out rapidly. And however we twist and reverse this budget, it is the tenants who are affected, especially those with the lowest incomes. Madam President, I would like The right is saying that investment aid is being phased out because it does not solve the basic problems that are the cause of the housing shortage. But is the lack of housing not the basic problem of the housing shortage? And if so, how can the 50 000 rental dwellings to which the investment aid has contributed not be part of the solution to the housing shortage? It's hard to understand. I can't believe it. Let me quote. s without investment support, housing construction will decline sharply throughout the country. – – – Sweden's politicians, regardless of party affiliation, must realise that investment support is absolutely crucial in order to build away the housing shortage. – – – The former alliance parties and the Swedish Democrats – now want to abolish the support. Completely without presenting other solutions. You might think that those are the words of the Left Party, my words. In fact, however, representatives of the construction industry, among other things, wrote in a recent article in Today's Industry. And that's exactly how it is. Since the introduction of investment aid in 2016, they have cost EUR 16 billion. Thus, in just these years, they have resulted in a total of 50 000 rental dwellings with reasonable rents having been built or started to be built. But the right is removing the support, because, according to them, it is not effective and not accurate. At the same time, it continues to rain billions in the form of contributions to the owned forms of housing, including in this year's budget. All these contributions only benefit those who are already in the best position. Madam President, I would like Since 2009, around 140 billion have been distributed in root grants. There is an enormous amount of money, which has been spent on the conversion of kitchens and bathrooms, which in many cases would not even have to be replaced. How effective is this contribution, one might ask. On the other hand, the accuracy of the root premium is no problem. It hits with sharp precision the richest. Most root subsidies have been given to rich municipalities and least to the poor. Eight times more root subsidies have gone to Danderyd than to Haparanda. In the period 2009 – 2019 we have taxpayers, through root grants, donated 6.7 billion in grants to people with an annual income above 1 million. In 2019 alone, 3.6 billion were distributed to people with an annual income of over 500 000. The IRS figures are as clear as the blue-brown budget; we will take from the poor and give to the rich. The one who has a lot never seems to be satisfied. It always wants more. But is that really how we should use our common tax money? Is that a reasonable distribution policy? Instead, this SEK 6.7 billion, which went to millionaires, could have been used to begin construction of another 20,000 rental apartments with reasonable rents. Why is investment aid, which to a large extent goes to building public housing, that is, housing which in some form is owned by all of us together and remains for all of us in the future, of less benefit to society than the need of the rich to tear out their kitchens? It should be obvious to everyone, Madam President, that it is more socially beneficial to spend our common resources on eradicating homelessness than on kitchen renovations by the rich. When Moderates and other right-wing parties nag that the Left Party always wants contributions, you can wonder how they think. Maybe they're thinking, "If we call it a deduction, no one will notice that we're getting a grant." But we see, and we understand, because every penny of these rich people's contributions must be taken from something else. So simple is mathematics. In the society the Left Party wants no one living on the street, nor in poor houses or in the needs housing of the Liberals. In Left Party society, people have their own, safe homes. And there's no charge that your home is a tenancy. Madam President, I would like We see a blue-brown budget and policy that continues to marginalise and stigmatise rental rights as temporary housing, only because the rich use rental rights for temporary breaks in the various stages of life. There is great disrespect and contempt for one third of the country's population and their homes. As long as politics continues to prioritise the residents of the rich over homelessness and alienation in our country, the Left Party will continue to fight for the need for affordable rental apartments within the framework of a general housing policy, simply because no one else does. Sweden is a rich country. We can afford to build the necessary housing, and we can afford to renovate the homes that require it. But we cannot afford exclusion and homelessness. It is high time that our tax resources began to benefit society's most vulnerable too, Madam President. There must be a shift in policy where the focus is no longer on spending billions of tax dollars on those who are in the best position every year. Instead, the huge sums that currently subsidise property should be used to build housing for the people who are the furthest from the housing market today. We do this by building a lot in general housing policy and protecting the common good. Madam President, I would like Throughout the budgets of all the right-wing parties, the enormous inability to understand what poverty is, is what poverty means. Their policy is only about continuing to sell out the housing of the commons and making it easier for people to go into debt. The creditors seem to think that if the sick or the poorest save only a little bit of sickness benefit or spend a little more time in their street jobs, they can buy a villa at some beach or at least a condo in a million-dollar program. It is not only sad but, above all, frightening that the Right seriously believes that the poorest in our society really only need a little more favourable terms at the bank to allow them to wander away and buy a home. It's not like that. Then you have not understood anything at all about what it means to be poor. Madam President, I would like I shall conclude by calling for the Left Party's reservation, No 1, and I support our particular opinion.
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-603	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation number 2. In Category 18 we are talking about urban planning, housing supply and construction and consumer policy. Today, I would like to highlight the homes. Madam President, I would like I have had the privilege of working with different architects, both in working life and in private. There are different kinds of architects. There are those who sit behind large computer screens or drawing tables and then come and tell me what I should be building. Then there are architects who at the first meeting invite by sitting down at a coffee table and having a cup of coffee, and then say: Tell us about yourself! Tell me who you are! They are genuinely interested in what I am interested in, what I wish to live in and so on. It is in this way that we as political architects should shape housing policy. We should not come up with large-scale solutions that work only on paper and where all are lumped together to live in homes that are certainly suitable for everyone but are not suitable for anyone. Living and functioning homes that people enjoy and love to live in do not grow first and foremost behind a drawing board, but they grow through the organic free market, which forms a spontaneous order over time. That's when politics says, "I want to know more about you." Madam President, I would like We must also learn from history. Future areas need to contain mixed forms of housing. In less well-functioning areas, which we have inherited from what used to be considered the best, we need to add to what is missing, tear down what is not working and create mixes where there are currently too few choices. In order to highlight existing residential areas where large exclusion prevails, we in the Liberals have developed a program called the Suburban Lift, which is clubbed at our country meeting. That is something I would like to highlight. I will mention it from this speaker's seat over and over again, because there are good solutions and good proposals that can be broadly supported. Although in my small time here in housing policy I have understood that there are great ideological differences, I still believe that there are things we can agree on for the good of our country – if we have an open arms to each other and can talk to each other, that is. Let me mention some of these proposals. For example, it involves setting up a national investment fund for vulnerable areas aimed at improving the urban environment. There are small things that make a difference, such as more garbage containers, more open premises on the ground floor, more green areas and better and safer lighting. For us liberals, renting has also been a priority in housing policy, and we hope that it will become a reality, in order to find more diverse forms of housing that create diversity. Rent purchases, or whatever you want to call it, could also work in vulnerable areas. This gives more people the opportunity to own their housing and to strengthen their financial position in the long term. Rent purchases would also strengthen young people's ability to get newly produced housing where both the effort and the loan need are lower. Madam President, I would like Today, I would like to highlight in particular a budget line in our budget. That's the grant to Boverket of $5 million a year. It is not the largest grant in our budget, but in total it will be 15 million to give Boverket the task of developing and evaluating a new housing standard. In some parts of Sweden, a large proportion of the population live in very tight conditions. I don't think either of us wants it to be like that. Overcrowding is a consequence of a divided country, where people in different areas have different opportunities to live their lives according to their own will. If Boverket can develop such a narrow house standard, we can identify those who live in crowded housing and are adversely affected by this in their habitat. Such a standard should take much into account. It is about the size and number of rooms, which also affects health and well-being. This is needed to develop guidelines aimed at reducing overcrowding, especially in vulnerable areas. Such continuous mapping can put pressure on society's actors to take responsibility for reducing overcrowding – all to reduce social gaps between vulnerable and non-dangerous areas. It's for the kids, I think. It is in order for them to have better opportunities in life, to which they are entitled. They will have less stressed environments, less mental illness, better environment and space for homework and playrooms. We have also mentioned investment aid in the debate. I would like to make that brief. It has hardly been what the Liberals want. It is not those with the lowest incomes that it is to be done. In addition, only 25% of aid goes to new constructions in metropolitan areas, even though 75% of the need is right there. Liberals would rather see other measures such as housing savings, housing foundations that build housing to combat homelessness and other measures that help those farthest from the housing market. Let me mention this with energy efficiency as well. It's a good thought, but it doesn't hold all the way. There is a risk that these funds will go to companies and companies that have not done well. In addition, it is very complicated and strangely designed, which means that many private operators choose not to use it. The interest rates are record lows. The construction sector is very strong. It is therefore unnecessary support. There are other ways to steer climate action, and we should think about what we should use our tax funds for and what welfare we need to build up. It is with these budgetary frameworks that we Liberals sit down at the drawing table. We want to be the political architects who hand over a drawing or sketch with a design calculation that provides a solid foundation to build on. Then it is up to each individual and person to create and build their own home dream.
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-621	Madam President, I would like Let me quote what the Liberals say in their specific opinion: We are talking about free people, market forces – not subsidies. Liberals don't believe in subsidies. You also choose to remove energy efficiency and investment support. You do not want all the subsidies and subsidies that are going to be used to build rental apartments, and that is in line with what I quoted here. Let me also mention something else. 16 billion goes to investment aid. You don't want them. You're taking it away. Since 2016, 50 000 apartments with reasonable rents have been built with these 16 billion apartments. The second subsidy is a root grant to the wealthy. Since 2009, it is 140 billion – 140 billion to rich people who own their homes! It is people who have a home in Sweden and a home in Italy in the summer that they go to and renovate, and they charge taxpayers for it. The Liberals think this is good and reasonable, but to give 16 billion to poor people in order to renovate their homes or to be able to build homes with reasonable rents does not seem to the Liberals to be okay. It doesn't make sense. I don't understand. It doesn't make any sense. If you are against subsidies, why are you in favour of subsidies of 140 billion to subsidise the lives of rich people? But you're not for 16 billion to poor people. Isn't that hypocrisy? Or have I and the whole of Sweden misunderstood this? Explain, please!
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-627	Madam President, I would like Here, too, I realise that the honourable Member and I are incredibly far apart from each other ideologically and in terms of how we view the very free market. When the free market works, which we shall make easier for it to do, it is about people. It is people who have a demand for how to live and live. It's people who want to influence. It is the consumer who is in focus. The market and the construction companies listen in, just as the good architect who sits down and asks: What do you want? Here a much larger proportion of people today say that they want to live in small houses. But we in the Liberals are also absolutely in favour of building rental apartments, not just on a temporary basis. There are people who want to live in rental apartments their whole life. It's okay to do that. I just want to make that clear so that we don't misunderstand each other. In the case of other measures, such as a flat-rate deduction, it is a question of creating jobs. I do not think the honourable Member is against doing that either. No, we are not in favour of subsidies – that is quite right.
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-633	Madam President, I would like I can assure my colleague that those who need rental apartments are also people, and there are many who need this. They may not be able to demand the homes the Liberals want, but they need housing. And according to the Constitution, we have a duty to ensure that everyone who lives in this country has a safe home. I can say this: we are on two very different sides on this issue. Liberals are on the side of the rich. I'm on the side of the most vulnerable. We assess a country's success by how it treats the most vulnerable people in the country. It's very important. There is talk of jobs. If a rich person is renovating his house in Italy, I wonder how it creates jobs for Swedish workers. I don't think it does. I don't see it. It's just misleading rhetoric, which I don't buy. Besides, you're talking about suburban lifts. I think it was your party leader who said to evict parents of criminals. I cannot understand the policy of the Liberals. It's just fantasy.
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-637	Madam President, I would like It will be difficult to meet, I feel, in understanding each other's politics. I don't think it matters what I say to the honourable Member. He will stubbornly pit the rich and the poor against each other and create polarisation instead of providing constructive suggestions and solutions. Housing construction is now rising and increasing. It is tough for a family with children to save up for this, due to severe amortisation requirements and high input costs. But now it looks like you've managed to save up for it. And the joy of those who want to own their dwelling is great. We now see that more people have the opportunity to do just that: own their homes and continuously build up the economy.
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-639	Madam President, I would like It was an interesting speech by Jakob Olofsgård. There were some things I reacted to. As an opposition politician in this House, I can ask for a free reply. That's why I'm taking this opportunity to do it. I am convinced that there are a lot of things that we need to agree on, just as Mrs Olofsgård said, for the good of the country. I am also convinced that we need a variety of forms of leasing. Rent purchases are one of them, but there are also a number of others that I hope the Liberals can think of approaching. It's about new forms of collective. It's about village communities. But we can also note that rentals will play an important role for Sweden in the future, especially the cheap rentals. The director Olofsgård is very clear that he does not want to see the investment support. That is why my first question is: how are we going to ensure that cheap rental apartments are built for those who today are unable to enter the housing market because of how much money they have in their wallets? I can also say, Madam President, that the honourable Member said: it is not those with the lowest incomes who get access to these homes. I would very much like to see that report or report, because what we hear from Sweden's municipalities is that they also use these homes to meet the housing needs of those who are absolutely the furthest away from the housing market. Among other things, it is about how to choose to use the rules around priority, where the municipalities have a huge responsibility. I would very much like to ask the Liberal member of the Committee on Civil Liberties: how do the Liberals want to ensure that people with the lowest incomes enter the housing market about investment aid, which has been very successful in recent years and which has created a lot of housing throughout our country, is not a tool in the Member's toolbox?
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-645	Madam President, I would like It is a belief in the entrepreneurial spirit and creativity that exist in Småland, from which we both come. There I can see that the solutions are there. It is about creating cheaper rental apartments through modular building and industrial construction of wood. Regulatory simplifications for these constructions can create lower building costs. Then it costs to build new ones – that's it. It is very difficult to ensure that those with the lowest incomes get part of new production. There are other things here. It is the suburban lift in our programme that we want to highlight. These are other forms of housing. As we mentioned, renting is absolutely one of the things that makes it easier to get a home. I say residence. It can be a rental apartment, a tenant-owner's apartment or a small house. It's a residence. In what form it should be, you can choose for yourself. But creating the cheapest rentals is done by moving on the housing market. It frees up cheaper and older but good housing. They have a lower rent than new production. We must stimulate new production, not hinder it, by responding to the demand of the person sitting at the architect's table and having a cup of coffee.
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-648	Madam President, I would like During my years as a professional in the construction sector, I have also met many architects as a Member of Parliament and a spokesperson in housing policy. However, I just want to make sure that the Liberals are still behind the reform that we have worked out together on serial construction. It sounded earlier in the honourable Member's speech that most of it would be created piece by piece, project by project. I hope that we can see better rules for serial construction and that the Liberals continue to support this reform. I'd like to make sure of that. I have one final question for Mr Olofsgård. We know that investment aid has done by far the most good in those parts of the country where the market is weak, often in rural areas. Does the honourable Member Olofsgård, as the rural political spokesperson he is, not see investment support as an important tool for us to be able to build housing throughout the country?
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-650	Madam President, I would like When it comes to housing in rural areas, we are also talking about other measures, which we highlight in our housing movement. This is about tax-free savings for the stake. It is about removing the stricter amortisation requirement. It's easier to build a small house in the country. I also believe that it is the dream of many people to live in the countryside in a small house. But there should also be flats. They will be built in the same way in rural areas. Then there are other measures than this. With regard to precisely who has benefited from the investment aid, the honourable Member, Madam President, mentioned that she was in Junehem. It is a very nice and good housing company at home in Jönköping municipality. The projects I have visited in Junehem are very nice.
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-652	Madam President, I would like Yesterday Sweden received a new Minister for Housing. If you are going to choose to see the glass half full, you must note that the newly appointed Johan Danielsson finds it difficult to get less out of his hands than his two representatives in that post. On paper, it seemed so good with all the major liberal reforms that were to come out of the January agreement. But it did not even contribute a thumbnote, Madam President. This term of office has served as a schoolbook example of what happens when you agree on a non-consensual paper but basically want to go in completely different directions. It is also a painful example of what happens when you live in a fantasy world and pretend that the composition of Parliament does not matter. These charades, Madam President, do not just lead to nothing being done. It also leads to the erosion of confidence in our entire democracy, as it appears that you are in a playhouse rather than in the highest elected assembly in the kingdom. As the term of office has continued, reality seems to have caught up with most parties in this House. Remaining in the fantasy world, also referred to as a wide middle, now seems to be just the Center Party. As you know, the January Agreement promised reforms in the area of housing policy. So far, we have seen most controversy about investigative directives, delays and, as the crown of the work, a fundamental blow by the Center Party regarding their alleged liberalisation of beach protection, essentially tightening up for those who want to build near water. I understand that the Green Party eats cake, although of course they would have liked to go further. How did we end up here? Well, we ended up here because both the recent government base and the recent government base do not agree on a common direction for the country. Basically, you only agree on two things, and that's what you're against. Firstly, you should not talk to the Swedish Democrats and secondly, you should stop nuclear power. From these two positions, there is no housing policy. That goes without saying, and that is exactly what we have now seen. The newly appointed government lacks, as far as I can judge, a whole policy to make it easier to build the form of housing that is most in demand at the moment, namely small houses. As I mentioned in a previous change of line, the government mortgage operator SBAB yesterday produced a report showing clear indications of the over-establishment of expensive rental apartments in various parts of Sweden and a strong underproduction of the most popular form of housing, namely small houses. This is, of course, problematic, and it should be problematic even for a government that basically has little to do with people being able to own their homes under reasonable conditions. However, it should also be of interest to a red-green or red-red government, as the building of small-scale houses will boost the migration chains. Rather than spending billions on building rental apartments which, in any case, cannot be demanded by the groups that are being called for in this debate, it is perhaps the most effective way to actually make cheap rentals available. If we speed up the migration chains, that is exactly what is happening. Madam President, I would like It is somewhat unclear what basis the government has, but I can say from here that I regret that this formation in Parliament has consistently voted against the simplification proposals that we have put in order to make it easier to build small-scale houses during this parliamentary term. It's about reforming the zoning institute. Today we are seeing developments in which municipalities often have more than ten years of waiting time for detailed plans. It is, of course, totally unacceptable if we want to increase the building of small houses. We put on Parliament's table a proposal to make it easier for individuals to build outside of the planned area, a real strengthening of property rights in this country. That proposal fell, because the Center Party was the tongue of the wave and voted with the government parties on the matter. Reforming Lantmäteriet has had to be done for many years, but nevertheless the government consistently says no to municipalities that want to challenge the dysfunctional state surveying authority by starting municipal surveying activities. Since the government took office, seven out of eight applications have been rejected on grounds of lack of competence. It will of course be a moment 22. If you are never allowed to demonstrate that you have the necessary skills, it is impossible to have your application granted. Of course, the government would be able to check this afterwards. On the whole, therefore, this is a lost mandate for housing policy. Well, we are now phasing out inefficient subsidies, but we are doing so responsibly so that companies that have sought in predictable forms can benefit from the aid. The Government of Andersson will not be able to deliver any new housing policy until the elections. But the light in the tunnel, one day in December when it is darkest in the year, is that there are only 284 days left until Sweden gets a new government that can take housing policy seriously. With this, Madam President, I would like to support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-666	Madam President, I would like It feels good to be able to extend Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin's participation here in Parliament before he goes on parental leave. I wish him all the happiness and joy with it. It's important. The charades get Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin to stand for. It must be frustrating to belong to a party that has had no influence whatsoever for many years. I think that's the frustration we notice. I also think it is important, as a moderate, to take into account the fact that the country must also be able to be ruled in a minority. We have an election campaign ahead of us which is becoming tough and where much of what we are discussing today is likely to follow with us. I believe, however, that it is important to have a humility in view of the fact that one must be able to rule a country in a minority too. I'm sorry Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin doesn't admit it. Mr Bohlin raises the issue of the protection of the beach. I think it is good that we are discussing these issues, because there is an interest from the Moderates in reducing the reforms that we have negotiated in the January Agreement. I can understand that. It is the wrong party that succeeds in what the Moderates and we in the alliance government tried but failed to do, because we had different interests. I notice that there is a lack of understanding among the Moderates of what the reform that will be carried out means, namely that beach development areas are set up where a large part of a municipality, not to say a whole municipality, can be included in an area without it being included in a master plan for example. It's an important thing. And perhaps the most important thing is what Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin sometimes wants to ignore in the debate, namely that an excavated pond, ditch or small water is excluded from the beach protection rules. It is a very big change that will affect a lot of people around the country, and I would like to ask Mr Bohlin whether it is really the Moderates' intention to stop the biggest reform of beach protection that we have succeeded with since it was introduced at some point in the 50s or 60s. Is it your intention to spit your own councillor in the face like that?
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-672	Madam President, I would like I note that Ola Johansson's fundamental problem continues to be that his map does not correspond to reality. He refers to the Moderates as a party that has no influence, but it is our budget that we are standing here debating today, Ola Johansson. So this comes from a representative of a party who has mainly used the yellow button, that is to say, to refrain from taking a position, throughout this autumn's decisive votes. However, let us discuss the protection of the beach, because it was called for! I note that Ola Johansson has not read the legislative referral, and I regret that. As far as dug ponds are concerned, it is explicitly stated in the legislative referral that dug ponds without natural inflows and outflows today do not have beach protection, so no legislative changes are proposed. So much for that negotiating victory– you don't know what you've agreed to, Ola Johansson. It is therefore proposed that the applicable law should remain in force. When it comes to small waters – lakes under 1 hectare and streams wider than 2 meters – you are introducing a new beach shelter called free passage, which today does not exist in half of all counties in Sweden because the county boards there have already repealed it. This means that half of Sweden's counties here too get stronger beach protection than they have today. The problem, Ola Johansson, is that from the beginning you have had a lousy negotiating position and that you have no idea what you have agreed on. That is the fundamental problem of the Center Party, and I regret that you have not read the legislation you have obviously put your crow on.
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-676	Madam President, I would like Apparently, we have read the counsel's referral, and we have also been involved in producing it. With regard to free passage: We can take every area that Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin highlights and cut down and disprove every thesis that has been presented. Free passage is something that has been in the legislation at all times, and the fact that it is now entered once more does not make it even more difficult for someone who wants to build and live. The thing is also – and it seems that Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin did not realise – that the fact that the discussion on free passage occurs is a result of the fact that beach construction has become easier even in large areas in municipalities where these beach development areas have been introduced. Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin chooses not to take up the big and important changes; the beach development areas are something that Carl-Carl-Oskar never mentions in his argumentation on these issues, but he brings up small, small things. When he mentions maps, it is precisely this that is the problem: County administrative boards and municipal planning departments point to the map and say That will not be the case in the future.
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-679	Madam President, I would like Then it will be a final lesson for Ola Johansson : It is true that the concept of free passage has been in the legislation since 2009. It was the alliance government that introduced it, and it was a mistake. But it is a part of the exemption at the shoreguard, Ola Johansson, and you have now made up that this will apply at every ditch, every stream and every single puddle in Sweden. This therefore means tightening up, because in the areas where coastal protection in small waters is now abolished – a change that the Alliance Government also introduced, i.e. the possibility of county boards to do so – the requirement for free passage does not exist today. Now you have made sure that there will be a ban street at every small stream, because there will be the same rules as for beach protection. A 1 meter wide stream thus gets a 40 meter ban zone on each side of the creek – thanks to the magnificent negotiations of the Center Party.
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-681	Madam President, I would like I wish I could stand here and pick up some things that are in Moderate housing policy and discuss them, but that's not possible. Because there is no one. There is no housing policy from the Moderates. There is a lack of content – there is no mention of housing policy on almost 50 pages. Reasonably, this is because the Conservatives already have what many lack, namely a safe home where you can stay. The Moderates say that investment support is inefficient and has not significantly contributed to increasing housing construction. I will quote again the article I quoted earlier: a substantial reduction in housing construction will be achieved throughout the country without the investment aid. – – – Sweden's politicians, regardless of party affiliation, must realise that investment support is absolutely crucial in order to build away the housing shortage. – – The former alliance parties and the Swedish Democrats now want to abolish the support. Completely without presenting other solutions. ..................................................... That's the last sentence that is what the Moderates stand for – there are no solutions at all for tackling the housing shortage. It wants to remove all the solutions that have been proposed and all the support that has been proposed, but it does not come with anything else. There is a deep contempt for tenants, so you do not want proposals that help tenants in any way. When others make suggestions that help tenants, the Moderates want to remove those suggestions. I just want an explanation: Why do the Moderates have no suggestions that help the tenants and that meet the housing shortage so that we can build more homes? The article I quoted clearly states that construction will stop without this. There will be no housing built.
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-685	Madam President, I would like Just because you quote something in the Parliament's pulpit, it does not automatically become a truth. I would also have liked Mr Momodou to stand here and pick the raisins out of the cake, which is the moderate housing policy. The reason he can't is probably because he hasn't read our housing policy exercise, which contains 70 sharp proposals to make it easier to build housing. Nor do I think that Momodou and I will agree on what it takes to build more in this country. We simply do not believe in subsidy policy as the sole basis for building more. Instead, our housing policy is based on the idea that the conditions for individuals to build more housing must be improved. In that part, the policy of the Left Party is completely clinically exempt from proposals. What do you want to do about the problems of national interests, Momodou Malcolm Jallow? What do you want to do about the fact that it takes too long to come up with detailed plans? What do you want to do about the fact that it is so difficult to build houses for individuals outside the designated area? What do you want to do about it taking a year to get a piece of land cut off by the monopoly authority called Lantmäteriet? Is that reasonable, Momodou Malcolm Jallow? The answer, of course, is no, but the government you have supported for seven years has done nothing to change this fact. That is the fundamental problem. I understand that you will never see it, and I understand that you will stoop your bloody ass to reintroduce investment aid. That is why the Left Party needs to be kept out of it and not have influence in housing policy, as in most other political contexts.
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-690	Madam President, I would like That the Left Party needs to be kept out of it and not have influence in Swedish politics is, I think, a sentence that the whole of Sweden recognizes. We have gone from having no influence to becoming one of the parties that have the most influence in this House and in Swedish politics. To think that we shouldn't have influence is to live in a fantasy. Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin says he doesn't believe in subsidy policy. I ask the same question as before: if he does not believe in the subsidy policy, does Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin mean the subsidy policy that will help the tenants? Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin is very much in favour of subsidy policies that help the wealthy. Or have I misunderstood something? I'd like an explanation. As I said, 16 billion goes to tenants, and then over 140 billion goes to wealthy people. There's a big difference. Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin has no problem with 140 billion to wealthy, but he has a big problem with 16 billion to poor people. Why?
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-693	Madam President, I would like I will begin by giving Mr Momodou the right to say that the Left Party has had a historic influence during this term of office. This is mainly due to the Center Party, but we have already dealt with this issue. I have no objection in principle to all parties trying to gain the influence they can, and on certain specific issues we can settle with the Left Party. I'm just saying that the foundation of the Left's housing policy will not bring this country forward. It will not promote the building of what is needed, and it will not help us to get moving chains going and thus make the housing stock more accessible and more varied. However, the Left Party does not have a complete proposal in that part, and I do not expect us to agree on this either.
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-695	Madam President, I would like Even a seven mile walk begins with one step. I am very pleased today to support the pro-Sweden budget proposed by the committee. The Swedish Democrats, the Moderates and the Christian Democrats have jointly produced a draft budget, a proposal that has removed much of the most damaging in the budget that the government has produced. For the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, there is a very important difference in principle in the blue-yellow budget. These include investment support for rental dwellings and energy efficiency support for multi-detached buildings. The previous orientation has been more supportive in the belief that it will solve the housing crisis. It doesn't. Investment aid is not the solution. It does not work or is a good solution. I think it is important that state support goes to people who have poor finances and need support, not to those who have been in the housing queue the longest or to those who want to live in a newly built house at a nice address. And when it comes to building on the countryside, as we have been told here before, the accounting rules should instead be changed. The municipal inquiry, chaired by Niklas Karlsson of the Social Democrats, presented its proposal in early 2017 and pointed out this accounting problem already then. It was therefore more than four years ago, and the government has still not come back with a proposal that amended the accounting rules. It is not the economic problem; it is precisely how it is presented. Instead, taking money from taxpayers and giving it to those who have been the longest in the housing queue is a very poor distribution policy. The precision of providing support to those who actually need it is completely lacking. No matter how much Ola Möller tries to make it sound different, it is actually so. When the government took the direction and started with the subsidies, they were desperate. Too many new people on the housing market as a result of a failed refugee policy created a huge shortage of very short time. It was simply impossible to build at the same pace. Subsidies were introduced that even the market did not want. For example, Anna Broman, an expert in housing policy at the Construction companies, said: This type of subsidy disrupts the market and creates uncertainty. The construction industry needs long-term conditions that provide better conditions for a high and even pace of construction. In other words, even the part of the market that should be the winner does not like the waste of tax money that the government has devoted itself to. One can rightly compare the state subsidies with a bus driving in the wrong direction. The more you increase the aid, the more you gas up, the further you get from the target. We have to turn the bus around and start driving in the right direction. The blue-yellow budget is a clear brake and a start to a turn. Soon we will be on the right track again. We can focus on the right goal – for the goal must surely be that people should be able to afford to live in a good environment, that each person should be able to choose accommodation and that everyone should pay their own accommodation and have finances for it. The goal of the housing market speaks of a good living environment for all, but it is difficult to see that subsidies lead to something other than a good living environment for the small group who can afford and move to the newly built areas. I believe more in strengthening people's finances so that they can manage their own housing. You can do that in many ways. Housing allowance and housing supplement need to be strengthened. Start-up loans for young people, beneficial housing savings and scrapping the second amortisation requirement are important measures that would make a real difference. When subsidies eventually become phased out, it becomes natural to strengthen our Swedish households so that they can manage their own housing. But, as it is now, huge sums of money are being spent on subsidies which, above all, benefit economically strong people in our cities. As these subsidies are phased out, resources are released that can instead be invested in strengthening the economy of individuals and families so that they can afford good housing. I welcome the fact that we have now taken the first step towards building a better future. This morning we heard the new Minister for Housing Johan Danielsson say on television that we need to make it easier for people to finance their first home. After seven years, therefore, the Social Democrats have also realised this. Or are those just pretty words? We will see what proposals are being made in the near future. Perhaps we are removing the rules that we have introduced ourselves with regard to the amortisation requirement. Perhaps we are introducing start-up loans, which we have been asking for for a long time. Or, most likely, you set up an investigation that's ready after the election. Madam President, I would like Housing companies need good conditions and above all predictability with clear rules that apply for a long time. Sudden new rules and charges are harmful. All companies have been affected by a variety of new regulations and increased red tape during the last government. It has been about everything from sustainability reports to taxes and specific environmental rules. The construction companies are not exempt from these charges but suffer like most other companies, possibly with the difference that they have more difficulty moving abroad. If we want the construction companies to build in Sweden, they also need to have good conditions to operate here. But it is not just administration that is an obstacle. Access to buildable land and sensible rules are also needed to exploit areas. Better coordination between extended public transport and planning can in many municipalities provide the opportunity to build more and create secure residential areas. What is needed are safe areas close to service and work, where people can feel the security of a functioning society. Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, the government has also chosen to unnecessarily restrict the housing market. The government seems to look down on people who own their housing and have done very little to simplify for those who want to own their housing. For example, very few owner-occupied apartments are being built in Sweden. Anyone who tries to build them suffers from aggravating bureaucracy, and sometimes strange rules in the plans put an end to owner-occupied apartments, even if the plan allows both apartment buildings and tenant-owners. Simplification of the regulatory framework must be achieved. Nor have the announcements that we have sent to the government over the years led to any relief in terms of owning one's dwelling. The lack of owner-occupied apartments is great. Madam President, I would like In conclusion, I note that there is much that needs to be improved in the Swedish housing market. The blue-yellow budget is a first step, although my party would have liked to have gone further. I look forward to participating in building a new and better regulatory framework for the development of the housing market for the coming years. I support the committee's proposal.
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-715	Madam President, I would like At home in my constituency, western Skåne, a number of municipalities are governed by Swedish-democratic municipal councillors. When I visit these municipalities and talk to their commons, they clearly note that many of the projects that are being built there would not have happened if the investment aid had not been there. This is due to the impairment rules in the C3 Regulation. For those who do not know the K3 regulations, which most who listen to this debate probably cannot: e n valuation of a property is depending on the rent levels set. With the investment support, the rent level is reduced, which means that the valuation of the property is reduced and then is at a better level in relation to the cost of building the property, i.e. the cost of production. If there is a positive result, you can build the house; if it is negative, you usually do not build the house. Therefore, investment aid is not just a question of a subsidy to any market, it is a question of actually enabling construction at home in my rural constituency. 75 % of the applications for aid that were lodged, the 23 000 apartments that the right-wing conservatives discovered that they had to correct in the Civil Affairs Committee, concerned rural apartments. It is therefore apartments that, everything else similar, could not have been built. It is so, Mikael Eskilandersson, that we do not get around the K3 regulation, although Mikael Eskilandersson wants us to do it, because it is definitely outside our control. The EU has decided that this should be done. So, Mikael Eskilandersson, how will you manage to build in the countryside when the K3 regulation actually applies?
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-720	Madam President, I would like It is interesting that the government has not done anything to change it either. Although, of course, one can always blame EU rules and that there are EU directives basically, it is strange that we should have to take money from the tax collective to pay for building in municipalities such as Bjuv or why not Båstad or other municipalities where there are people who can actually afford to pay a higher rent. It's not a problem for most people. Instead, we should take money from those who are poor, who may live in rural areas and who have paid for their own housing. They will also be involved in paying these apartment buildings that are becoming too expensive, to keep costs down so that it works with this regulatory framework. In fact, a long time ago, something should have been done about the rules on write-downs. The fact that you don't even try is also interesting given that it was actually Niklas Karlsson from the Social Democrats who was chairing this investigation that already 2017 announced that this must change. I still do not see why you should take money from the tax collective and give to perhaps sometimes the very richest we have in society so that they can afford to live at the finest addresses. I don't understand the logic.
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-723	Madam President, I would like I am always just as disappointed when I debate with Mikael Eskilandersson, because he has not read. The government gave a commission to the Accounting Board during this term of office to sort this out, because we wanted to change it. But the Accounting Board came back to the government – this was something that happened within the framework of the January Agreement – and said: It is not possible. There's nothing we can do about it. We would have liked to do something about this, but the Accounting Board has said that it cannot. Then a responsible government cannot come forward with a regulation that is in danger of being brought before the European Court of Justice. The answer to the question, Mikael Eskilandersson, is investment support. I understand that Mikael Eskilandersson has difficulty with this when his party is in a bus that has the gear set for full speed backwards.
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-727	Madam President, I would like In fact, there is quite a great opportunity to work within the EU to change a regulatory framework if it is the EU's rules that cause concern. But you can also choose to just follow the rules. I still do not see why you should take money from the very poorest, take money from those living in rural areas, and give it to people who can actually afford to pay their housing without any problems whatsoever. There is a market for what is being built new in Bjuv and in Båstad, where people are prepared to pay a higher rent. It's not a problem. Instead, if you wanted to, you could build owner-occupied apartments. It would have gone perfectly well. But it is because the government is so focused that it should only be rental apartments that you get the problem from the beginning.
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-730	Madam President, I would like A budget debate is both exciting and interesting in many respects. Different ideas will be broken there and the difference between housing policy proposals will be discussed. Examples of things that I want to discuss are that we need measures for housing construction as needed, so that all people have a home and young people do not have to live at home longer than planned. We need measures to shorten lead times from idea to finished house. Municipal administrative lead times but also appeals, surveying, etc. need to be addressed in order to realise these reduced lead times. We need measures to make the precarious residential areas of our elongated country more secure. We must tackle the problem of small-scale building at a level that in no way corresponds to the need for small-scale houses. Seven out of ten people want to live in their own house, and then it is simply shameful that you build such a small number of small houses in Sweden. Credit restrictions need to be reviewed with a view to enabling more families with children to realise their dream of own-owned housing. Above all, you need municipalities to take the housing responsibility that they actually have but in many cases take it very lightly. They plan too few dwellings and have a plan to fail to meet the individual housing building goals. But this time the debate is actually a little different. Our proposals from the Christian Democrats and our own draft budget are, of course, to be heard. There we clarify how we would like to see a budget and what measures we want to take to tackle the problems I have presented. The government's draft budget is not a main proposal, but the main proposal is a joint proposal from the Moderates, Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats who have been negotiated on the basis of the three parties' draft budgets. Was it a proposal from the three of us that would take the big steps in housing policy? The answer to the question is, of course, that it did not have the intention to grasp the major and complex reforms. In order to do so, you need to have more than a year's time and also the opportunity to create the basis for decisions in this House for a longer period than a year. Our draft budget has focused on creating the conditions for a safer life for ordinary people. There will be more money for police, justice, customs and more – all to increase the security of the individual. The budget proposal has focused on making you feel safe with health care, which should be available on the same terms throughout the country. It has focused on trying to repress the high level of unemployment, a problem which should be given more attention in the daily press than they actually do. In order to implement these measures in a single financial year, the focus is on a few actions in a number of areas to bring Sweden in a new direction. Then Sweden is a boat that cannot change course during a single year but can make a small change of course now that makes it easier after the next election, as there will be another government in place. Then other areas of expenditure will contribute to this change of course, and even within our area of expenditure we have been involved in contributing to the change of course. One of these was to start phasing out investment aid. We Christian Democrats do not believe that it is right to have investment aid that goes to build rental apartments with a final rent that only the upper middle class can afford to pay. There is nothing in this initiative that focuses on low-income earners, since none of them can afford to move into the new rental apartments. The rent for a newly built apartment that is 70 square meters is over SEK 11,000. Even the biggest competitors of investment aid cannot claim that it is a rent that a low-income person can pay. Of course, there is a need to build rental apartments, but conditions must be created to do so under normal conditions. Subsidising a certain part of housing creates distortions and a dysfunctional housing market, just like the one we have. The second part that we are changing in our common budget is that the Riksdag on 20 June 2021 decided to introduce new support for energy efficiency in multi-residential buildings. Support may be given to additional energy efficiency costs that improve the energy performance of a building by at least 20%. The rules entered into force on 1 October 2021. It is, as you understand, relatively new support, but I believe that there should be other types of incentives in today's society in view of the climate debate and the high electricity prices. As a result, we do not believe that the aid is necessary in order to be able to carry out the measures promoted by the aid. In fact, the government's own budget supports this, that is to say, it also reduces this line. However, I would like to remind you that I am pleased with the increase in Lantmäteriet's share of the budget. The increase this time is SEK 13 million and goes to ensure continued operation and development of the operations at Onsala Space Observatory. We who live in the municipality find this extremely pleasing. With those words, I call for the committee's proposal for a decision to be approved.
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-743	Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats have an extremely large focus on ownership but very little focus on rental law. The total inability of the Christian Democrats to understand that not everyone will be able to buy a home or even want to do so is astounding. At this time we see a very high level of indebtedness – we are number two in Europe. The enforcement officer has announced that they have never received so many debt restructuring applications. We see families with children being evicted because they have a debt of SEK 600 — 600! If families cannot pay a debt of SEK 600, how can the Christian Democrats expect them to be able to take several million in loans to buy a home? Is it not reasonable to understand that not everyone can buy or even want to do so? The statistics say that seven out of ten want to. If we had the same level of subsidies for rentals as for the owned holdings, it is clear that everyone would like rentals, but that is not the case. Those who own their homes receive resources according to resources and funding from taxpayers' money. Of course everyone wants it that way, but we want to change it. The ability to understand that not everyone can or does not want to buy housing is not with the Christian Democrats. Why is that? Isn't it okay that we have mixed living arrangements?
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-747	Madam President, I would like I think I have said it several times in this speaker's chair, but I can say it again: we do not mind that people want to live in a rental apartment. People may prefer tenancy at different stages of their lives. There are also people who live in rental apartments all their lives. It's perfectly okay for us, but we don't want to anticipate and say that people are not allowed to live in their own owned accommodation. This is what is happening in our housing market today. We don't build small houses, but you are moved to live in a rental apartment even if you don't want to. You have to be able to choose the accommodation that you want yourself, and then there are actually some who choose their own owned accommodation. We must ensure that more is built in Sweden. Many rental apartments are built – it's great – but we also need to build the second part, i.e. own property. Then there are studies that show that it is good for people, both single and families with children, to have their own owned housing – from a social perspective, from an economic perspective and from an ecological perspective. Why should we refuse people to live in the home that is actually the best economically, ecologically and socially? All of a sudden, we're just gonna build rental apartments. This frustration of the Left Party when it comes to the fact that we only have to build rental apartments, they have to get away from it. We must see that people at different stages of life want to live in different types of accommodation. Here in the Swedish Parliament we care for everyone's tax that comes in, and we will distribute it in the best way. I cannot see, from my horizon, that the best way is to provide subsidies to housing companies that are going to build leases that cost 11,000 a month. Then we are not subsidising for those who have low incomes, but subsidising for the middle class and the upper middle class. Perhaps the Left Party can tell us that they want to.
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-751	Madam President, I would like I note that the Left Party is in favour of mixed forms of housing. There should be property owned, and there should be rental apartments. What Larry Söder misses, however, is that the transformation of public utility rentals takes over. 100,000 apartments have been sold to private landlords – 13 a day. You take what we own and have built together and sell it out and transform it into residential apartments. Tens of thousands of rental apartments have disappeared from the commons to residences in the last 20 years. We can't have that. There must be a balance in this. We cannot take taxpayers' money and build rental apartments with reasonable rents for the commons and then convert them into forms of housing in which many cannot afford to live. Is that how the Christian Democrats want it?
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-753	Madam President, I would like I think every housing company makes decisions based on its situation. Yes, some convert rental apartments into residential apartments, and some sell rental apartments to private companies. But this is done for the reason that you want to build new rental apartments. This does not mean that they are making the wrong choice, but that they are making a different choice from what the Left Party wants. I think that housing companies should be allowed to make that choice if they want to. I can still see nothing but that the Left Party is a party that wants to subsidize housing for the upper middle class, that is, investment aid does not go to low-income recipients. It goes to the upper middle class, which can pay SEK 11,000 a month for a 70 square meter rental apartment. Can the Left Party stand tall and say that it wants to subsidise the rent of the upper middle class?
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-755	Madam President, I would like Once again, we are debating the budget of the Committee on Civil Liberties. Much has been about housing, but our area also includes consumer issues. Although the number of crowns in the budget is not as large as for the housing part, it is an important area. We are all consumers, and we are time and again. It is difficult to get away with buying goods and services, even if you can try to do so to a lesser extent. Some do so to save on earth's resources and the environment, but for others it is simply a matter of important priorities. Being a consumer is becoming increasingly difficult and more complicated. More technologically advanced products, more complex financial services and a global market offer many opportunities, but also pose greater challenges for consumers when goods are purchased from across the border or from across the world. When you use your last crowns for winter clothing for your children, it is important to feel safe, because even though there is a high level of consumer protection, consumers are often at a disadvantage both in terms of choice of products and in the case of disputes. Every day we are overwhelmed by advertising, which calls on us to consume more of goods and services. Marketing is often very aggressive and often addresses groups of consumers who are already economically vulnerable. That is why we need a good consumer policy for everyone. Madam President, I would like We need an equal consumer policy that allows you to get a good service and consumer guidance no matter where you live in Sweden. Therefore, efforts are needed to make local consumer guidance available throughout the country. It should not only be those who live in cities or in rich municipalities who can get adequate service, help and support when a purchase has gone wrong or when you have been cheated. In order to get local consumer guidance throughout Sweden, we need to invest, and the Left Party is prepared to make this effort. We had money in the budget for this last year and the year before that. And this year we have an investment of SEK 100 million to make local consumer guidance available throughout the country. No matter where you live, it should be possible to meet a local consumer advisor who can follow up your case and provide assistance during repeated personal meetings. All parties seem to think that local consumer guidance is good, but it is thin with parties that want to invest in that it becomes a reality in every municipality. Overall, efforts in the field of consumer policy have been thin in this term of office, which is really bad. In the government budget, there are no investments, nor in the M-SD-KD budget. And both C and L are pulling down on the area. Madam President, I would like For many years, the Swedish Consumer Agency has mapped out local authorities' consumer guidance. For several years, municipalities have gradually cut back on their guidance, and that is a trend that we must break. Several municipalities offer some form of consumer guidance, but unfortunately this is too often deficient. According to the Swedish Consumer Agency's report for 2021, 111 municipalities have no consumer guidance whatsoever. It is a reduction of 24 municipalities in just one year. This means that almost 2 million people – 2 million consumers – find it difficult to get help and support when needed. Local consumer guidance has many advantages. You can work preventively in a completely different way. With local support, for example, you can reach out to schools and help shape and strengthen those who in future will survive in our society and provide them with security and knowledge of their rights and obligations as consumers. If you work in a municipality, you also have more knowledge of the local conditions and contacts with the local business community. You have the opportunity to follow up on matters and have regular meetings with those who need support and help. All this work helps to prevent people from getting into legal conflicts or debt, and in the long run it contributes to better economics, both for individuals and for municipalities. Madam President, I would like Statskontoret's report from 2019 states that support in parts of the country has deteriorated for consumers. Statskontoret believes that legislation on municipal guidance is a way to address the problem. So in addition to putting money in the budget for local consumer guidance throughout the country, we have raised motions for proposals to be made on how to ensure that this service is available everywhere. So far, we have not received any support for this among any of the other parties. But we will continue to work to ensure that consumers feel safe and have the opportunity to get proper support. Here, consumer guidance and civil society organisations play an important role in reaching as many people as possible and in creating knowledgeable and secure consumers, especially in reaching those vulnerable groups that are most vulnerable to choice and are most vulnerable. As public services to consumers become less, civil society organisations are expected to be able to help and compensate for the loss. At the same time, however, these resources are being cut back in the budget. We cannot expect them to be a constructive part of supporting consumers unless we give them the right conditions. The Left Party therefore wants to invest SEK 9 million in civil society organisations. Non-profit organisations can promote sustainable consumption through their knowledge, networks and contacts with large parts of consumers in our country. They can support consumers and prevent consumer problems. Civil society has shown innumerable results with little means. That is why it is important that we do not throw away the bones of their activities. Madam President, I would like I can see that almost no one has said anything about the consumer area in this debate. In the left-wing budget, there is investment in the consumer field. We're not just talking about municipal consumer guidance. We are also presenting the proposals and the money. It is important to have knowledgeable and informed consumers who can make balanced choices for themselves, for society and for a sustainable future. We in the Left Party want to bet on that.
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-776	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues in Parliament! We are now debating the report by the Committee on Transport and Tourism on the national supply of airports. Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for approval of the reservation that the Left Party has with the Social Democrats and the Green Party. I would also like to refer to the special opinion of the Left Party in this report. The background to the report that we are debating and deciding on is that the bourgeois parties, together with the Swedish Democrats, have agreed on a so-called committee initiative that the government should not be allowed to change the national base supply of airports by less than the approval of the Riksdag, despite the fact that the division of responsibilities is such that it is the government that is responsible for our ten state airports – a regime that has been in place at least since the national infrastructure bill came in 2008. It is state-owned Swedavia that owns and operates our state airports, and Swedavia as a state-owned company is governed by the government. Behind this issue is in particular Bromma airport. Swedavia has stated in its impact assessment in September 2020 that they can no longer operate Bromma airport further in accordance with the mandate given to them by the Government. Swedavia notes that it is not commercially justified to continue to operate Bromma airport. There are simply too few flying to and from Bromma airport. Swedavia also states very clearly that all air traffic can be moved to Arlanda Airport without the need for the airport to expand. Basically, this is a positive thing. This is about the fact that during the pandemic we have changed our behaviour. Not least, we have flown much less. More and more people have discovered the possibility of working from home. This concerns not least physical meetings – earlier you might fly from Luleå or Malmö to Stockholm to participate in a meeting. Then you flew back the same day. This form of meeting has not existed during the pandemic and most agree that such meetings will in future be replaced by digital meetings. This is fundamentally very positive, as there will be reduced flying and reduced costs and, above all, reduced environmental and climate loads. Then we have to ask ourselves: Why should we have a large airport in central Stockholm with noise, traffic, emissions and large surface languages as a result? Instead, let us phase out Bromma airport and develop a completely new neighbourhood with tens of thousands of new homes, schools, green areas, workplaces, etc. I therefore find it incomprehensible that the Moderates, the Swedish Democrats, the Christian Democrats, the Center Party and the Liberals put a few city flying ahead of the opportunity to develop Stockholm. I would like to put a clear question to the Moderates, the Swedish Democrats, the Christian Democrats, the Center Party and the Liberals. How much more of the government's resources are going to keep Bromma airport open? Everyone knows that Bromma airport does not behave and must be kept open by means of state subsidies. That is what has been evident in Swedavia's report to us. How much more of the taxpayers' money will go to sustain a few flying to and from Bromma airport? How much more of taxpayers' money should be taken from health care, school and care to subsidise aviation? I believe that the bourgeois parties and the Swedish Democrats must respond to this, and I expect an answer during the debate.
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-786	Madam President, I would like Today we are considering a proposal for an announcement that Parliament's approval should be sought if changes are to be made to the national base offer of airports. I would like to begin by expressing my support for our reservation, which is a refusal. We are therefore calling for the proposal to be rejected. The current system for dealing with the basic supply was dealt with in the infrastructure bill that was raised in the Chamber 13 years ago. I would like to remind the Riksdag that we then had a majority of the Moderates, Centers, Christian Democrats and Liberals – that is, under the Reinfeldt government. The very basis of the decision was that airports should be the backbone of an efficient and long-term sustainable air transport system and ensure basic interregional accessibility throughout the country. Airports shall ensure good international accessibility. All in all, they will cover the whole country so that all citizens of our country have access to flights. During the 13 years, a lot of water has run under the bridges. A little later, the government decided on the ten base-range airports, and it was in a time before Fridays for Future, Aircam and the UN Climate Summit, where we also agreed on the global sustainability goals. It was then calculated that international flights at Arlanda would increase by about 5 percent per year. At this time Swedavia had a strategy to cope with the increase, actually deliberately moving travellers from Arlanda to Bromma. During a period of these years, the number of passengers at Arlanda airport doubled. It has set its mark, especially in times when environmental awareness is increasing among the population and many deliberately choose to fly and take the train instead. Then came covid-19. The pandemic is still going on. The flight has not recovered under any circumstances. Air travel has indeed fallen dramatically. The dramatic decrease was seen even before the pandemic. We are still in a state of uncertainty. We do not really know how the pandemic will end, and we see a fifth wave internationally. There's a new version coming from Africa, and so on. The danger is by no means over. On the contrary, we need to continue to follow the issues closely. It will be uneasy for the foreseeable future. Here Swedavia was commissioned to look at the effects of the pandemic. It is a state-owned company that will even account for revenue to the state, not just going around. Swedavia has carried out an impact assessment and has presented its conclusions. A short version has been reported publicly. Then there is a deeper analysis that contains a lot of business secrets, which I do not think anyone in this House has seen. If anyone has done so, please let him tell me what it says. Swedavia lands in a summary assessment that as it looks now, with a reduced number of travellers and how the pandemic has affected, it is not commercially justified to operate Bromma airport further. Madam President, I would like Now is the time to raise your eyebrows. In 2009, the Riksdag decided that the then State Aviation Administration would be taken over by a state-owned commercial company. Swedavia and some other companies were set up. The mission was to run these under business conditions. Now that the company gives information based on the business principles, i.e. that it is not business-wise to operate Bromma airport further, the same parties as then sat in the government and established this order to filibuster. This was the very purpose of the organizational changes. We Social Democrats specifically said that we saw clear political objectives, and we were therefore opposed to the creation of Swedavia. We thought that it was enough to have a business-driven work because we wanted the ambition to control aviation to continue, that is, that the transport policy objectives should be governing – not commercialism. It'll be a strange way to deal with the issues. It is not only Swedavia that has had problems as a consequence of the reduced flight, but also regional airports. They have also had tremendous concerns. Swedavia's statement was no surprise to the committee when they said that the wisest and most economical way for Swedavia and the state is to dismantle Bromma. The lease for Bromma expires in 2038. Then, in all likelihood, all activities will cease anyway. When the foundation folds, a trial should be the only way, that is to reconsider its previous positions. The information we have received from the City of Stockholm – the blue-green majority – is that the intention is to conclude the agreement in 2038. Why pump money into Swedavia, into an organization that doesn't go around? That is what will be the effect if we do not act. I am a Stockholmer, and I see huge opportunities for development – not least where the airport is today. A new neighborhood could be built in our capital city. There is a huge need for new housing. Then many people live around the airport. In the event of an accident, the disaster is inevitable. If an airplane were to crash when it was going to take off or land on Bromma, there would be devastating consequences. We should not forget the noise problems either. Madam President, I would like Bromma's future is actually about our country's future economic competitiveness. It is about strengthening Sweden's position on the international stage. Sweden is an export-dependent country, and it is important that there is an airport that can actually take us out into the world when we need it and can bring others here when they need it. In this moment Arlanda loses direct lines while our main competitor, as one may well say it is, Kastrup opens new direct lines. The risk is that we will move towards Arlanda becoming a feeder airport to Kastrup instead of having our own direct lines out into the world. If we are to reverse this trend, we need more passengers at Arlanda– we need to have increased volumes. The easiest way to solve this is to move travellers from Bromma to Arlanda. I think that would be the wrong way to start calling on people to fly instead of taking the train, but we do have two airports where we also have our international airport, and it would be stupid, quite frankly, not to use that opportunity. The Government appointed a special investigator who provided his basis on how to phase out both operations and operations. In the report, he carefully describes how the Government of Reinfeldt transferred decision-making on investment volumes and structural changes from parliament and government to the newly created company. The report, together with Swedavia's impact assessment, is in the process of being consulted, and the period of referral expires on 20 December. That's why it gets really weird when the blue-brown right wing, pushed by the Liberals and the Centers, can't wait for a base. There is some stupidity here that one thinks that the Green Party took the victory in advance. I may think it is an unworthy behaviour of the Swedish Parliament. We need to be able to take things seriously and take into account the facts and knowledge we get in the form of referral rounds and so on and not keep arguing about any cake. In fact, I think it is daunting and ridicule of this House. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to emphasise that for us Social Democrats, aviation will continue to be an important means of transport to keep our country together and to keep Sweden together with the rest of the world. Work on making aviation sustainable must also continue. There must be an accessible and sustainable aviation infrastructure throughout the country. A prerequisite for us Social Democrats to be able to shut down Bromma is that we secure the capacity at Arlanda. In fact, we should be able to have a broad collection around this – for Sweden and for Swedish competitiveness. I know that my party, myself and the Minister for Infrastructure always have the doors open for talks about how we can together strengthen Swedish competitiveness.
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-806	Madam President, I would like I'll start by admitting that I've been naive. I thought the climate emergency would upset this House. I thought that the fact that we Swedes fly far above the globally sustainable level would have prompted reflection in here. I thought the fact that Swedavia is bleeding money would make you react. I didn't think politicians in 2021 would be willing to finance with tax money the fastest way to fry this planet. I've been very naive about this. It is clearly a day like this when we are going to debate this situation and the blue-brown right with the Center Party and the Liberals are obstinateing the extremely reasonable decision to close Bromma airport. Let's start from the beginning, and let's start with the climate. Many in this House happen to forget it time and again, so it is just as well that I take the role of telling you about it again. Swedes fly five times the global average. That's more than a tenth of our emissions. It is a level that is untenable in every way possible. No matter how you turn it and no matter how you measure it, it's an untenable level of flying. Let us begin by asking ourselves, Why? There are a lot of ideas about how to have a sustainable flight. The basic reason, and I have said this many times in this speaker's chair, is that fossil emissions and flying today are synonyms. There are no technologies that can reduce emissions from aviation at global level and in a timely manner. For example, it is not possible to cover aviation needs with biofuels, as some believe. There is no such capacity for biofuels either now or in the future, especially if everyone is to fly at Sweden's level. Nor is it possible to replace air travel with electricity, because for 50 years to come, electric flights will not be able to have a capacity sufficient to replace even a small part of our existing flying. It is a purely technical truth for the simple reason that it is too heavy for aircraft to lift as much battery weight as would be required to lift the fuselage itself. On very short distances and too few people we can see that the electric flight is coming, but that is not where the major challenges of flying are, as you all know. There is no doubt: however you turn it around, it is simply untenable to fly at the level that we are doing in Sweden today. Then, of course, there are those who need to fly, and we should respect that. There are those who do not have access to rail, those who cannot take their meetings digitally and those who have far to go. Then you might have to fly. But at the same time it should be remembered that one third of all domestic flights, which this debate is about when it comes to Bromma, according to Swedavia are distances of up to 400 km. The most common route in Sweden, the domestic flight, is Stockholm – Gothenburg. One must therefore be able to have several thoughts in the head at the same time here. Yes, Kiruna– Stockholm is needed. Yes, Visby– Stockholm is needed. All that we should be able to offer the Swedes, but that is not where the large levels of domestic flying are. We say that we must be able to have Visby– Stockholm and Kiruna – Stockholm as an example, and then the big question is: Can we have this at Arlanda? Yeah. That's the point. It is much smarter in every way to instead collect the travel that we really need at an airport in Stockholm. What about the capacity at Arlanda? We have heard a lot about this in the debate. Let me tell you what I said last spring. It doesn't seem to have gone in, so I'll take it again. I'll try to be very educational. Arlanda has an environmental permit for 350 000 flights. In 2019, the year before the pandemic, we were up to 233 000 air movements. The environmental permit is 350 000, and 233 000 is what you were in at the time. Then, of course, someone comes and says: Yes, but it's the peak hour that's the most important thing – that's where we can't do it. That reasoning in itself is rather banal and stupid because you can't plan an airport based on peak hour. Then it will be very costly and a huge overcapacity in the other hours. But let us still have that argument on the table and look at Arlanda peak hour. Arlanda can handle 90 movements per hour. During 2016 – 2019, 73 movements were never passed. You can handle 90, but you've never passed 73. There is therefore an enormous overcapacity at Arlanda even during peak hours. Whether it is possible to move important routes from Bromma to Arlanda is a non-issue. This has been demonstrated in investigation after investigation and time and time again, but for some reason it does not go into many parties in this House. Climate is the most important issue. We need to reduce air travel. A very good way to do that would be to simply remove unnecessary travel, but then we cannot have an overcapacity in Swedish airport offering. It's perfectly reasonable to shut down Bromma. As I said, I've been naive. I think I know what this is basically about, namely that I have had the hope and ambition that rational and logical arguments can create a change and a changed system. I thought that an alleged climate commitment played a role, but it turned out to be wrong here in this House. It's very boring, of course. But that's the way it is. I would like to ask you to accept the reservation.
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-822	Madam President, I would like A great deal can be said about dealing with the issue of Bromma airport. I believe that this is essentially a matter of attitude to aviation. Although aviation is a relatively small part of the world's emissions, the focus of the environmental debate is enormous. I've been thinking a lot about what it's all about. What is it about aviation that provokes so terribly much? Could it be because of the freedom it means being able to travel by air, to get out in the world and around Sweden? Is it the individual freedom that provokes this? Now they are trying to use the pandemic, which has paralysed not only aviation but also many other industries, to shut down Bromma airport. If you look at Sweden's geography, how big the country is and how far it is between different destinations, you can see that it goes without saying that we need a well-functioning flight and a well-functioning infrastructure for flights in Sweden. There is no other option if you seriously think that the whole of Sweden should be able to live. You have to be able to move. Here in the Riksdag there is a clear majority to keep Bromma airport. A majority does not want to shut down Bromma prematurely. What has happened is that the government has commissioned Swedavia to look at whether it would be possible to close Bromma or not. For me, the fact that we cannot see the whole report, but only a two-page summary when so much emphasis is placed on it, means a democratic deficit. I see this as an order job. There is much talk of Swedavia itself saying that it is possible to close Bromma. Yes, but even if you only read the summary you can see that it is very clear that it worked when the flight was basically stationary. But it doesn't work when the flight starts up again. That is very clear in the report. The question is how much importance should be attached to cake-eating and naive and childish films published online by members of the Green Party in the European Parliament. If you do not have voters outside the big cities, you may not have to take great account of the accessibility of the inhabitants of the rest of the country when it comes to getting here to Stockholm. This is disrespectful to people living around the country. When they read about plans to close Bromma, they were really worried about the future of their part of Sweden. One cannot deal with such an important issue as Swedish infrastructure as has been done with Bromma airport. When you talk to municipal councillors around the country it becomes very clear that they really see the closure of Bromma as a major threat to growth and development in their part of Sweden. To put an end to this, we proposed an announcement this spring. Those of us who supported it hoped that it would make the government realise that even if it had the right of decision itself, there is no majority in this House to proceed with the proposal to shut down Bromma. Nevertheless, it chose to proceed with the investigation that was set up. The investigation period for it was very short in the middle of a pandemic when no one could really say how the flight will develop when it starts up again. Furthermore, the directives do not say anything about the closure of Bromma, but about the closure of the airport. We would have expected the announcement this spring to lead to a longer investigation period and to changes in directives, but that was not the case. That is why we are where we are today. We do not have confidence in the government in deciding on the basic supply when it completely ignores the majority of the House in such a flagrant manner. It is obviously difficult to say how the pandemic, digital meetings and other things will affect aviation and how it all develops in the future. But this will affect travel as a whole. It is therefore strange that you do not draw a parallel with rail travel and that it will probably also decrease, not least between Stockholm, Gothenburg and Malmö where you intend to plow down hundreds of billions in high-speed rail. It is therefore not concluded that the change in travel will affect both modes of transport. If you are to be able to discuss the closure of Bromma with any credibility, you must reasonably start in the right direction. Teres Lindberg spoke warmly for Arlanda and its development. But the government has certainly not shown any signs of taking Arlanda's development seriously and wanting to do something with Arlanda Airport. There was a Arlanda Council that made a report clear to me even if it is not published. It is a very solid report on the development of Arlanda Airport, the infrastructure to and from and the area around Arlanda. There was a date for the publication of this report. Everyone who was part of the Arlanda Council was invited to a major event where this was to be published, but then suddenly the lid was put on. If you ask the Minister for Infrastructure, he says the report is being prepared at the Department of Infrastructure. My picture is it's in a drawer collecting dust. No one does anything to it. You have to start with Arlanda. Political decisions are needed with a clear focus on the development of Arlanda Airport. It does not depend on Bromma whether Arlanda will become a feeder airport to Copenhagen or not, but much depends on how you develop Arlanda. You can compare with the bets on Kastrup. Arlanda does not have the same conditions for political support for further development as Kastrup has had. Something that is completely forgotten in the debate, Madam President, is the question of the conversion of aviation. The own operation of all Swedavia airports is currently completely fossil-free. There is a great deal going on in terms of the conversion of aviation. The aircraft that will be smaller. Heart Aerospace expects to deliver its first electrical plan in 2026. This means that there will be more air movements, as there will be more flights with fewer passengers in each plane. The BRA has announced that they will start flying electric flights between Stockholm and Visby in 2026. There is also the social-important flight, which should also be accommodated at an airport. At present, there is no room for this at Arlanda. In addition, there will be longer transportation to the hospitals in Stockholm from Arlanda than from Bromma. It is very important that we protect what we have. I am humbled by the technological shift that is taking place. I cannot, like Mr Lorentz, say how technology development will look 50 years ahead and that aviation will not be fossil-free before then. I believe in a fossil-free future for aviation as well, and technological developments are extremely rapid. In that situation, getting rid of something as unique as a city-by-city airport would be qualified madness. What is most worrying about this issue is, after all, the democratic aspect of it all, with classified reports and a government that completely ignores announcements after announcements in this House. It is remarkable in a democracy that a majority in the Swedish Parliament is not respected. We may have different opinions, but in this House majority decisions must apply. A majority in this House does not want to close Bromma airport prematurely. The government must respect that.
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-839	Madam President, I would like The Moderates claim to be against state subsidies on principle. This seems to be the case in many policy areas, but not in the case of aviation, nor in the case of driving. Then the government will subsidise. Swedavia has presented to us very clearly that they can no longer operate at Bromma airport in a commercial way. This means that they need government subsidies to maintain Bromma airport. Now the Moderates have pushed this decision forward to the Swedish Parliament. Then I also think in the name of decency that the Moderates are guilty of the answer. How much will the Swedish State contribute in subsidies to keep Bromma airport open?
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-842	Madam President, I would like I think we possibly read the two pages we have got from Swedavia when it comes to Bromma in a little different ways. There is nothing in them that Swedavia will need government funding in order to be able to run Bromma further. Both of the two modes of air and car transport bear their own infrastructure costs, unlike rail, for example. Then one can absolutely say that we have given aid to aircraft during a pandemic, but that is a completely different matter. We cannot include pandemic measures in this. It is said that from Swedavia's corporate perspective it would be business-wise better to collect all the flights. It is possible that this is the case, but they also write in their report that there are many other considerations you need to take before you close Bromma airport. Nowhere in this report does it say that you need government subsidies or that Bromma went at a loss before the pandemic. Now the flight starts up again, and I know it goes at a higher speed than anyone could have predicted. There's a lot of activity back at Bromma Airport. You are not on the same level as before the pandemic, but you are well on your way there.
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-846	Madam President, I would like Our state-owned airports are supposed to be financed by charges from the air operators. This has also been the case. Then Bromma airport has a little special construction, because the moderate management here in Stockholm subsidises the land lease for Bromma airport incredibly much. But that's another question. Swedavia has been very clear that flying will not return to Bromma after the pandemic. They will not receive the revenue they need to carry on their business. Therefore, they appeal to the government to phase out Bromma airport prematurely and move over the part of the flight that recovers from the pandemic to Arlanda. It seems a little strange, Madam President, that the Moderates do not understand simple mathematics. There will be reduced flying and reduced revenues, but there are still large overhead expenses left to run an airport. Then, Madam President, my question to Maria Stockhaus is: does Maria Stockhaus really mean that Bromma airport will be able to stand on its own feet in the form of revenues from the air operators – that Bromma airport will not need any state subsidy at all?
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-849	Madam President, I would like Now we do not get insight into the progress of the individual airports operated by Swedavia. Swedavia has never ever said that Bromma airport goes at a loss and requires government subsidies in order to be able to operate further. That's not what the report says. They have been clear that there are other considerations that need to be taken into account before closing an airport, and that is what we mean. There are a lot of other considerations that indicate that we need to keep Bromma airport. As far as I know, they have not requested any state subsidies to push Bromma further. They have said that, in business terms, it would be reasonable to gather everything, but also that other considerations are needed. So there's no risk that we'll have to go in with government money to keep Bromma here. Swedavia as a whole has, of course, had financial difficulties during the pandemic, but there is nothing to suggest that they will have it so when they get out of the pandemic and the flight starts up.
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-851	Madam President, I would like When I listened to Maria Stockhaus's speech, the same question was raised with me as Jens Holm asked. I note that we do not actually get a sensible response to how much the Moderates are prepared to contribute and spend taxpayers' money to maintain two airports in the Stockholm region. I also note that Maria Stockhaus repeatedly highlights the lack of insight and that this investigation has not been seen. After all, no one else has done it either, because it is a business secret. This is the consequence of the bill submitted to Parliament to move flights to a business-driven company instead of having them in a commercial work. We were against and reserved, the Social Democrats, the Green Party and the Left Party, because we wanted to see political governance. Now you stand here demanding political governance, which you do not get as a consequence of your own decisions. I find it distressing. I would also have liked us to have had political governance. I can't think this is reasonable. Swedavia goes as a state-owned company and says that there are no commercial conditions for continuing to run Bromma. The consequence of this is that resources must be provided. I really am calling for an answer. How much are the Moderates prepared to spend on maintaining two airports in the Stockholm region?
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-854	Madam President, I would like It is a political decision which base airports should exist. That question lies with the government, but the government does not care about the majority in this House for keeping Bromma airport. This is a democracy deficit. This is actually the third announcement that clearly indicates to the government that we want to keep Bromma airport at least until 2038. The fact that it is not business-like to have two airports is not the same as the loss-making of Bromma airport. Swedavia has all the conditions for when the pandemic is over to carry out its operations and finance it with airport charges. We can also see that the probability is that there will be smaller flights but more movement. That will be the big change. Even if fewer people travel and you may have more digital meetings, there does not have to be fewer flights. My question back to Teres Lindberg is: Where are the planes from airports like Ronneby and Ängelholm going to land? There's actually no room at Arlanda. It is not possible to mix large and small aircraft at any time when you start and land. That's what Swedavia says in her report. When the flight starts up again you need to expand Arlanda, but the government has not delivered at all when it comes to opportunities for Swedavia to expand Arlanda. How does Teres Lindberg view it? How is the flight supposed to start up? How are we going to create accessibility throughout Sweden unless Arlanda can be expanded?
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-857	Madam President, I would like I note that Maria Stockhaus did not listen to what I said in my main speech. To secure the capacity at Arlanda is a prerequisite for being able to close Bromma, according to us Social Democrats. But then we also have to trust what our own companies say. Swedavia said at a committee meeting, where Maria Stockhaus also attended, that regardless of the pandemic, Arlanda could swallow the whole of Bromma's flight even if it increases. We will be able to make it at least 2035. But it is clear that a strategy is needed if we were to close the flight. One is a little surprised by how Maria Stockhaus expresses herself here. The former Minister of Infrastructure has not put forward a proposal to close Bromma. We have, however, produced an investigation that has looked at the conditions. That is precisely what Maria Stockhaus is calling for. What are we going to do with the alternative activities on Bromma? It's about solving everything from socially important flights to rescue helicopters and so on. There is now an investigation that is being consulted so that everyone involved can answer it and give us all the facts and problematise about the consequences. But the Moderates don't care about that at all. Then I would like to emphasise that the current Minister for Infrastructure was appointed yesterday. The current Minister for Infrastructure, like the previous Minister, represents another government. There are two different governments. We Social Democrats have always stated that we have to secure the capacity at Arlanda to close Bromma.
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-862	Madam President, I would like It is very interesting what is said about securing the capacity at Arlanda. It is almost three years ago that the Arlanda Council completed its report. The then Minister of Infrastructure in that government, who is the current Minister of Infrastructure in this government, has done nothing at all. I attended a seminar as late as yesterday where Swedavia's CEO called for political decisions for Arlanda's development. He was extremely frustrated that the Arlanda Council's report has not had any impact on national politics at all. There are no decisions made. There is no indication that the previous government, with the same Minister of Infrastructure as this government, had any interest whatsoever in developing Arlanda. These are words that are hard to take seriously. The government will now sit for nine months. It has very little support here in Parliament. It probably needs after the next elections to rule with other parties again. It does not feel like the Social Democrats are a guarantor of any sensible flight capacity at a sufficient level to and from Stockholm. It's the other way around. With a Social Democratic government, there is every reason to continue to worry. There may be reason for us to come back with further announcements if the government does not release the question of an early shutdown of Bromma.
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-868	Madam President, I would like Maria Stockhaus mentioned very much in her speech which I would like to replicate, but one specific point was that neither I nor Maria Stockhaus could say about future technological developments. Then I have a tip for Maria Stockhaus, and that is to read existing research. Among other things, there was a very large research review just before the summer, which was about electrified flights. It was rather harshly noted that the market penetration for electrification will at most touch about 10% of air travel and that this will not happen until 2050 – 2060. So yes, there are things you can still know about the future of technology development. But that's not really why I asked for a line. What I wanted to ask Maria Stockhaus was about this with whom to pay. We still haven't got an answer to that. Swedavia notes that Bromma airport is bleeding money. One consequence of this is that either passengers pay for this, or taxpayers pay for it. These are the two options that Maria Stockhaus has to deal with. If passengers are to pay, this means higher fares. Then we may not get a flight to Skellefteå. Then Visby flight may have to be cancelled because the consumer base disappears when prices go up. That's an option. It's hitting accessibility. The second option is, of course, that we raise taxes and pay more of the taxpayers' money to Swedavia. It is these two options that Maria Stockhaus has to deal with. She's painted in that corner. Now I hope that all of us in this House will be able to answer the question of who will pay for the enormous excess of air capacity that the Stockholm region has.
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-872	Madam President, I would like In fact, electrification is not the only solution to the conversion of aviation. Nor would I dare, when it comes to electrification, to say what happens in a 50-year perspective. We can only look at what has happened in the two years that I have been working on infrastructure issues. Air transport also looks at hydrogen and biofuels. The US defence has also recently shown how aviation fuel has been made from carbon dioxide. I would say that, with the direction we have where the flights are changing, we will surely see other technologies emerge over the next 50 years. I am absolutely convinced that, in this direction, and also in view of the international debate on the conversion of aircraft, we will see other solutions to fuel for aviation than those available today if we look at 50 years in the future. I would not dare to comment on any of the alternative fuels currently on the market for 50 years. Then there was this thing about Bromma bleeding. Yes, the whole flight is bleeding during the pandemic, absolutely. But whether or not Bromma bleeds under normal circumstances when the flight starts up, I don't know. I don't know if Lorentz Tovatt has any other information, but it's not in the report that Swedavia gave up. Businesslikeness and whether an airport bleeds money or not are two completely different things. Air transport generally bears its own infrastructure costs. It must remain the basic principle in the future.
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-876	Madam President, I would like In 30 years' time, when the hydrogen flight has come through, I would love to celebrate it with a cake together with Maria Stockhaus. But the climate threat is here and now. I only came back a few weeks ago from the Glasgow meeting. It was a rather unified alarm from scientists, politicians and environmental organisations. We need to reduce emissions this decade, or we will miss the Paris Agreement. Then it is not good enough, if one is to claim to have a climate policy in any way, to refer to technology that is 20, 30, 40 or 50 years away. This is what we are dealing with. I am not saying this; it is the research. Those who look at these techniques and who are experts on them and can determine what potential they have says it is so far away. As far as bleeding money is concerned, we have had to deal with Swedavia in committee. We have had a dialogue with Swedavia, and they have also spoken publicly. Among other things, they have found that it will most likely hit accessibility in Sweden if they are forced to operate Bromma airport further, as the blue-brown ones want. This is the consequence; it is something that Swedavia herself claims. Why would they lie about such a thing? The reason for this is precisely that ticket prices will be higher if they are forced to continue operating an airport that is commercially inappropriate to operate. Again, is it the air passengers who are to pay, or is it the taxpayers?
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-882	Madam President, I would like It should be remembered that aviation in general in the world accounts for a very small proportion of emissions. Emissions per person-kilometre have also fallen sharply in recent years, and this is a development that continues. SAS's new aircraft emits 30% less than the aircraft they replace, so a great deal is happening here and now in terms of reducing emissions from aviation. What Swedavia was very clear about when they were in committee, which can also be read in the small part of the report that we have actually seen, was that accessibility to the rest of the country risks reducing if you do not expand Arlanda and close Bromma. They're very clear about that. The CEO at Swedavia has also been very clear that they are calling for political decisions to continue developing Arlanda. Some changes can be made within the company, but political decisions are needed for Arlanda's development. I suspect that the Green Party is the reason why the Arlanda Council's report is in a drawer and that it has not been given the task of developing Arlanda. There, Swedavia is extremely clear: If you don't get this mission and Bromma is closed, accessibility to the rest of the country will be reduced. We don't want to see that. We believe that there is a future for a city-by-city airport in Stockholm, not least when the electric flight arrives. Even in the run-up to 2038 and a possible closure decision, I think we need to look carefully at what the aviation market looks like then and what the future of aviation looks like in that situation.
i-TTtQ98EqdXU3xVazbULzpQ	Madam President, I would like I support the committee's proposal and reject the reservation. We Swedish democrats understand the importance of infrastructure. Infrastructure is the prerequisite for a country to function. Every item and every passenger transport is affected by the infrastructure. Madam President, I would like Infrastructure is such a natural part of society that many do not even think about the infrastructure when it works. It is only noticed when it does not work – when there are potholes in the road, when the railway has signal faults or ne-powered overhead contact lines, when, not too long ago, a megaship blocks the Suez Canal or when flights are cancelled. Another thing that upsets many is when the Finnish Transport Administration lowers the speed of the roads just because there are no means to maintain a high standard and maintain speed. The infrastructure is more important than you might think. Building a good infrastructure in society is both time-consuming and hugely costly. In order for a country like Sweden to work, all types of transport are needed. These should complement each other and not compete with each other. Madam President, I would like Can Sweden afford to scrap valuable infrastructure prematurely? No, we Swedish democrats do not think so. For me, it was cruelly provocative to watch on social media when the Green Party celebrated with cake – at the same time as they made lots of people unemployed – because they thought they could shut down Bromma. In addition, it actually impairs the possibility of transport both north and south of Stockholm. A flight between Kiruna and Stockholm takes, as I have been inside earlier, 1 hour and 40 minutes. The same journey by train takes between 16 and 21 hours depending on which departure you choose. The smaller airlines also have reduced opportunities to get good chateaux at Arlanda, which means that the big companies get the attractive times when people want to travel. There are obvious risks of making it difficult for ambulances, helicopter flights, defenses, and more when you mix larger and smaller flights at the same airport. We have an exciting future ahead of us. This is especially true on the airside, where electric flights are underway. These electric flights will above all be small aircraft with 19 passengers, which makes Bromma a very good airport for these very aircraft. There is also research on alternative fuels that make flights less fossil fuel, and if not too long, flights will go completely towards fossil-free flights. We'll make it easier for the plane to reset. We are not doing this by making airports more difficult and closing them down. There must be opportunities to develop and fly smaller planes before you can build the larger planes, which have longer flight distances. This also applies to all other flights that I have mentioned before, such as ambulance flights and helicopter flights. The extremely anti-trafficking policy of the Green Party has forced a committee initiative. We want the basic offer for airports to go through Parliament rather than through the government alone. As a society, we cannot afford to allow a 4% party to kidnap a government and thereby try to close down important infrastructure. For us Swedish democrats, aviation has a given place in society.
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-900	Madam President, I would like I've named the speech "Flyer's Praise." Today we are talking about the Transport Committee's report 2021 22:TU4 The national base supply of airports. Madam President, I would like SAS was founded on August 1, 1946, and ever since then aviation has been part of Swedish public transport. Since 1946, several actors have been established, which means that we have several companies that operate international and national freight and passenger traffic in Sweden. If these companies are to be able to operate in Sweden, it is necessary that we have a functioning network of airports. In addition to passenger and freight traffic, we use aviation to combat fires, transport sick people and mail and other services of public benefit. Here, too, a functioning network of airports is necessary. Given the long distances we have, aviation is an important part of Swedish public transport. We must ensure that aircraft have a functioning ground service. In addition to being an important part of Swedish public transport, we have a long tradition of developing combat aircraft as well as civil aircraft and aircraft engines, which makes aviation part of our technical base industry. Our market has served as a test market for new planes and engines. As the Swedish aviation industry is now developing environmentally friendly aviation, our industry is helping to improve the climate worldwide. The technological development of aviation also contributes to the participation of other industries in the new technologies. Air travel is therefore important for us to manage both our transport and to develop the environmentally friendly technologies of the future. Madam President, I would like Covid has affected aviation, and SAS's passenger numbers continue to be below 60 per cent compared to 2019. However, in terms of the number of destinations, Swedish flights are returning, although the number of departures still has a long way to go to normal capacity. The Transport Committee and the Swedish Parliament have repeatedly indicated to the government that aviation is an important part of Swedish public transport and that the state must therefore protect the entire system, from industry to transport and ground installations. People are asking for a flight, and people need a flight. Yet we do not see that the government is listening to Parliament. On the contrary, the government has made it difficult for the future development of aviation. You can even get the impression that aviation is something that the government wants to phase out. Madam President, I would like Instead of the government working on an early decommissioning of Bromma, which will damage transport within Sweden, the government should develop an aviation strategy that benefits the whole country. It should be borne in mind that in southern Sweden Kastrup is the major international airport. If not all international traffic is to go via Kastrup, Arlanda must be made a national and international air hub. And the possible closure of Bromma cannot happen until Arlanda has developed both as an airport and because the transports to and from Arlanda have improved. In addition to Arlanda, we need to renovate our flights in northern Sweden. The new major industrial efforts in the north will require better roads, better rail, new icebreakers, equipped ports, stable electricity supply and efficient flight. That is why we need to improve flight capacity in several places in the north. Sweden's geographical location means that aviation is indispensable if the state wants to support growth in northern Sweden. We must also be better at combining the different modes of transport when other investments are made. In West Sweden there is a large construction of roads and railways. In carrying out this type of investment, it is important to link the aircraft with the car, bus and rail. Madam President, I would like Swedish aviation debate often gets caught up in environmental problems, but it is forgotten that aviation accounts for a very small proportion of CO2 emissions and that the aviation industry is actively working to reduce the emissions and other environmental problems it actually has. It can also be seen that aviation actually offers answers to many of the transport questions that the future raises, even from a climate perspective. In Sweden we see how GKN Aerospace in Trollhättan develops new fuel-efficient aircraft engines and engines that can be powered by hydrogen. We also see how Heart Aerospace in Gothenburg, together with its international partners, develops new modern electric flights. Sweden's aviation industry is through, among other things, these investments and improves the climate worldwide. For us Christian Democrats, it is important that the whole of Sweden should work and that our investments lead to improvements both inside and outside our country. Aviation is an important player that makes it easier for the business community and all those who live outside our big cities. That is why it is important that we support aviation. Madam President, I would like Our national, regional, municipal and private airports are the backbone of the entire aviation industry. It is therefore important that our basic offering has a strong foundation in the Riksdag. We Christian Democrats hope that the new government will not have the same negative attitude towards aviation that the former Social Democratic and Environmental Party government has had. Madam President, I would like The committee proposes, with the support of its right of initiative under Chapter 9. Paragraph 16 of the Riksdag Act that the Riksdag sends an announcement to the Government that the approval of the Riksdag should be sought before any change is made to the national base supply of airports. The Christian Democrats support this initiative because we must create better conditions for aviation throughout Sweden. Madam President, I would like The KD calls for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report.
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-915	Madam President, I would like I would like to stress to Magnus Jacobsson that we Social Democrats do not want to phase out aircraft. On the other hand, we have been quite clear that we want aviation to bear its own climate impact to a much greater extent. I think that's important. We also need a sustainable flight. Much of today's climate impact comes from transport. We usually even opt out of measuring flights when we talk about the impact of transport. But this does not mean that transport does not represent a significant proportion of the climate impact. I want to make it clear that we Social Democrats see aviation as an important part of Swedish competitiveness. For us, it is also important to strengthen Arlanda in that sense. Madam President, I would like I feel that it is a bit counterproductive when Magnus Jacobsson talks about sparsely populated areas. Magnus Jacobsson misses the helicopter perspective here. What is happening right now is that Arlanda as an airport is losing competitiveness, especially to Copenhagen, Frankfurt and so on. This means that the people of sparsely populated areas or especially those living in northern Sweden will have to stop at Arlanda and then be able to fly on. After all, Sweden is a large but sparsely populated country where aviation does not really carry itself in the whole country. Arlanda Airport carries itself. But the smaller airports, above all in the north, do not carry themselves. Then there are big problems when it comes to getting commercial players to fly to Frankfurt from Luleå or from Sundsvall to Kastrup. We really need to make sure that Arlanda is able to be the hub, the international airport, so that the entire population of Sweden has access to good flights.
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-919	Madam President, I would like I believe that the Christian Democrats and the Social Democrats are now much closer to each other on these issues than we did with the previous government of the Social Democrats and the Green Party. With the new formation of government we have received, I therefore believe that it will be easier to talk about aviation as a whole. I also think it will be easier to talk about aviation in the three strategic zones that I see. We have a southern-Sweden zone. For me as a resident, Arlanda will probably never be attractive. It's kind of in the wrong direction. When we fly out it is Copenhagen, Frankfurt or Amsterdam that applies. However, this does not prevent Arlanda being central to the whole of Central Sweden and probably northern Sweden. Given the industrial development that is now taking place in the north, with large industries emerging, the question is whether in the long term we will not need some form of major airport that serves internationally even in the north. The question is what happens in the long term. I'm not one of those people who think flying's about to fall. There is no research to suggest that economic development leads to fewer journeys. On the contrary, stronger economic development leads to more travel, and it spreads fairly evenly across the modes of transport. We will probably see that the labour force from southern Sweden needs to move north. It will affect rail transport and car transport, but it will also affect aviation. So I think we could find a deal easier now that the Social Democracy is perhaps a little freer again. When it comes to the relationship Arlanda – Bromma is the great criticism from a Christian Democrat point of view that in the midst of a pandemic one should suddenly close a facility when we do not really know what the development will look like. That's not how we handle other public transport.
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-925	Madam President, I would like I'm in where Magnus Jacobsson left off. I think you're wrong, Magnus. I think you should take the opportunities when they come. Right now, we're seeing an opportunity. Swedavia, which operates the ten airports we have within the framework of the base offering with both Arlanda and Bromma, tells us that Bromma is currently bleeding. In the past, both Bromma and Arlanda have been involved in financing other airports in the country within the framework of the company. When one of the airports that has previously been cash cow bleeds, we should act. It is not very far between Bromma and Arlanda. We're talking 30 miles or maybe 300 miles. It is a 35 minute drive between airports or 20 minutes by train if you travel by Arlanda Express. I think you should grasp the possibility and not turn a blind eye to it. I think that we as politicians have a responsibility to taxpayers, because that is their money at the end of the day. It's either how much money they're going to spend on the plane ticket or how much tax money we're going to spend on maintaining an airport that's bleeding. I do not agree with your analysis, but that is not to say that I do not believe that we can actually find openings and agree on this issue in order to push it forward. I guess I'll have to invite Magnus Jacobsson, perhaps on cake – I know you're happy in cake – to have a dialogue and discussion about how we can ensure Swedish competitiveness, because that's what it's all about. It is about how we in Sweden should be able to stand strong and how the capital of Sweden can be the place where the big companies choose to put their Scandinavia offices. They will not do it anywhere else in Sweden, but they will put them outside Sweden in that case, and that would be bad for Swedish competitiveness.
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-931	Madam President, I would like We residents always keep their skin tight, so we are always mutterable when it comes to cake. But here I think we actually make different assessments. After all, I had the privilege – even if this was not a privilege – to be here. I was in Parliament and the Transport Committee then and was responsible for aviation issues. The flight went extremely fast after the terrible events in New York. But what is interesting to see in the statistics afterwards is how relatively fast the flight recovered. The Covid crisis has been deeper than the Nine eleven. The figures show that there has been a much deeper crisis this time. Yet we are already seeing how the flight is starting to recover. I believe that part of our discussion is simply that we make different assessments of how quickly aviation recovers. We make different assessments of how fast technology development is taking place. When I was here in Parliament last time, almost 20 years ago, broadband was relatively new. We had a minister who said the Internet is a fly. My daughter is 15 years old. For her, it's a matter of course with broadband. She doesn't even use regular TV. She's just on the Internet. Technology development I think actually goes faster than we ourselves sometimes understand when we're in the middle of the technology shift. Then we share the Christian Democrats analysis that we need to focus on Arlanda. But just as Maria Stockhaus previously highlighted in a very commendable way, we have different types of aircraft. We're gonna make it through the smaller flight. We're gonna make the new electric flights. We're going to make fire escapes. We're going to get through helicopters. We're gonna get through those big, heavy planes. We don't mind developing Arlanda, but we believe that the closure of Bromma was too early. We believe that technology is progressing faster. We also believe that aviation will increase faster. There we make different assessments, but I look forward to good discussions about how we can develop Swedish flights.
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-937	I would remind the members of the Committee on Transport and Tourism that we are not talking directly to each other, but we are always talking through the President. This means that we don't say, "You" and "You."
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-938	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating TU4 The national base range of airports. I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal for a decision to be approved. The Government announced at a press conference on 21 April 2021 that it intended to close Bromma, and this without having investigated the consequences of this drastic action and without respect for all those travelers who trust to be able to quickly get to Stockholm from different parts of Sweden. This led us Liberals directly on the same day to send a committee initiative to the Transport Committee to stop the closure. To go out in the worst crisis of aviation as a government and say that you want to close Bromma airport with reference to the current market situation in the midst of a pandemic sends a signal to air operators and citizens around Sweden that you do not believe in aviation. In addition, it is in direct conflict with the decision made by the Riksdag in 2016 that the Government should work towards further development of Bromma airport. The government's response to this was the decision to close Bromma airport. Madam President, I would like The reasons from 2016 for developing Bromma remain. It is important for the whole country to secure the future access to fast and efficient communications to and from Stockholm. Bromma airport, together with Arlanda, plays an important role in air traffic capacity in the Stockholm area and throughout the country, not least as a hub for domestic traffic with a large share of transfer traffic. Liberals believe that changes cannot be decided in the midst of a pandemic. It is extremely difficult to assess the need for airport capacity once the economy has recovered. Historically, it is known that declines and upsurges are in principle always faster than forecast. So also this time. The forecast for the decision to close Bromma has since been revised by the Swedish Transport Agency. The flight is expected to be back at 80 per cent of the 2019 level already in 2023," says Transportstyrelsen now. The recovery has gone much faster than expected, despite the fact that the recovery of Swedish aviation has been much slower than the recovery of aviation in the rest of Europe. The Liberals welcomed the fact that the Riksdag supported the committee initiative that it was the wrong time to investigate Bromma's future and that the rapid investigation should be interrupted. Unfortunately, the government did not listen to the Riksdag and continued to investigate how Bromma can be closed down. And now the investigation has been sent out for a referral. This disobedience to the majority of Parliament made it necessary for another committee initiative to ensure that the government would not take a decision to close Bromma against the will of the Riksdag. The meaning of today's committee initiative is that the 2008 decision allowing the government to take the formal decision on which airports are to be included in the national base supply is amended. The proposal now is for the Government to obtain the approval of the Riksdag before any changes are made to the national base supply of airports. Madam President, I would like Instead of spending time and energy on closure, the government should push for the re-launch of aviation. Bromma airport is needed to enable the start-up and development of domestic aviation after the pandemic. In addition, the overall development of the flight to and from Stockholm after the pandemic must be secured for the future, leading to the need to develop a plan for the development and expansion of Arlanda Airport. Only when the flight has reached a normal state again and it is possible to make reliable forecasts of air traffic in the future can we conduct an investigation into Bromma's future development. Bromma airport will continue to be a modern airport. Madam President, I would like We Liberals cannot stand by and watch how aircraft are dismantled in Sweden. We believe in all modes of transport and that by working together they can solve the transport needs of people and companies in our country. Here, aviation has an important role to play in quickly covering large distances. The flight will develop – it's the emissions we're going to get rid of. More and more of Sweden's airports become fossil-free. At the same time, good initiatives are being taken to develop fossil-free fuel – for example, the collaboration between SAS and Vattenfall and others. The goal is to produce 25 percent of SAS's global need for fossil-free aviation fuel by 2030. At the same time, the development of electric flights in passenger traffic is progressing rapidly. Heart Aerospace plans to have electric flights up to 2026. This allows regional airports in city-by-city locations with electric flights to become a climate-smart alternative for domestic travel. Bromma can play an important role in the development of electric aviation. The climate action of aviation is producing results. The Swedish Transport Agency's forecasts in October this year show that climate emissions from Sweden's domestic flights are expected to decrease by half – and from international flights it is expected to decrease by one third – to 2027. So it's only five years away. The climate change of the aircraft is well on its way. An important piece of the puzzle in the re-launch of the pandemic is that the government is now implementing the airport strategy for Sweden and taking height for the possibilities of electric flights and fossil-free fuels. Aviation needs appreciation and positive signals to drive forward the innovations that eliminate aviation emissions. Then, in the near future, we will be able to take advantage of the benefits of aviation as a means of transport without having to think about climate emissions. Finally, Madam President. After seeing the Green Party's cake party after the decision last spring to close Bromma, one can imagine that it is the Green Party that has been driving the issue of Bromma's closure. With the Green Party out of the government, I hope that the government will come to its senses and that the quick investigation into Bromma's closure will end up on the shelf. But confidence in the government is already damaged on this important issue for the future of aviation. That is why we Liberals support the committee initiative that Parliament should withdraw the right to decide on changes to the national basic offer of airports in Sweden. With these words, I call for the committee's proposal to be approved.
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-955	Madam President, I would like I get a little confused when I hear Helena Gellerman, who repeatedly claims that the government has made a decision to close Bromma. No such decisions have been made. What the government has done is that it has decided to produce a basis for reviewing the issues that should be taken into account in the event of closure. It is even the case that the investigator proposes that, based on what the situation has been in Sweden's parliament, you should go to the Riksdag with a letter if you land in a possible closure of Bromma, so that the Riksdag can express its position on the matter. In fact, anything else would be a democratic morass – I really think so. I am a little saddened when you go with untruths in this way, as if there has already been a decision. Then I can perhaps agree that it was communicated a little unhappily. But I would like to take this opportunity to ask Helena Gellerman: How much are the Liberals prepared to deposit? How much resources are you prepared to set aside for an airport that is actually bleeding? The state-owned company operating the airport states precisely that there is no business in continuing to operate Bromma. How much are you prepared to set aside? Or is it the travelers who will pay? As a result, fewer people will travel, which means that we will not need Bromma anyway, I think. It is like a consequence of increased prices. How much are you prepared to set aside?
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-958	Madam President, I would like I find this discussion very interesting. How much do we want to keep Bromma airport ready to put in to keep the airport? The point is that this investigation proposes that, should the decision be taken to close Bromma, it should be done sometime in 2025– 2027. To this you can add that the Swedish Transport Agency says that by 2027 97 percent of the aircraft will be back in Sweden. And on a direct question to Swedavia's CEO, if Bromma airport is unprofitable, he replied: Right there and then, last spring, when we had maybe 10 – 15 percent occupancy, it was not market-wise sensible to keep Bromma. But he also said very clearly that it does not say anything about whether Bromma can be run with profitability. If you combine these three things, Bromma can be run profitably from 2027, when the flight is back. If a decision were to be made to close Bromma airport, with the investigation as a background, it would be closed in 2027. One would then take the loss all the years up to 2027. But you would close the airport when Bromma airport would become profitable again, after 2027. Such a decision therefore takes all the losses, which is what Teres Lindberg advocates, but it says no to Bromma airport when it will be profitable again.
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-961	Madam President, I would like I am a little saddened when words are kind of put in my mouth, like I would advocate something I really do not advocate. I am thinking, Madam President, whether Helena Gellerman has listened at all to what I have said in this debate. I've told you we'll secure the capacity at Arlanda. Helena Gellerman refers to Jonas Abrahamsson, who is CEO of Swedavia, and statements he has made. He also says other things. Before the pandemic, Arlanda could swallow all flights in the Stockholm region at least until 2035. That is the fact that we are facing. We are also faced with a review of all the considerations we need to take into account in the event of closure. It has been sent out for consultation, and the committee chooses to make an announcement before the referrals come. I may find this odd. You do not even want to think about how much it actually costs to operate an airport that does not spin and what consequences it will ultimately have for taxpayers or travellers. You can choose that in your own right. But you also don't want to take on board the facts that come along. I think this is a frightening development. I regret that the Liberals also stand for this fact-based resistance. They are not interested in the facts that are being produced, the facts that the important consultation bodies will come up with. The referral period hasn't even expired yet. We do not know what they think and what they say and how we could solve important societal challenges. Actually, that's what it's all about. It is about how we can have a good competitiveness in Sweden, how we can stand strong in the future and how people can transport themselves in a good way.
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-965	Madam President, I would like I note that Teres Lindberg does not in any way concern my statement. What economic background is there for the closure of Bromma if a decision is made to do so? Such a decision would allow you to take all the losses that are now due to the pandemic. Then you would say no to the profits that would be if Bromma were to remain, as the flight is likely to increase. As far as Arlanda is concerned, part of this investigation is missing. That is also what Maria Stockhaus raised. It's about watching the electric flight, which is smaller planes. There will be several planes. You won't be able to start a small plane after a big plane. Not all of those things have been investigated. If anyone is factually resistant to this discussion, it is Teres Lindberg – I experience it. We can look forward. We believe that Bromma Airport will be a very important factor for us to be able to get moving on fossil-free flights, for example as an airport where we start up electric flights and where we already in 2023 see that 80% of the aircraft will be back, according to the Swedish Transport Agency. Swedavia's investigation was based on 10 to 15 percent. There is no investigation that says that Arlanda could cope with Bromma's flight capacity already in 2023.
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-970	Madam President, I would like We have heard many good arguments for aviation here today. It is not surprising, because a functioning flight across Sweden is part of the lifeblood that builds Swedish infrastructure strong. The reason why we are having this debate today is the failure of the old government in its view of the gravity of the infrastructure in order for the whole of Sweden to live. The government's cobblers in the matter of Bromma's being or not being has led us, from Parliament's side, to bring back the debate here to us in the Chamber. We legislators need to take back the issue when the government is unable to carry out its mission. We simply do not trust the government to make a long-term and well-thought-out decision when it comes to the future of aviation. During a burning pandemic, making decisions that are said to be based on profitability is not fully thought out when flights all over the world stand still. To also make the decision to pre-open an airport and then investigate how it should be done is for me a little backwards and something strange. But that is how the government has acted. Air travel is currently facing an exciting future, and that future must develop at its pace. We have functioning airports all over Sweden, and the infrastructure in the air is, unlike high-speed trains, free of charge. The innovation for both fuel and engines is progressing at rocket speed right now. To put a hookbone on the flight and close fully functioning airports is for me a waste of taxes and something that we in the parliament and government should not do. Aviation will play a major and crucial role in the future for fast, efficient and climate-smart transport and communications both in Sweden and internationally, because we live in a globalised world. We must not forget that. Referring both private individuals and companies to time-consuming and unsafe transport by train and car feels directly unfair to people who do not live near the big cities. Aviation plays a major role in the regional functioning of the economy. If we are serious about the whole of Sweden living, a wide range of airports must be guaranteed in the long term and not handled with cross-throwing and political cobblers. Every week I commute between Ronneby and Bromma see how important the basic range of airports is for the regions to grow. Rapid communications are important not only for private individuals; they are also central for us to have government agencies and the Swedish Armed Forces spread across Sweden that will be able to quickly communicate in and out with central Stockholm. We who commute a lot via Bromma airport also see how fast the flight has recovered and how the number of travelers is steadily increasing, even though we are still in a pandemic. Madam President, I would like The government's captivating and uncertainty about infrastructure issues is being discussed throughout Sweden, and uncertainty about both new main tracks for the train and about Bromma's future makes the business community hesitate about the important investments and new start-ups that we so badly need to kick-start Sweden again and for Sweden to be stable and stable in a global world. This is not good for Sweden, and we therefore need to take the matter back to Parliament so that the decisions will be good and long-term. The government cannot itself decide on the national base supply of airports, and although we now have a new government in place, the policy is still the same. The government is still in need of support from two outer wing parties that do not like the flight. A critical policy is being pursued, and this is not good for Sweden in the long term. That is why, Madam President, I support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-979	Madam President, I would like In front of you you see an unusually happy center party and Gotlandian who has today taken the initiative that we actually stop the early closure of Bromma. This is very important for many reasons. The Center Party does not think it reasonable to conclude from a serious crisis that Bromma should be decommissioned, especially since it is completely irreversible to close an airport. It is never possible to create a new airport in the Stockholm area. To investigate this in the midst of the Corona crisis and to make the long-term decisions based on a crisis figure we think is completely wrong, and therefore it is also very reasonable that the decision-making right should be brought back to Parliament, as is now being done today. Having heard previous speakers, I would also like to point out that Bromma is primarily a matter for the regions around Sweden and not a Stockholm issue. We see this as a hub for domestic traffic. Since I am leaving Gotland, I may fly most of all the MPs, and I see how Bromma has quickly recovered. Unfortunately, this is not the case with Arlanda, if you ever go there. The absolute biggest difference and comparative advantage of Bromma is the total travel time from A to B. It's a small airport, fast in and out, and it's close to the city. What makes Gotland 70 percent over the year travel on Bromma and only 30 percent at Arlanda is that you save about an hour for a trip to Stockholm. This is very important in order to cope with a work commuting and a region enlargement for Gotland, among others, but this also applies to all other counties. It is indeed a matter for the whole country and much more important than the Stockholm perspective. It is also gratifying that investments that are now made in both Tvärbanan and new connection hall have actually increased accessibility. Of course, the flight needs to be changed. Unless aviation is able to cope with climate change, there is no justification for aviation in the future at all. It's obvious. I have together with two others in this room set up a network for climate-smart flights, and we see that the development is much faster than you might think. I attended a seminar last week, where the airline BRA presented its plans to be completely fossil-free within five years. That's what they're aiming for and saying they're going to make it. Then why is Bromma needed in a long-term perspective? I think it is as simple as that Stockholm also needs to have an electricity airport. You need to have a node in the coming electric flight with the small, slow planes. If Bromma is not left behind, all the expertise and investigations say that a new runway will have to be built at Arlanda before you can imagine that electric flights fit there. Then we're talking about an incredible number of years. Bromma will thus be needed as an electric flight node in Stockholm, otherwise Stockholm will miss the development that the rest of the country will have an incredible advantage of. Here is a happy center party and Gotlandist!
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-987	Madam President, I would like A working flight across the country is a matter of course whether you live in Helsingborg, Ronneby, Kalmar, Storuman or Luleå. Whether an airport is owned by the State or by a municipality, it plays an important role for people and for a place. When we start a journey, we do not start with a flight, but we start at home or at our workplace. However, the flight is an important part of the door-to-door thinking and the whole-travel perspective. Sweden is an elongated country, and the five modes of transport we have today all help to shorten distances, that people can live and operate anywhere in the country and that goods can be transported. Air travel has an important role to play, even if not everyone realizes it. Air transport, like many other modes of transport, also contributes to the creation of larger labour market regions. It's not the plane that's supposed to be chased. It's the emissions. Much is happening right now around the world, where everyone is involved in changing in a climate positive way. So does the flight. Therefore, the flight will continue to be needed. However, it is very surprising when some parties do not realise that aviation is also becoming more and more environmentally friendly with the right fuel. It's just like you're against things being in the air. For many it means a lot to have a railway station close and be able to get to Stockholm or somewhere else around Sweden. Just as important is that people have a plane nearby so that they can get to different places. The whole country should live and have access to a functioning infrastructure. In 2009, a division of responsibilities between state and regional airports took place. The State then established that it is ten airports that are to be included in the basic offering of state-owned airports, and in 2010 it formed the company Swedavia, which is responsible for operating the state airports. This includes what we are debating today, namely Bromma airport. Madam President, I would like Bromma airport plays an important role in the operation of domestic flights and in getting to and from the Stockholm region. Bromma airport has in recent years been in a cry about whether or not the airport should remain, and several announcements have been made by the Riksdag. The first was already addressed in 2014. To believe that you can only close Bromma airport now, without better impact assessments of how it affects Arlanda and how it affects special flights such as sick flights, is not a serious action. It is also obvious that closure will affect the rest of the country. Both Swedavia and the Ministry of Infrastructure have done various different investigations, but there are still no answers to several questions. The agreement between the City of Stockholm and Swedavia expires in 2038. To do as the government now does, namely blame the pandemic and say that because of it Bromma must be shut down faster than quickly, is a terrible bad excuse. Bromma is a matter and an airport for the whole country. Madam President, I would like In order to correct an imbalance between different forms of ownership and eligible and non-eligible regional airports, the Government decided in 2018 to set up an airport review which would, inter alia, review these imbalances. This airport review was due to be presented on 31 March 2019, but there was never any result. The airport review ran parallel to the so-called Arlanda Council, which was to investigate the development of Arlanda Airport. In March 2019 that investigation was interrupted, and in the same way it was with the airport review. Its final report was never presented, and there has never been any reason why, almost two years later, no responses or proposals have yet been found on the basis of this review. The Centre Party launched a committee initiative in the Transport Committee in the spring of 2021 stating that the airport review had to be resumed but unfortunately did not receive a majority for this. Now that the Green Party is no longer part of the government, there may be support to proceed with this investigation, which must be concluded. The flight has and has had a very difficult time with the coronapandemine, which is another reason why the airport review must be finalized. Why, then, am I highlighting the issue of the airport review? Because it's all connected. If we are to see the overall picture of transport, and especially aviation, we need to work with all parts and see the link. That has not been done so far. So far they have worked a little here and a little there on the flight, and you do not see the connection and the whole. The flight will always be needed. Technology development is at the forefront, and aviation is also involved in developing. Madam President, I would like Through the Government, and then through the Articles of Association, the Riksdag has delegated to Swedavia to take care of what the basic offering should look like and be managed. However, it is the case with delegated missions that they can be withdrawn if they are not shot. With the announcements made by the Riksdag on several occasions – the first as already mentioned in 2014 – to the Government on the issue of Bromma in particular and the Government not following what the Riksdag has decided, there is nothing more to do today than simply withdraw this delegated mandate. It will then be the Riksdag that will continue to decide on the basic offer for the state airports. Madam President, I would like In the light of everything I have just said, we in the Center Party are in favour of the committee's proposal for a decision.
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-999	Madam President, I would like I wasn't really going to ask for a line, but I've sort of grown tired of banalities like the statement that it's not aviation but the emissions we're going after. We have heard this for a thousand years when it comes to cars, and now we hear it about flights. What if the two are synonymous with each other, Mikael Larsson? What happens then? That is the case with flights today. In principle, we have no involvement of biofuels in aviation fuel, and we have no electrification of the Swedish fleet to talk about at all. We don't have hydrogen. Today, there is no technology that can quickly change air travel in the near future. Why do we repeat such banal claims as that it is not aviation but the emissions we are going after, when these two are synonyms? I can't believe it. Nor am I the only one who claims this. All those who have got into the flying properly and who know these questions fundamentally, such as Stefan Gössling, Jonas Åkerman, Jörgen Larsson, KTH, Lund University, Chalmers – all those who look at these questions – say the same thing: Technology development has not happened. Development has not delivered what it has been claimed to do over the years, and it will not be able to do so. Why are we demolishing this debate to be as meaningless as it is when it is said that we should not pursue aviation but emissions – when these are clearly synonyms in today's society? Why do you do that?
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-1003	Madam President, I would like Isn't it true that we should always chase the emissions? Isn't it the emissions we want to get down? Whether it's transport or industry – whatever it is – is it the emissions we're going to hunt for? I believe in the future. I think it will be more environmentally friendly. You're changing. It does so throughout the transport sector, including aviation. As I mentioned earlier, this is not just a matter of what is in the air, and it is not just a matter of emissions; this is, of course, also a matter for the whole country. If we want to be able to live and operate throughout the country and be able to get to and from all parts of the country, we must have a working flight. It's not harder than that. I think everyone can agree that they want more environmentally friendly and sustainable transport. We have different ways of looking at it, but we have to believe that it will come. It's on the go, of course, no matter what the mode of transport it is. But to think that just because there is not exactly here and now at this point in time, it is only to close down, I do not think that is very responsible. We shall have a good environmental policy. We're supposed to have good climate targets. We're gonna get the emissions down. But we also need to put it in a broader perspective, and I think that everyone can agree that they want to do so. I am convinced that aviation will be able to reduce emissions enormously and become a very environmentally friendly mode of transport.
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-1008	Madam President, I would like Just to clarify: My irritation about this is not really directed at Mikael Larsson. Members from all right-wing parties in this House have said exactly the same thing in this debate. No one is willing to take the facts into account. Unfortunately, you're factually resistant. Unfortunately, one has a fact-resistant attitude if one looks at the research that exists today and says that emissions can be reduced in the near future and that we can continue to fly like today – or just before the Corona. It's fact resistance, and I don't understand how it can be okay. It is not like in other debates we have a level where we all throw ourselves away with what we hope for or what we think might happen at some point. We do not do that in other debates. It's not like we're saying about gang crime that it might work out in a few years, but we want results here and now. We want to reduce the amount of shootings. I don't understand why it's okay to do this when it comes to technology and climate. In the most urgent question we have, now and in the future, we should simply allow ourselves to guess. I'm ripping up researchers after researchers and research reports after the research report, and the only thing it's met with is guesswork. I don't know how that's gonna be okay. As I said, it wasn't really meant to take all this out on Mikael Larsson. However, I can still say which parties are passionate about double flying in Sweden. There were at least previously three centre party members on the list of speakers to foment unsustainable flying – and two moderates. On point after point, it is almost always the Center Party and the Moderates – and the other right parties, of course – who are repeatedly willing to waste taxpayers' money in fuelling unsustainable flights, the fastest way to fry our planet. I don't understand how it goes with calling yourself a green party.
i-82b6ae2f6f9bfed8-1013	Madam President, I would like I think like this: All modes of transport, whether it's car, rail or shipping, our buses, our trains – everything has evolved and become much better and more sustainable. We've switched to biogas buses. We've switched to electric buses. The railway may not have been very environmentally friendly at the time, but it has been able to change. The car is now in a very nice transition. Seafaring is a part of changing. Why should aviation not be involved in changing and becoming even more sustainable than it is today? Involvement of biofuels in the fuel, so I don't really see any problem in this. But on the Green Party's side, it's just like you're against what's in the air. The reason we are three center parties going up the speaker's seat and there are two moderates doing so is because we see the whole country. For the Center Party, this is a matter of both environment and climate and accessibility. It's a question of the whole country perspective. There are so many things that should be taken into account in this. That is why we are active in this debate. We see that it affects people. It affects our voters. We're a green party. We've been a green party for a long time. We want to be involved in making aviation more sustainable and take the flight into the future.
