i-6274be86d558cdda-5	Madam President, I would like Jessica Rosencrantz has asked me whether the government intends to proceed with the proposal to introduce a fine or a fine for low litter infraction. Furthermore, she has asked me whether I intend to proceed with the proposal to introduce a change of sanctions for littering and low littering. Jessica Rosencrantz has also asked me what other measures I intend to take to reduce litter. I and the Council are aware of and take seriously the environmental damage caused by litter and are therefore committed to reducing litter and its negative effects on the environment. This also applies to the injuries that can be derived from low litter and low litter infraction. In the summer of 2020, a national litter measurement was carried out during one week in June in Sweden. When measured, 35 million scrap items were found, of which about 22 million were butts. D acesa butts would probably have thrown s one by one. The government and the cooperation parties The Center Party and the Liberals agreed in the January agreement to reduce the emissions of microplastics. Plastic litter, which includes plastic litter that comes from low littering, is the largest source of microplastics in the oceans, but it is also a material that is generally not sufficiently recycled. As a result, two studies were set up, resulting in the report Tax on Disposable Items (SOU 2020:48) and a memo proposing the implementation of the EU Single Plastics Directive and other measures for sustainable plastic use. The investigation into the taxation of disposables considered that it would be appropriate to review the possibility of an exchange of penalties for non-compliance. However, the investigation did not make any concrete proposals for the government to take a position on this issue. As a general rule, litter is committed by private individuals. Although it is not impossible to impose environmental sanctions to be levied on individuals, there are difficulties with such rules because the supervisory authority does not have the same powers as police officers. This applies, for example, to the possibility of holding someone on the spot and requiring a person to identify himself. The police are already in a position to appoint security guards to maintain public order, which may include littering. However, order officers cannot issue orders for a court fine, but only police officers and prosecutors, as well as officials of the Customs and Coast Guard, can do so. It is therefore a task for the law enforcement authorities today. If it were desirable to change that regime, a deeper analysis of the consequences would be required. Neither such an analysis nor a concrete proposal was made by the study on the taxation of disposable items. The issue of sanctions for low litter fraud has also been reviewed by the second investigation in the Ministry of the Environment in connection with the implementation of the EU Single Plastics Directive. The proposal from the investigation means that, from 1 January 2022, a breach of oath shall be liable to criminal proceedings even if the offence is minor. This means that anyone who litters ne d with, for example, a butt, a snuff bag or a candy paper may be sentenced to a monetary fine. In the context of the implementation of the Single Plastics Directive, in addition to the proposal on litter infraction, several proposals aimed at reducing litter were submitted. Among other things, a littering charge is proposed for the most common categories of products when littering in Sweden. The study also proposes to introduce a requirement for producers to provide information, which means that the seller and manufacturer of products subject to the requirement should inform consumers about the environmental impact of the products. The study also proposes, in line with the SPD, that the plastic bottle deposit system be extended and that all beverage containers should have corks that are attached throughout the product's lifetime. In addition, it is proposed that plastic products that often occur during littering should be labelled with how they should be treated as waste and that they contain plastic. In addition to the measures already mentioned, it is also proposed that producers establish a collection system for buttocks. The study also proposes that the amount of litter in Sweden should be measured every three years, which enables monitoring of the effects of the proposals. All these proposals are now being referred to 15 March. The views of the consultation bodies must then be taken into account before the Government takes a position on the matter. The Single Plastics Directive shall be implemented by 3 July 2021.
i-6274be86d558cdda-13	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. First of all, I think this is my last debate with Isabella Lövin and probably the last debate day of the Council of State in this House before she resigns as a spokesperson this weekend. I would therefore like to begin by expressing my thanks for many heated exchanges of views and discussions in this House, for example. To say the obvious, we do not agree with each other on all issues, but I would nevertheless like to say that we share the commitment to a better climate and a cleaner environment. I genuinely think that Isabella Lövin has done very good things both in the European Parliament and in the government for a strengthened environmental and climate work. Thank you for this time and good luck! To quickly move on to today's subject, which is rubbish, I would like to say that litter is a major and visible environmental problem. We know that littering affects wildlife negatively and poisons our seas. We also know that littering creates insecurity in people's local environments and that junky environments give birth to more junk in an evil spiral. The Moderates want to make Sweden junk-free. During the coronapandemine we have seen that more Swedes are moving out in nature. Then there is a risk that the amount of garbage will increase. It not only destroys the natural experience but also causes problems for animals that consume it and with environmental toxins that are spreading. We also know that people perceive litter as a growing problem. More than nine out of ten think it is important to reduce litter. More than nine out of ten also think that less litter, such as throwing butts on the ground, should be punishable. As the Government was concerned, all littering today is certainly prohibited but not accompanied by a sanction. The Moderates think we need to change that. Ring littering, throwing small litter like butts, snus and tuggs ummi, may sound harmless in some people's ears but is not. We also know that this kind of litter is toes for the lion's share of litter, not least in our urban environments. The debris ends up in stormwater wells and spreads toxins that flow further into the sea. We Moderates therefore believe that low litter should lead to fines or penalty fees for those who litter. I note in the Government's reply that she lists several proposals that the investigations have presented. I think many of these proposals are reasonable, and it will be exciting to see where they go. On the other hand, I did not understand whether the Government had its own opinion on the proposal to reconcile low litter with a fine or a fine. Is this a proposal on which the government is in favour? If there is no evidence, is it a proposal that the government might investigate further? This applies, of course, both to the question of sanctions per se and to the question of the exchange of sanctions. Nevertheless, I have noted over the years that the Green Party has expressed a favourable view of the issue of low litter. It would be nice if it could be a question that the Moderates and the Green Party can hook their arm in. Is it something that the government intends to look further at?
i-6274be86d558cdda-22	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much for Jessica Rosencrantz. It is important that we see that the ultimate goal of politics is to have a sustainable future for our children and grandchildren. Then we must protect our environment and our planet. I am pleased when we can have the same view of different issues, and I also thank the honourable Member for his commitment. As Jessica Rosencrantz pointed out in the case of low litter, all litter is prohibited under the Environmental Code. Then not all litter is subject to sanctions or fines. The Alliance government took a step forward in 2011 when you introduced a littering bot, which was a step in the right direction. Unfortunately, you did not take the full step because there was an exception for low littering. Ring litter has been interpreted as, for example, butts, caramel paper, gum and the like. Unfortunately, the result is that there are no sharp instruments to really put down the foot and say that it is unacceptable to litter. The litter measurements have seen large amounts of cigarette butts and also portions. It is estimated that 1 billion butts a year end up in our nature. Some think that they decompose in some way, but the filters contain plastic. They are thus a significant source of microplastics and are transported via stormwater systems. Even butts in the sand on the beach come out into the oceans, and that's serious. That is why something needs to be done. My view is that an interesting proposal has been made to abolish the derogation for low litter. This means that if you are caught in the act of throwing a butt, the police can issue a fine. Today it is 800 SEK. The objection may be that the police should engage in something else, but we know from experience that legislation has a preventive effect. If you know that it is not acceptable and that there is a penalty rule, people tend to comply with the law. It will be interesting to see what the consultation bodies are responding to the proposal, but what we fully agree on is that we have to do something. It is a serious and growing problem. The second proposal is to change sanctions and give powers, for example, to officers to issue fines. This will have far-reaching consequences that really need to be investigated. In the first step, the government has chosen to refer the issue of removing low litter and making it possible to impose fines.
i-6274be86d558cdda-26	Madam President, I would like It sounds positive that the government intends to see what the consultation round gives about removing the exemption for low litter. Perhaps the next step will be to review the exchange of sanctions if necessary. A signal to people for preventive purposes is important. Then, of course, it can be considered whether it is reasonable or appropriate for security guards to be able to distribute a sanction fee. This is exciting. Let's see if this can happen. I think this is an important measure to get rid of the 1 billion butts thrown away every year. The question to the Government was a little broader about other measures to reduce litter. I have noted that there are many proposals on the table after not least the investigation into the European single-use plastic directive. I think that several of the proposals are reasonable and interesting to proceed with in order to reduce the amount of plastic and litter. In another investigation, the government proposes a special tax on disposable items, such as disposable cups and packaging. It has been a discussion in which many actors point out that it would be wrong in the middle of a pandemic for an already hard-pressed industry. Like the plastic bag tax, this tax also has the disadvantage, I think, that it does not really distinguish between different types of material and risks hampering the development of more environmentally friendly products. I know that there may be discussions on this, but I think it is important to develop more sustainable materials and encourage those who use bioplastics, biodegradable materials or recycled materials. Even with this tax, as with the plastic bag tax, there is a risk that incentives will be removed for companies to develop or consumers to choose more environmentally friendly alternatives. We Moderates therefore believe that the plastic bag tax needs to be redesigned so that it simply takes more account of the various aspects I listed. In an interview last week, the Government said that it is not appropriate to introduce the new tax on disposable items in the middle of a pandemic. It was supposed to happen in the fall. Is it a comprehensive statement by the government that it intends to postpone the introduction of that tax? Is that message with a new spokesperson and a new minister to be elected soon? Is this a message that the industry and other stakeholders can rely on, i.e. that the introduction of the tax is postponed? Since we are discussing a new tax, I wonder whether the government has learned the lessons from the plastic bag tax, which, after all, has gone a little wrong in its design. Is it not better to go through several of the proposals contained in the study on the Single Plastics Directive? In some parts they are overlapping in terms of prohibitions on products based on materials and some other measures. Isn't that a better option than a blunt treasure? I feel that they overlap in part.
i-6274be86d558cdda-31	Madam President, I would like I welcome the fact that the Moderates appear to be on the same line, namely the abolition of the exemption for low litter, which the Alliance Government decided on in 2011. Then let's see how my successor can come forward with that question. Then there was the question of plastic carrier bags. It is interesting to note that the national litter measurement in 2020 found 70 000 plastic carrier bags over a week. There are probably many of us who have seen pictures of stranded whales with their whole belly full of plastic bags. The whale can easily mistake a plastic bag floating around the sea, especially if it is transparent, for a jellyfish or any other organism it believes it is eating. Then the entire intestinal system is clapping again and the whale probably dies a very painful death. We cannot afford to sacrifice our marine mammals. Most of them are already under threat and redlisted. It is serious to hear that 70 000 plastic carrier bags are found in a national survey over a week. We do not have a full evaluation of the plastic cassette tax yet, but the reports that have come have shown a dramatic reduction in the use of plastic bags in connection with its introduction. You can see for yourself, in cases where, despite the pandemic, you can go shopping, that people now have completely different things to carry – cloth bags and multiple bags. That's good. When it comes to trying to encourage a transition from fossil to bioplastic, bioplastic is launched and marketed as being biodegradable in nature, but unfortunately, even if a fossil plastic bag takes maybe 200-300 years to break down in nature, a bioplastic bag takes maybe 50 years. During the 50 years it can cause very great damage, so the best option is of course to replace with other things that do not end up in nature as easily as the plastic bags. With regard to the proposal on disposable plastic articles, such as disposable food boxes, it is quite right that we see it as very unfortunate to implement it during the pandemic. Now we do not want to encourage people to sit in a restaurant, but to take the food with them. We also want the restaurants to be able to sell food, so right now it is not appropriate to do this. On the other hand, the proposal to be able to tax this is also about imposing requirements on the larger chains and restaurants to have a return system for takeout. One should be able to pay for single-use boxes, but there should also be a return system that the larger food chains should introduce at a first stage and that smaller operators can join at a later stage. That is the proposal that we are making so that there will be alternatives to buying expensive disposable boxes.
i-6274be86d558cdda-38	Madam President, I would like It is a welcome message that you are shooting at the treasure. I think that is wise, not least in view of the pandemic, as the Government said. There is somewhere a double point in pushing it – on the one hand that many actors are already under pressure and, on the other hand, what the Government was into. What do we want to encourage people to do? Well, it is in many cases to take the food with you and not sit in place and crowd. That's good and positive. I think it is good to have a clear message there. One of my calls in this context may be to take the opportunity and conduct a thorough investigation of the plastic bag tax before moving on with a new tax. I fully share the view that we must reduce the amount of plastic in our seas. Measurements show the terrible volumes involved. The fact that we soon have more plastic than fish in the oceans is a recurring, graphic picture of the problem we actually have. But if you do an evaluation, it is also interesting to look at the sales. If the plastic bags that we are used to buying in stores have gone down, what has gone up instead? The best thing is of course that you have a cloth bag with you. Now I do not remember exactly at which time it reaches the break-even, to produce fabric bags of course also takes a lot of resources. There's one thing. But we also hear many reports of people buying, for example, garbage bags on a roll in stores as an alternative because you have to throw away your household waste at home somewhere. If you don't buy that plastic bag instead, you buy thin garbage bags, which also don't have a good environmental footprint, and in that way you might buy even more bags. We are in complete agreement on the objective, absolutely. The only question is how best to reduce plastic use and litter. Before introducing a new tax, it might be appropriate to make a full assessment of what has already been introduced and to try to learn from it so that we can reduce litter and reduce the amount of plastic in the best possible way.
i-6274be86d558cdda-44	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jessica Rosencrantz, for your commitment to this issue! It's important that we get away from a worn-out society. There are several dimensions to the plastic. It is litter, but it is also the use of fossil fuels. In fact, it is quite considerable emissions caused by the plastic that is incinerated in our waste incineration plants. That's up a 25%. Now I won't swear on that number, because I don't have it in my head, but it's a fairly large proportion of Sweden's emissions coming from plastic combustion – 5 percent I think is the right number. If we are to go down to net zero to 2045, we need to get rid of unnecessary plastic use in our societies. What would be necessary? Yes, the single-use study points to, for example, the use in health care and to certain foods where it is necessary for food safety. But I think that we all sometimes feel that we are completely drowned by packaging materials that are completely unnecessary. We need to find real instruments to reduce packaging waste, which drowns us all. There are several good things to gain with it – to reduce emissions but also to reduce the risk of littering in nature. When it comes to carrier bags in grocery stores and other things, we will, of course, have to look at the evaluation of it. But the options are better than buying several new bags each time. Waste bags on roll are much thinner and have less energy consumption, and they can also be made of bioplastic.
i-6274be86d558cdda-48	Madam President, I would like Staffan Eklöf has asked me what conclusions I draw from the renewed statistical analysis of the data for Living p lan i dex, LPI, the situation of vertebrates in the world and what measures are most effective in solving the problems. I would like to begin by agreeing with Mr Eklöf's assessment that many animal populations are falling in size and that it is urgent to find political solutions to the problem. Conservation measures are important for many different species groups, their genetic diversity and the ecosystems in which they form part, i.e. biodiversity. This requires both new knowledge and concrete action in all parts of society. Since LPI only deals with vertebrates, the index has limited importance for the priorities of Swedish conservation work and various actions for biodiversity. The government's efforts to achieve the environmental quality objectives are based, among other things, on the authorities' follow-up to these objectives. In the case of species, the Swedish Red List is of great importance, among other things because it covers all multicellular organism groups and not just vertebrates. The number of vertebrates accounts for just under 4 per cent of the red-listed species in Sweden. Efforts for vertebrates are often integrated in the work on biodiversity. The vertebrates, as well as all plant and animal species in the world, are part of ecosystems that often require a variety of conservation measures. The government's assessment of the state of biodiversity, including species, is not based on single articles but on aggregated assessments and knowledge synthesises based on multiple data. The most comprehensive synthesis has been carried out by the intergovernmental platform on biodiversity and ecosystem services, I pbes. The Ipbes abbreviation stands for Intergovernmental Science-Policy Platform on Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services. The platform has 134 nations as members, including Sweden. In pbes, a report on the state of the world's biodiversity and ecosystem services was presented in May 2019. The report is based on some 15 000 scientific articles and has undergone two review procedures including I pbes members, observers and other experts. The aim of the report has been, among other things, to compile knowledge synthesises on the situation in the world of biodiversity, ecosystems, ecosystem services, endangered species and habitats and the interlinkages between them. In conclusion, the report describes the world biodiversity situation as serious to very serious. More species than ever in human history are threatened with extinction, and many ecosystems are changing rapidly. An estimate of the world's estimated 8 million species shows that about 1 million are threatened with their existence. The report identifies five drivers for the emergence of this situation: marine pollution, unsustainable exploitation of species through fishing, agriculture and forestry, climate change, invasive alien species and pollution. To address the problems, the report lists a number of proposals, including the full implementation of existing global and regional environmental agreements. Examples include the Convention on Biological Diversity, CBD, and EU environmental legislation, such as the Species and Habitats Directive, the Birds Directive, the Framework Water Directive and the Marine Environment Directive. The Government intends to comply with and continue to implement these international agreements and directives. At its 2010 meeting of the Parties, CBD developed a Strategic Biodiversity Plan by 2020 with 20 sub-targets, the so-called Aichi objectives. Currently working to replace this plan with a new strategic framework. Agenda 2030 also sets specific targets for biodiversity. In addition, there are further international conventions such as C ites and Ramsar. At regional level, the EU has adopted a biodiversity strategy by 2030. The CBD, during its 13th Meeting of the Parties in December 2016, adopted decisions on indicators for the follow-up of the Strategic Plan and the Aichi objectives. The decision listed a number of indicators, including and LPI, living planet indexes. Other indicators addressed include public awareness of biodiversity values, how the value of ecosystem services has been integrated into community planning, ecological footprint, forest propagation, freshwater biodiversity, distribution of natural habitats such as wetlands, certified fishing, bottom trawling, eutrophication, water quality, invasive alien species, coral reefs and protected areas. It is too early to assess whether the new Nature article on living p lan index has any impact on international and national priorities in the work on biodiversity. The priorities in Swedish conservation work will continue to consist mainly of efforts to reach the Swedish environmental quality goals, Sweden's commitments in accordance with CBD's strategic plan and future framework and the EU's strategy for biodiversity, and efforts to continue preparing the conclusions from I pbes' needs analysis.
i-G3k6XNaDNXWL712nUeoeAw	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Isabella Lövin, for the answer! The Living Planet Index measures the trend for vertebrate populations. It's an average for all the world's populations. The Convention on Biological Diversity has adopted this index to measure the achievement of its objectives. It is therefore a very central index. The index shows a sharp decline and forms the basis for theories about a catastrophic reduction of vertebrates worldwide, the so-called sixth mass extinction. The researchers in the article I mentioned have done an in-depth statistical analysis of data in the living planet index. Instead of calculating a global average as usual, they have divided data into smaller units covering closely related species by region. So they increase the disintegration. They discovered that only 3% of animal populations are declining. These populations are decreasing dramatically. Secondly, they can see that there is great regional variation in the world. Thus, the global average, which is commonly used, masks the trends of the different populations and regions. The researchers say that the new data analysis changes the perception of animal trends and leads to the need for different action strategies than now. As the Minister says, this article is only one of many, and the overall picture of all scientific work is central – I fully agree with that. But the article is particularly interesting in two ways. It is based on the same data used for the Convention on Biological Diversity and for WWF. It is also partly the same researchers who have participated. So it is not just any article. Secondly, other studies indicate that there are significant variations. Even Ipbes, to which the Minister refers, seems to come up with this, as I read it. The article is therefore an excellent starting point for a debate on choices in environmental policy. The article advocates priorities and targeted actions to increase the effectiveness of conservation efforts. We also believe that conservation work would be much more effective if it were targeted at the species and regions and environments where the problems are greatest. If measures are not targeted at the most vulnerable species and the environment, they will not be saved. The second reason has to do with conflict of interests. Most conservation measures risk leading to negative effects on other values. It can be about lack of economic development and effects on unemployment and welfare. But it can also be about what WWF writes about in his magazine. It writes about a representative of an indigenous people in northern Borneo, who says that there are two threats to them: forest fellings and national parks. They cannot continue their low-intensity forestry. Swedes' livelihoods and lifestyles are also affected by discussed large-scale reserves provisions in Sweden. Despite the evidence that points to large variations, the discussion in Sweden and the EU constantly lands in broad action. The so-called Aichi objectives are discussed in the Swedish debate as if provisions for very large reservations are to be made everywhere. There is no doubt in the European Commission's biodiversity strategy: 30% of land should be decommissioned and protected, and 10% should be strictly protected. I think that the Swedish debate gets lost because we in Sweden are only discussing how much we should do for biodiversity and for the climate and not what methods we should choose. Isabella Lövin, doesn't this article and the variations between different populations point out that we should choose more specific solutions instead of broad solutions with large reservations provisions?
i-6274be86d558cdda-66	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Staffan Eklöf, for the interpellation! My answer to Staffan Eklöf's question is that we need to have a thorough knowledge and factual basis for the decisions we make and the policies we are going to conduct. In addition, there are important principles to be followed, such as the ecosystem approach and the precautionary principle. We have very tragic facts that show how we lose a variety of species and how ecosystems and ecosystem services are threatened. With regard to this article and the fact that the living planet index would be the indicator on which the whole Convention on Biological Diversity is based, this is not entirely correct. That is one of a number of indicators that I listed in my answer. It is leading the thoughts a little wrong to say that this is the basis for everything. This is an article that has pointed out important things. The research community can continue its work of reviewing and our authorities with their work in weighing the same different reports. This is an article while Ipbe's report is based on the weighing and review of 15 000 reports. The Ipbes panel, which came in 2019, notes that 1 million species are threatened with extinction. This is indeed extremely worrying. This article deals, I would like to point out, with vertebrates. Invertebrates account for only 4 percent of the red-listed species in Sweden. A great many other species are taken into account and not least the ecosystems themselves, which these species need to survive. Protecting valuable nature is crucial for us to have the resilience and resilience of nature that we need. We will need this even more in line with climate change. We need viable and strong ecosystems that can withstand a warmer climate, where we will see more and more species moving north, which will be able to have unexpected effects on our Nordic ecosystems, for example. We already see, for example, the spruce bark, which is one of the species with which we have very big problems. It is something that can only be combated with proper, stable and resilient ecosystems that can withstand an attack and come back. It is not just a question of spruce bark, I mean, but we will also be able to see more forest fires, droughts and problems that we may not even be able to see at present. The need to protect nature and have viable, stable and resilient ecosystems continues. It is not just about protecting individual species but about having a resilient nature that can provide ecosystem services on which we are completely dependent.
i-6274be86d558cdda-73	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to stress that we are also concerned that many animal species are under threat in the world. That is precisely why it is important to find the most effective methods. That's the point of departure. The Living Planet Index is a central index, although it is not the basis for everything, as I have not said. But I find it strange that the living planet index has not been analysed in depth before it has been used extensively. This may indicate that there is too little debate on the matter. Let me say a brief word about the example of the spruce bark. I think that spruce bark is perhaps primarily an example of how it can go crazy if you just set aside the forest and leave it as it is, because it exacerbates the spruce bark attack. This can be seen in the Swedish environment today. When we talk about provisions, we should be aware that Swedish ecosystems are relatively young. They've come here for the last millenniums. The species are therefore comparatively mobile and spread across large parts of northern Europe. This cannot be compared to the species specialization of tropics. In addition, forest fires have been a common feature of our forests. This means that many of our species can be preserved without completely leaving them alone. They are, as it were, used to change. Then you can't do everything. Each measure risks leading to conflict of objectives. You have to choose. Ipbes says that 15 percent of the world's land area is protected today, yet the biodiversity targets are not reached. So it does not seem to be the silver bullet to set aside reserves. It is only if you think that it costs nothing for other people that you can allow yourself to do everything at once and choose broad and inefficient solutions. One of Ipbe's conclusions is that it is important to see that we have a responsibility for our actions. This responsibility should also include the choice of effective methods which lead to the least possible adverse economic, social and cultural effects. This is becoming increasingly important as Sweden gets a worse economy after the pandemic and increasing costs resulting from previous political decisions. I believe that the focus in environmental policy should be shifted from one-sidedly dealing with how much is being invested into methods, and I hope that this debate can spur it. Then it seems that international targets for reservations are being followed in countries such as Sweden, where they play a much smaller role, but not to the same extent in countries such as Brazil and Indonesia, where they would really be needed. Perhaps the international agreements should also be drawn up differently. If nothing else convinces the Minister, she may be convinced by the fact that if you do not pay enough attention to the negative effects on people, you will lose popular support. If we make broad solutions that do not take the population into account, there is therefore a greater risk of failure in this way too.
i-6274be86d558cdda-82	Madam President, I would like I believe that what really risks the popular support and legitimacy of environmental and nature protection policy would be if an individual minister, based on an individual article, turned over the whole of environmental and climate policy without listening to authorities and without respecting international conventions and the international panels on which we base both EU and Sweden's environmental policy. We have environmental quality targets adopted by the Swedish Parliament 20 years ago, which we continue to work from outside. The view expressed by Staffan Eklöf, that our Nordic animals are used to change and that some forest fires do nothing, I think, must stand for him. I believe that the forest fires we have seen in recent years have been absolutely devastating both for the people who depend on the forest and for our ecosystems. Looking at the forest fires in Australia, which is a country that is far worse affected than Sweden – California is another example – we can see that billions of animals have died. It is ecosystems that will take an enormous amount of time to rebuild, even if it is possible, given that we are heading for 3 degrees of warming instead of limiting it to 1.5 degrees. We should be prepared that 1.5 degrees of global warming means approximately 3 degrees here in the Nordic region. So the change we are facing is very serious. Then it is not the case that the only instrument we have to protect endangered species and ecosystems is to set aside reserves. We also have a very active climate policy. We have a very active chemicals policy, in which we try to pursue a non-toxic society. I just debated an interpellation on plastic and litter, which also threatens not least our marine mammals and many other marine animals. You can find microplastics in fish stomachs and even in zooplankton. We must work by all means to ensure that we have a living planet for our children and grandchildren to grow up on, as well as for all the generations that follow. Of course, the scientific article to which reference was made should be looked at. What is positive about it is that it also highlights how extremely vulnerable certain populations are. They have very poor status, and if you only look at the average, there may be a risk that you miss how serious it is for those species. In that sense, I think it is important to look at it more closely. It is best that other researchers and authorities do so in the usual order. An article that has stuck with me is an Israeli study that came two years ago. There they looked at the biomass of mammals on earth today. These are quite striking figures. Today, 36% of the biomass for earth's mammals is made up of humans, 60% are our livestock and only 4% are wild mammals. This shows how incredibly dominant man is over our ecosystems on earth today. We live in the anthropocene.
i-6274be86d558cdda-89	Madam President, I would like First, I'll give you a correction. The article is a starting point for the debate. I never said I liked forest fires. Everyday consideration in Swedish forests has already led to increased biodiversity in the forest. Considerations already made continue to deliver ever greater values over time. Let us allay the urge to set aside large areas of forest types that have already been set aside to a large extent. Instead, let us develop everyday considerations and direct provisions to the rare environments. Let's focus more on the valuable brow environments and develop them in collaboration with the industries. Let's solve the elm death and ash death with targeted breeding projects. It's a cheap solution to save a hundred species. Let's take better care of reservations already set aside. Let us put in place new technologies that can give us synergies between production and the environment. Let us focus on climate action that results in emissions reductions globally and not just here in Sweden. Allow agriculture to make money from biodiversity, so that creativity is unleashed. Let us build wetlands for the simultaneous benefit of biodiversity and the water supply of agriculture. Let us increase profitability in Swedish agriculture, so that we can increase one of the world's most environmentally friendly food productions. Let us invest in plant breeding for the sake of production and the environment. Let us take on the invasive species with more commitment than today. Let us ignore what is opportune. Let us have environmentally friendly nuclear power instead of wind turbines in biologically rich offshore banks. We also have a strong preservation pathos, but at the same time we want the economy to develop and the countryside to live. I am very pleased with this debate and for the fact that we can have a lively discussion on the choices made in environmental policy. The most important thing is not to get 100% right, but that there is a discussion about what choices we have made and what we will do. Finally, I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Minister for this time and for our debates. Good luck in the future!
i-6274be86d558cdda-106	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Staffan Eklöf, for your thanks! And I can wish for the same thing. It was a long list that Staffan Eklöf listed. We agree on a great deal of these measures. A lot of the measures already do the government, and some do not, of course. We invest 600 million in protection of a valuable nature during 2021. But we also make a historically large investment in the management of nature reserves: SEK 400 million in 2021. It is very important that you not only remove but also take care of, and the government does. When it comes to wetlands – it was one of the things that Staffan Eklöf mentioned – it is a big effort from the government to re-wetting wetlands. That's SEK 350 million in 2021. It is estimated to increase by SEK 325 million for 2022 and by SEK 100 million for 2023. There are really an incredible number of ecosystem services in one when we do this. It is about seizing greenhouse gases that are otherwise emitted from the drained wetlands. It is a good measure for biodiversity. It is also in many cases a good measure to reduce eutrophication, as wetlands can soak up this. It is about balancing groundwater and water flows. It is an incredibly important and neglected measure that we have put a lot of focus on. Protecting the seas, increasing fisheries control and monitoring and introducing a general stop to bottom trawling in protected areas is also a very important issue. So it is not that the only thing the government focuses on is protecting nature. It is also about combating climate change. It is about us having a sustainable use of forest, of arable land and of our seas. It must continue to be the focus.
i-6274be86d558cdda-113	Madam President, I would like Joar Forssell and Alexandra Anstrell have asked questions about the government's review of the spent fuel disposal facility. Joar Forssell's questions are about what the government is examining that the review authorities have not examined and, if the authorities have missed something, why the matter is not sent back or, if the authorities have done a solid job, why the government does the work again. Alexandra Anstrell's questions relate to my position on the matter, when a decision can be expected, if I intend to push for a decision, if I see any factors that could lead to the application being rejected and, if the application is not accepted, if there is another plan for the disposal. The issue of final disposal of spent nuclear fuel is a complex and major issue. It is one of the biggest environmental issues in Sweden ever and a major infrastructure project. It is not uncommon for decisions on large infrastructure projects to take time to prepare and process. When I answered the question of the timetable for nuclear fuel storage here in the Parliament in November, I said that I cannot currently assess when the matter will be decided. It's still the case. Joar Forssell wonders whether there has been a failure by the expert authorities or the Court of Justice and why the case is not being sent back to the bodies which possess the expertise needed to deal with the matter. The review work on the final detention application currently under way in the Government Office does not repeat the review carried out by the Land and Environment Court and the Radiation Safety Authority, SSM. In January 2018, SSM and the Land and Environment Court handed over Swedish Nuclear Fuel Management applications with their respective opinions to the Government. As a result, their examination of the cases was completed. The SSM considered that the application could be accepted subject to the conditions of a step-by-step examination. The Land and Environment Court held that the application may be authorised, but provided that the application is supplemented, among other things, by supporting documents concerning the durability of the copper capsule. There were thus points that the court handed over to the government to answer before a decision on admissibility can be taken. Swedish Nuclear Fuel Management AB, SKB, has completed the application in accordance with the Court's opinion. The completion was received in April 2019 and was subsequently referred. The complement was then announced from May to June 2020 in order to give those not covered by the referral the opportunity to submit comments. In its opinion, the Court also asked for clarification as to who is responsible for the disposal facility in the long term, the so-called last resort responsibility. The issue of the state's last resort responsibility has been investigated, and in April 2020 the government submitted the bill A clarified state responsibility for certain nuclear activities to the Riksdag. This led to a number of legislative changes that entered into force on 1 November 2020 and which, among other things, made it clear that it is the State that has the ultimate responsibility for the custody. In addition to this, the Government's review includes further aspects. A question that has arisen is whether the complement provided by SKB requires additional consultations with other countries under the Environmental Code, a so-called Espoo consultation. The completion has therefore been sent to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency for its position on the matter. The Environmental Protection Agency is the authority responsible for conducting consultations with other countries in accordance with the Environmental Code and the Espoo Convention. The Government also wishes to await the Radiation Safety Authority's report on the so-called LOT trials that are also expected to come in February. The government thus does not repeat the work done by the authorities but complements what the court left to the government to supplement and ensure that the decision is anchored and can be taken in accordance with our democratic system. Alexandra Anstrell wants to know if I'm in favour of the application. We have nuclear reactors that generate waste. Already in the 1980s, the government stated that the generation that has benefited from the electricity supplied by nuclear power will also ensure that the waste is disposed of. My opinion does not differ from that, but we must be sure that the disposal is so secure that the waste will not affect future generations. This is why matters are still being prepared within the Council. We are currently analysing whether anything remains to be done regarding the handling of cases under the Environmental Code and the Nuclear Technology Act before the government can make a decision. Otherwise, I cannot comment on current matters. So to the question of the middle layer, Clab. Within the framework of the research, development and demonstration programme FUD, the Government has announced that a geological depth repository is the method that Swedish Nuclear Fuel Management should prioritise. The question of the capacity of Clab is included in the application, according to both the Environmental Code and the Nuclear Technology Act, which the government is now examining. The cases are handled together in the Government Office, and the Government intends to make decisions at the same time. I cannot now anticipate the government's decision. As I said at the outset, I cannot judge when the matter will be decided, but the report is a priority.
i-6274be86d558cdda-121	Madam President, I would like As in a previous debate here, I would like to start by thanking the Minister for her time here in this House and in the Government and for the important work that we are doing together for the climate in the January Agreement. I appreciate the government's deep commitment to climate issues and see that we share a great deal of it. I think the cooperation has been very good in large parts. Madam President, I would like Having said that, one might wonder a little when listening to the Government's response. Isabella Lövin's days are numbered. At least her days as a minister are numbered. This weekend, the Government resigns as a spokesperson, and you wonder if it is not what is causing this matter to drag on so much – that it is an uncomfortable issue to finish. In the past, it has sounded to the government like working intensively on these issues. Now it sounds to the government rather like waiting for other people's statements, again. Maybe you wait very intensely. The fact is, Madam President, that this issue has been on the table of the government in various forms since 1973, that is, for 47 years. Both bourgeois and environmental politicians have been in the government since then, but in recent years the matter has become more intensely important, so to speak. It starts to tick if we are going to get a disposal so that nuclear power can continue to roll so that we can continue to have electricity and energy supply in Sweden. That is a little strange, Madam President. When you go through these things, you can see that the municipalities concerned say yes. The Land and Environment Court says yes. The Espoo consultation has concluded that it does not affect our neighbouring countries in such a way as the consultation is intended to control. The Radiation Safety Authority has given the go-ahead and the green light. The Finnish Environmental Protection Agency, which is responsible for the Espoo consultation, says the same thing. Then you might wonder why it takes so long. What's taking time? What do we need to get in? What's not handled? The Government says that a new Espoo consultation may be needed and that they have asked the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency if necessary. The thing is that the additions that have been made have reduced the need for Espoo consultation because they have shown that there will be no impact on neighbouring countries and that it will be less than one was afraid of before, when one had the Espoo consultation that one needs to have. In addition, they call for a re-consultation two years after completion. This is something that is taking time and cannot be explained by the need for consultation, for it is clearly not necessary to do so. Then the Government says that we should wait for the new audit of the LOT, but there the expert authorities themselves say that it is cool, that it is green light and that it is possible to run on with the final repository anyway. This is also a review by the government of its own expert authority. I wonder, Madam President, whether it is not simply the case that Minister Lövin of the Green Party does not want to sit in the government that ensures that we can have nuclear power that will provide us with electricity in the future. You find it a bit difficult and embarrassing, so you spend as much time as you can.
i-6274be86d558cdda-127	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for responding to the interpellation! With the announcement in October from Östhammar municipality, there are now all the bases for a government decision regarding final disposals in Forsmark and extended interim storage in Oskarshamn. At present, all spent nuclear fuel is stored in Clab, Oskarshamn. Radioactivity decreases and fades gradually, and the waste becomes less and less dangerous over time. But it also contains substances that are persistent and need to be preserved for a very long time. In Forsmark it is intended that the spent nuclear fuel should be stored in copper capsules surrounded by bentonite clay, about 500 meters down in the urberget. The waste, which is perhaps the most difficult waste from Swedish nuclear power, must be isolated and rested for over 100 000 years. Long-term security is the fundamental issue. I think we agree on that. But now all the expert units have spoken out. A positive decision would be the start of one of Sweden's largest and most important environmental protection projects and start investments of approximately SEK 19 billion and generate 1,500 jobs. 1 500 jobs are quite numerous, especially in a sparsely populated area, especially now, in a coronapandemia where many would need a fresh start. Every year that goes before the decision to get started, SKB costs SEK 800 million, according to sources at SKB. That's $2 million a day. Now it has cost 2.2 million today too. SKB's applications for permission to build a nuclear fuel repository in Forsmark and an encapsulation facility in Oskarshamn have been examined by the Radiation Safety Authority and the Land and Environment Court and are now with the Government for a decision. Wouldn't it have been cool, Madam Minister, to make this decision now before you stop? The Authority's review of LOT is linked to SKB's research activities and is not part of the investigation of the repository. SKB's research programme, FUD programme 2019, has been reviewed and recommended by the Swedish Radiation Safety Agency to the government to approve. The Government approved the FUD in 2019 as late as December 2020. It is great that Lövin sees the issue as a priority and sees final disposal, encapsulation and expanded storage in Clab as a single system and that the issue should be dealt with urgently. When the Minister says that the issue is a priority, I wonder, Madam President, whether the government intends to take a decision before the summer. How many 2.2 million does it have to cost?
i-LAkn2gc5Q1vQyLsDVqRDBt	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Alexandra Anstrell and Joar Forssell, for this important interpellation debate! It is just as Joar Forssell points out that the issue has been on the government table for 47 years. Now I quoted the honourable Member – I myself have not checked the task. Sweden started an extensive nuclear power expansion, just like many other countries, without having a solution for how to store or take care of the waste from nuclear power plants. To this day, there are no final disposals, except in Finland, which has started work according to the same method as Sweden. It was deeply irresponsible for previous generations to take such steps without knowing what to do with hazardous waste not only for 100 years, not just for 1 000 years, but for 100 000 years. We now need to take a decision about storing this waste safely for 100 000 years. Of course it's a very big decision. It's about how to transfer knowledge. We know we can't read hieroglyphics today. What did ancient Egyptians mean by their pyramids? These are the problems that research and we decision-makers face. What will happen to geological changes and the climate? How are we supposed to be sure it's safe? Transparency on this issue is important, and it is therefore a good thing that we have in this debate. I'd like to take this opportunity to tell you a little bit about what this is all about. It is a system that we are dealing with and which is on the government table and which deals with two parts: a facility for the intermediate storage and encapsulation of nuclear waste in Oskarshamn municipality and an underground disposal facility in Forsmark in Östhammar municipality. The underground nuclear reserve comprises 3,9 square kilometers — that's how big it is — at a depth of 500 meters. To expand it will take 70 years. It is requested to store 12 000 tonnes of high-level waste, which is therefore hazardous for 100 000 years. The waste shall be placed in copper capsules weighing 25 tonnes each. And the copper casing, about which there has been uncertainty and that the Land and Environment Court asked for additions, is 5 centimetres thick. It shall be surrounded by a buffer of bentonite clay and placed deep in the Urberget. You can visualize what this is all about. But then we have a lot of steps to take in the actual treatment of this. Three laws govern the environmental permit testing: the Environmental Code, the Nuclear Activities Act and the Radiation Protection Act. Permits for disposal are required under both the Nuclear Technology Act and the Environmental Code. The application that has been received covers the entire system and not its different parts. One cannot take one at a time, but one must take the whole system to give approval according to these laws. The investigation concerns safety and radiation protection as well as the site's location and effects on land use in Östhammar municipality. Several questions about these things have been the subject of a referral and announcement, and it has come in both the strength and negative referrals.
i-6274be86d558cdda-141	Madam President, I would like I would also like to thank you for that reply. If you have a referral procedure you will always get both positive and negative referrals. I don't think there's ever been a referral procedure without both of these parts. What is relevant to look at here is what the expert authority says, what the municipalities concerned say, what the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency says and what the laws and regulations that we have about this say. And why is it that the government, even though we were ticking in box after box when it comes to the requirements for having a repository, sits on its hands and waits intensively? In the past, it has been said that you work intensively. Now it seems that you mostly wait for others to do things that they have already done. You wait the most. Why is it that the government chooses to over-examine Östhammar's municipality's democratic decision to accept? What is the reason why the government chooses to continue to persevere in reviewing the decision of the Land and Environment Court by not going forward with this? Why is it that the government continues to argue that there may be a need for an additional Espoo consultation, even though there is nothing to indicate it? The additions that have been made have, of course, made this need less than when this consultation was carried out in 2016, which is not very long ago. What is it because the government continues to want to wait for this extra review of the LOT, even though the government's own expert authority, the Radiation Safety Authority, says that you can run on? Well, it's obviously because Isabella Lövin and the Green Party are waiting to avoid sitting in a government that makes the decision that means that we will be able to continue to have nuclear power in Sweden. It's about the Green Party having ideological blind spots that mean that they want to starve this kind of power out of the Swedish energy mix by strangling this possibility. In fact, I think this is irresponsible. If you are concerned about these issues and if you take these issues seriously, then you want a repository that works. That is why we have laws and rules, that is why we have expert authorities, that is why we have these democratic processes and that is why we have consultations that we have had and that has given the green light. It is for this reason. Now we have nuclear waste that we have to deal with, which we have to take care of and which we need to dispose of. Let us do so in the safe manner that has been approved by the instance instead of trying to starve out this important part of the Swedish energy mix because of ideological blind spots. Madam President, I would like It is true that these are things that will remain in place for a long time and that we need to have a process to handle and so on. That is also true of heavy metals, for example. It is also something that we humans have extracted and need to have a good way of dealing with. But there we do not see the same ideological blindfolds from the Green Party, and we do not have the same kind of management process that we are criticising in this House today. Of course this is due to something else. The Green Party does not want to do as the Land and Environment Court says, does not want to do as Östhammar municipality says and does not want to do as the Radiation Safety Authority says. I think you just don't want nuclear power. That's why you sit and wait very intensely.
i-6274be86d558cdda-148	Madam President, I would like I agree with the Minister that the issue of the final disposal of spent nuclear fuel is a complex and difficult issue. But you've been working on this since the year before I was born. This is one of the largest environmental cases in Sweden ever, and it is a huge infrastructure project. We agree on that, too. However, Joar Forssell wonders in his interpellation whether there is any authority or court of experts that has missed anything and why the case is not sent back to those bodies that possess the expertise needed to deal with this particular case. That's what I'm asking myself. The Minister is now simply responding that the review of the final detention application currently under way in the Government Office does not repeat the review carried out by the Land and Environment Court and the Radiation Safety Authority, but that additional consultations are required in Espoo consultations. Then they have done so, but still they have sent supplements back to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency for a position on the matter again. I wonder what the timetable is and whether there is a timetable. What's the tempo on the matter? We're sitting on the knee with the problem. We cannot make this waste disappear. We need to take responsibility for that. As Joar Forssell said, they have worked on this for 47 years. Now is the time to take responsibility and actually make a decision. All the experts say okay. Finland is building according to our model. And 1 500 jobs could be made possible in Forsmark. All the bodies have approved this. Then I wonder: Why do no decisions come? Or will we have a decision in the near future? These 1 500 jobs are about people who are likely to commute there or move there. Of course, there are also some who already live there. It is 1 500 people who can also pass on the knowledge of nuclear waste and who can help with research, just as the Minister was on. These people are important, and these people need to be put in place so that we do not lose our skills on this issue. Madam President, I would like The minister's leaving, and I wish her luck in the future. And I wish that the work she has done is the basis for us to actually get a decision in the near future.
i-6274be86d558cdda-155	Madam President, I would like I thank Alexandra Anstrell and Joar Forssell for the questions. I think we can agree on one thing, and that is that this is probably the biggest environmental issue that any government has ever dealt with. It will have very far-reaching effects and consequences, not only for the municipality of Östhammar and jobs here and now, but this is a construction that is expected to take place over 70 years. After that, this material should be kept securely and checked in accordance with the international conventions that we have. It should be ensured that this material does not fall into the wrong hands and is used for nuclear weapons production or the like. We must comply with these conventions. We must also ensure that there is knowledge transfer that does not in any way mislead future generations for 100 000 years. I would like to say that the illustration of heavy metals is not completely parallel, because radioactivity has a completely different toxicity. Only a single gram of this material is directly lethal. That is why it is very important that we do as well thought out and transparent work on this as is possible at all. I do not agree that this is some kind of intense waiting. It is about complying with the international agreements we have with the Espoo Convention and being absolutely certain that there is no need for further consultation. Of course, if further consultation is needed, it should be done, because this is a matter of consequences that can indeed be cross-border. That is why we need to look at this so that we do it properly. Then it is also about the LOT attempts, and it is about the referral points that have come in and that we continue to look at. Then it is also important to look at the Nuclear Waste Council's reports, which express quite a lot of concern not only about the copper capsules but also about the iron material – the ductile iron – which forms the first housing. Nevertheless, I think that we need a further complementary response from the LOT attempts. There is, of course, a group of researchers from KTH who have decided that the activity should be allowed, as well as several environmental organisations. There are also two legislations that we need to follow closely. One is the Nuclear Technology Act, and the other is the Environmental Code, in terms of location. In fact, we have been working very intensively here since the matter came to the table. We have looked at final responsibility, and there we have taken several steps forward. It was important for the municipalities in question. Now we have established that it is the state that has the ultimate responsibility for nuclear waste and not a company, which may go bankrupt in 50 or 100 years' time. This would have made the citizens of a particular municipality responsible for the future. Rather, it is the state that will take that responsibility, and it was a major step forward in this matter. It shows that we take this issue very seriously.
i-6274be86d558cdda-160	Madam President, I would like Thank you for a good debate, Minister. I suppose this is the last debate of the Government in this House as a Minister of State, and it has been a pleasure to be there. Having said that, Madam President, I would nevertheless like to say the following. Ultimately, this is about nuclear power, and we should be honest about the fact that it is very difficult to continue with nuclear power if we do not resolve this issue. Somewhere it's pretty easy to suspect that's why this takes so long. If you do not like nuclear power, you want this process to take a long time, so that nuclear power simply has to close down. Madam President, I would like Since it is such a charged question, I understand that there will always be one or another critical one, just as the Government reports. But basically that is also why we need our legislative processes, our democratic anchoring and so on – because it is such a charged and difficult issue and because it is as big as the Council of State describes. That's why it's strange that you constantly find new excuses for not getting started, even though the Land and Environment Court, the Radiation Safety Authority, these municipalities and the Environmental Protection Agency – with Espoo consultation and so on – all of them, one by one, give the green light and say that it's okay to drive. We are constantly finding excuses, although it is extremely important for us to have a disposal of this very dangerous waste. We need a disposal. It is our responsibility for future generations, and it has been given the green light by expert authorities and other bodies. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go.
i-6274be86d558cdda-165	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the debate, Minister. I very much agree with what the Minister said about this being the biggest environmental protection issue we have ever decided on. I therefore once again wonder why the Minister does not want to come to a decision. We do not know and cannot possibly know what the world will look like in 100,000 years' time. We can only do something based on what we know and on the research and evidence we have. We can only do the best we can, and we can only do something on the basis of the facts we have today. We can't possibly know how to communicate in 100,000 years, whether it's with hieroglyphics or not. If the government does not decide on this, what is the alternative? Should we have to wait for over 40 more years? 800 million a year for 40 years will be a lot of money. However, it is not just about money. We're sitting with the waste in our laps. We have that responsibility; it is not possible to make it go away. We need to take responsibility for taking care of it, and it's kind of getting full. So it does not matter whether you like nuclear power or not and whether you think we should have nuclear power in the future or not, because we need to take responsibility for this waste now. That is our political responsibility. I wonder, therefore, once again: what would be the alternative if this were not to be taken?
i-6274be86d558cdda-169	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the questions, both interpellants – and thank you for your thanks too! I wish you continued good luck in your work. I would really like to emphasise to Joar Forssell that our authorities have not said that the Espoo consultation has already been taken care of and that we are now coming back with a little idea, but that there have been additions. What the court decided was to hand over to the government that this method was considered sufficiently safe but that there were significant uncertainties about the copper capsule. That was the work that was handed over to the government, among other things. There are also questions about the location. These are the additions we have received, and it is not a matter of little importance to hold Espoo consultations. I believe that, with these time perspectives, it is not a time tag clock that is going to tick millions of SEK in some kind of intended profit here and now, 2021, but we need to take responsibility for future generations – for many, many future generations. That is why we really need to turn every stone around, listen to every objection and listen to those who warn of what might happen, so that we ensure that we take care of the waste as safely as possible. These are wastes from something that has served us in this generation; we have built our wealth very much on this nuclear power. It is very important that we see that this also has quite incalculable consequences for 100 000 years to come.
i-6274be86d558cdda-172	Madam President, I would like Tobias Andersson has asked the Minister for Finance what measures she intends to take to shorten the processing times at the Swedish Agency for Growth and whether she intends to take any further measures to compensate the traders who continue to suffer from the government's alcohol ban. AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson has asked me whether I intend to take any further steps to be able to quickly assist the so badly affected restaurant industry. Madam President, I would like The work within the government is so divided that it is I who should answer the first interpellation. I choose to respond both to the interpellations in a context because they are mainly about the same industry. For many parts of our society, the spread of the Corona virus has brought great difficulties and challenges, and we are still in a serious situation. Many industries, businesses and entrepreneurs have suffered financially as a result of the virus. The government has therefore very quickly introduced a number of support measures to mitigate the consequences of the pandemic for jobs and businesses that the restaurant industry can take part in. These include, among other things, conversion aid, turnover aid for individual traders and the possibility of short-term lay-off to reduce wage costs. They include the possibility of deferred tax payments, credit guarantees such as the Enterprise Act, reduced social security contributions and social security contributions, and relief in the unemployment fund for entrepreneurs. Madam President, I would like In connection with the increased spread of infection, the Government has announced that several of these support measures are being extended to support Swedish jobs and companies through the crisis. The government has also recently proposed a new closure aid and announced that it also intends to propose a new period of state aid during which some local tenants will receive a discount on the rent. As regards the support for short-term work, the Swedish Agency for Growth has granted nearly 73 800 applications until 25 January 2021. The granted net amount amounts to SEK 31.6 billion, which includes settlement of some recoveries, and includes 579 000 employees. In order to meet the large search pressure, the Swedish Agency for Growth has made staff reinforcements and prioritised tasks for existing staff in favour of the management of short-term support. In addition, the Swedish Parliament, following a proposal from the Government, has strengthened the Swedish Agency for Growth's administrative appropriations by SEK 180 million. In addition, the Government has proposed in another supplementary amending budget that the Swedish Agency for Growth's administrative appropriations be increased by a total of SEK 450 million in 2021. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to say that I and the government are closely monitoring the economic impact on businesses and that we are constantly analysing the need for the necessary measures for business at a very difficult time.
i-6274be86d558cdda-178	Madam President, I would like The pandemic has hit parts of the business community hard, and for many companies the effects have meant the end of an otherwise viable business. Fortunately, the government has managed to get a number of support measures in place, under severe pressure from the opposition in the Riksdag. Although some of these initially fulfilled their purpose, it can also be noted that the corresponding crisis package in comparable states came into place more quickly and was also considerably larger than the Swedish ones. In our neighbouring countries as well as in Germany, France, the United States, etc., support has been several times greater. Moreover, we are now in a situation where already decided aid does not reach the companies that are entitled to it or cannot even be applied for yet. In practice, it results in traders themselves having to lie out with the whole wage cost, which severely impairs liquidity and risks forcing many traders to take down the sign. This is despite the fact that there are policy solutions in the form of various support measures – in this context, not least short-term lay-offs. These are support measures that have already been decided here in the Swedish Parliament and that I and other Members have worked hard to get in place. It is not the Riksdag that is the reason why traders are at risk of perishing. Instead, Madam President, the support measures that we have managed to put in place are stuck in the Social Democratic bureaucracy and therefore do not reach the companies that are entitled to them. For example, support money for previous layoffs has remained with the Swedish Agency for Growth. The renewed possibility of deferment of tax payments is delayed. The extension of the conversion aid, which is due to relate to August and September last year, lights up with its absence, and the closure aid will be applied for at the earliest in April. In practice, individual traders have had to spend several months with money – up to six months – because the government has repeatedly failed to ensure that the aid is actually paid out. This problem has probably hit the tourism industry the worst, and the government's sudden extension of the alcohol ban after 20 o'clock hardly makes it easier for the restaurant and restaurant owners in the industry. The government has limited their freedom to conduct a business without, in return, offering them any financial compensation for this. Instead, the government has repeatedly referred to the existing aid, which, as I have just explained, does not benefit the entrepreneurs concerned. We can see that at least at the present time we are not seeing any light. The hospitality industry seems to see no relief. The only one who seems to be satisfied with the situation is the Minister for Economic Affairs himself. In an interview with Svenska Dagbladet on January 14, Ibrahim Baylan rejected the criticism and said that there is probably no government that has worked faster. Madam President, I would like I am not sure whether affected restaurant owners recognize themselves in the image that Ibrahim Baylan wants to paint of the government's work. I would therefore like to ask Ibrahim Baylan again what measures the government intends to take to shorten the processing times for the various support measures and to ensure that the money is paid out.
i-6274be86d558cdda-187	Madam President, I would like The government and government are talking about saving lives, combating infection and mitigating the effects on jobs and businesses. Today's debate is about the last part of this – mitigating the impact on jobs and businesses. I would like to start with an example from the tourism industry, from my home region of Skåne. Skåne's zoo changed instead of cancelling. They created a system of pre-booking for families. They used castlesides to visit the facility. This allowed them to control the number of people who came to them so that they could go in by distance. Once inside the facility and on the way in, visitors met staff who kindly reminded of the rules the visitors would comply with applicable distances. The signs were changed inside the plant so that it was only possible to walk in one lap so that people would move in the same direction around. There was also hand spirit along the way. Families could live in their own tents in their own area. Food was delivered to the tents, where they themselves prepared breakfast and supper in covid-19-secured environments. This is for me what it is about when it comes to mitigating the effects on jobs and entrepreneurship. Skåne Zoo is an example of how by finding a system of login, reset signs and arrange accommodation in the environment where each family takes care of their food can be open and run their business, which can then live on. Madam President and the Government. I would have liked this to have been the common thread in parallel with saving lives and combating infection. The pandemic strategy this spring would have started radically – for companies, for the Swedish economy and for individuals' jobs and livelihoods. One would have had a track for people, health and life-saving efforts combined with a track for the economic wheels so that companies could pursue their activities differently. So you would have done both. Early this spring we also saw examples of solutions from other countries in the news report. A post showed how families could visit concerts by dividing the arenas into rooms. The fence was used to create them, and each family got their own box. That, the Minister, seems to me creative and smart thinking. To have the opportunity to submit proposals for solutions and to put them into practice is to rethink when you need to change. In Tuesday's interpellation debate, I raised the statement by restaurateur Fredrik Eriksson on TV4 that there is a need for a sound dialogue with the government. I interpreted this statement as saying that there was no such thing. At the turn of the line, in which I did not have the opportunity to reply, the Government said the following: I know the situation is very tough for the restaurant and hotel industry. I'll see them. AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson quoted Fredrik Eriksson – whom I spoke to this morning – who is a very wise entrepreneur. ..................................................... The Government also said that he had met with Visita's board quite recently and that he met individual entrepreneurs to bring in what is happening in the companies and to see how we can help each other with the support measures that are already decided. Now there are many of us, I think, who are interested in what Fredrik Eriksson said when the Government talked to him. It would also be interesting to know what made the Government think he said such wise words. I know that wise words are spoken by wise entrepreneurs all over the country who have ideas. Government, I would like to repeat my question. What did the Minister talk to Fredrik Eriksson about, what are the wise thoughts and have the government used them?
i-6274be86d558cdda-199	Madam President, I would like In December 2020 the Government received a letter from Visit Dalarna where they sought contact. They still have no feedback on the letter. The clock is rushing for the affected companies, and the government is showing an unwillingness to take on a industry that is bleeding and that is in urgent need of support. Dalarna is Sweden's fourth largest tourist destination. The future of the destination looks good, but then there must be companies that can take care of visitors in the future. I would like to give a quote from the letter that was sent to the Government from Visit Dalarna: One engine for the economy, society and a prerequisite for a vibrant region. It creates jobs, contributes to the attractiveness of a town, develops and ensures a vibrant countryside with necessary community services, schools, shops, activity offerings and restaurants. The tourism industry also has enormous expertise in the form of entrepreneurs who enrich Dalarna with drive, commitment and innovation – who develop and take the region forward. ..................................................... Last Tuesday I also told some stories from restaurant owners in Mora. And they can stand to be repeated, Madam President, so I will give them back again. Lasse runs two places in Mora. It was a tough spring but a hemestersummer and a small buffer from Vasaloppsveckan made it still look good before a second wave and we felt a little better prepared. In November came the first knock-out from the government, stopping alcohol sales after kl. 22:00 from 20 November. I was then forced to shut down our one business, Rock Club Lilla Helfvetet. O ́Learys we could move forward but of course adjusted the opening hours based on the rules that apply in the Alcohol Act with that the place should be evacuated according to the permission to serve. The next knock from the government came for Christmas weekend, stop for alcohol serving already from kl. 8 p.m. Maria also runs a restaurant in Mora together with her husband Love. They have chosen to live their dream life as a restaurant owner. I would also like to quote her here: Because it's a rose dance? And because you get rich? I don't think so, but why? Because we all have one thing in common: We have a passion for food and drink and we love to deliver experiences. We are extremely good at following current restrictions. We adapt all the time, we change, we are creative, we see opportunities. Because I think few people are more eager than us to stop the spread of infection so that we can return to normal. ..................................................... Maria and her husband have dismissed 9 of the 15 employees. They also say, "The resettling support is delayed, and the little that came in last spring did not even cover the rent for a month. We need equality support now. The government has blacked out an entire industry. ..................................................... Madam President, I would like I am still interested in knowing what initiatives the Government is prepared to take in view of what has been said and what I can take with me to the tourism industry in northern Dalarna when my time here in Parliament expires on 1 February.
i-6274be86d558cdda-207	Madam President, I would like Thank you, AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson and Tobias Andersson, for your interpellations on the matter! It's a very important question for a very large industry. Both today and when we debated the issue the other day, the Minister for Industry has referred to a number of decisions that have been taken and that the government has produced a lot of amending budgets. Yet, there are so many entrepreneurs screaming for help. Just as Malin Höglund took examples from Dalarna, many people testify that crisis support needs to be adjusted in order to achieve greater progress. Many people testify that it takes a very long time to get support. Many are waiting for money to be paid out that they applied for this summer. That is, in fact, totally unacceptable. Madam President, I would like It is now said that aid can be paid out to healthy companies. But I wonder how a company can remain healthy and be able to benefit from the various subsidies if you have not received the money that you have applied for, because then you have no money and can therefore not be healthy. I think that if you decide one thing, you still want it to be that way. Then you follow up, review and see if it has become as you have decided. But if things have not turned out the way they have decided, you must be able to put aside the prestige and change the decision. Corona has hit a lot of entrepreneurs in a lot of industries. Many people have made use of lay-off support, because entrepreneurs are very keen that the staff should be able to remain. However, many have not been able to use the lay-off aid or have not received other aid because it is difficult, difficult, bureaucratic and takes time to apply for it. My question to the Minister is: how can a company remain healthy and benefit from the various subsidies if it has not received the money it applied for last summer? The conversion aid does not seem to be in the right shape to achieve this. I wonder: is the Minister not interested in changing the decisions taken so that the aid actually gets through? The CEO of the company said the other day that maybe the government doesn't want to get the money out. Few viable companies manage to lose a large part of their turnover month after month. This may be one of the reasons why the aid is not used, so the aid needs to be better. They need to be able to get through better. Better decisions must be taken, and not least we must ensure that subsidies, payments, can benefit entrepreneurs much more quickly. There are quite a few worried, angry, sad and some also declared entrepreneurs who get in touch on Facebook and via e-mails and other things and wonder why the government does not do more to the support actually reach out and come to the entrepreneurs. Here the government needs to shoulder its responsibilities, because it is in companies that jobs are created. They must be able to continue and thus contribute to jobs, tax revenues and a living Sweden even when the pandemic is over. In this pandemic, the most important advice is to keep your distance, wash your hands and spread your hands. And many entrepreneurs are extremely good at ensuring that they have safe environments. But the restaurant industry itself has been subject to extreme restrictions. Anders Tegnell said on TV the other day that restaurants are not major vectors. Then I wonder what's the reason for the closing after 8:00. Is it that Corona is most contagious at 8am - 10pm? Why is the restaurant industry not trusted to serve guests in safe environments when other industries are considered to have safe environments?
i-6274be86d558cdda-219	Madam President, I would like We introduced a number of measures in November for a very simple reason, and I think Members are basically aware of this, even if they pretend otherwise. The spread of the infection increased considerably, and we know what the spread of the disease leads to if it is allowed to increase unstoppably. Health care is burdened in a way that makes it difficult to deal with the situation, both for those who have the great bad luck of being infected by Corona, with everything that it means, and for the many people who need medical care for other reasons. We could see that the spread of infection increased sharply in a second wave. The government's focus is clear, as someone mentioned. It is to curb the spread of the disease and save human lives. It's number one, which I think we're all aware of. Even though the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats are now focused on fighting the government, the government is fully focused on fighting the coronapandemy, with all that it means. In the environments where humans are involved, the risk of infection is increased. It is against this background that we have taken a number of measures and will continue to take action, because we are still in the midst of the pandemic. Thanks to the better management of this by people and companies, we see that the government's measures have an effect. But it is far too early to blow the danger over. We're still in the middle of this. It's important to remember. Even when trying to score some party political points, it is important to remember that we are still in the midst of a crisis that we do not yet know when we are out. Yes, an important part of our Corona management is about mitigating the impact on jobs and entrepreneurship. This means that so far we have either already made decisions or made proposals to the Riksdag covering nearly 374 billion of taxpayers' money both to strengthen health care and care for the elderly and to mitigate the effects on jobs and entrepreneurship. Unfortunately, with the fact that we know that the risk of infection is greatest where people have to deal with people, these very activities have had to take a rather heavy blow. The cultural sector has in principle been unable to operate since March. Parts of the trade have had a difficult time. The travel business is having a tough time. The tourism industry, which had a very strong development until February last year and where we saw that we would be helped further, has gone down into a deep crisis. Madam President, I would like Sometimes these subsidies take time, and that is simply because we have to have controls. According to the Swedish Agency for Growth, for those who had their papers in order, it took an average of eight days to process an application in 2020. But if you reported a number of employees to the Swedish Agency for Growth, for example, but had paid employers' contributions for a completely different number, yes, then it took a little longer to investigate. We're working on it. We are not satisfied with the situation and we will continue to propose measures and do our utmost to ensure that they work as quickly as possible.
i-6274be86d558cdda-227	Madam President, I would like No, the Swedish Democrats are not satisfied with the situation either. I would like to start by drawing the attention of the Minister for Economic Affairs to the fact that criticism from opposition parties is not synonymous with just being out to pick party political points. It could be that I and the other Members who are asking questions to the Minister for Economic Affairs here today also have a genuine desire to stop the spread of the disease and also have a genuine desire to save businesses and jobs. During yesterday's Question Time here in Parliament, I asked Ibrahim Baylan a question on this subject. I then described that every day at 3 p.m. restaurant staff step out of restaurants to make noise by hitting pots and lids with kitchen spoons and other things. This is a protest against the government. The restaurant industry protests that the government's restrictions during the pandemic have struck exclusively against this industry – this without either the government or the Public Health Authority having been able to point out that there has been uncontrolled contamination in the affected environments. The restaurant industry protests that the government's alcohol ban deprives free traders of the sale of high margin products – this without the government having ensured that the industry is compensated for the loss of revenue that this restriction on business freedom constitutes. Instead, the government acted with great carelessness and extended the ban only days before it would expire, causing considerable financial losses to all those who, on the basis of current legislation, had scheduled their staff for a few weeks to come. The restaurant industry protests against the government's support measures either not being paid out or not yet available – this in a situation where the entire tourism industry has been on its knees for almost a year and when the struggle of some is likely to begin to fail after they have felt both assaulted and neglected, pointed out and forgotten, depending on whether there has been contamination or financial compensation that has been discussed. During yesterday's Question Time I also said that the restaurant business is in crisis and is out with money for the government while bankruptcies are being piled up. To this Ibrahim Baylan replied that he was amazed at the description, after which he asked which country I live in. Madam President, I would like It may be self-evident that as long as we have a minister of industry who blindly refuses to recognize the horribly strained situation of the restaurant industry, who rejects legitimate criticism and who questions the perception of reality of the opposition when it describes the everyday lives of many traders, there is hardly any change – I am afraid. I was unable to put a supplementary question to Ibrahim Baylan yesterday and ask what, in my finding that the restaurant industry is on its knees and is demonstrating against the government on a daily basis, they intend to do, moreover, until the subsidies are paid, which caused him to be amazed. As this interpellation touches on the same theme, I am therefore taking the opportunity to ask Ibrahim Baylan now: what makes Ibrahim Baylan astounded at my finding that the restaurant industry is in a critical situation?
i-6274be86d558cdda-235	Madam President, I would like I find it sad that the Government chooses to talk about political points when we talk about saving lives and managing companies. It's not a bang to us, it's a bang to the companies we make our voice out for and their position. We can provide solutions to keep open and make it work. I have heard this throughout the pandemic. But not once have I heard the Government tell us what solutions the Government and Government are implementing together with the tourism industry to make it work, either during the first or second wave. In addition, the Public Health Agency has stated that they cannot see that it is via restaurants the infection is spreading. For me, this is going to be strange. Instead, it rings in the ears: The government stole the only sitting. The restaurateur and entrepreneur Leif Mannerström describes an evening out: You order a table until 7.30 p.m., bring in a main course, a glass of wine or two and perhaps a cup of coffee and sit until 22-22.30 p.m. Normally restaurants have two sittings a night to manage their finances. When the other does not get there, they lose their income. As it is now, you barely have time for the only sitting. It is a very hard blow and probably the last nail in the coffin when the only sitting is not possible. You can shop in a grocery store and have children at school, but you can't benefit your local restaurant because the restaurateurs are not trusted to solve the problems in an agreement with the government to both covidproof and be able to be open. Madam President, I would like It can be solved. I mentioned two examples in my previous post: the zoo in Skåne which has kept open and suggestions for concerts with boundaries so that it would be covid-19-safe. Has the Government considered discussing this possibility, putting it completely aside or not thinking about it at all? If he has done so, I wonder on what grounds it was decided not to implement the proposals that were still missing. I still haven't been told why. These are proposals that Fredrik Eriksson and others have made to the government. I suppose a long line of people is next to tell you about this. Entrepreneurs are people who risk losing their lives. They have mortgaged their life dreams, pawned their houses, and emptied the child's savings boxes to survive. It is these companies that deliver to our welfare. These companies started perhaps once as a UF company. Young people are employed in the industry and get their first job. Others can get their first job in Sweden. Unemployment is high. The n is the highest since 2009 when you started measuring it. There is a great risk of long alienation. In addition, there are psychological effects. A policy for business is no longer viable in this part of the social discussion. Madam President, I would like I, too, have a number of votes from the country: Palpitations and sleep problems are now everyday. We need help. I'm going for an analysis of the heart on Monday. I feel pressure and stress, but I'm not going to give up my dream, because I'm passionate about my business. Our company is bleeding to death. It's urgent now in real life. What Causes Meekness? A lifesaving effort is only important when you're alive. This has been said on the basis that life's work is being destroyed in front of people's eyes. Madam President, I would like The Government said during yesterday's Question Time, "We are working faster than any other government has ever done." What is the government's assessment based on? There are many out there who did not understand the answer either.
i-6274be86d558cdda-253	Madam President, I would like For five months, Ann-Britt Ann-Britt from Dalarna and I have been doing a Dalaresa. We have visited 50 companies, most of which are restaurants. The visits were first physical, but after more restrictions were introduced in the autumn they became digital. In the restaurant business, many young people work. But with the government's severe restrictions on the restaurant business, many young people will now not have a job to go to. The support that the restaurants were able to take part in in the spring of last year is now missing. They have not received the support they so badly need. The business is on its knees. Anna runs several restaurants at Idre Fjäll together with her family. She relates the following: We're not canceling. Let's switch. We restaurateurs have adapted all the time. The alcohol freeze rule after 8:00 p.m. causes many to lose their second sitting. We at the restaurants have full control of our seated guests, so why not let us be open until 22 o'clock? What does the government think happens at the restaurants after 8:00? Then there is the next problem: four sitting at each table. A family today is maybe six or seven people. At present, you have to split up into two tables. But living in the same house works. We're people who see our life's work go down. Let's spread our hands. We'll keep our distance. We'll do everything. But our legs are kept beating away. Madam President, I would like I wonder what measures the Government intends to take to allow restaurants to return to their normal opening hours in the safe environments they have created during the pandemic.
i-6274be86d558cdda-258	Madam President, I would like Stockholm is one of the worst affected regions in Sweden, as Stockholm accounts for a large part of the tourism industry as well as the hotel and restaurant industry. As Tobias Andersson described, many entrepreneurs will go out today at 3 p.m. with their pots and ladles to protest against the government. They want the government's attention. I wonder what Ibrahim Baylan is saying to those who leave today at 3 p.m. Do they get any information? It's hard to understand the government's decision. It is not that we do not want to stop the spread of the disease. It's not about political points. Without it, we want to try to understand and try to tell the government that the support is not getting through. It is also about trying to understand why you have to close the restaurant at 20 instead of 22. The Public Health Agency has said this week that restaurants do not constitute a major infection. What is the basis of the decision? Is there any reason why the restaurant and hotel industry cannot take responsibility for serving guests in an infectious environment? Why are they discriminated against? Does the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Government have anything against the restaurant business?
i-6274be86d558cdda-262	Madam President, I would like I will try to address the many questions I received in turn. I don't think I'm the only one surprised, Tobias Andersson. I also believe that many of the people who work in the cultural sphere and those who work with events, with fairs, in parts of the trade or in the travel industry, which have been completely or partly shut down since March, are amazed when they hear the Swedish democrats say that the effects of the government or pandemic have struck exclusively against the restaurant industry. We have had many restrictions during the year. Some have been grounded in the law of order. A large number of other measures have also been taken to curb the infection and save human lives. Just as has been described at my meetings and in my dialogue with both the Board of Directors of Visita and individual restaurant entrepreneurs, they have had a very tough situation and still have it. The reason is very simple: we have an ongoing pandemic, and we need to combat the infection. My astonishment is not, therefore, due to the fact that Members are raising questions. It's all right. For me, it is also very important to listen. I believe that, in the midst of a difficult situation such as this, one should have great humility and try to work together. The reason why I ask whether it is not a question of party political points is that I have not seen that neither the Swedish Democrats nor the Moderates have put forward any other proposals in Parliament than the measures we have taken. Now it sounds as if it is only the government that has put forward the proposals. Has it been proposed that alcohol can be served from ten to midnight? No, I haven't seen anything like that. I think it is because of the very wise conclusion that we must do our utmost to combat the infection. If we fail to gain control of it, we risk ending up in the situation that many other countries have ended up in. You go into big lockdowns with huge consequences for people but also for jobs and entrepreneurship. Malin Höglund asked what it is that determines. It's the contagion that determines. This is what it is all about. If the spread of infection is reduced, we may be able to have a different development. We are just seeing that it is beginning to do so, but I think it is far too early to blow the danger over. In my dialogue with restaurant operators and, in this case, an industry organisation, we are discussing what we could do together. This applies both to how the aid measures could go faster and how it is done in a legally secure way. Of course, we are also discussing further measures to curb the infection as far as possible. Madam President, I would like I've been asked what we've done. Members are well aware of this. We have put forward 13 extra budgets in addition to ordinary budgets, which cover hundreds of billions of taxpayers' money, in a way that no government has ever done before. If Members have any other example, they are happy to present it. It is against this background that I say we are working as quickly as possible. Is that enough? No, we are in the midst of the worst crisis we have experienced in modern times. I am the first to say that we always have more to do and more adjustments to make. As long as we have not got out of the crisis, this misery, we must continue to work intensively to find ways to curb the infection and to make society work as far as possible. This applies to the restaurant industry as well as areas such as culture and events, travel and commerce. These are parts that are currently suffering a great deal from the fact that we are in a deep crisis.
i-6274be86d558cdda-272	Madam President, I would like The Minister for Industry began his speech by claiming that the Swedish Democrats or the Moderates have not acted within the framework of the Riksdag. It's directly wrong. Several of the support measures that have now been decided on have been the consequences of the parliamentary work we have carried out. The conversion support would never have been in place if it had not been for committee initiatives from the Swedish Democrats and the Moderates concerning a turnover support. The same was true of the shutdown aid. It was an announcement in this House that forced the government to produce shutdown aid after a decision was taken on the temporary covid-19 law. The extension of reduced social security contributions was also driven by the Riksdag – and so on, and so on. Then the Minister of Economic Affairs chose to repeat once again that hundreds of billions should have been paid out to traders. The Minister of Finance usually says that the emergency measures taken amount to approximately SEK 374 billion. But yesterday the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise came with a review where they have gone through the decided support measures and to what extent they have reached the individual traders. They say that only 87 billion have been used by the announced 374 billion. That's an incredible difference. It's not miscalculation money. It's not coffee money. It is almost 300 billion that should have been decided according to the Minister for Finance but that according to the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise has not benefited the individual traders. I let the figures stand for the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, but I would still like to hear the Minister for Economic Affairs' answer to this, because the Minister for Economic Affairs has twice during this interpellation debate highlighted that so much money has been paid out. Others therefore argue that this is not the case at all.
i-6274be86d558cdda-276	Madam President, I would like No, it is not the Moderates who are to make proposals. It is the government that has a queue of entrepreneurs who say: We can help with proposals that allow us to keep open! Then the government must be able to respond to the entrepreneurs and tell us in this House what they have said and why it has not come into place. As we have heard here today, we have had to push the government before us to get support measures in place. This was well stated in the previous speech. Today, we have again heard stories from reality. The question remains: Will the Kastrull uprising make the government reconsider? It's about being open and covidproof at the same time. After the previous debate, I received a speech from an entrepreneur who wrote: How well described! Retroactively destructive. It is a scandal how long it will take before the subsidies from August last year come. Persevering and persevering, as repeated by representatives of the government, is very difficult for many entrepreneurs right now. I hope the government listens to you. The Government is now given the opportunity to respond to this in its last debate. Are you listening to the companies? Will you come up with solutions? How does the Government think about this long time since August last year when companies have had to wait for support? I would also like an answer on whether the restaurants that have lost almost all their turnover due to restrictions on covid-19 will be considered for this closure if you do not intend to give support to hits. I do not like polarising, because it is about culture, the travel industry and everyone who falls between the chairs, even those who deliver sounds, pictures and other events. Government! The government! They're not shutting down. They live on the margins. Should you starve your businesses?
i-6274be86d558cdda-282	Madam President, I would like I believe that we all recognise the cause of the great difficulties experienced as a restaurant operator, as a cultural operator, as a travel entrepreneur, as an entrepreneur in parts of the commercial sector, and so on. We are in the worst pandemic we have experienced in modern times, with all the effects it has. It is not something that we are alone in, but something that is going on throughout the world. Of course we look at other countries and compare. It is clear that we are trying to learn from them but also to implement measures in a way that works. I have full understanding and respect for the frustration of many restaurant owners who go out and protest at 3 a.m. Of course, they want to do their utmost to carry out activities that may have been built up for a long time. It is also against this background that we are trying to help. I also understand the frustration that it may take some time if the application for some reason is not complete at first. I can also understand why it seems that political decision-making processes are taking far too long. A measure announced in November does not apply immediately. But Members of Parliament know very well that this is the case. We have a constitution, and we have laws to follow as a government as well. In addition, these aids often need to be approved by the European Union. Nevertheless, we are doing our utmost to find solutions forward in close dialogue with business representatives and individual companies. Madam President, I would like Yes, it's a very tough situation. However, I would remind Members – this may be surprising to hear – that thanks to the companies and our joint actions we even had fewer bankruptcies in 2020 than in 2019. It is also important to remember.
i-6274be86d558cdda-286	Madam President, I would like Lorena Delgado Varas has asked me whether I will work to ensure that Sweden supports the proposal presented in Trips for an exemption for the intellectual property regime regarding covid-19 vaccines, for the waiver of patent and licensing rules, and for vaccines to be distributed as necessary on the basis of countries' economic conditions in order to have a greater global impact against proliferation. Sweden and the EU are actively working to ensure global access to covid-19 vaccines, both politically and financially. This is a matter both of global solidarity and of protecting our own population – no one is safe until the pandemic has stopped everywhere, and vaccination plays a very important role. At the same time, it is of the utmost importance that all vaccine candidates are thoroughly tested and approved before vaccination starts, and this takes time. Today vaccination has started in some fifty countries, but we are still at an early stage of vaccination, with around 40 million doses of vaccine given in the world. Sweden is part of the EU's joint vaccine strategy and is thus also part of the global vaccine co-operation C ovax, where the EU and the Member States are so far the largest donor. Sweden has contributed SEK 100 million to Covax to help make future vaccines available to low and middle income countries. The EU has contributed a great deal of resources to vaccine research, through its pre-purchase agreements with crucial financial resources that enable and accelerate the development and testing of promising vaccine candidates and contribute to the development of production capacity, which benefits all countries, not just our own population. The government is closely following the discussion that arose in Trips following the initiative of India and South Africa on a temporary exemption from the intellectual property rules in connection with covid-19. On the Swedish side, we support the EU's position in the discussions that the existing IPR regulations create the conditions for combating covid-19 in the world and that they neither prevent nor hinder access to medicines for low- and middle-income countries. Several other countries share this assessment, including Norway and the United Kingdom. It may be added that the flexibility already offered by the TRIPs Agreement on compulsory licences is also a possible way forward to ensure access to vaccines at a reasonable cost. Patents and other intellectual property rights create incentives for companies to invest in developing medicines, such as vaccines. At the same time, however, it is a simplification that the question of access to vaccines is only about intellectual property. The real obstacles to fair access to vaccines are rather a high demand combined with insufficient production capacity, where Sweden continues to contribute through EU cooperation. The government will continue to work to ensure global access to covid-19 vaccines.
i-6274be86d558cdda-292	Madam President, I would like As the Minister points out, the vaccines must of course be tested and approved before vaccination starts. I don't think anyone here wants to play with quality. I myself have worked in the pharmaceutical industry and know very well how hard you work within the different ranks to ensure that. But the problem is not there. The world has more pharmaceutical companies than Astra Zeneca, Pfizer and Modern and more facilities that produce drugs, including vaccines. The problem is actually a struggle against time. It is a struggle to access enough doses of vaccine to stop the disease globally. The thoughts about it can go in different directions. I would like to see that the ideas were about human rights and solidarity. But in these cynical times, I believe that more attention is paid to the need to stop the disease because we need to get society and the economy going. Explained in simple words: We need to stop the Corona, and it needs to happen globally. It's not enough for us to stop Corona here. We really need to bring all the countries that are affected with us. This is particularly true of those who are currently experiencing enormous crises due to non-functioning healthcare systems. How do we increase volumes? We do not do that by waiting for the ordered batches that are being produced. They are already calculated according to the production capacity of the current vaccine-producing companies. In addition, they are already sold and already have a destination. 39 million doses of covid-19 vaccine have already been distributed in 49 high-income countries, while little 25 doses have been given to a low-income country. We can clearly see how the vaccine will be distributed in the world. The Government mentions the global collaboration to distribute vaccines, Covax. Unfortunately, however, the Government is not transparent enough to mention that cooperation is limping. This is partly because the rich countries have bought up the vaccine. This is something that the Secretary-General of the WHO, Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, pointed out as late as 18 January this year. The Government itself replies that the main obstacle to global vaccination is insufficient production capacity. At the same time, we know that many countries cannot afford to pay for the vaccine needs they have. In this respect, it is not possible to get away from the fact that we need more people who can produce the vaccine. That is why we need to give the opportunity to local smaller producers so that they can make cheap copies of giant companies' vaccines. What is the real concern about the temporary relaxation of patent and licence rights until we have managed to stop the pandemic globally?
i-6274be86d558cdda-301	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Lorena Delgado Varas for highlighting this incredibly important issue! I would like to begin by affirming how important it is that we now think on the basis of solidarity in these difficult times. It is indeed a key question of how we can quickly get the various types of vaccines to the whole world and, above all, to the developing countries that do not have the opportunity to obtain them themselves. I would like to emphasise that I share that view. I would like to comment on what the Government of Ardalan ShekarabiS) is about Covax. Sweden, as I said through the EU, is part of this global vaccine cooperation. Sweden is a very large contributor in this. I would also like to agree there with Lorena Delgado Varas that we must ensure that there is effective cooperation and distribution. Now we also have production challenges with regard to the vaccine. But that should not prevent us from raising our eyes and thinking in solidarity and global distribution. When we have production challenges, it is obvious that we should look at whether we can find other production channels and other countries that can produce generics, copies and so on. I would like to return to the TRIPs Agreement and the existing regulatory framework. It contains flexibility. There we need to look at whether we can find exceptions to the regulatory framework, that is, exceptions to the intellectual property protection of the major pharmaceutical companies. There is the possibility of having a flexibility in the Trip Agreement. As Swedish Minister for Trade, I really want to push for the flexibility that exists in the regulatory framework and encourage applications for what is called compulsory licences. It is therefore possible to force patent holders to allow production in other countries in order to obtain the vaccine quickly. There are several different instruments on which we can play in this regard, precisely with a view to thinking in solidarity and globally. It is crucial in the fight against pandemics to think globally, not only for reasons of solidarity but also for epidemiological reasons. From a Swedish perspective, I would also like to point out that it is not enough that we contribute 100 million to Covax. We shall also ensure that there is effective cooperation. There we have a responsibility as contributors to ensure that Covax works fully. Madam President, I would like In this context, I would like to mention what Sweden is pushing in another area. We already took an initiative last spring that we call Trade for Health. This means that we will remove protective tariffs and trade barriers for medicines and medical products. It is in order that, in the light of solidarity, we can supply developing countries that do not have the opportunity to produce their own products. For example, it can be a question of ventilators and not just of vaccines. It is about removing barriers to trade in order to ensure health care in these countries that do not have their own resources. There the European Commission has taken this so-called Swedish Initiative further and runs it within the framework of a WTO group. We're gonna play a lot of strings here. We shall be active, constructive and proactive in this regard.
i-6274be86d558cdda-311	Madam President, I would like The flexibility mentioned by the Government regarding compulsory licensing has proved to be very difficult. There are very many countries that have pointed it out and that have tried to use it. It hasn't been possible. It's not a quick fix, which is what we need right now. Trade for Health is a good initiative. But that does not solve the problem of production capacity and the enormous volumes that we need. I will continue to highlight the proposals made by South Africa and India. What does that really mean? It gives exactly the flexibility that the Government is talking about through the application of exceptions to patent rights. This is something that can be implemented if the countries agree to it. It is really important that Sweden makes its own position and perhaps dares to break out of the EU's position. This would result in countries not having to impose patent and other intellectual property requirements on all covid-19-related drugs and on technology, vaccines, diagnostics, masks and ventilators. This would allow countries to scale up production and distribution. It's something we really need. Some countries do not expect to have the actual need met until 2024. We can't have countries in the world that don't have their vaccination volume covered until 2024. What is the basis for this? The 2001 Doha Declaration stated that countries have the right to import or manufacture generic medicines for diseases that pose a threat to public health. There we are. Corona is a threat to public health and a threat globally. This has been a debate of all time. Patent rights on medicines and pharmaceutical companies' huge profits versus the right to health as a fundamental human right is an ongoing discussion. Unfortunately, the pharmaceutical companies work on the basis of securing profits for their shareholders, and then it is important for them to have a balance between innovation and profit-making drugs. If a medicinal product does not produce enough profit, it is not of interest. Patent rights guarantee profits for companies, and they are maintained for a fairly long period – a full 20 years. They can also be extended. But patents do not lead to innovation; that is not the incentive. That is not what drives drug development forward. On the contrary, it is clear that pharmaceutical companies are waking up when their patents are going out. They have to fill the portfolio with a new, profit-making drug. Meanwhile, poor countries are allowed to buy expensive medicines. This system works neither in normal times nor – let alone – during a burning pandemic, when over 2 million people have died. The crisis clearly shows that the system of medicines needs to be changed. Since we need to find a solution to increase production capacity here and now, we need to relax the patent rules.
i-6274be86d558cdda-320	Madam President, I would like Let me back down a little bit and say that the light in the dark times we are living in now is that the research has been able to focus on so short a time and produce and get approved vaccines that are now on the market. Last spring, around the turn of February, when I met the pharmaceutical industry, it was said that it was expected to take at least three years, and now it has gone this fast. And hopefully there are also more vaccines coming in. Having said that, of course, as I said earlier, we must work to ensure that this vaccine comes out now and that we can ensure global access to the various vaccines. I want to make that clear, and it is indeed a question of international solidarity. But if there are vaccines to be distributed, the intellectual property acquis will emerge. We all agree that there must be research and an incentive to develop new medicines, in this case vaccines, if there is to be any vaccine to distribute. This brings the intellectual property acquis into the discussion. This is particularly true of patents. It is incredibly important that we have patents and that there is a robust regulatory framework around it in order for there to be incentives for research and also for the development of pharmaceuticals. Society depends entirely on industry and other actors making these extensive and costly investments in research. Now society has contributed a great deal with the fact that the states, and not least the EU, have gone in to fund and take a risk. Therefore, the research has also been able to move so quickly around this current vaccine. Now the vaccine has arrived, and who will be allowed to take part in it? Then we are talking about the intellectual property acquis, which we have discussed here. It has been raised in several crises in the past, as Lorena Delgado Varas probably also knows because she knows the area. When a crisis comes, it is quite understandable to want to intervene and make sure to find solutions so that more people can quickly access the medicine in question. It is quite understandable that this is the case as well. What can you do, and what can you do to use the regulatory framework that still exists? I would like to say that what is called flexibility under the TRIPs framework is wording that allows for the possibility of requiring compulsory licensing. This means that we can actually force patent holders to distribute and sell the patented medicine without their consent. When we have had these discussions – and there are ongoing discussions within the EU – the EU, in particular, has expressed its willingness to help with such applications when there is interest on the part of the administration. It can also be mentioned that the WTO Secretariat has produced manuals for applications for compulsory licensing, and the WTO says that it must not be complicated. It shouldn't be complicated. We must all help each other so that we can use this existing regulatory framework. It is the EU's position right now, and Sweden supports it and is also pushing for it to be simple and flexible. With regard to the generic production of the domestic market in other countries, and in as many countries as possible, it goes without saying that we should try to get it up and running within the framework of this regulatory framework. As Swedish Minister for Trade, I will really work to ensure that we can use the flexibility in the Trip system when it comes to this and when the applications come in. Demands should also be made for the WTO and for the EU to help with the applications.
i-6274be86d558cdda-330	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by pointing out that I believe that the major vaccine manufacturers can spare a few years of their patents in favour of saving lives. They will have licenses that last long enough. In addition, they have already sold the closest production; they have secured a fairly large profit. I would also like to highlight what the Government mentioned about research. I would like to remind you that a large part of the research on vaccines, as the Government said, is funded by tax funds. It is not the pharmaceutical companies that have financed it. Some of the research had been carried out before the pandemic, because this disease existed before the pandemic broke out, and some have been carried out afterwards. For example, Moderna received SEK 20 billion from the U.S. government to finish researching the vaccine. Astra Zeneca received about 20 billion both from the EU and from the US. Pfizer has received a grant in that the German State has financed entirely the company Biontech, which has developed the vaccine for Pfizer. I very much hope that the government will have the courage to take its own position during the March meeting when it will decide on the proposals of India and South Africa and whether they will go through. This is one of the important steps towards global vaccination. As I said, no country is safe until all countries are safe. I really think we need to see how we can both improve and expand the production of vaccines.
i-6274be86d558cdda-334	Madam President, I would like Sweden is often a clear, constructive and active voice. We are a pressing voice within the framework of the European Union, as in this case too. Sweden and other Member States are represented in this context by the EU. This applies, inter alia, to the March meeting referred to by Lorena Delgado Varas, which is to take place within the framework of the WTO, where the proposals of India and South Africa are addressed. But it is clear that Sweden also has the opportunity to influence the EU's attitude and to act as a driving force. I would really like to emphasise that I will continue to work on the need for low- and middle-income countries to have access to vaccines. Perhaps this is particularly true of low-income countries and developing countries. There must be a vision of solidarity in this. The regulatory framework in place must be able to be used flexibly without making major changes to the regulatory framework, because it is also time-consuming. If we now have flexibility in the regulatory framework and we get stuck because of an administrative burden, bureaucracy and so on, that is of course not acceptable. It is therefore also important to ensure the effectiveness of the regulatory framework and compliance with the flexible exemptions and so-called compulsory licences. This should certainly be applicable in this case – not to wait until 2024 or even 2022 or 2023, but of course this will come into place much faster. Time isn't with us now. It's against us. It's urgent. I agree with that. Sweden will be a driving force for this to be effectively managed within the framework of the current regulatory framework.
i-6274be86d558cdda-339	Madam President, I would like Lorena Delgado Varas has asked me four questions. The first question is: When will Sweden stop contributing to climate disaster investments? The second question is: how long does the Government think it will take before the regulatory framework for investment is brought into line with the Paris Agreement of 2015? The third question is: What does the Government intend to do in order for Sweden to be a role model and lead the way in the matter, for example by changing the regulations already now? The fourth question is: will the Government press for an investigation into the matter to stop this investment? Madam President, I would like I share Delgado Vara's view that climate change is an international issue. Sweden will also play a driving role in the work for sustainable international trade in line with the global goals and the Paris Agreement. The new export and investment strategy presented by the Government in December 2019 includes several important efforts to contribute to the achievement of the objectives of the Paris Agreement. It is important to create positive incentives for change both in Sweden and in the world. One of the efforts in the export and investment strategy means that by 2022, that is, next year, Swedish export credits to other countries' investments for the exploration and extraction of fossil fuels. In addition, the Government has recently made decisions that mean that the Export Credit Board, EKN, in consultation with Swedish Export Credit, SEK, will report how the credit granting can be adapted to be in line with the Paris Agreement and not create lock-in in fossil dependence. The impact of business on other Agenda 2030 sustainability goals, both positive and negative, will and will be taken into account in the overall assessment. Vietnam, as mentioned in the question, is planning an airport expansion. In the event that Vietnam chooses to purchase equipment from Swedish companies, EKN and SEK have written a joint letter with a letter of intent to contribute with loans and guarantees in case of possible export of Swedish goods and services to this extension. The country has not yet decided which supplier they choose. Aviation is part of the global transport system and, of course, aviation, like other areas, must contribute to climate change. As I explained, the government has recently introduced several sustainability criteria within the export financing system to prevent lock-in in fossil dependence. These criteria, together with other measures, will strengthen the export financing system while also actively contributing to climate change. We will now implement and implement the new guidelines we have decided on. However, on the question of whether an investigation will be set up to stop, for example, loans and guarantees that can go to Swedish companies so that they can deliver products and services specifically to airport extensions, the answer is no. When most of a company's manufacturing goes on export, a functioning Swedish export credit system is of great importance for our Swedish companies – which are often world leaders in developing products and services that contribute to sustainability – to be able to compete on the same terms as companies in other countries. And the e xport financing system is important for our Swedish companies to be able to win business in a stiffened international competition. Finally, on the basis of Delgado Vara's questions, there are some clarifications about how the Swedish export financing system works. Neither S vensk Export Credit nor the E Xport Credit Board are using any tax funds on an ongoing basis or making their own investments. Thus, SEK and EKN cannot, of course, make any investments abroad. SEK is a state-owned company with profit requirements that lends financing to Swedish export companies, their subcontractors and foreign customers. EKN is an authority without ongoing government funding that has the Government's mission to promote Swedish exports and the internationalisation of Swedish companies. It takes EKN by insuring export companies and banks against the risk of not getting paid for their goods or services by their customers abroad, so that export companies can carry out more secure export transactions. The government is working to strengthen Sweden's international competitiveness and at the same time contribute to the green transition. In this spirit, Sweden, within the framework of the EU and the OECD, among other things, will continue to push for the international and European regulatory frameworks for export credits and other public trade finance to contribute to the achievement of the global goals for sustainable development and the fulfilment of the Paris Agreement.
i-6274be86d558cdda-350	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the clarification of the Government. It was a bit sloppy of me to write investments when it comes to lending and standing as a guarantor for loans. But it enables business that does not contribute to positive impacts on the climate. And as the government itself describes EKN and SEK, they are catalysts for necessary investments. In this case, it's an airport in Vietnam. What I wonder is if there are no other business you could support instead. Can we not use the resources to support business that has a positive impact on the climate? There is a great need in this area, so how can there be room to support climate disaster business? This applies not only to Vietnam; there are other projects that have also been supported by EKN and SEK. Some of them have been discussed earlier in this House. By supporting the right business, we are following our international commitments and helping companies find the right place in the transition they have to make. When the Government mentions that the Export Credit Board and Swedish Export Credit will account for how credit can be adapted to be in line with the Paris Agreement and not create lock-in in fossil dependence, it is of course very welcome. I read the report from the Swedish Export Credit Board on the mission received from the government to review how Swedish and international export financing systems will contribute to a clear transition and a significant reduction in greenhouse gas emissions. It highlights how important it is to achieve a common regulatory framework within the EU and the OECD, and ultimately globally, so that export funding can contribute to reducing greenhouse gas emissions while at the same time competing on a level playing field. Will the government wait for the EU and the OECD, or will Sweden go ahead and change the regulations now? I didn't think that was clear enough in the answer – preferably a yes or a no.
i-6274be86d558cdda-355	Madam President, I would like I can begin by answering Lorena Delgado Vara's last question. We already do, I would like to respond. I'll develop it a little bit. As Delgado Varas points out, in March 2020 EKN was tasked with reviewing, together with Svensk Exportkredit, how we, Sweden and our authorities, can contribute to the international export financing system changing and contributing to reduced emissions. After all, Sweden has limited opportunities to do this on its own. As we heard, their report came in September, and it is based on several documents. It is not just their own letter to the House, so to speak, but they have spoken to a number of companies, civil society, climate scientists and stakeholder organisations. They have also mapped out what other countries are doing in this area. The report notes that the Swedish export credit system's ability to influence the global climate per se is limited. However, this is not a reason not to try to influence the global arena, not least in the financial markets in which these two players are moving. I am convinced that EKN and SEK, and especially Sweden, can act as a catalyst to drive changes both in international regulations and in the individual actions of other countries and individual companies. On the basis of the report received in September, the Government decided in December on a new regulatory letter for the Export Credit Board. There we also gave a mandate to report back on how to succeed in developing the export financing system. We are also putting a mission on them to be extra active in this. It will contribute to climate change towards fossil freedom, not only here but also in other countries. We have set out three key messages in this mission, in which we want to direct our authorities in terms of precisely contributing in this way. The first is that EKN should be able to account for how their lending – and this also applies to Swedish Export Credit – can be adapted to be in line with the Paris Agreement. For each individual decision you make – giving a credit or providing a guarantee – you should also be able to explain what sustainability effects it has. Have we made demands on sustainability? Does the company comply with this? In the long run, companies that do not live sustainably, either socially or environmentally, also have no long-term competitiveness. That is our absolute conviction. This is therefore good for businesses, but above all it is good for the world, for the climate, for human rights and so on. It should also be possible to explain the impact of the transaction on other sustainability goals within Agenda 2030. Now we talk a lot of climate here, but I really want to highlight all 17 sustainability goals. The second area is that we should try a completely new form of guarantees in EKN, that is, that we should be able to guarantee investments in Sweden that contribute to the climate change in Sweden. There we also go ahead and try to find transition guarantees – that we get solutions that change and create an even faster pace towards a fossil-free society. The third area, on which we decided in December, is that Sweden, within the framework of the EU and the OECD, can highlight how the regulatory framework and all other public trade financing at global level can contribute to the Paris Agreement and the Agenda 2030 objectives. We are going to create common ground rules, and I actually believe that Sweden is one of the most driving forces in this. We'll be proud of that.
i-6274be86d558cdda-364	Madam President, I would like It may not be as fast as we would like, but it is clear that there have been steps that have been important to take, including ending Swedish export credits to other countries for the exploration and extraction of fossil fuels. I'm thinking a little bit about reporting. Many times the government has gone forward with sustainability reports and those things where it has not set clear goals to relate to. It has turned out that the changes are not as fast as they could be when you do not have legal requirements. The Swedish Society for Environmental Protection came up with criticism last year about export credits – it was just before it was developed with fossil fuels – and mentioned raw material extraction as power generation. It also includes transport and infrastructure projects with this aim, i.e. reducing climate impact. I wonder if the government is willing to bring it.
i-6274be86d558cdda-368	Madam President, I would like I very much agree with follow-up and reporting. It's central when you put this kind of mission on government agencies. We've done it here, too. There are requirements for reporting back on how the export financing system develops in a direction that contributes to climate change and fossil freedom – as has been said, not only here but also in other countries. This also includes reporting requirements regarding the impact on the international export financing system. As Lorena Delgado Varas says, we have taken the first step, and there we have gone further than many other countries and beyond the international regulatory framework. We prohibit the public export financing system from contributing to the exploration and extraction of fossil fuels. It's the first step. Then you can look at transport and other types of export to solutions that are not entirely fossil-free. It's not black or white, it's a gray scale here. I think transport is a good example. We've been looking at this a lot: where are we going to draw the line and how quickly are we going to move forward? The first step we are very proud of, and we will try to get other actors in the system to also contribute in the same way and thus close credits to the extraction of fossil fuels. The second step is to do so in line with what each country needs right now. That is why it is important to look at this change. For example, if we guarantee or fund exports to a transport system in a country that is totally dependent on fossil fuels but has an agenda for conversion and this particular transport solution, this particular Swedish export, contributes to the transformation – then it is an environmentally sustainable investment and export solution. That is an important balance. Many countries are far behind Sweden when it comes to even being close to being able to think fossil-free. This whole conversion thinking means that the requirement for our authorities' borrowers is that they should be able to account for how they contribute to the transformation. One might think: Are we really going to have a Swedish means of transport in a country that is totally fossil dependent? Yes, we think so from the government's side. We think that with our much more climate-smart transport solutions we can contribute to the transformation itself, in addition to the purely social context that we also contribute to social sustainability. But maybe it's another interpellation debate. Let's talk about climate and environment here. I believe that Swedish solutions certainly help to move in the right direction, but there must also be requirements for a conversion plan.
i-6274be86d558cdda-376	Madam President, I would like As we all know, the climate issue is not just a national issue but a global one. We must have an environmental and climate policy that clearly indicates that what we do outside Sweden also affects the climate positively or negatively. We want it to have a positive impact. We have a net zero target which should also take into account investments abroad. Swedish companies need to make a climate transition and find other types of projects, create new products and get support in it. I believe that by making higher demands we support the companies that have actually worked to reset and find new products to be able to work in new markets, but we also push for the remaining companies to speed up this process. I believe that the projects that are positive for the climate need all the investments that can be made available. We have enormous problems with the climate, and we will see the effects more and more.
i-6274be86d558cdda-381	Madam President, I would like I must stress that it is indeed the case that many world-leading Swedish companies are well ahead in terms of climate change. The companies themselves really want Sweden to take the lead in this area, and they contribute to it. Exports of green and climate-smart technology from Sweden are seen all the time, and this contributes to reduced climate emissions. Of those countries that have not come as far as we want many to live up to climate commitments, but cannot, and then we need to come out with our technical solutions. We will also look at how we in our aid can contribute even more with Swedish solutions so that it goes even faster in those countries that want but may not have the ability or opportunity. That is a work that we must constantly work with in our policies and our performance in our agencies from many quarters. In the sustainability assessment, the Export Credit Board, which is under my authority in this case, shall take into account sustainability risks not only in the buyer country but also at a global level. We are placing that responsibility more and more clearly on the authority. As far as aviation is concerned, which was a separate question, I would like to come back to the fact that it goes without saying that the flight has to change. It is a global means of transport that we have ahead of us and which has great challenges but which are here to stay, at least within a limited time. We'll see what happens in the future. The aviation industry must change and must ensure that it is part of the green recovery. Instead of putting forward proposals that stop credit guarantees for airport extensions and so on, we need to make sure that requirements are also made for this industry and those sectors so that with our Swedish products we also contribute to sustainability in the aviation sector.
