i-a5905ed4527799f8-1	Madam President, I would like AnnAnn-Sofie Alm has asked me what measures I will take to improve the planning of the Migration Agency's decisions. I intend to ensure that the right resources are available in the municipalities that suddenly get a large number of people of different ages and with different backgrounds to their housing in the municipality and what measures I will take to ensure that the Migration Agency can provide municipalities with better foresight regarding decisions that affect them. The background is that Vänersborg municipality has received 100 children who have been moved to the municipality through the agency of the Finnish Immigration Service at short notice. The current housing in Vänersborg, mentioned by Ann-Ann-Sofie Alm, is housing for asylum seekers. A large proportion of those seeking asylum in Sweden are refused their application and must leave the country. Those who receive a residence permit and live in the temporary housing of the Finnish Immigration Service in Vänersborg will be subject to the instructions of a municipality of residence. It is therefore not the intention that all asylum seekers who move to temporary housing in Vänersborg should remain and be integrated into Vänersborg. The number of asylum seekers has fallen sharply in the late years. In order to adapt the operations to a reduced need for temporary housing, the Finnish Immigration Service has discontinued operations in some municipalities. Some asylum seekers then need to move to temporary housing in other municipalities. When asylum seekers move children, the new municipality will be obliged to offer schooling. I understand that it is a challenge for the municipality to offer schooling to many new children in a short time. The fact that the municipality receives information as early as possible about new asylum seekers' pupils for whom responsibility is required is therefore important. When major changes in temporary dwellings occur, for example if housing is decommissioned, the Finnish Immigration Service informs the municipalities affected as early as possible. The municipality's costs for asylum seekers children's schooling are reimbursed by flat-rate benefits paid by the Finnish Immigration Service. The flat-rate allowance is intended to cover the municipal costs of children's schooling for asylum seekers. The municipality also receives compensation for children placed under the Social Services Act or the Act on the Care of Young People. At present, it is not relevant for the government to regulate more closely the Migration Board's dialogue with the municipalities in the event of changes in the stock of temporary dwellings.
i-a5905ed4527799f8-8	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I have raised this debate because the Migration Agency and the Government do not treat asylum seekers either individuals or the municipal staff respectfully when it comes to the shutdown of accommodations and the relocation of residents. It is remarkable, Madam President, that the Migration Agency cannot give the municipalities any advance in their decisions to move people to another location. This has been going on to a large extent ever since the great wave of refugees in 2015, and it is surprising that there is still such a lack of communication between our various authorities in Sweden. Of course, it is not uncommon for government authorities to have to cut back on their activities and therefore undergo conversion processes. Major conversions also involve risks. The risk is that important competences can be lost if you suffer from growing processing times. If the changeover is initiated late or slow, unnecessary costs may also arise. But even if the authorities have internal organizational chaos, the Swedish authorities must meet individuals and partners with respect. It is ultimately the government's responsibility. Vänersborg municipality, which is one of the places that has left a large asylum and refugee home, has up to 100 children to place in different schools at very short notice. Although the Migration Agency says that they are planning for the movers quite a long time in advance, the municipalities are told at very short notice that there will be people but not who will come. The recipient municipalities do not know the age of the children – if they know this, they can plan employment of teachers or class divisions. Madam President, I would like It is therefore with great wonder that I hear the Minister reply and the municipalities: at present, it is not up to the government to regulate more closely the Migration Board's dialogue with the municipalities in the event of changes in the stock of temporary dwellings. Madam President, I would like Forgive me for resorting to force in this House, but we really need to put our fists on the table and tell them that this is no longer going to last. This order is not good for anyone. Ultimately, it is individuals and children who get caught. As the President understands, Vänersborg Municipality and civil society have taken an enormous responsibility in this, not only locally but also nationally. It has opened large arms and taken care of all asylum seekers professionally but also emotionally. These people are not just tiles in a big puzzle game. They're friends. They're kids' classmates. They're football buddies and colleagues. But the Migration Board continues to move around these individuals and families as if they were pieces of the puzzle. But what puzzle should be laid? Is that the budget puzzle? Or is it, as I hope, an integration puzzle? Two questions in the interpellation were left entirely unanswered, Madam President. I would like to start by asking the Minister: how does the Minister intend to ensure that the right resources are available in the municipalities that suddenly have a large number of people of different ages and backgrounds for their housing in the municipality? The right resources are needed, and it does not have to be more difficult than a timely dialogue.
i-a5905ed4527799f8-16	Madam President, I would like You can always choose which issues you address and which issues you focus on – what you think are major problems in society. AnnAnn-Sofie Alm chooses to raise this issue – that there will be a number of children of a municipality who will then offer schooling. In the interpellation, it says that there are up to 100 children. It's not 100 kids. We checked it out. It's 38 kids. There are 38 children who have arrived in Vänersborg during the period January to August this year, when the facilities in Mariestad and Borås were closed. So there have been 38 children in eight months to Vänersborg. Then the question is: Is it much or little for a municipality of the size of Vänersborg? Does AnnAnn-Sofie Alm know how many people go to school in Vänersborg? I've looked into that. There are 4,894 children, and it's only in elementary school. Then there are the preschool children and high school. My question is really about Ann-Ann-Sofie Alm's proportions. How difficult is it for a municipality of this size to take care of 38 children who over eight months have come to the municipality? There are already at least 5,000 children at school, and families are constantly moving into the municipality and out of the municipality. It's constantly moving, so to speak. In addition, Vänersborg receives state support for this schooling. The state pays between SEK 65 000 and SEK 119 000 per year for children's schooling for asylum seekers. This is an amount that we raised by 50 percent in 2016. It is therefore not only that we are talking about a much smaller number of children than Ann-Ann-Sofie Alm has suggested, but also that the municipality is paid for their schooling. AnnAnn-Sofie Alm also takes in, as she said, with power expression. This was terrible. Does this roll over Vänersborg's economy? Is it something that kind of challenges the whole of society? We looked into this with regard to Vänersborg, and last year Vänersborg went with an economic surplus of SEK 161 million. It was the largest surplus that Vänersborg has ever recorded. You can choose which conflicts, questions and problems you raise, but in my opinion it should not be an insurmountable problem for a municipality with 39 000 inhabitants, which Vänersborg has, to receive 38 children over eight months. In fact, we should be able to do that, and I believe that we can do the same. Then the background is exactly what I am sketching out in my interpellation response, namely that we now have a reduction in the number of asylum seekers, the least in 20 years. This means that we phase out a number of accommodations and instead concentrate on a number of larger accommodations. It is often good from a social point of view – you can do a good job in these asylum homes. It is also more cost-effective than before. Here we have Restad Gård in Vänersborg, which is a fantastic facility. I have visited it several times and know that it works very well as an asylum accommodation. That's why they've received more when we close down the smaller places. It is clear that you should always inform the municipality as soon as you can, for example when it is public that you should close down an activity in another municipality. However, to inflate a question of 38 children in eight months as if this were a big, insurmountable problem, I do not think it is quite the right proportion.
i-a5905ed4527799f8-26	Madam President, I would like This is not an insurmountable problem for Vänersborg municipality. They are used to taking care of many people who come, because they have one of the largest residents in Sweden. After the restructuring of the Migration Agency's accommodation, this is the only large accommodation in West Sweden. The fact that there are 100 children is true, because it is the number of children in the migration homes around that will close down. These will probably move to the Migration Board's accommodation in Vänersborg. There are not 38 students; there are 32 students in preschool class to grade 9 who have come to Vänersborg so far this year. You wait for 22 more from Mellerud's quarters, but you don't know if they're all coming. What the Minister says, that it is not excessive, is almost a little arrogant, Madam President. It is the responsibility of the Finnish Immigration Service, the Minister, to alert the receiving municipalities so that they can receive them in an orderly reception. Is this turning over the economy in Vänersborg? No, of course it doesn't. But again, this is about respect for each other and telling people not to get caught. Of course, it's a cost. The Finnish Immigration Service pays a flat-rate allowance for students, and that allowance is general, not needs-adapted. Some of the students who will have been traumatized, ended up living there during the two years of establishment, and now they are uprooted again. This means that you don't know what needs these students have. So it will be much more expensive than the flat-rate compensation. Madam President, I would like It is of course positive that people come to Vänersborg municipality. No one has questioned it. But I question very strongly that the Migration Agency cannot have a foresight in its decisions so that it can be good for these people. This will be costly for the municipality in the form of, among other things, supply support, SFI and social information. The start-up aid is only paid by the state for two years, and that train has gone. These people don't have any start-up support left. Vänersborg Municipality's social services, I have checked, have a significant increase in the number of complaints, and the municipality's costs have increased from SEK 32 million in 2016 to SEK 49 million in 2020. It gets messy when people do not feel safe, and this, Madam President, is the responsibility of the Minister. Had the Migration Agency been able to have a better foresight in its dialogue with the receiving municipalities and the municipalities that migrants leave, it would have been a much better outcome.
i-a5905ed4527799f8-33	Madam President, I would like It is obvious that the Migration Agency as soon as you can communicate with the municipalities affected by different decisions. It is only that often when you are about to close down a business, you must first ensure that you communicate with, for example, the employees concerned so that, for example, the MBL negotiations are completed before you can announce that you intend to close down and then move. But once these formal things are done, you should also communicate with the municipalities involved. I'm telling you, the Migration Agency does. You take those contacts when you need to. What I reacted to is that Ann-Ann-Sofie Alm chooses to blow up that there have been 38 children to Vänersborg from January to August to a huge issue and bring it up in an interpellation debate in the Riksdag. As I said, it is a municipality where almost 5,000 children go to school and where they move in and out of people all the time. I have also been a municipal politician, and all municipalities have a willingness to make room for new children who come into being through new families moving into the municipality. AnnAnn-Sofie Alm focuses here on the immigrant children who move into the municipality as a result, but there are also many who move out by being placed in other municipalities. That is also the case, because this is an asylum accommodation. Here you should be during the time that you are waiting to hear from the Migration Agency if you are allowed to stay or not. It's about months. When you come to Sweden today and apply for asylum, the average processing time at the Finnish Immigration Service is about three months. Then there is an appeal period thereafter, but during those months you should have a place to live. Once you have been told if you are allowed to stay in Sweden, you should either be placed in a municipality or rejected from Sweden and simply go home to your home country again. Yes, 38 children have come from Mariestad and Borås from January to August, but during the same period children and families with children have also moved out because they have been placed in other municipalities. It is again a question of proportions. I am convinced that a municipality with 39 000 inhabitants and almost 5 000 children in school can actually manage if there are 38 children under eight months of age. Then again, it is a matter of course that as soon as the Migration Agency can communicate with the municipalities we are talking about, then you should also do so. AnnAnn-Sofie Alm then mentions the flat-rate allowance which she thinks is too low, I think it is. We increased the flat-rate allowance for asylum seekers children's schooling in 2016. As I said, it now amounts to between SEK 65 000 and SEK 119 000 per year depending on the grades we are talking about. We raised it by 50%. I have not seen that in any draft budget, the Moderates are pushing for an increase in the flat-rate allowance for this schooling. It is possible that Ann-Ann-Sofie Alm has a different opinion, but I have not seen anything like that. Here it is rather that Ann-Ann-Sofie Alm stands and sounds like she wants to raise, but in fact she has no coverage for that claim. The same is true of the start-up aid. Nor have I seen any moves by the Moderates to increase support. On the other hand, it is a debate that does not really belong here. It concerns asylum seekers who are granted a residence permit and are to be established in a municipality. That is the support we are talking about. If AnnAnn-Sofie Alm has any proper draft budgets from the Moderates that can cover the requirement for increased flat-rate payments, I am happy to listen. But I haven't seen anything like that.
i-a5905ed4527799f8-42	Madam President, I would like Vänersborg, of course, is just one example. It looks like that all over Sweden. The Finnish Immigration Service has far too poor a dialogue with the municipalities. The Minister says the Migration Agency will inform as early as possible. I think the minister even said they do that. That is a very strange statement. It's as close to a lie as you can get. What does it mean that the Migration Agency informs as early as possible? It could mean a note on a desk. The government needs to regulate how the dialogue with the municipalities should be conducted. This isn't good enough. The government's intention may not be that asylum seekers who move to temporary housing in Vänersborg should remain and be integrated, but the reality is different. For despite the fact that Vänersborg has had zero in the last four years in the number of municipalities, refugee reception of self-residents has been 220 persons in 2018, 42 persons in 2019 and 72 persons in 2020. It is of course good that people come to Vänersborg municipality, but I still want to know why the government does not want the Migration Agency to have a better dialogue with the municipalities so that there will be an arranged reception for the individuals who are transferred between the different temporary residents.
i-a5905ed4527799f8-45	Madam President, I would like I say that the Migration Agency informs you as soon as possible, but it is often preceded, as I said, by a process of informing employees and implementing the formal measures needed for closure. It is then possible to have a process with the municipalities concerned. I assume it happens, and I say it happens that way. Does a municipality like Vänersborg manage to receive 38 children under eight months? This is a municipality where almost 5,000 children go to school. Yeah, I'm saying you can do that. Does this overturn the finances of the municipality? No, it doesn't. Last year Vänersborg had more than 160 million in surplus. The greatest surplus ever. Are there things that can develop? I am sure that dialogue can be developed. But don't forget that the whole background is that the number of asylum seekers in Sweden has fallen sharply. That is why the restructuring must be done so that the smaller housing is closed down and there is a concentration on the larger housing. Then Ann-Ann-Sofie Alm says that Vänersborg has zero allocation. This is due, among other things, to the self-residence. Then she says it came 72 in 2020. I remind you once again that Vänersborg is a municipality with 39 000 inhabitants. That 72 asylum seekers are settled there-- is that really the big problem in society? Actually, I don't think so. This is a question of proportions, which one sometimes chooses to ignore. You make a big deal out of something that's not that big a problem really. I did not receive an answer from Ann-Ann-Sofie Alm if the Moderates have any suggestions to raise the flat-rate allowance to the school. I don't think you have it. Her criticism therefore falls to that point.
i-a5905ed4527799f8-51	Madam President, I would like Ann-Sofie Alm has asked me how I intend to ensure legal certainty in clarifying the applicant's identity in connection matters and what measures I am prepared to take to establish the applicant's identity. AnnAnn-Sofie Alm also asks what measures I intend to take to increase transparency between authorities and at the same time to prevent unlawful beatings in the Migration Board's register. The question is posed in the light of the fact that the Swedish National Audit Office has reviewed how the Migration Agency and the foreign authorities work with connection matters. It is important that people who stay in Sweden are the people they claim to be. That is why I and the government are very keen that the identity checks that should be carried out should also be carried out with high quality. The Government will, in the usual way, return with a letter to the Riksdag replying to the measures the Government intends to take in response to the recommendations made by the National Audit Office in its review of related matters. The matter is currently being prepared within the Government Office, and I do not wish to pre-empt the letter that will be sent to Parliament by 20 October 2021. With regard to the last issue of unlawful beatings, it is important that there are digital solutions that allow for more proactive work. Within the framework of the Swedish Migration Agency's digital transformation work, an ability to become better at detecting illegal beatings is currently being developed. This could lead, among other things, to an increase in the limitation of powers in processing support and a system for detecting deviations from the beatings made in the Migration Agency's register. In response to the question of increasing transparency between authorities, it is first and foremost important that the authorities make full use of the opportunities that already exist. However, the government is prepared to consider further measures to increase the ability of authorities to share important information between each other in order to access criminals, should this prove necessary.
i-a5905ed4527799f8-55	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. Lack of control over who lives in Sweden is an important reason for the nasty and extensive problems we see with serious organised crime, exclusion and benefit crime. Surely it has not escaped any problems with population records, mispayments and coordination numbers. The number of persons who have not proved their identity is around 200 000 – written at incorrect addresses in Sweden, according to the Swedish Tax Agency. Around 400 000 so-called coordination numbers have been issued for persons who are not or have been registered in Sweden. The fact that the Swedish National Audit Office has now shown major shortcomings in the work of the foreign authorities to clarify people's identity, such as those thinking of family immigrants to Sweden, is of course very uncertain to hear. The foreign authorities cannot therefore ensure, not even clarify, which person they authorise to apply for asylum. The Finnish Immigration Service does not control further but accepts the decisions of the foreign authorities. I understand that the Minister wants to await the government's full response to the Swedish National Audit Office's report on how to overcome the problems. They're extremely serious. But as the minister in charge for almost eight years, there should be at least an idea of what the government should do. After all, the Migration Board has warned on a number of occasions that people seeking and staying within the borders of our nation cannot be identified, nor that the persons in question have only one identity. In a letter to the Ministry of Justice on 12 February 2018, the Finnish Immigration Service requested amendments to the legislation in order to be able to include biometrics, i.e. photography and ten fingerprints, in relation to visits, students, extension and work permits in connection with the application. The letter was followed up on 30 November 2020 where the problem is raised again and the agency explicitly states that the Migration Agency currently has difficulties in identifying and verifying the identity of persons. So we have no idea who we meet on the street. Some of the things the Migration Board has pointed out in the letters are now late in the process of being addressed. But for example, the Migration Agency writes in its referral on this memorandum:... the Migration Agency has in other contexts... pointed to the need for increased support for the recording, storage and use of biometrics in the work's activities. It is to be welcomed that this proposal provides some support for the efficient use of the EES. However, on some points it would be desirable to clarify and extend the proposal. ..................................................... Madam President, I would like The question is not new and not unfamiliar. Nevertheless, in the response I received to this interpellation, the Minister is unanswered as to what measures the Government considers necessary to overcome the identity problems. So the question remains: what is the government going to do?
i-a5905ed4527799f8-63	Madam President, I would like No, actually, I'm not answerless. There'll be a line round here too, so I'm about to get into what's about to be done. But first only two words about this with the censuses, which Ann-Ann-Sofie Alm brings up. It has been and is a problem that people write themselves at the wrong address. There may be many reasons for this, but we have seen a criminality that has been linked precisely to writing on the wrong address in order to have access to various forms of grants or other things. We have seen this as a major problem, and that is why we reintroduced the civil record crime. Nowadays, it is forbidden, criminalized, to sign up for another address. I note that it was the Moderates who abolished the civil record crime once; it was the alliance government. So if Ann-Ann-Sofie Alm thinks this is a problem, I would like to ask her: Why did the Moderates abolish the civil record crime? Why did we have to reintroduce it as part of tackling the problem of cheating and falsification? At least now we've got it in place. This applies again for a couple of years – the civil record crime has been reintroduced. It was part of cleaning up some of the systems and in ongoing work to combat the cheating and the falsification that we have seen. We also do many other things in connection with this, but this was one of the things we did. When it comes to the connection cases and what the interpellation is really about, one must of course be able to determine as much as possible the identity of people when they come here as family members of former asylum seekers in Sweden. It is not always easy to establish people's identity in the countries we are talking about. Sweden has a unique history. We have a census dating back to the 1600s with the old church books and is one of the countries in the world that has the longest tradition of keeping track of who is born, who dies and when this has happened. We have a unique tradition in this area. It certainly does not exist in all countries. This is not kept at all in the same way, and let alone paper on which people are – not even birth data that can be confirmed. This is a reality in many countries that we are talking about. Nevertheless, as much as possible must be done to overcome this and to establish people's identity. This has also, I would say, become easier when the number of asylum seekers has fallen sharply in Sweden. Just take the connecting matters regarding the former asylum seekers, that is, when you have arrived here and been granted a residence permit here and want to bring the rest of your family here, i.e. spouse and your children; it's just the nuclear family we're talking about here. There we had a few years ago, 2017, almost 20 000 cases. This year we expect 3 000 cases. The fact that it has fallen so much means that it will be easier for the authorities to carry out the checks that need to be carried out in order to establish identity. I think more needs to be done. We have of course taken note of the Swedish National Audit Office's report, and the Swedish Migration Agency is now preparing an action plan that will be ready soon – it will be decided within a couple of weeks. I will not go into all the details, but I can mention that some of the measures that could be involved are to extend the training efforts of the staff working on this in the foreign authorities, to introduce a new type of checklist in the form of assessment protocols to clarify the examination and assessment of the identity documents, to acquire new technical equipment that increases the possibility of detecting false documents and, finally, to post ID experts to the foreign authorities in order to make a better audit of the documents. These are examples of measures that are being discussed in order to respond to these criticisms and improve these practices.
i-a5905ed4527799f8-73	Madam President, I would like The minister tries his habit faithful to blow up what the alliance government did instead of telling you how to deal with the problems when you have already been in government for eight years. The state must be able to determine who lives in Sweden in order to reverse developments in the country. I welcome the Minister's proposal to increase training efforts and ensure that there are more technical equipment in place. From what I understand, there are even various equipment at the Migration Agency's office here in Sweden. Thus, even here in Sweden, equivalent assessments cannot be made. Posting experts abroad is fantastic – for example, you can listen to what kind of dialect is spoken. There are very many different things you can access with the help of human expertise. But the Swedish people are still rightly asking why the government is so passive when it comes to the measures it wants to take to overcome identity problems. I am thinking, Madam President, whether the government does not really know what to do. In that case, I have some good suggestions from the Moderates, if the Minister would like to listen attentively. That's five healthy suggestions. The applicant's obligations should be clarified much better. It must be stated in law what obligations the person applying for asylum in Sweden has. An application for asylum and the submission of identity documents shall be made without delay. It happens that people are sent here with the foreign authority's stamp on who they are, and then they do not get on in Sweden but disappear along the way. The identity must be verified. Such a process must be central to the asylum process. It is clear that identity must be carefully investigated when a person comes to Sweden. I wonder, Madam President, whether the Minister is really counting on 3 000 family migrants this year – if I heard correctly. In such cases, this identity issue should be much easier to resolve. The Finnish Immigration Service and the police should cooperate more closely on identity issues. This requires a review of confidentiality legislation, and it may also require direct transparency between the respective authorities' information databases. A medical age assessment system must be established. If a residence permit is withdrawn, we must ensure that these matters are prioritised and pursued. The Migration Agency should be tasked with improving the quality of asylum investigations. There should be an investigation into the quality of asylum investigations. As it is today, it is not enough. If this is not done, Madam President, the shadow society is growing. I would therefore like to know what the Minister thinks of these proposals.
i-a5905ed4527799f8-83	Madam President, I would like No, I didn't blow up at all what the Alliance government did. I only pointed out that the Alliance Government abolished the civil record crime and that we reintroduced it. And my question to Ann-Ann-Sofie Alm was just, if she now considers this to be such a big problem, why the alliance government then abolished the civil record crime. We can have that discussion another time. I suppose we both agree that it is a good thing that this is now in place again, so that the police and prosecutors have another instrument to work on, for example, to combat cheating and falsification, not least in welfare areas. Then I mentioned the type of measures that might be considered when the Migration Agency is now drawing up its action plan. And it is, as I said, training efforts for the staff of the foreign authorities, more specific checklists in the form of, for example, assessment protocols that will clarify what reviews and assessments of identity documents have been made in foreign authorities, so that one can correct it afterwards. It is also about, as I said, new technical equipment that increases the possibility of detecting false documents. Finally, it could be a question of seconding ID experts to the foreign authorities, which are primarily concerned, in order to ensure a better scrutiny of the documents. The Finnish Immigration Service is now working on this. I know that they are in the final stages of that work and that there is a decision in the near future on the action plan. Then Ann-Ann-Sofie Alm can agree on the measures – these are just examples – with the measures that she now says the Moderates are bringing forward. There are certainly many things that you can pick up there, but some of the measures that the Moderates put forward I actually ask myself a little bit of question. One of the measures was to introduce medical age assessments. But, my God, we have for years in Sweden. After all, it was on my initiative that we reintroduced medical age assessments. That system broke down under the alliance government in 2012 – 2013. As a matter of fact, it was. It broke then, and we had to restart this after a few years, 2016– 2017. There has been quite a lot of discussion about the quality of medical age assessments, and there are those who question them. However, we have had medical age assessments for a number of years on the initiative of the government that I represent, so they are already in place. Another proposal was to improve the quality of asylum investigations. However, I would like to say that Sweden generally has a very high quality of asylum investigations. When UNHCR, the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, every now and then does evaluations and reviews of different countries' handling of asylum matters, Sweden often comes out very well. We have a system of migration services and, in addition, a court procedure which makes us internationally, I dare say, of high quality in our investigations and also a high level of legal certainty. It is certain that everything can get better, and of course it can always be. However, I would like to point out that we basically have a fairly high quality in this too. Last of all, I believe that the measures we are now proposing can still go a long way. You can never guarantee that you can handle everyone's identities, especially when the world looks like it does and the different countries' situations look like they do. However, the figure of 3 000, which I mentioned, is therefore related to former asylum seekers. They have thus fallen sharply, from approximately 20 000 2017 down to 3 000 this year, which is the assessment for that group. This means that there will be more time and more opportunity to review the applications.
i-a5905ed4527799f8-90	Madam President, I would like I have to ask: does the Minister mean that there is a well-functioning system, a legal certainty system, regarding medical age assessment? And does the Minister think that asylum investigations are of high quality? Does the Minister mean that the Swedish Tax Agency does not have the correct figures, that 200 000 people live here without the right information about their identity? Does the Minister mean that about 400 000 coordination numbers have been issued for people whose identity is not known? Are there the wrong numbers when it comes to them? Ultimately, it is a question of undermining regulated immigration. It is a threat to national security when it is not possible to determine which people are on the territory of the nation of Sweden. Madam President, I would like There must be order in Sweden now. We cannot have a government that, although they have been in charge for almost eight years, continues to blame. We must have a government that takes responsibility and has the power to create order and order. My proposal is a moderate-led government that gets things sorted out. I have one more question, but I'll have to take it up another time.
i-a5905ed4527799f8-94	Madam President, I would like I understand that it says in Ann-Ann-Sofie Alm's speeches that she should say that there must now be order. Let me just say that when I took office in 2014, it was not exactly a situation of order that I took up office. On the contrary, it was in a situation where the alliance government had lost its grip completely on migration policy. It had introduced the most liberal, generous labour immigration legislation we have ever had and, as far as I know, the world's most generous. It has led to so much cheating, fiffles, misery and human exploitation. In addition, the EU's most generous asylum policy had been introduced, which led to Sweden taking disproportionate responsibility – much, much more than any other country. This was the situation I came to in 2014. Then I and the government that I represented were tightened up. We did so in 2015 with border controls, identity checks, the temporary law and with the new legislation, where we simply took control of the situation. No, I do not think that people want to go back to the old moderate policy, which was rather, on the contrary, marked by total chaos and disorder. Now we actually have control of the situation and the situation. We have a well-functioning system, I dare say. We also have legislation that is now in line with that of the rest of the EU on asylum policy as a whole, which prevents us from getting back into the situation that we had around 2014 and 2015 and for which I and the government that took office at that time took responsibility. That's what I'm gonna stand for. The medical age assessments failed during the moderate period. We reintroduced them a few years into the subsequent term of office, and we now have such a system. I have made some suggestions about what the Migration Agency will be able to do in connection with the Swedish National Audit Office's report. There will be more information about this when decisions are to be taken.
i-a5905ed4527799f8-102	Madam President, I would like Kerstin Lundgren has asked the Minister for the Environment and Climate Change if he believes it is important to ensure the possibilities of developing island areas as in the Stockholm archipelago to maintain service for both outdoor and year-round living in roadless land. Kerstin Lundgren has also asked what measures the Minister for the Environment and Climate Action is prepared to try out to ensure that new regulations do not prevent the development of the archipelago's countryside, and whether the Minister for the Environment and Climate Action sees reasons to balance the archipelago's development and conservation interests by supporting and developing the concept of ‘nuclear islands' as a basis for differentiating beach protection rules. Madam President, I would like The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. The Government attaches great importance to the development of the whole country, both cities and rural areas that include archipelago areas, so that all of Sweden's potential is used. The opportunities to live, live and work in all parts of the country are to be improved, and the government is carrying out many efforts to this end. Good access to service is essential for the countryside and archipelagos to be attractive places. The main responsibility for the public service that is important for everyday life, such as school, health care and care, lies with municipalities and regions. The fact that it works throughout the country is of great importance, and the government is constantly working to give municipalities and regions the conditions for this. Access to commercial services is also important in order to make it possible to live, live and operate throughout the country. For the period 2015 – 2020, more than SEK 1 billion in state funds and EU funds went to various actions aimed at supporting grocery stores and fuel stations in rural areas. In 2020, for example, SEK 54.5 million was decided in special operating aid for grocery stores. The operating aid was granted to 23 stores in the country's archipelago, and this was 14 in Stockholm County. Digitalisation and expansion of broadband infrastructure are also important for rural and archipelago development. The government has ambitious targets for the roll-out of broadband. In 2021, i.e. this year, SEK 1.6 billion is allocated to the national support system for broadband roll-out in rural areas. In the Rural Development Programme 2014 – 2022, the government has allocated approximately SEK 4.35 billion to broadband expansion. Madam President, I would like The funds in the rural programme have contributed to the Stockholm archipelago's ability to expand broadband infrastructure for about SEK 180 million, and this has resulted in 800 households registered in the archipelago having access to fast and robust broadban d. In addition to the permanent residents, a large number of leisure homes have also taken part in this development. The study on the revision of beach protection presented its report to the government on 14 December 2020. The report has since been referred to us until 3 May this year. The ongoing preparation within the Government Office of the investigation's proposal is ongoing.
i-a5905ed4527799f8-109	Madam President, I would like There are about 30,000 islands in the Stockholm archipelago, of which about 200 are inhabited. Most islands are roadless land without ferry connections. The archipelago is part of Stockholm County's significant countryside, something that one might not think of when staying in the vicinity of the Parliament building. However, it is a rural area in terms of travel times and transport costs that can be compared as soon as possible to the hinterland of Norrland. In order for the island regions to be accessible to many even during the dark days of the year, it is important that basic conditions for people are in place to keep the islands alive. It is the permanent residents who also have an important role as eyes and ears in our total defense – secure the entrance to Stockholm and Stockholm City. In the Stockholm region, which we are now in, the County Administrative Board and the municipalities have for a long time been seeking conditions for people to live in the archipelago. And they have developed the investments in so-called nuclear islands. There is a great consensus over various block borders in Region Stockholm. These are support points for commercial public services in the archipelago to enable people without fixed land connections to have access to services without too long travel times and too long distances. Many special rules apply to a large part of the archipelago. And the issue of beach protection is only one of them, but it has a major impact because parts of the islands are also covered by extended beach protection. Madam President, I would like I raised this interpellation on 15 June, before any motion of censure had been raised in this House. It's almost three months ago. I woke it up precisely because it was important to draw the attention of the government to the fact that when preparing the Strandskyddsförsökningen is the concept of nuclear islands and the special conditions an important part to pay attention to. I do not expect, Madam President, that Minister Baylan today – or Minister Bolund, to whom the interpellation was made – will be able to give a reply. But it is important to see the concept of nuclear islands as a prerequisite for not tearing up the investment that has still been made from the Stockholm region. I therefore asked whether the Minister was prepared to try out new regulations and to ensure that they do not hinder the development of the archipelago's countryside, and whether it is prepared to balance the development and conservation interests of the archipelago by supporting and developing the concept of nuclear islands as a basis for differentiating coastal protection rules. Madam President, I would like I don't think I've heard an answer. I see the joint efforts that have been made – the Center Party together with the Liberals and the Government – in the areas of grocery trade, broadband expansion and such issues but no answer to the questions that I raised. I therefore hope that the Government will be able to respond to this in this debate.
i-a5905ed4527799f8-116	Madam President, I would like It is correct, as Kerstin Lundgren says, that the Social Democrats, the Green Party, the Center Party and the Liberals have acted in a series of budgets to strengthen the opportunities to live and work throughout our country. Basic services such as grocery stores, fuels and transports of various kinds are of course A and O– Kerstin Lundgren says that there are approximately 30 000 islands in the Stockholm archipelago – and this also applies to the interior of Norrland. That is correct, it is the foundation of this country with about 10 1⁄2 million inhabitants. It is to the surface the fourth largest country in Europe. Of course it presents challenges. It is against this background that I am reading out many of the efforts that we have made and that we intend to continue to make, because the efforts that have been made are clearly not enough. In view of the budget that the government has planned to present to Parliament, we have announced that the support will be strengthened so that you can live and work throughout our country. Then basic service and modern conditions such as broadband will be required. Then it is also a question of strengthening aid for fuel sales. There have been demands here which, if they cannot be handled, could knock out a great deal of fuel sales in the country. This has also been presented in the near future. We are investing heavily in green industries and in fisheries policy. It is clear that these are also important efforts in terms of being able to live and operate throughout our country. Let me give you some examples. We propose that the support for grocery stores, which have also gone to the archipelago islands here in Stockholm, be strengthened permanently with an additional SEK 35 million starting in 2023. We will strengthen the support for broadband with an additional SEK 500 million in 2022. This has proven to be of benefit not least to these islands of the archipelago. We are strengthening support for fuel sales, which is also important in many parts of our country. In addition, we will also strengthen the resources of the rural programmes, which have just been presented, which have also benefited many of these archipelago islands. Then Kerstin Lundgren asked about the proposal that the government is working on regarding the beach protection. As I said in my answer, where I thought I answered this, this work is going on in the Ministry of the Environment. I will not anticipate this work. However, one can say that there is a general experience when we talk about nuclear islands, namely that when national, local and regional policies go hand in hand, politics becomes much more effective. It is clear that if there are no specific reasons for this, the government usually wants to do this type of joint action. Just as Kerstin Lundgren says, the development plan for Region Stockholm has agreed and identified core islands, i.e. larger islands without fixed connections that are deemed to have conditions for both public service and infrastructure. This also enables investments that can create a robust social structure and thus an opportunity for both permanent and business development. I am not going to anticipate the work that is going on with regard to the investigation into the protection of the beach, but, in general, one can say that it is usually much stronger when it goes hand in hand.
i-a5905ed4527799f8-123	Madam President, I would like Yes, then let us hope that the policy of the region goes hand in hand with the policy of the state in terms of the possibilities of developing the concept of nuclear islands – even when the government is working on the proposal on the beach protection rules mentioned. As I mentioned, Madam President, I do not expect interference in the preparation process. But I would like to draw the Minister's attention – which was also the purpose of my question, namely to draw the attention of the minister responsible – to the fact that this is an important part to see. Millions of people in all honour, whether they go to grocery stores, broadband expansion or the rural programme, but if we have regulations that lay the groundwork for the conditions, the millions are not enough, Madam President. They can't compensate. What one fears for is a development where instead of being able to work with nuclear islands, which can create the conditions for more people to live permanently in the archipelago – in our countryside in this region – residents are driven away because they do not have the opportunity to work on those development plans because of the regulations. That is why it is important to differentiate the beach protection rules, to ensure that core islands have the opportunity to deliver to many of the permanent residents on the 200 of the 30,000 islands we have in our countryside in the Stockholm archipelago. Although Minister Baylan is not responsible for the bill writing, the government is a collective and makes decisions collectively. I therefore hope and expect, Madam President, that in this case the Minister for Rural Development will ensure that the Stockholm archipelago – Stockholm County's countryside – is given the opportunity to operate and that the possibility of differentiating the beach protection regime is monitored so that nuclear islands do not suffer from a regulatory framework that lays the hookbones for other commendable efforts. Because then one hand does not know what the other is doing, Madam President, and then it will never be very good. If I understand it correctly, this bill will come before the announced resignation of the Minister for Rural Affairs. I therefore expect that the conversation we have here in the seats will lead to results in a forthcoming bill, in which the Minister for Rural Development has secured the core islands as a development opportunity – and differentiated beach protection rules to make it possible.
i-a5905ed4527799f8-128	Madam President, I would like Of course Kerstin Lundgren is absolutely right. However, I would argue that resources are also needed. Just pointing out core islands and then not creating basic conditions with fixed public transport, grocery stores and other – or for that matter municipal services in the form of schools and other – would of course make it very difficult to live and operate there. Without making it as a promise, I can assure Kerstin Lundgren that I hear what she says. I understand that this is one of the reasons why the interpellation was once set, but as Kerstin Lundgren also knows, there is some water that has run under the bridges since then – not only between the islands but also under the bridges. I can therefore assure Kerstin Lundgren that I hear what she says. However, as the honourable Member says, I cannot and will not anticipate the work that is going on in the Government Office. However, I do hope and believe, of course, that we will be able to continue working together to strengthen the opportunities for many of the things and basic conditions needed to be able to live and work throughout our country, also in the archipelago or in other places in our elongated country. It is clear that it is one thing to stand up for the battle cry, and the whole country should live, but then it is also about setting up with the resources and the conditions required. I can assure Kerstin Lundgren that, as long as I have the great privilege of sitting in the government and working on these kinds of issues, I will of course argue for this – but of course without making any promises about anything in particular, such as nuclear islands.
i-a5905ed4527799f8-131	Madam President, I would like Of course, if the regulatory framework creates a sound basis, the resources that are being provided can do more good. You get more currency for the efforts you make. What is important, as the Minister also says, is that it is the municipalities and the regions that have a great responsibility for development work. In the region I represent right now, Stockholm County, with its rural archipelago that has unique conditions – where in principle Norrland's inland is an equal comparison in terms of travel times and distances – it is important that the efforts that have been accumulated in the Stockholm region, across party boundaries and block borders, really achieve success. The risk, Madam President, is that if the regulations are to be laid, neither the efforts added by the state nor the actions added by the region and the municipality will benefit from them. This would be the worst and least effective way to work if you want to achieve results and development on the 200 islands where there are permanent residents. The concept of nuclear island is that there is no fixed link, Madam President, and many of these islands do not have fixed connections. If you are to create the conditions for people to live there, you must be able to develop the very core islands and not put a dead hand over the plans that are now in place. I hope that the beach protection framework will ensure differentiation for nuclear islands and that it will then be possible, as the Government said, to work hand in hand between region and state – for success in our region. Thank you for the debate, Minister.
i-a5905ed4527799f8-136	Madam President, I would like We fully agree that we will do our best to be able to operate everywhere, regardless of whether it is the hinterland of Norrland or – in this case – the Stockholm, or Gothenburg archipelago. It is, of course, essential that we take joint responsibility. Then Kerstin Lundgren is well aware that there are always conflicts of interest and that it is important to find a good balance in this. As I said earlier, the best results are usually achieved if a consensus can be found at local, regional and national level, and that is usually my ambition. Then you sometimes have to respect that there may be completely different perspectives, but it usually is almost always my ambition. Thank you very much for this debate.
i-a5905ed4527799f8-139	Madam President, I would like Jens Holm has asked me both what climate requirements the government has imposed on SAS AB as a prerequisite for the liquidity support announced by the Government Parties, the Center Party and the Liberals on 26 May 2021, and what statement the government will require from the company to follow up how these requirements are met. Madam President, I would like The demand for air travel has remained at very low levels compared to what was foreseen in the context of the recapitalisation of SAS. SAS is important to meet society's basic need for accessibility by air in Sweden, Denmark and Norway. As the largest owner in SAS, together with the Danish State, it is natural for the Swedish State to take responsibility in this crisis. As Jens Holm describes, in connection with the recapitalisation, the government has put sharp climate and environmental requirements on SAS. As a result, the company has tightened its climate targets in order to contribute to the achievement of the objectives of the Paris Agreement. The Government's expectations as owner are that SAS's climate work will be carried out in line with the plan that has been communicated. The plan means, among other things, that the company has tightened its climate targets to reduce CO2 emissions by 25 per cent to 2025, which is five years earlier than planned, and halve CO2 emissions by 2030. Madam President, I would like SAS emissions will be reduced overall, both for domestic and international travel. The objective is therefore more ambitious than the objectives of other companies, such as Air France, whose targets are based on emissions per passenger. If aviation emissions are to be significantly reduced, cooperation with other modes of transport is also needed. It is therefore a good thing that SAS will develop cooperation with train operators in accordance with the government's requirements. The government takes a positive view of a development in which as much as possible of a journey is made by train. The government also welcomes the fact that the company has chosen to significantly raise its ambitions in terms of climate and environment in line with the requirements that the government has made. The Government has a dialogue with the company on its climate work, which is monitored, among other things, within the framework of the ownership dialogues that take place between representatives from the company and political management. The company will demonstrate a plan for how the company's strategic orientation will gradually develop in line with the Paris Agreement's 1.5 degree target. The government, which was communicated in 2020 in connection with the recapitalisation, will also regularly conduct an in-depth climate analysis. The government as owner will continue the dialogue with the company on these issues. Targets should be reached and aviation emissions should be reduced.
i-a5905ed4527799f8-146	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Minister for Enterprise for the answer to my interpellation. I have set this interpellation because I have looked closely at the government's crisis management under the coronapndemin. I have looked a little at how much money the government has entered into financial support for various sectors. We can see that the first sector to receive Corona aid was precisely the aviation sector. On 17 March 2020, the government pledged SEK 5 billion in credit guarantees to the airline industry, of which SEK 1.5 billion to SAS. Since then SAS has received an additional SEK 5 billion in June of the same year and most recently, this spring, again SEK 1.5 billion – only from the Swedish state. Overall, the government has provided support to the aviation industry of approximately SEK 16 billion. This has gone to airlines, airports, air traffic control and other things. There is no other mode of transport that is even close to this. The train industry has received a total of approximately SEK 2 billion, despite the fact that the train industry has also been extremely vulnerable during the pandemic, with calls for people not to travel collectively, and even though the train operators have not been allowed to drive at full capacity. There is a certain bias, I believe, in the crisis management of the government. It's been a very strong list for the flight. It is even more important, I believe, that there are clear demands on aviation, which before the pandemic was a growing source of emissions and which we need to deal with. I think I and the Minister for Economic Affairs are in complete agreement on this. The Minister for Industry often returns to the demands that the government has apparently made on SAS. A requirement usually involves an opportunity to follow up and an opportunity for sanctions and measures if the requirement is not met. I would like to ask the Minister for Economic Affairs: what happens if SAS fails to meet its promise of reducing emissions? The Minister of Industry also mentioned that there should be an in-depth climate analysis, if I understood correctly, of SAS's climate commitments. When's the next climate analysis? Could the minister be concrete here? Perhaps the most important thing in this – what SAS promises – is to halve its CO2 emissions by 2030. I would like to remind the Minister for Economic Affairs that the overall transport sector in Sweden has a reduction target of 70% by 2030. How is it that SAS will only reduce its CO2 emissions by 50% when the rest of the transport sector will reduce them by 70%? Why does the government make lower demands on aviation than on the rest of the transport industry? Madam President, I would like I have one more question for the Minister for Economic Affairs. It is not that SAS is only owned by the state of Sweden and Denmark, but there are also private owners, including the Wallenberg family. Has the government had any dialogue with the Wallenberg family to support SAS in this difficult situation, and if so, have they done so?
i-a5905ed4527799f8-155	Madam President, I would like I think it is important to remind ourselves of the situation in March last year. It stopped the economy and the plane. After all, Sweden is an elongated country that is sparsely populated, Madam President, and aviation is a basic infrastructure. This was the basis on which we decided to go in with support. I would like to ask the Left Party and Jens Holm: Does Jens Holm mean that we should have let all the air infrastructure and all the airlines in principle go bankrupt? Once we did these analyses and, in addition, went in with this support, it was important to distinguish between credit guarantees and direct support as owner. There's quite a difference between these things. Let us take an example of what Jens Holm says. The SEK 1.5 billion we entered as credit guarantees in spring 2020 were repaid in October or November 2020. On the other hand, what is involved in direct capital injections is something quite different: it is as an owner. In this context, in response to Jens Holm's question, it is clear that we are also having a discussion with the private owners. The Wallenberg family went through their company with resources. Madam President, I would like I think I and Jens Holm are in complete agreement on this. I hope we also agree if, after all, we still need flights in our country. Sweden is a sparsely populated country, and Sweden is where it is. We have an open economy with connections all over the world. Then it also requires that we have a flight. In addition, I think that Jens Holm and I are in complete agreement that we should make demands for a change of flight, and we do. With the demands we have made and with which SAS is working, SAS will be the greenest airline in the European Union. Is that enough? No, of course not. This must continue to be done. Jens Holm asked the question why it is only 50% reduction that applies to aviation when it is 70% reduction that applies to road transport. It's very simple – it's about the conditions. The conditions for road transport, both with electrification and with biofuels, have increased significantly. I myself, as then Minister of Energy, have been involved in working out what is called the change of fuel. Air travel has quite different challenges. There are also promising innovations, but we are not really there – hence these demands. Both those who listen to the debate and Jens Holm should remember that there is no other owner who places such tough demands on a transition as we do. Then the question is, how's it going? This is very difficult to answer. SAS is doing what they can, and I'm sure they'll keep working on it. We will follow it up continuously in ownership dialogues every year. However, we are all aware of what the situation still looks like. Even with the vaccination, and although the situation looks somewhat better this year than it did in the corresponding period last year, it is still the case that there is essentially a sharp decline in aviation. This is not just true in our country, it is global. There are still relatively little flights operating. This applies both to SAS and to the aviation infrastructure as a whole. If we are to be able to make the necessary investments in biofuels and other things, this will be required to get started, so that money is also made. Then you can make these investments in new aircraft and new engines. These could be electric motors and subsequently also different types of biofuels, which are, unfortunately, still considerably more expensive than fossil fuels.
i-a5905ed4527799f8-168	Madam President, I would like The Minister for Industry says that there are different conditions in the transport industry and that the conditions for aviation to reduce its emissions are much worse than for the rest of the transport industry. I do not agree with this argument, Madam President, and it is actually contradicted by the Minister for Economic Affairs' own reasoning. The Minister for Industry himself says that it is important that as often as you can replace air travel by train. The fact that SAS is now also being called upon to engage in cooperation with other modes of transport, after all, said the Minister for Economic Affairs in his opening speech, and this is then a question of train operators. I assume that this cooperation is about replacing certain routes with rail travel. The easiest way to reduce emissions from the aviation industry is to cut back on flying. To refuel in something else in the tank, which may also have been produced on rainforest land in Indonesia or Brazil, I do not feel very sustainable. We know that electric flights can only come very far in the future. They will not solve this problem until 2030. Why is the Minister of Economic Affairs not afraid to say that reducing flying is a very effective strategy to reduce emissions from the aviation sector? Now with the increased digital work, virtually all companies and authorities are saying that they will fly less, because they can solve it digitally. Let us take advantage of it! Let us make demands on SAS, for example, like what has been done in France! If there is a train line and you can get by train in under four and a half hours, we in the Left Party say that there should be no flight there. In this way, we can gradually close down routes, and we will keep our flights to the places that are far away and where there are no adequate alternatives. What does the Minister of Economic Affairs think about that? I do not think I received a clear answer from the government's in-depth climate analysis regarding SAS's climate work. Can the Minister of Economic Affairs tell us when there will be a climate analysis of how SAS's climate commitment is going? I think it is very important to have transparency and transparency in this. Madam President, I would like It took a break in the spring of 2020. The Minister is quite right about that. But it wasn't just the flight it stopped for. It took a break for public transport. It took a break for the railroad. It stopped a lot of sectors in our society. Everyone was in need of support. What surprises me a little bit in the government's handling is that it looks like it was just the plane that was hit. Yes, overall flying has decreased by about 80 percent during the pandemic — international flights a little more, domestic flights a little less. Train travel has decreased by 65 percent, so yes, aviation has decreased more, but it is still about the same quantity. SJ has also had huge deficits now during the pandemic. The Minister for Economic Affairs knows that. But as far as I know, SJ has not received a crown in support of the state. Why not? Why does the government support SAS and aviation but not the train and SJ? It would be very interesting to find out. Wallenberg is a partner in SAS. How much has Wallenberg gone in to support SAS, Ibrahim Baylan? It can't be that it's just the state that's supposed to take responsibility here, can it? No, bankruptcy is not an option for the Left Party either. But more people have to take responsibility.
i-a5905ed4527799f8-175	Madam President, I would like Then I'll be confused. Here Jens Holm is arguing that we went in and made efforts both for the aviation infrastructure, that is, Swedavia, and to eliminate the risk of bankruptcy for that case SAS. So, was that right? Or should we have let them go bankrupt? That would be very good to know. As far as the basic analysis itself is concerned, I can say that it is very difficult to analyse something that is basically all-time-low. It is not that the pandemic has let go of its grip or that the travel has gone up. As Jens Holm himself says, it has gone down very powerfully, and it has not got started. When will it start? None of us know what it's gonna look like. It is very possible that it is just as Jens Holm says, that some travelers will return to the flight, especially when it is long distance flights. But there are many indications that business travellers will have changed their behaviour, not least for the reasons mentioned by Jens Holm. In the past, you may have been flying for a few hours of meeting in London, but now it may be that both government agencies and companies have become accustomed to taking it on screen and seeing that it works just fine. We can believe and predict, but we don't know. Follow-up to the demands we make is something we do. I think that what SAS is reporting is in line with what they have undertaken. But as I said, before we are back in a normal state, it is very difficult to draw any conclusions. If it is minus 80 percent, as Jens Holm says, it is very difficult to know what it would look like in the normal situation, especially as we do not even know what fundamental changes are taking place in the travel patterns. Jens Holm asks why so much goes to SAS and not to SJ. I have the Prime Minister's mission to manage state ownership. It includes both SJ and SAS. The answer is very simple. SJ was significantly more well-capitalised and had significantly stronger cash than SAS and for that matter almost all other airlines. The aviation industry has, of course, been subject to very fierce competition and, for that reason, has not had strong finances. Of course it was against that background we made this effort. There were also parts of the private owners with their share of ownership and whether they wanted to go up, stand up or reduce their ownership. The very basis for what Jens Holm is asking about, namely the credit facility that we provided to SAS together with the Danish State, was that the pandemic continued; it was a way of eliminating the risk that you would have to cancel your payments. Then I will come back to my question: Is it really the Left Party's view that we should not do that and thereby allow SAS or other aviation infrastructure to perish? When it comes to the possibility of changing: I am totally in favour of it. But then it must also work. There must be basic conditions, such as trains running on time. We need to have that capacity, because the demand for trains, Madam President, has increased sharply in our country. On the other hand, track capacity has not increased as much. It wants the government to increase strongly, not least in the infrastructure plan that we are presenting. It is about investments in maintenance but also new train tracks, because in the end it will not be good enough to patch and fix. Only then do I think we can get the kind of transfer that I think we would basically think is good, so that people can travel in a way that is good for the climate and the environment.
i-a5905ed4527799f8-182	Madam President, I would like It is absolutely right that we need to expand rail capacity in Sweden, but we also need to allocate more money to it. We need to expand more and do it faster than according to what is so far in the government's plan. The Minister says – and I find this symptomatic, Madam President – that we cannot say what will happen with flying in the future. Who knows if you're taking that trip to London or not? Well, Ibrahim Baylan, that's exactly what we know. We're politicians. We can influence supply and prices. Of course we can do that. If it becomes more expensive to travel to London, for example, and there are fewer routes, you will look around for alternatives. Then there will be more digital meetings. There will also be more domestic journeys by train. That's what I miss a little in the government's position here. You just want the market or something else to govern, when it is the government that sits on the whole power. No, we in the Left Party see no intrinsic value in SAS going bankrupt, even if not all airlines will remain on the market if we will fly less in the future. But there is something about the proportions of this crisis management that hurts. 16 billion goes to the aviation industry, but only 2 billion goes to the railway industry. Eight times more goes to the climate-damaging flight than to the train. I would like to ask the Minister for Economic Affairs whether he really thinks that from a climate perspective it is balanced and reasonable proportions. I forgot to ask a question about the 50% reduction ambition for SAS by 2030. It is a small but important detail: what is this figure being compared to? Is it about emissions in 2010, or what is it? The rest of the transport industry has 2010 as the reference year, and it is not unimportant which year to compare with. Madam President, I would like I would like to thank you for the debate. I think it has been clarification, and I think we will have reason to come back to these issues in the future.
i-a5905ed4527799f8-187	Madam President, I would like Let me also thank the honourable Member for a good discussion, although I am somewhat confused. It seems that it was right to support SAS, and it was right to go in and support an air infrastructure that could otherwise have been decommissioned. But apparently it was wrong in some way because it was more support than the train. The train was in this case SJ. Thankfully, thanks to a very good business and thanks to a very strong demand, SJ had a good cashier to be able to cope with the crisis that we are still in. That's the simple answer. From what I understand from Jens Holm it was really absolutely right to support the flight, but still it was wrong in some way. I didn't quite understand it, but fine. As for the basic position itself – that we should continue to expand our train infrastructure – I think we are in agreement. This is also why the government has presented major investments in both maintenance and new tracks. There is no dividing line between the Left Party and the Government; there is the dividing line between us and the right-wing conservative option here in Parliament, which obviously wants to stick its head in the sand. Despite the fact that both companies asking for more rail freight transport and people asking for more rail transport, this is really not being taken into account. Madam President, I would like Unlike Jens Holm, I don't have a crystal ball. It is clear that you can stand here and make a clear statement, but over the years you have learned to be more humble – especially during the pandemic, which has unfortunately proved to be surprising time and again by being tougher than you could think. What will people's behavior look like in two or three years' time? None of us know when it's all back in some kind of normal mode, whatever it is. I would say that we Social Democrats are following this and are in dialogue with SAS both to ensure that they come back as a company and can contribute with infrastructure and to become Europe's greenest airline.
i-a5905ed4527799f8-193	Madam President, I would like Jens Holm has asked me how the government wants to change the EU state aid framework more concretely so that it will be compatible with the green transition and whether I will work to formulate climate action and environmental protection as exempt from EU state aid rules. Furthermore, Jens Holm has asked whether I will work for the guidelines on energy and the environment, the EEAG, to be clarified and given the status of a regular derogation from the state aid framework and how I will work to ensure that the new technology that is not yet established can be supported by public funds without it being classified as state aid that is stopped by the EU's state aid ban. Finally, Jens Holm has asked whether, in the long term, I will work for the state aid rules to be lifted out of the EU treaties and instead regulated in the EU's ordinary laws such as regulations or directives. Madam President, I would like State aid rules are part of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. It is an important principle of the internal market that Member States should not be able to distort competition in the market through aid to businesses. In other words, it is a regulatory framework that ensures, among other things, that our Swedish companies compete on the same terms as other companies in the internal market. At the same time, the state aid framework needs to be designed in such a way as to enable an appropriate environment and climate policy. The government has so far been able to pursue an effective environmental policy with well-targeted state aid aimed at meeting national environmental objectives under the current state aid framework. At the same time, there is scope to improve the regulatory framework and adapt it to new objectives. The government has therefore been working during its term of office to change the state aid rules so that they contribute to, and do not discourage, a fossil-free society and the implementation of the Paris Agreement. The government has been very active for this purpose and has, among other things, initiated the joint opinion to the European Commission that Jens Holm mentions in the interpellation. The government has also pushed and courted the European Commission to bring about an amendment to the rules concerning two very important issues for Sweden in this context, namely support for food-based biofuels and charging infrastructure. The government's work has resulted in an adjustment of the provision on aid for charging infrastructure and the removal of the ban on aid to food-based biofuels. A state aid regulatory framework in line with the EU's climate targets is necessary to ensure that the green transition really takes place across Europe. It is therefore important that the ongoing review of the rules ensures that Member States can contribute, for example, to the development of new technologies and materials in order to achieve climate objectives in a safe and sustainable manner. The rules should also ensure that it does not lead you to greenwashing and lock-in effects that hinder the transition to a fossil-free society. Finally, Madam President, it is also important that the regulatory framework continues to ensure fair competition in the internal market.
i-a5905ed4527799f8-201	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Minister for Economic Affairs for his reply to this interpellation as well. I think this is an important debate. The EU's state aid rules sound a bit like a sleeping pill; I have to admit that. I don't think so many people really care so much about them. However, anyone who has been involved in politics for a while knows that the EU is, at first, controlling an extremely large number of what we are doing in this Assembly and in all other political assemblies. Not least, the EU's so-called state aid rules do so to a large extent. The EU state aid rules are by definition, Madam President, a ban on state aid as enshrined in Article 107 of the EU's founding treaty. It is therefore something that exists in the EU Constitution: states should not be allowed to financially support various activities, except if there is an exception and a reasonable reason for this. That's the point of departure. I sometimes make a parable. Imagine living in a townhouse area. This townhouse area consists of 100 houses, and a community has been formed together. In this community you have set up rules: This is how the bushes have to look, so here the driveway for the car should look, si and so often you get to mow the lawn, you must not water the lawn in the summer and so on. You have certain rules. This is also the case with EU state aid rules. There are a number of rules on what to do and what not to do. The problem is that this is enshrined in the EU's founding treaties and that it is very general. When Sweden is going to make major investments, for example now in the climate area with the incredibly necessary climate change transition, and formulates the climate climate category, I believe that it is doing it excessively bureaucratic and narrowly because it is afraid that the EU will otherwise classify this as state aid. That's why you don't get the really big exchange of climate life either. It is just like with the charging infrastructure, as mentioned here earlier. This is something that is largely financed by state resources, and the government has said that this too has been difficult to roll out because of the EU's state aid ban. The same has been true of the commons. There, too, were clinching the rules a long time ago when we joined the European Union. The EU then said for a while: you must not have public housing companies. They are companies, but they are run and owned by municipalities. There Sweden managed to negotiate an exception, and it is the same with Systembolaget. This state aid ban is a mess, and it is extremely difficult when we need major public investment to make the climate change transition. I therefore think that the submission made by the Swedish Government together with Germany, the Netherlands and some other countries has been good. It aims to ease State aid rules a little in order to facilitate the development of public funds for the green changeover. I would like to ask the Minister for Economic Affairs whether it would not be better for EU state aid rules to be formulated as directives and regulations and not included in the EU treaties. That is my supplementary question in this discussion. I would also like to ask the Minister whether he believes that the pandemic has made it easier to actually make large public investments without the European Union seeing this as state aid. And if so, how long will we be in this pandemic situation that gives this window of opportunity? Finally, of course, I would also like to know: when will we have modern state aid rules that allow for large public investments so that we can make the climate change transition? What's the schedule?
i-a5905ed4527799f8-213	Madam President, I would like It is possible that it is as Jens Holm says, and I can perhaps agree that it may sound like these rules are like sleeping pills. But I would like to say to everyone who listens to this debate that it is far, far from it, because these rules are extremely important. In a Union of 27 countries that cooperate with each other and have a common market, it is essential to agree on the basic rules of this market, i.e. competition rules and state aid rules. I would say that for a small, innovative – the EU's most innovative – country, that is, Sweden, it is extremely important that we can compete in the common market by being efficient, sustainable and simply very good at what we do. If we are to be able to do so, there must, I believe, be a general ban on distortions of competition. If it were to be free-for-all, just think that it would be that- what would happen then? Well, then large countries within the Union – Germany, France and Italy and others – with much stronger financial muscles because they are larger countries could easily distort competition. So the rules are needed. I'd like to start by saying that. I can give you a concrete example. After all, electrification is a very important prerequisite for climate change, and today batteries are an important prerequisite for electrification itself, both for the transport sector and for parts of the electricity sector, etc. Today, perhaps the largest, perhaps best and most sustainable battery factory is being built in northern Sweden. If it were free for countries to go in with as much resources as possible and without rules, such a battery plant could well have ended up somewhere else – not because they have sustainable electricity, as we have in Sweden, and not because there is innovation and innovation power, but because they could have gone in with fairly large state aid that Sweden cannot match. Opening up to it in the internal market in general, I think, would be extremely dangerous, and for Sweden that would mean that we would have fewer jobs. We would have higher unemployment and lower growth – not because we are not innovative, do not want to change or are not competitive, but because other countries in the Union would then use their economic muscles. So I want to have it said that this is definitely not a sleeping pill. This is fundamental to Sweden's well-being and employment. On the other hand, we know today, and I think we are in complete agreement, that we need to make a fairly rapid transition. We need to change our old way of doing things into something new and make sure that we can change the steel industry, the transport sector and our households. Then it takes us to join forces. That is why the government is pushing the issue together with other countries, just as Jens Holm says, that we are looking over and changing these rules so that we can go in and support innovations and processes and other things that allow our industry, our transport sector and our households to change and live a good life without destroying the environment and climate. I will say, as I myself have raised with both the Competition Commissioner and the Competitiveness Council and with the Industry Commissioner, that it is a matter of maintaining a good balance in this and pushing ahead but not opening up completely. There are countries within the European Union that are happy to do so. They are not as innovative and less competitive and see that this can be a way for them to distort competition and attract investment, not because they are the best, but because they have much more money to enter into subsidies.
i-a5905ed4527799f8-221	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by saying that my analogy with the townhouse area may be mistaken, because in a townhouse area there are fairly clear rules on what, for example, the discounts should look like and driveways for cars and such things. The problem with the EU's state aid ban is that it is not very clear, because it is enshrined in the EU's founding treaty, and it is not specified exactly what you can do and what you cannot do. This creates a great deal of uncertainty among the EU Member States, not least here in Sweden. As a result, there have been thousands of cases before the Commission today and for a few years now concerning whether or not this is valid from a state aid perspective. I would say that there is a great deal of discretion – it is the Commission that sits there and decides, and ultimately it can go to the European Court of Justice. The Minister for Industry probably knows a lot more about this than I do, so it would be interesting to know if we can, for example, expand the charging infrastructure in our own direction here in Sweden or not. Is it contrary to EU state aid rules or not? If we want to expand the 5G network itself, the frequencies that remain, can the state do it or not? Is that contrary to state aid rules? Could we have government clouds to store data on our own? Can we have public lodging khubs on our own? These are things that we in the Left Party think are good to do together, but I am quite afraid that the European Commission would have quite a lot of views on it from a state aid perspective. It would be interesting to hear the Minister's comment on that. I think the Minister has a point in the need for certain rules of the game in a market. That's right, isn't it? But the question is: should the state aid ban be enshrined in the EU Constitution, in the Treaty? Would it not be better if it were formulated as all other laws at EU level, i.e. as a directive or a regulation? Then it is easier to handle and also easier to change. I would like an answer to that. It could also be an input from Sweden now that the state aid rules are being reformed. That is almost how I interpret the letter from Germany, the Netherlands, Sweden and others, so that it is something like that that you want to do. I think that is fundamentally very positive in that case. Another constructive pre-amendment by me and the Left Party concerns the current guidelines on the environment and energy, the EEAG. They refer to Sweden and Germany and others in the letter to the Commission. These guidelines now work a little as de facto rules on what to do for the environment, for climate change and so on. What if, instead, these guidelines had a heavier status? What if they had the same status as laws at EU level, such as directives or regulations? Would it not also be a good idea, Ibrahim Baylan, to push towards the rest of the EU countries, now that state aid rules are being reviewed? It would then become clearer with the exceptions for the environment and climate change. Today, there is a great deal of discretion, and it is the Commission itself that says: you must not do this, and you must do this. That's what makes the decisions sprawl. It is not legally regulated. Giving the guidelines for the environment and energy a heavier legal status is an issue that I would like Sweden to drive. Then there was this Corona thing and the timetable. What's it look like? When do we get modern state aid rules?
i-a5905ed4527799f8-229	Madam President, I would like As Jens Holm says, together with Germany and a number of other countries we are pushing the question of a change in these rules to enable a faster transition because it is necessary. But one should also be aware that a large number of other countries are also pushing for changes in state aid rules, and it is not necessarily for a green transition that they are doing so. It can be argued not only on the basis of the internal market, but on the basis that other countries outside the block subsidise products of different kinds. I would say that for a country like Sweden and for Swedish companies, which are often very competitive because we are innovative, efficient and well organised in our labour market, it would be very dangerous. While we are pushing for this kind of rapid transition and helping to get new processes in place that are necessary for industry or the transport sector, I would also like to raise the finger of warning: we should not think that this is the same reason for all the Member States of the European Union, but there may be quite different reasons. Jens Holm has asked a large number of questions that I will try to answer. One can, of course, have views on statements about state aid – the gods should know that I myself have had it. Sometimes I have argued with and had meetings with Commissioners where I have felt frustrated that we are not really moving forward. Sometimes I am glad that we are moving forward, for example in the case of charging points. There I met with the Competition Commissioner and later saw that they had taken our views into account in the proposals they put forward. This allows for the type of expansion that we need for the rapid electrification of our transport sector. Nevertheless, if you have common rules, someone must also enforce them. I think very well of my fellow human beings, but in that it would be up to each country when such great economic values and so much employment are at stake, one should have someone trying to keep these rules. It is then the Commission and ultimately the Court of Justice, which Jens Holm is talking about. Jens Holm is quite right, of course, that it is a general ban. But within these rules there are quite a few exceptions. For example, Jens Holm asks if it would be possible for the Swedish state to build 5G. Well, we're not doing it yet, but it's on. Teracom, a state-of-the-art company, won part of that auction and is on the license for it. Jens Holm asks when it will be ready. I hope we can get it in place as quickly as possible. We will continue to work on it with these countries. But it is complicated matter, and as I said, not all countries are pushing for changes and de-foliation of state aid rules in order to be able to change. There are also ideas that it can in turn make it possible to attract investments that could not be obtained on their own merits without going in with very large public support, for example for battery plants. There Sweden is very successful at the moment. These may be other types of investment, such as the automotive industry, which the steel industry needs to make. This may also apply to biorefineries. As long as these strict rules are respected, I believe that this country has a very bright future in the internal market. Now that we are pushing, we are trying to find the balance between being able to do the fast transition and at the same time not opening up the regulations or letting it be so free that we simply become losers when it comes to economics and, above all, by losing Swedish jobs. It is jobs that exist today but also jobs that would come precisely because we are innovative and competitive.
i-a5905ed4527799f8-236	Madam President, I would like It sounds positive that the government has achieved some success in charging infrastructure. It would be strange if we could not expand charging infrastructure, which should be part of basic infrastructure, on our own initiative. The same goes for the 5G network. Perhaps the biggest problem lies with the government and not with Brussels in this case. I believe that we can do much more than we do today on our own initiative, with public money, and get more exchange on it. The government is overly anxious and concerned about offending Brussels. They are afraid of offending the state aid ban. It therefore refrains from acting rather than acting more. Now it still feels like the government has woken up a little. As I said, the Left Party welcomes this. My clear contribution to Minister of Enterprise Ibrahim Baylan is that he may be the one who raises the question in Brussels whether it is reasonable that the state aid ban is enshrined in the Treaty, that it is a constitutional issue. Can it not be dealt with like any other legislation? I think that would be incredibly helpful. In terms of protecting the environment, climate and energy transition, these investments are currently only protected in a form of guidelines that is entirely arbitrary. It would be good if the Minister for Economic Affairs could also be the one who said: can we not ensure that they get a clear, legal exception so that we can make large public investments in this area without it being regarded as state aid? I believe that Sweden, the Minister and, not least, the climate change will gain a great deal from this.
i-a5905ed4527799f8-241	Madam President, I would like Sweden is pushing ahead. Sweden is pushing ahead because we need to make a quick transition. Sweden is pushing on because we have made major investments in research and development as well as innovations. This has made Sweden the strongest innovation country in the European Union today and year after year. As a result, we now have an exuberant conversion industry. It is most noticeable in northern Sweden, but it is heading south too. It not only helps to resolve the climate issue, as we must do, but also leads to tens of thousands and again tens of thousands of new jobs in parts of our country that have seen the opposite for far too long. We have been able to do so within the framework of these rules. It is important that, while we are pushing for change in order to make a rapid transition, we still safeguard these strong rules. I would like to ask the Left Party to reconsider its position there. There are countries such as France, Germany and others with much larger financial muscles. If we were to open up in the way Jens Holm argues for, they would not be able to attract investment, not because they are good or because we are talking about the reasons we are talking about, but because they have the money to do so. This could mean the disappearance of jobs from the smaller countries of the European Union. No, we're going to push for a quick transition. But I believe that, with the line that Jens Holm is arguing for, we would risk losing jobs instead and being the EU's leading climate country. We are, even if we are not satisfied, the country with the greatest share of renewable energy, the country where industry has come the longest and the country where the transport sector has come the longest. It's not enough, but it's that way. And we have been able to do so precisely by cooperating. We want to take another step by screwing those rules. But we're not going to defoliate them. It would be a great danger to Sweden's economy and to Swedish jobs. And we will always protect them.
i-a5905ed4527799f8-246	Madam President, I would like Lars Beckman has asked me what measures I intend to take to ensure that people with car support are compensated for increased costs due to increased vehicle taxes. He has also asked whether I believe that the consequences of bonus malus are sufficiently investigated and highlighted for people with functional variations dependent on car and whether I intend to take any action in this regard. Car support is an important benefit in promoting participation in society for adults and children with disabilities. On 1 October last year, additional car subsidies were increased to compensate for higher costs of adapting and purchasing cars. Despite this change in car support, the increased vehicle tax on cars with higher CO2 emissions risks causing undesirable effects for people who are not able to choose a vehicle with lower emissions, as a result of a disability requiring a larger car. The Government therefore intends to examine how compensation within the car subsidy can be designed for the cost that the increased vehicle tax may entail for car support recipients. I would like to stress that the government is constantly following the issue of opportunities for people with disabilities and relatives to take part in car support.
i-a5905ed4527799f8-250	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Finance, for your answer. Madam President, I would like This is not a new issue that I am debating with the Minister for Finance. We've been doing that for a couple of years now. For those who do not know, I can tell you that there is very important community support for families who, for example, have children who need wheelchairs. It can also be about adults who need an adapted car. You can get a purchase allowance for the car, and you can get a grant for the equipment needed; that equipment can really be expensive. It's important community support. If you buy a car today, you can get up to 40 000 SEK in purchase allowance. What does it mean, then, that the government has introduced the penalty tax on minivans? This means that you can get 40 000 in the purchase allowance, but you can pay up to 120 000 SEK in the penalty tax. This means that the family who may have two children and live in Gävle will have to pay an extra 80 000 SEK in tax. It costs 120 000 kroner, and you get 40,000 kroner. That'll be $8,000 extra. This means that in practice you do not receive a purchase grant. There is also a regulatory framework for how old a car may be and how many miles it may have gone. All of this is known matter to the government and the finance minister. For me, it is difficult to understand why the issue is not solved for the families in need of a car. It is not surprising in itself, Madam President, because since 2014, the government has made substantial cuts in aid to the disabled. It is entirely in accordance with the statement made by the Minister for Finance herself when she spoke of the need to save money on disability in order, among other things, to finance the reception of refugees. This led to violent reactions from the disability movement. It is positive that in his reply and in the press release that has been published, the Minister for Finance says that it will examine how compensation in car subsidies can be designed for the cost that the increased vehicle tax can entail for car beneficiaries. Nevertheless, it is a small step in the right direction. But, Madam President, for a government that intends to cut down on 75 000 million, it is strange that it does not help those who need the most help first. In this case, it would be very easy to resolve the situation. There is now a certain system whereby, for example, those who have a parking licence for disabled persons are exempt from the congestion tax. There is a complete authority, a completed form and a complete system. It would be very easy if the government and the finance minister wanted to resolve the situation. I suspect that with the good officials of the Ministry of Finance, it could be in record time if you wanted to do this. However, the Minister for Finance's reply does not at all show when the new system would be in place. The Government therefore intends to examine how compensation within car support can be designed. It's very fuzzy and fluffy. There is no concrete expression in either the Minister for Finance's response or the press release that has expired. I would therefore like to know from the Minister for Finance what the timeline is for the investigation to be carried out. Does the Minister of Finance share the view that a great many disabled people who need a car now find themselves in a difficult situation?
i-a5905ed4527799f8-257	Madam President, I would like The government has made several improvements to the car support precisely because we see that the car support performs a very important function. It is about people who have such a disability that they need an adapted car to have the opportunity to move around in society just like everyone else. This is something that we in Sweden should be very proud of. The entire personal assistance reform has made it possible for a lot of people with disabilities to live a better life than they would otherwise have had the opportunity to. The car benefit is, of course, part of this. The Government has also made improvements to personal assistance following the changes in processing that took place at Försäkringskassan. In addition, further improvements have been investigated. The car support improved on 1 October last year. Since then, other changes have taken place. There have been, among other things, some waiting times in the processing, and there we have made changes in the electronic exchange of information between Försäkringskassan and Trafikverket to try to streamline and thereby speed up the processing. In addition, Försäkringskassan does not need to request as much information as before. This is also expected to shorten the duration of proceedings. There have also been some other improvements. However, we have been clear that we see the need for a review of car support. There is work going on to see how to better compensate people who are in need of a car support to make it better, more accurate and provide greater compensation for the changes that we make in the bonus malus system and that are done for completely different reasons. We need to change the fleet of vehicles. But I am well aware that there are no environmentally friendly alternatives for certain specific needs that may exist in those who have a specially adapted car. Having said that, there is in the comprehensive budget that we will present other improvements that may come to some of the people with disabilities. For example, we are now eliminating the tax gap between employees and people living on sickness and activity benefits. There are also many with disabilities who work and then get part of the second, ordinary tax relief that we do for everyone. For people with disabilities who are unable to work, there will be a substantial tax reduction. The injustice that has existed for many years, which has meant that people with disabilities who cannot work pay higher taxes than ordinary employees, will now have the opportunity to delete from 1 January next year. However, I have heard with dismay of reactions from Moderates who believe that this would undermine the work line. There are also moderate members of parliament who have tweeted that it is terrible to reduce the tax on beneficiaries. Does Lars Beckman share his fellow Member's view of people with disabilities who cannot work and who simply dismiss them as beneficiaries?
i-a5905ed4527799f8-265	Madam President, I would like We can talk about Moderate politics in another interpellation debate. On the occasion of the intervention of the Minister for Finance, I am pleased that she will have the honour of being called to Parliament again and again to debate disability policy. Madam President, I would like This interpellation is about bonus malus, the penalty tax on cars imposed by the government. It affects many, Madam President. It affects the plumber who needs a craft car. It also affects the electrician who is in need of a craft car and so on. I can list many different professional groups and small businessmen who are hit very hard by the tax on craft vehicles and other things imposed by the government. This has, of course, been done on purpose. That's what the Minister of Finance himself said here. In these cases, it is possible to take this back from the customer, i.e. it will be more expensive to ask the plumber to come. The plumber and other craftsmen must, of course, claim compensation for the penalty tax imposed by the government. But, Madam President, what about the person who has a disability or the family who lives in Sätra outside Gävle and has two children with a per-mobile? They have no one to send the bill to, but they depend on a minivan to move their family and children. When imposing penalties on minibuses, Madam President, I think the proper thing would be to investigate the consequences first. There does not seem to have been a single person in the Social Democracy or the Green Party who has considered the consequences of this. What are the consequences for all of Sweden's disabled people in need of a car? That should reasonably have been investigated first. When it became clear a few years ago that it is not a good system and that it is hard on those in need of a car, one should quickly have changed. Of course, it should have been thought that things did not turn out very well more quickly than lightning, Madam President. We are now receiving signals from all over Sweden, from Ystad to Kiruna, about families who cannot get a car because of bonus malus. It's about families with special needs. It may be families who may have received their personal assistance withdrawn due to the Minister of Finance's regulation letter to Försäkringskassan 2016 to reduce the hours. The Minister of Finance has probably read his own budget, which says that the number of people with LSS will continue to fall. It's in the Finance Minister's own budget! It is good that the Social Democrats are now for the LSS. When it was introduced by Carl Bildt's government, they voted against it. Now, however, the interpellation is about bonus malus. I note that the Minister of Finance, with surgical precision, avoided a few concrete issues, but I will take them again. When will the change be in place that means that those who need a minibus will not be punished because of bonus malus? When should families dare to order a minivan that allows you to ride around with the two children who need a permobil in the minivan? When will the investigation be in place? Given that you intend to cut down on 75 000 million, perhaps there are a few tens of millions to really help those who need the support of society most. So my question to the Minister for Finance is: when will the investigation be completed? When will the support be in place, which means that families who are in need of taking their wheelchair with them in order to be able to live like everyone else can actually do so?
i-a5905ed4527799f8-275	Madam President, I would like Lars Beckman says we're talking about bonus malus and I should stick to bonus malus. But I can see that Lars Beckman is talking about a lot of other things than bonus malus, namely, support for disabled people in general. Lars Beckman believes that there are people with disabilities who are among those who need the support of society most. That is an opinion I share. This applies not least to those who have a disability that makes them unable to work. It is a group that has not in the same way as many others have been able to take part in the economic growth that we have had in Sweden in recent decades. On the contrary, since the Moderates introduced the job tax deductions, they have been subject to penalties. Year after year they have paid higher taxes than people who work. This is an unfair tax gap. But now that we remove it, the Moderates protest, and they dismiss a whole group of Swedes as beneficiaries. We have very different views, it seems. Then Lars Beckman seems to be generally critical of bonus malus. This is another debate we may have. But I really hope that Lars Beckman does not use disabled people's need for car support when he is really critical of bonus malus in general. We are now working in the Government Office with a changed and improved car support. Of course, we do so with a high degree of urgency. I think it is urgent. We made improvements on 1 October last year. There were further improvements this summer to shorten the processing times. And I look forward to the forthcoming presentation of the proposal that has been announced for further improvements in car support, not least for those affected by malus in bonus malus. Then, of course, it may be that we have a technological development that means that there are better opportunities to buy charging hybrids even within this segment eventually.
i-a5905ed4527799f8-279	Madam President, I would like Yes, Sweden's disabled have had a tough time since 2014. The National Association for Disabled Children and Young People has on their website a position with 18 deteriorations that Minister for Finance Magdalena Andersson and the government have done, of which the car support is one. Then there are cuts in LSS and housing adaptation. Anyone who wants can go to rbu.se and read for themselves. You don't have to believe a moderate Member of Parliament if you don't want to. This interpellation is indeed about known matter. The Minister of Finance has known for several years that bonus malus beats stone rough against Sweden's disabled. No action has been taken. Unfortunately, nothing has been done to correct the situation. Now they have gone out in a press release with a very fluffy text that you may be doing something. Then the question is: When will something be done? I'll offer you a free offer. With perhaps a few days or a few months ahead, the congestion tax system could be introduced. There's an authority. There's a ready-made form. There's an automated system. It simply exempts those who have a parking licence for disabled persons or who have an adapted car, depending on the system chosen, from the criminal taxation of minibuses. It would be a very simple and straightforward system. And that would solve the problem, Madam President, so that the children's family in Sätra with two per-mobiles could change cars. Today, there are a very large number of families who cannot change cars because of the government's penalty tax on minivans. Madam President, I would like I ask – the third time is a charm: when will that system be in place, which means that families with children can afford to buy a car?
i-a5905ed4527799f8-284	Madam President, I would like I think it is good to stick to the truth also in political debates. Here Lars Beckman says that the government has done nothing. That's not true. On 1 October, barely a year ago, post-adaptation aid was increased by over 50 per cent. And the supplementary premium was increased by over 50%. One can discuss whether it is enough or not, but it cannot be said that the government has done nothing. I note that Lars Beckman did not answer the question of whether he shares his fellow Member of Parliament, Mr Bali,'s view on all disabled people who do not have the capacity to work and who are now receiving sickness and activity benefits. Can one just dismiss all the Swedes as beneficiaries? There was Lars Beckman quiet. But now, finally, in this budget, the government is proposing to eliminate the unfair tax gap, what has been called the funkis tax. The Moderates have dismissed it. They say it would make Lars Beckman and me and others work less. That is a completely illogical and untenable argument. The question is: Why, in fact, does it want the criminal taxation of disabled people to continue? I hope that Parliament will vote in such a way that we can finally abolish what is called the funkis tax.
i-a5905ed4527799f8-288	Madam President, I would like Tony Haddou has asked me what measures I intend to take to ensure that no more people are affected by the strengthened population register law, which allegedly strikes very different individuals from what was originally intended. First of all, I would like to mention that a homeless person can be properly registered. It is important that the person informs the Swedish Tax Agency, who assesses where he or she should be registered. If it is assessed that the person's residence can be attributed to a municipality but not to a specific property within it, he or she must, for example, be registered in the municipality. A person who is written in the municipality can also report a special postal address to the Swedish Tax Agency in order for him or her to receive his or her mail. At the government's initiative, the civil record crime was reintroduced on 1 July 2018. The amendment introduced criminal liability when a person intentionally discloses incorrect information as a basis for a decision on public records or fails to comply with his obligation to notify and the measure poses a risk in terms of evidence. It is also possible today to be convicted of serious civil record crimes. However, small cases are exempt from criminal liability. The data in the population register must reflect the population's residence, identity and family law conditions so that different social functions are given a proper basis for decisions and measures. The reintroduction of the civil record offence is one of several measures taken by the government to improve the quality of civil records. The background to this is the central function of the population register in society. The importance of population registers for several social functions places special demands on the accuracy of the data on which registration is based. The re-introduction of the civil record offence makes a clear statement to the population that each person must be registered in the country where he or she resides. It is then for the competent authorities and ultimately the courts to apply the relevant provisions. Criminal provisions have only been in force for a few years, and there are still few court rulings. Therefore, no established case law has been developed. It is against this background that it is premature to comment on the effect of the amendment or to evaluate its application.
i-a5905ed4527799f8-293	Madam President, I would like Like the Minister for Finance, the civil record crime was reintroduced a few years ago, when it became a criminal offence to register people at the wrong address. The offence can give up to two years in prison or a fine. The very purpose of the amendment was, according to the government, to better tackle organised crime, the trade in black contracts and people who cheat with subsidies. When the law enforcement was carried out, the minister in charge, Morgan Johansson, assured us that persons without intent would not be prosecuted. In an interview with Swedish Radio, he said that in small cases, where there is no purpose to use the system, for example, one will not prosecute. Today we also hear the Minister of Finance say that small cases are exempt from criminal liability. Now, however, it has turned out that it was not true then and that it is not true now either, and therefore the Left Party has awakened this interpellation. Hem & Hyra has been able to review 123 prosecutions that have been brought since the law change came into force with their digging journalism. It shows, in black and white, that it is primarily people whose purpose has not been to exploit the system who have been prosecuted and convicted. In fact, the results show that very few criminals have been prosecuted, but many innocent. In over 50 of the 123 cases, it is about homeless people whose only crime is that they lack a place to live. These are outrageous figures, I have to say. Only as few as 11 of the charges are related to subsidy fraud. The remaining cases were either linked to threat, separation or divorce. Some cases were linked to other types of crime. However, very few of those convicted to date for civil record crimes can be linked to organised crime or welfare crime, i.e. the kind of crime that the government said they wanted to access. The single largest group affected by the criminalisation is therefore homeless, vulnerable people now made criminals and at risk of having their lives destroyed. They are the ones who get caught up in this legislation. My question is therefore: how does the Minister of Finance intend to correct the error that has arisen? I didn't get an answer to that. What does the Minister of Finance intend to do to prevent more innocent people from suffering? The stricter folk accounting law has, of course, struck against completely different individuals than was intended from the beginning. The Minister of Finance says in his reply that she wants to increase the quality of civil records. So do we. In that sense, we are in complete agreement. But it should be possible for a minister to do so without sacrificing the homeless.
i-a5905ed4527799f8-301	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much, Tony Haddou, for raising this important question! It is important that we have order and order in the population register, because the register forms the basis for a wide range of payments from our welfare systems, among other things. Against this background, the government has worked hard to improve the quality of population accounts by adding additional resources to the Swedish Tax Agency, which has also been given extended powers. In addition, we have reintroduced the civil record crime that was removed by the Alliance government. Of course, the purpose of this is not for homeless people to get caught. That is why I think it is very good that Tony Haddou raises the issue. It is important that more people can help to inform the homeless about the possibilities of being able to register with the municipality instead of being wrongly registered. There is therefore a solution for people who do not have a fixed address, and it is important that municipalities take responsibility for informing about it as well as organisations that work with homeless people and of course also the Swedish Tax Agency. This is an information effort that needs to be made, and it is therefore a good thing that we are debating this issue here today. However, help is of course also needed from other actors in society in order to obtain the information. This is quite a new piece of legislation. The IRS has just started working on it. I know the Swedish Tax Agency as an organisation and know that it is a learning organisation. They will, of course, continuously refine and improve their selection material in order to get a more accurate census and which cases will be worked on more closely.
i-a5905ed4527799f8-304	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I guess I'll just have to ask the question this way: hasn't the law gone wrong when so many homeless people are being prosecuted? I agree that there should be a high quality of civil records, but the facts look like this. It was said in the form of the law that they would not be prosecuted, but now they are. That cannot, of course, be the intention of the legislation, and I am sure the Minister for Finance will agree with that. But that is the reality. It is primarily homeless people who are being brought to justice. These are homeless people who may occasionally have to move between temporary residences and who have also had a particularly tough time lately. The Coronapendemy has made it difficult for the homeless, and more people than usual have lost their homes as a result of reduced incomes. In this situation, to exacerbate the situation of a vulnerable group is totally incomprehensible to me. This has to be corrected by the Minister of Finance. Instead of risking being brought to justice because they have not arranged the address, the first thing to do is to prevent and mitigate the consequences of homelessness. This is also often about homeless parents with children, with very uncertain living situations with long-term negative consequences. The Minister of Finance mentions information as a solution. If a homeless family is now supported by social services, they are often placed in temporary accommodations. It can be hostels, hotels, campsites, some apartment and so on. It can also be about the secondary housing market or family and friends if possible. I can assure the Minister of Finance that if you're homeless with your children, the first thing you can keep track of is not the census. You do everything you can to protect and protect your children. You do everything you can to get them a roof over their heads and food on the table. An information effort does not remove the fact that this goes wrong. Everything is done for the family's existence and security. You simply lack a fixed address because you have to move a lot. This is the reality, and it is the worst of life situations for the homeless, especially with children. Therefore, we cannot accept that the Government makes life even more difficult for those who are having a difficult time and want to put in an information effort from the municipality that says that they have to register correctly. They may be told that, but in the moment, in the situation, it is about getting security for the children and ensuring that they get food on the table and shelter over their heads. They often travel all over town to get the children to school. Then it's not enough to say that you know what, you're supposed to register right. Here, instead, you need to help the m and make sure that they do not get another threshold in life. It is simply possible to alleviate the consequences of homelessness. That is what we are asking for here, and then you have to remove a threshold of this kind and ensure that they are not prosecuted. I agree with the record crime. It is a crime, but when it comes to so many homeless people, whose only crime is that they are homeless, going there without doing anything, you need to review the law. It is, of course, possible to resolve this issue urgently so that homeless people and people who are not involved in benefit crimes do not have to be prosecuted. For example, it is possible to set up a rapid investigation to review how to ensure that they are not prosecuted. The majority of the cases I raised here are not even closed, but here people are prosecuted whose only crime is that they are homeless. That is totally unacceptable.
i-a5905ed4527799f8-311	Madam President, I would like It is good that Tony Haddou is also addressing what is the fundamental problem, namely that people are homeless. There the government has been pursuing a very active policy for several years to get more housing with reasonable rents. There is investment aid which we have developed in cooperation with the Left Party and which we have also been able to expand considerably in recent years. To obtain more housing at prices that are reasonable for ordinary households is thus an ambition that I share with Tony Haddou and the Left Party. It is important to raise this issue. Having said that, it is important that people who do not have a fixed address should be given information so that they can be helped to register in the municipality. This is the wrong way to remove the crime of being wrongly registered. It sends an important signal to the citizens, and it can be an important instrument to ensure that the 18 billion a year that is now deemed to go out in wrong payments – far too much – to people who deliberately try to cheat with our insurance and security systems will end up with those who really need the money, not in wrong pockets. I share Tony Haddous's concern about homeless people. It is therefore important that when social services help a family with children who are in a desperate situation, who live in temporary solutions, they get information about and are properly registered in the municipality. There is now a widespread network of service offices around the country where you can get help with various government matters. The Tax Agency responsible for the population register is one of the authorities involved in this cooperation. You can also get help in different languages.
i-a5905ed4527799f8-314	Madam President, I would like You can see that there will soon be an election movement, and the Social Democrats are talking about fair and social housing policy. It was not yesterday that you heard the Social Democrats talk about such things. But the reality is different. Where is the best use to society's resources, Minister of Finance? Is it really that homeless people are brought to justice? People's records don't get any better. The reality is that they are brought to justice. That's not how we use our resources. The examples I mention and Hem & Hyra has raised in their reviews are about people whose only crime is that they are homeless. The reality is not information campaigns. Well, it's great to give information that everyone should be properly registered and so on. But that's not the first priority for a homeless child. The first is to have a roof over your head, to feed your children, to have a decent life, and to get to school. The homeless are mostly unemployed. If they go to the offices mentioned by the Finance Minister, it is usually to look for a job and get help with life. Then civil records are not the first thing they think about. This is about people who have never been in a legal process. All of a sudden, they are. The consequences are that they end up in the police's criminal record and get it even tougher in a vulnerable situation. Fines are imposed in several cases. They'll be stamped, and it'll be even harder to find an apartment and a job. That is why the government must have the matter evaluated as a matter of urgency, because the problem has gone completely wrong. Then these people do not have to be placed in an even more vulnerable situation.
i-a5905ed4527799f8-318	Madam President, I would like I can say to Tony Haddou that we Social Democrats talk about social housing policy every year during their term of office, every day of the week. I am very proud that, in the years that I have been Minister of Finance, we have introduced the investment aid that has made it possible to build tens of thousands of apartments around the country. People can live there with significantly more reasonable rents than without investment aid. Is it something that is fun to go around and knock door to these apartments, hear about the rent or what rent it would have been if the support had not been designed. The support has also been designed in cooperation with the Left Party. Here we could be proud together instead of picking on each other – an alternative approach. The introduction of the census offence was and is an important signal to the citizens of Sweden that it is important to be properly registered in the population register. We are talking about many billions of people who are wrongly going out in various forms of aid and subsidies because of the fact that this is wrong in people's records. I think it was right to reintroduce the crime. The aim, of course, is not to put people in a vulnerable position or who are homeless. Therefore, there is also the possibility to register with a municipality. It is clear here that better efforts are needed to support people in a vulnerable situation in order to obtain information and help with being properly registered.
i-a5905ed4527799f8-321	Madam President, I would like Tony Haddou has asked me whether I intend to investigate and map the distributional effects of crisis policy and to analyse the lessons for the future that can be drawn from the policy pursued. The government has a clear focus on reducing gaps and increasing the cohesion of society and therefore follows these issues closely. This has obviously been important even during the pandemic. A high level of employment is the basis for an even distribution of Sweden's wealth. Since the outbreak of the virus, a large number of measures have been taken to secure jobs both in the short and long term. In addition, the levels of unemployment benefit have been temporarily increased and the regulatory framework has been adjusted to allow more people to qualify for benefit. Overall, this has ensured people's livelihood, and as the economic situation improves, more people are coming back to work. The impact of crisis policy on distribution will be investigated and researched in the coming years. However, some preliminary conclusions can already be drawn. A recent study by the Swedish Tax Agency notes that the government's crisis measures have mitigated the negative distribution effects of the pandemic on the labour market. According to the study, the distribution of labour income appears to have become somewhat more uneven in 2020, but the increase in income inequality would have been more than twice as high in the absence of support measures. The study also indicates that state aid has primarily served as income support for employees. Variable remuneration and bonuses to managers in the supported companies have remained at about the same level as before the pandemic. On the other hand, the managers of companies that did not receive State aid doubled their remuneration. The Government welcomes further studies on the distributional effects of crisis policy as data become available. The Corona Commission, which will report on its mission by 28 February 2022, will, inter alia, assess the impact of crisis measures from the point of view of income distribution. The evolution of the distribution of income is also regularly followed in the distributional policy statement provided by the Government in the spring economic bill each year. As Tony Haddou rightly points out, it is important to analyse the lessons for the future that can be drawn from the policy pursued.
i-a5905ed4527799f8-325	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. At first, I am not going to pick on the Minister for Finance, as she said in the previous debate, so I start with the fact that major crisis measures have been absolutely necessary during the pandemic. The biggest crisis support has gone to the possibility of short-term lay-off, and it has been important to save jobs and businesses. Many companies have really needed the support to get through the crisis, and it is the taxpayers who have put the money up. Several of the proposals to reduce business costs have been generous. This applies, for example, to the general reduction in employers' contributions. Therefore, the Left Party has also consistently called for a more balanced response to the economic crisis. It is not sustainable to provide support to the business community of hundreds of billions of SEK, while the employees in health care and care for the elderly are on their knees. In addition, many households have been hit hard by the crisis in the wake of increased unemployment and extra jobs that have disappeared. Aid to these households has not been in parity with billions of aid to industry. At the end of the day, it is a matter of transfer of value from ordinary people – from the disability pensioner, the bus driver and the assistant nurse – to the companies. Over the past year, we have seen that many of the companies that have received billions from taxpayers in the form of various crisis aid have, at the same time, increased their profits and made record dividends to their private wealth. And then the inequality of income, as also mentioned by the Minister of Finance in his reply, was even before the crisis so brutal that the top executives of the business sector earned on average 61 times more than the industrial worker. While the Corona crisis has been going on for over a year and a half, it quickly passed on to the very richest. Even though the economy slowed down, large capital owners and those on large fortunes were able to recover their economy record-fast. Sweden's 169 richest people became nearly 300 billion richer last year, in the midst of the pandemic. The stock exchange recovered very quickly for them, while others risked their lives, supported society and stood in the front line against the pandemic. In a noted article in the Financial Times last summer, Ruchir Sharma, head of Morgan Stanley, described how the super-rich fortunes developed during the pandemic. Specifically, the evolution of the fortunes of the dollar billionaires is being studied. It turns out that their wealth and capital exploded upward during the pandemic. And Sweden, after Russia, is the country in the world where billionaires have increased their wealth fastest. The Minister for Finance says here that the government has a clear focus on reducing inequalities and increasing cohesion in society. It is of course an important and good focus, but then you need to move from words to action and do something about it. For class society has been clearly visible during the pandemic. It has been a concentration of infection in the working class's residential areas and among all the workers who support society every day. And inequality is growing faster here than in any other analogue country. Then you need to look at the distribution of wealth and how capital today concentrated on the richest and do something there. It is good that the government wants to analyse the impact of crisis policy, and then the question arises as to how the Finance Minister will reduce the economic gaps. It cannot be reasonable that Swedish dollar billionaires' wealth is equivalent to 30% of Sweden's bnp.
i-a5905ed4527799f8-333	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by saying that it is, of course, free for Tony Haddou to pick on the Minister for Finance. But precisely as far as investment aid is concerned, we are in agreement and have cooperated very well and thus also given tens of thousands of families the opportunity to get a home at a reasonable cost. As far as the Corona crisis is concerned, I am very much looking forward to further evaluations of the policies we have pursued in Sweden, but also those pursued in other countries. I think there's a lot to learn for the future. I am very pleased that some of the preliminary studies that have come indicate that these aids have served as income support, such as the support for short-term lay-off. It is money that goes to the company but at the same time has served as income support for the employees. Without the support measures we have taken, inequality would have increased more than it has in Sweden during the crisis. Moreover, without these crisis measures, thousands of companies would have gone bankrupt. This is not something that would have been good for all wage earners who are completely dependent on these companies for their livelihoods. There I see big points with the policies that have been implemented. Having said that, I am the first to wish that we had been able to pursue further policies over the last seven years in order to reduce the gaps in Sweden. Here we have made suggestions, but I have been threatened with censure in Parliament if I even put them on the table. I therefore see the need for more policy to reduce the gaps. It is about that those who have the greatest wealth should be able to contribute more than they do today but also about lifting those who have not been able to participate in the increase in income that many other Swedes have had in recent decades. There are also concrete proposals in the budget proposal that we will put on Parliament's table, such as removing the unfair tax gap between employees and people with sickness and activity benefits. Many of them have been chronically ill for many years or have a disability that makes them unable to work. So there are such proposals here, and I would like them to have the opportunity to go through the Riksdag now, of course. It is also about how the Left Party chooses to act.
i-a5905ed4527799f8-341	Madam President, I would like The Minister of Finance will have to wait a little longer for a budget debate. I agree that it has been absolutely right and absolutely necessary to save jobs. But when it comes to reducing economic disparities, the question is how long the Minister of Finance should feel threatened and not dare to act. The gaps are increasing, also in the wake of a pandemic. The economic gap has increased in Sweden over the last 30 years – that's three decades. Those who already had an excellent economy have had it even better over the last few decades, and the top tier has got it best. What does it mean, in the long term, that they are pulling even further away? It does not directly lead to a cohesive society. In shaping post-crisis policies, those who have benefited for such a long time must be involved in financing the necessary investments in welfare and in renovating society after the pandemic. Strong public investment is needed and, at the same time, we must put an end to economic inequality and start redistributing more to our common so that it becomes a better and more secure welfare society for all. There is a need for greater equality. So it is not just a question of the richest becoming richer during a global crisis, withdrawing when the economic divides increase or receive crisis support from taxpayers but moving on with dividends and bonuses. It is also about the total failure of decades of targeted policies for the rich. In fact, it is possible to break this trend, learn lessons and pursue a policy of a more equal society. In particular, it is possible to tax the few very rich in order to make it better for the majority. Several countries are now taking the lead in doing this and taxing wealth and capital in particular for a fair post-pandemic recovery policy. Let me give you a few examples for the Minister for Finance. Argentina has already introduced a special covid tax on wealth in order for the richest to pay for the crisis. In the United States, Democrats put forward proposals on the basis of proposals to levy taxes on wealth and capital. Spain plans to raise taxes on large companies and on capital income for a faster recovery of the economy and for the upgrading of health care and infrastructure. In Britain, the conservative Boris Johnson last Friday went out to raise taxes to finance welfare. This is perfectly possible here, too, for a more equal society. We need to mobilise the resources of society for the majority, because this is where the income of capital is concentrated in the very richest. This is also one of the main reasons for the increase in income inequality. Then, of course, the wealth is even more unevenly distributed than the income here. They are more unevenly distributed than in countries such as the United States and the United Kingdom, as I have just mentioned. So the question I have to ask is, when are the rich going to pay back? When will the Minister of Finance give the coronanota to those who are best off?
i-a5905ed4527799f8-349	Madam President, I would like I just want to say that there is a little difference between Sweden and the other countries mentioned by Tony Haddou. The difference is that our national debt, despite the historically large crisis support that we have introduced to save Swedish jobs and Swedish companies and also to support healthcare, care for the elderly, vaccination, testing and contamination detection around the country, will never go up over 40 percent of the bnp. Unlike many other countries, we have made sure to save in the barns during the good years so that we can implement crisis measures without lowering confidence in our public finances. Having said that, I fully share Tony Haddous's argument that more needs to be done to reduce the gaps in Sweden. We need to make major investments in the common. It is about driving the climate transition, which also creates a lot of jobs. It's about investing in care for the elderly when there are more people coming up in their 80s. It is about strengthening the schools for our children, working more preventively against crime, but also strengthening the whole legal chain. In addition, I would like to see further investment for more people to get into work, not least for the long-term unemployed to be able to get a foothold into the labour market. This year's budget will also include many reforms in this area. In addition, I also see that there are opportunities for those people in Sweden who have the highest income to contribute a little more, because we see how the richest percentage has deducted while our 3:12 rules provide greater opportunities for the very richest to charge income with a lower tax rate than a regular nurse or assistant has, in a way that is difficult to justify. But I can see that the obstacle between today's situation and the fact that this could become a reality is not me or the Social Democrats, but that the majority of Parliament is different. Perhaps the Left Party would devote some effort to driving opinion there rather than spending so much time picking on the Social Democrats.
i-a5905ed4527799f8-353	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Finance, for your answer. What does it mean to save in the barns, which the Minister of Finance takes up, or to pay back on public debt and so on? That also means a lack of well-being. That means hourly employment in the care of the elderly. It means not being equipped enough during a crisis. That means cutbacks. This means that we have the most cheap Minister of Finance in the European Union. That's what saving in the barns has meant. Obviously, capital and wealth will continue to concentrate on those who already have the most. It is more like a few empire in Sweden, where the money is concentrated in the richest tenth and the richest percentage in the country. This happens at the same time as schools in the country have saving requirements, budgets include cuts in welfare and community-supporting activities around the country are under threat of closure. It does not work that Sweden is a tax haven for the rich. The billionaires need to be taxed higher and subsidised less. It is time that we redistribute and step forward with powerful investments that create jobs and equality and save the climate and that we build away the housing shortage, which the Minister of Finance spoke very well of earlier, and narrow the gap between us. Then we can also rearrange society after the crisis. But then we need to go forward with these proposals, so that we get a general welfare where the assistant nurse gets more colleagues and better working conditions. It must be the turn of society and welfare to be set up only now, and then one must actually tax the richest, the richest percentage. I expect the Minister of Finance to do that.
i-a5905ed4527799f8-358	Madam President, I would like I fully share Tony Haddous's ambition to reduce the gaps in Sweden and improve welfare. On the other hand, I can see that the fiscal framework is something that the Left Party is also behind. In this we are clear that there are good opportunities to do as we have done during the crisis and to come up with historically large packages and continue to stimulate the economy. But it also means that you should save in the barns during the good years. Tony Haddou says that I would now go forward with a treasure for the very richest. I have nothing against it in substance, but I can see that such a budget would not pass through Parliament. That is why I believe that it is better to present a budget that has a good chance of going through in Parliament and contains fantastic reforms for those with the lowest incomes, in order to raise those with the lower incomes. Not least, it removes the unfair tax gap for people with disabilities who are unable to work. But it also provides better retirement opportunities for people who have worked a long career and are then worn out. It is very good reforms in the autumn budget that would strengthen economic opportunities for vulnerable and vulnerable groups. I very much hope that the Left Party does not act in such a way in Parliament as to spoil these opportunities.
i-a5905ed4527799f8-362	Madam President, I would like Alexandra Anstrell has asked me how I intend to ensure that the responsible authorities have the knowledge they need to deal with contaminated water in the event of fires in electric cars, whether any work has been initiated to bring about a strategy for dealing with electric car fires in dangerous places and about knowledge of dealing with electric car fires has been disseminated to the relevant actors, and whether I have acted to give the Police Authority sufficient knowledge of fires in electric cars and the space for safe storage of seized electric cars burned. The Swedish Civil Protection Agency, M SB, has worked actively for several years on issues related to contaminated water, so-called contaminated extinguishing water. Results of studies and compilations carried out in this area are continuously reported and available to all authorities, including the Police Authority. MSB, together with the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, has developed a guide that will be published this autumn, which reports on the knowledge acquisition in recent years. The municipal emergency services have a responsibility as operators in connection with the extinguishing of fires, which includes taking environmental risks into account, both according to the Environmental Code and the Accident Protection Act. According to MSB, emergency services in the event of a fire involving lithium-ion batteries should, as far as possible, prevent the spread of contaminated extinguishing water and should be collected subsequently for destruction. Electricity-powered vehicles are becoming increasingly common. The battery capacity in these vehicles is large and the batteries are often lithium-ion. The development of vehicle batteries is progressing rapidly, including the chemical composition of battery cells, which in itself may affect the production of dangerous gases and the spread of fire. Another factor that affects today's risks in vehicle fires is that modern cars, regardless of fuel, contain more combustible plastics and composite materials than before. Vehicle fires in narrow spaces, such as on board ships or in parking garages, present particular risks and difficulties for emergency services. According to MSB, these problems exist regardless of the type of fuel involved, but some risks differ. A lithium-ion battery that has been exposed to a certain amount of fire exposure is, among other things, more difficult to extinguish, and the production of dangerous gases is higher than in fossil fuel vehicles. However, studies such as MSB have shown that fires in vehicles with lithium-ion batteries are not more common than fires in fossil fuel powered vehicles. On the contrary, fires in vehicles with lithium-ion batteries, where the fire started or propagated itself to the propulsion battery itself, are rare. Knowledge about the management of fires in electric vehicles is disseminated to the municipal emergency services through various communication initiatives, networks, seminars and training courses. Since 2011, MSB has been working to support the good management of this type of fire and to disseminate available knowledge to stakeholders. This has been done through, among other things, the fact that MSB has initiated and financed a number of research and development projects as well as through the international collaborations that MSB participates in. MSB also continuously monitors the occurrence of fires in electric vehicles through emergency services incident reports and accident investigations. The Police Authority has a broad and important mission in both crime prevention and law enforcement. The authority also participates in rescue operations, and if an electric car is taken care of for technical examination, the authority complies with rules and procedures for safe handling. The starting point is that the Police Authority should ensure that it has the ability to fulfil its statutory tasks but also to maintain safety in response and a good working environment. There is a continuous acquisition of knowledge and feedback of experience in this area in order to enable safe and effective rescue operations that also take into account the environmental perspective of vehicle accidents. The government is closely monitoring developments in this area.
i-a5905ed4527799f8-369	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. I have asked Minister Damberg a number of questions to find out how the Minister ensures that the responsible authorities have the knowledge they need to deal with contaminated water in electric car fires. I have also asked whether the Minister has initiated a strategy to deal with electric car fires in dangerous places and to gain knowledge about dealing with electric car fires, so that knowledge is disseminated to all concerned. Finally, I asked whether the Minister has acted to ensure that the police have sufficient knowledge of electric car fires and that the authority has room to actually have a safe storage of seized well electric cars. Madam President, I would like In fact, I feel that I am not getting correct answers to this. I'm asking these questions because I'm worried. I am concerned that there will be major, terrible accidents without our emergency services or, for that matter, the blue-light staff being adequately equipped for this. Nevertheless, the government's objective of electrifying most of it will lead to a dramatic increase in the number of electric cars. Then it must also be ensured that the country is equipped for the consequences of this. Are we there today? I mean most strongly that we are not yet. If there is a fire in a garage where there are electric vehicles, the risks are partly different from those of a fire in petrol or diesel cars. Particular attention has been paid to the fact that there may be so-called thermal rushing in the batteries that may require cooling with a lot of water and that toxic gases can be formed. Fires in electric vehicles can be very difficult to extinguish and pose a risk to the emergency services and the bluelight personnel. There are several reasons for that. Batteries that are involved in the fires can produce the toxic gases I was on, such as hydrogen fluoride, which makes it difficult for emergency services in the event of extinguishing operations. In addition, the actual voltage from the battery itself can pose a danger. And batteries that have been involved in a fire risk being restored for a long time after the fire is extinguished, due to the so-called thermal rush in the batteries. Then you need to tow the car out of a garage or some other place after the fire is extinguished in order to store the car, for quite a long time after the fire, in a safe place far from materials that can burn. During this time, the car can be restored without any prior warning. I understand that the Minister's answer to my question, whether he has acted in order for the police to have sufficient knowledge of electric car fires and that the authorities have room for safe storage of seized well electric cars, is no. To my knowledge, only 10 to 12 percent of the police force have been trained in the risks of electric car fires. This means that there are quite a few police officers left, and all other blue-light personnel, who can arrive at a fire and have neither the right knowledge nor the right equipment. Not having the right equipment when toxic gases spread can be absolutely devastating. It can be very dangerous. Madam President, I would like I wonder if the Minister thinks it's fair to put our heroes at risk. Should there not be a clear approach to dealing with electric car fires in dangerous places, and should not all our blue-light personnel have already been trained in the risks of electric car fires?
i-a5905ed4527799f8-379	Madam President, I would like I would like to say to Minister Mikael Damberg that I am taking part in this debate for the reason that I had an interpellation debate with his colleague, Tomas Eneroth, before the summer. The reason for this debate was that the Coast Guard had been visiting one of the committees and stated that it had no knowledge of how to extinguish this type of fire on board ships. Because electric car fires are very complicated. In addition, these fires emit so toxic gases that the personnel who make an extinguisher must have comprehensive protective clothing because the gases enter through the skin and can cause cardiac arrest. Now it's so lucky that electric cars burn less often than ordinary cars. However, this does not mean that you can sit back, but you have to take steps to ensure that you can deal with such a situation. And the difficulty with electric car fires is precisely the complexity of extinguishing the fire. Extinguishing an electric car fire may take up to 24 hours for the first intensive phase. It takes about 11,000 litres of water. Then the car can stand apart for up to three weeks, and during that period the fire can start again. This is the tricky thing about electric car fires. If they are to be handled in confined spaces, such as in ships, in parking garages, and so on, the situation becomes even worse as it becomes more difficult for the rescue operation to enter. The temperature of a battery that burns is about 1,000 degrees Fahrenheit. The steel in a boat starts to melt at 700 degrees. The concrete in a property begins to be damaged at 300 degrees, and at 500 degrees it loses strength and begins to crack. To this you should add all the extinguishing water that you then somehow have to take care of. I would say, like the interpellier, that the government is not on track. It does not take the step forward to prepare to deal with such a situation if it occurs in a parking garage, on an open area or in a ship. At the end of the answer to the interpellation, the Government says: Then I ask the question: is there no one in the government who can take the initiative to push the matter forward? If you follow it, you do not take a step forward to reach a solution quickly. In any case, more and more electric vehicles are being registered, both on the heavy and on the light side. We also have electric bicycles and everything. Then all rescue operations, blue-light personnel and so on, must have relevant training and, above all, must have equipment so that they can do this. They must also be able to handle vehicles safely after the intensive phase itself. When I talk to my old colleagues in the traffic police, they say they put the cars outside where you have a parking space as far away from the house as possible. That's about the level it's at, and that's not good enough. I would therefore like the government, for once, not only to follow developments but also to take an initiative.
i-a5905ed4527799f8-386	Madam President, I would like I thank the interpellant for an important interpellation. This is a social development that is taking place and will continue to grow over time. I am a little surprised that it is described as not a correct answer. Get interpellation responses are so detailed about what the authorities are doing and planning and what research work they are working on, how they are spreading knowledge and that there will be a guide during the autumn. Had it turned out that for example MSB and the rescue services were not aware that this is a real problem that will grow over time, the government would have had to go in and say that MSB does not seem to understand that these fires will increase over time and that it seems that the municipal rescue services do not care that this is a dangerous development that one has to take height for. That's not my picture. When I visit emergency services around Sweden, I ask this question. Then everyone says they're working on the question. They learn new things all the time and participate in different things that have the effect of spreading knowledge. In recent years there have been a number of fires in vehicles linked to exactly this problem. Our assessment is – and I think it is everyone's assessment – that this will increase over time. In 2018, there were 8 fires in electronic passenger vehicles. In 2019 the number was 6, and there was a slight decrease. Then the number increased to 20 fires in 2020. So there is an increasing number of fires because we are getting more cars in the framework of this, and it needs to be dealt with. However, I believe that this is an issue that is high on the agenda of all the authorities concerned, whether it is at sea or whether it is civil protection. That is why I say that I am following this issue closely because this is a change in society that we need to take heights for when it comes to civil protection activities around Sweden. But I perceive that MSB has taken many initiatives and will continue to take further initiatives to spread the knowledge available. There is also advice on how to deal with these fires. It is about a lot of water, and that is why the issue of contaminated water becomes so important because it will require a great deal of water. There is also advice on how to deal with fires in hazardous spaces as far as possible. These advices are available for emergency services around Sweden. I am happy to receive ideas and thoughts, but it feels like the emergency services and MSB are fully aware of this problem and are working on it. I will continue to follow the issue, but I also feel a great deal of confidence that it is an issue that rescue services around Sweden take very seriously and that MSB has both been an important link to research and right now is an authority that spreads the knowledge available to handle the issue as well as possible.
i-a5905ed4527799f8-393	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the developed answer, Minister. I have a scenario described to me by a fireman: If you live on Gotland or Åland, for example, and have an electric car that has burned and which must go to a brand workshop, which is not on the island you live on, the car must be transported. As we have been on earlier here today, an electric car that has burned itself again can for quite a long time afterwards. What happens if an electric car starts to burn on a line ferry in the middle of the water and staff and passengers are affected by the toxic smoke – and if the staff have not received sufficient training to deal with these issues? All fires are dangerous, but in some spaces they can be extremely difficult to extinguish – for example on a ship or inside a large parking garage. The Minister says in his reply that MSB has investigated fires and concluded that fires in vehicles with lithium-ion batteries are no more common than fires in fossil-powered vehicles. I wonder, then, whether the Minister has ensured that this study also takes into account the proportion of the different cars and calculated age as a factor. I have learned that fossil - powered vehicles often burn when they get older. Most electric cars are fairly new, and yet such fires already exist. What about when we have an aging electric car fleet? Madam President, I would like I have absolutely nothing against electric cars; I just want us to have increased modernisation and increased electrification rigging society after this. I do not feel that this is the case at the moment, and indeed the Minister and the Government must take responsibility for it. I have also asked the question of contaminated water in electric car fires. The Minister says in his reply that MSB worked actively on the issue of contaminated water and that emergency services should collect contaminated water for destruction as far as possible. Earlier this year, a Tesla Model S crashed into a tree north of Houston and caught fire. I've been told that there were two men who died. The rescue service had to use about 120,000 litres of water to extinguish the fire, which lasted for very many hours because the battery refired. A Tesla has about 7,000 small batteries in the size of a shotgun cartridge, and these were fired off as projectiles during the extinguishing work. It took a heroic effort by the rescue services. The water consumption at an ordinary car fire is about 1,000 litres, so there is quite a difference. When 120,000 gallons of water is flushed over a battery like a Tesla, it can cause incredible amounts of contaminated water, and it is terrible to imagine that that would happen. Purifying this contaminated water is not a cheap story, nor is it a very simple nut to crack. There are not opportunities all over Sweden to get rid of contaminated water quickly and smoothly, and it is also not on call so that you can do it during a weekend all the time. Instead, rescue services may need to lie on contaminated water for a weekend before they can get rid of it. Madam President, I would like For me, it is very important that we follow up on how the decisions we make in Parliament fall into society. The Minister has said in his reply that municipal rescue services have a responsibility as operators in connection with the extinguishing of fires, which includes taking environmental risks into account under both the Environmental Code and the Accident Protection Act. My question, therefore, is whether the Minister intends to provide Sweden's emergency services with resources for the likely increased need for purification and destruction of contaminated water.
i-a5905ed4527799f8-401	Madam President, I would like This issue is very important, and I think the government has a somewhat receded position in it. When we had the previous debate, we got two Members who then pushed the question to hear from Minister Tomas that we scared the citizens when we discussed the risks of electric car fires. I think you have to be proactive. We're going into a society that's going to be very electrified, that's it. With an increasing degree of electrification, the risk of fires also increases. We also know that people run their cars in different ways; some are very tough and can have a car for ten years that goes 20,000 miles without it being seen to be used, and so there is someone who has a car for two years that goes 3,000 miles but looks like the war. The great danger with batteries in electric cars is that if they are subjected to mechanical damage, such as a blow or driving into something, it can become a rush in the battery that then leads to a fire. This is precisely the case: when we get an increased share of electric cars and different levels of vehicle maintenance, society must be prepared to deal with the fires. It is not like going in there and putting out an ordinary car fire, but it is much more complicated than that. A lot of protective equipment is also required for extinguishers. Immediately after the last debate, I read an article about Finland having done an exercise that had to replace the couples who went into the extinguishing operation every ten minutes – every ten minutes! So it takes quite a few people from the rescue services to put out a single car fire. This is what we need to take heights for, so that we ensure safety in the future. We will have more electric cars and therefore more fires, even though electric cars rarely burn.
i-a5905ed4527799f8-405	Madam President, I would like I have no objection to the assertion that with more electric cars there will be more fires in electric cars. We are in a shift for the fleet of vehicles that will also affect civil protection and many parts of society. I have tried to point out that this is a very topical issue for the rescue services around Sweden and that it is also a very topical issue for MSB, which provides support and conducts research in the field in order to be able to support the municipal rescue services around Sweden. When it comes to contaminated water, MSB and the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency will publish in the autumn a guide showing how to work with this in a good way and how to handle this in the best possible way from different actors. So it is not that there is no development work here, but it is clear that more needs to be done. When society changes and it brings new risks in different areas, it must be managed by society, including planning. That's why I want to warn you a little bit about these scenarios. Why would you transport an electric car that just burned on a ferry? I don't think that's wise. Since we know that such a car can be restored, let us begin by stating that it cannot be put on a ferry. Care must be taken to ensure that we do not have those risks unnecessarily. I therefore believe that it is important that more actors than just the rescue services have knowledge of this. However, I believe that the knowledge is greatest in civil protection, because they are also worried about the working environment for civil protection around Sweden and therefore keen to take on research. Sometimes it will take a lot of water to put out this type of fire – perhaps not always 100,000 liters, but 10,000 liters are quite common. It's a lot, and it's a lot more than for a regular fire in a regular car. So this is a new phenomenon that we have to work on. In our draft budgets so far, we have not had any special money for this. I don't know if your parties have reported it, Alexandra Anstrell and Thomas Morell. I believe that it is important to follow the issue and that consideration should be given to this, but ultimately municipal emergency services and the preparedness needed to deal with accidents are a municipal matter. However, it is important that we learn how to do this in the best possible way, and I am careful to say that I have high expectations not only of the municipal rescue services but above all of our state authority MSB. They will continue to follow the issue and provide advice, support and guidance, but also disseminate the knowledge that is now available on how to deal with this serious situation in the best possible way. I also believe that we will see more fires of this kind in the future, but so far the evaluations do not say that electric cars per se burn more than fossil-powered cars. We will have to look over time if it changes, but it also has to do with what requirements will be placed on batteries and how batteries develop over time. These are therefore important issues to follow. I will continue to follow this issue. I always ask questions about this when I travel to emergency services around Sweden, to learn more. However, my picture is that the emergency services are very alert and think that these are important issues, because it is complicated and new.
i-a5905ed4527799f8-414	Madam President, I would like I agree with the Minister. I also meet a lot of alert people in emergency services around Sweden, and I greatly appreciate their work. Then it is even more important that we in here take responsibility and rigging for a safe environment for them and for all blue light personnel. I still wonder how the Minister ensures – I chose my word carefully – that the responsible authorities have the knowledge they need to be able to handle and be well prepared for future electric car fires. There are a number of research projects around the world on electric car batteries and the management of possible fires in these. While waiting for electric cars to be fully developed, one should perhaps be a little vigilant and take safety measures that minimise the risks. How do we learn from other countries that may have had electric cars longer or that have had more electric cars longer? For example, in some cities in Germany it is not allowed to park electric cars inside the city or in parking garages, precisely because you are afraid that there will be too much damage. How do we gain widespread knowledge? I don't feel like we have it today. I've been around quite a few emergency services. I've met Coast Guards and part-time firefighters. There are quite large holes when it comes to how this can be used. Above all, more equipment, such as the police, is needed when arriving at an accident and an electric car is on fire. You need a breathing mask and something like that.
i-a5905ed4527799f8-420	Madam President, I would like This is an important discussion about a social phenomenon that will grow over time. We will see more electric car fires over time because we now have the fastest growing electric car fleet – I think – across Europe. The most electric cars are being sold in Sweden right now, because we are changing to fossil freedom. This is basically good, but it also brings new challenges. My role is to ensure that the authority I am responsible for, the Swedish Civil Protection Agency, is involved in research collaborations and studies the state of knowledge, which is done very carefully. It also tries to spread this knowledge to emergency services throughout Sweden and to other authorities. This information also goes to the Coast Guard and the Police Authority, so that all authorities can take their full responsibility. After all, each responsible authority, such as the Police Authority, is responsible for the employees' work environment. This is a question that I know the Chief of Police is taking very seriously. The more we learn, the more we can do to prevent and manage the risks that electric cars bring. My picture is that MSB has a great focus on this issue because it is known that this is a new social phenomenon. My picture is also that not least the municipal rescue services around Sweden discuss this issue very carefully to be able to ensure that their staff are prepared for these new challenges in everyday life. This type of fire can be dangerous depending on where it occurs and what the situation is. This also brings new challenges, not least on the water side, which can have environmental impacts. If this comes very soon – in the autumn – a guide to all stakeholders.
i-a5905ed4527799f8-425	Madam President, I would like Alexandra Anstrell has asked me how I intend to ensure that the Coast Guard can carry out its mission and that we have reliable monitoring and preparedness in the three largest drinking water sources, which account for about 40% of our drinking water. From an environmental and safety perspective, it is of great importance to be able to effectively monitor and protect Sweden's seas, coastal areas and larger lakes. The mission of the Coast Guard is to carry out environmental rescue and other rescue services at sea and to carry out maritime surveillance. For its mission, the Coast Guard has some twenty coastal stations with a large number of ships stationed along the Swedish coast, Lake Vänern and Lake Mälaren as well as an aircraft station in Skavsta. Coast Guards also interact with other responsible authorities in areas such as law enforcement and maritime enforcement. During 2020, the Coast Guard conducted 54 environmental rescue operations. In addition, some 47 900 inspections were carried out at sea in the areas of fisheries, dangerous goods, customs, border and maritime traffic. In addition, the Coast Guard participated in 298 sea rescue operations. The Coast Guard also contributes to the activities of the European Border and Coast Guard Agency Frontex, including by participating by air and vessels in maritime operations in the Mediterranean. Since 2018, the Government has contributed approximately SEK 140 million to the Swedish Coast Guard with the aim of maintaining and strengthening the agency's operations and capabilities. The government is closely monitoring developments in this area.
i-a5905ed4527799f8-431	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister. It is good that we can have this debate here today. Tull-Kust, the Federation of Employees of the Swedish Customs Agency and the Swedish Coast Guard, has submitted the report A socially critical mission with impossible conditions – about resource erosion for the Coast Guard. At one of our defence committee meetings before the summer, we also had the Director-General of the Coast Guard, who presented the situation within the agency. There's no staff. In addition to this, I have been around a lot of our stations to form myself an idea of the situation and what works and what doesn't – most recently in Luleå, Vänersborg and Lysekil. Thanks to everyone for very nice, informative and rewarding visits! The Coast Guard works on the basis of a so-called combo tank. This means that preparedness for environmental rescue services at sea is combined with various actions linked to sea rescue, maritime surveillance, law enforcement and crisis preparedness in order to make efficient use of resources. The combination idea means that a lack of resources cannot easily be linked to specific assignments, but instead that the ability within all assignments is affected or impaired. It is quite clear that the Coast Guard has now been given more and new tasks and increased responsibilities that require more resources. It is just as much about environmental monitoring as about the Frontex missions that the Coast Guard regularly staffs on behalf of Sweden. It is about cargo securing and increased fisheries controls. There is clearly too much to do in terms of the number of people in the organisation. This results, for example, in the fact that we only have monitoring of our large drinking water supplies Vänern, Vättern and Mälaren two weeks a month. If an incident occurs, the cancellation period may be long if there is no alert at the time. It is both irresponsible and unsustainable in the long run, Madam President. When it comes to pollution of water supplies in connection with, for example, tanker accidents, it is quite quickly seen that there is a crisis. But waterborne infections, leaks, and floods are examples of events that may not be easy to detect at first and that may not seem so serious at first but that can quickly turn into a crisis or serious disturbance. Either way, it is important that we have monitoring of our drinking water supplies. The government has taken a number of measures to facilitate water supply, but none of these measures concern environmental monitoring of our main drinking water supplies. I think it's weird. Pure drinking water is a matter of survival for all in society and, indeed, a matter of total defence. Civil preparedness includes issues ranging from the supply of drinking water, food, energy and fuel to information, healthcare and transport. The whole of society must simply work when it comes to it. That is why I think my question is very justified. How does the Minister intend to act to ensure that we have reliable monitoring and preparedness in the three largest drinking water sources we have in Sweden? Right now, this happens only every two weeks. There were quite a few fine words in the Minister's reply, and the answer contained statistics. I love numbers; they're really fun to get. But that really only described the work of the Coast Guard, and I already knew that. After all, the government has not heeded the Authority's call for help in recent years. The Minister and the government have neglected to provide a supplement that could allow for more coastal guards. The question is, what is the authority going to remove? Are they going to decrease generally with the cheese slicer method, or how does the government think they're going to do it? As things stand, the authority is left wind by wave without any responsibility from the responsible minister. It's not okay.
i-a5905ed4527799f8-442	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Alexandra Anstrell, for an important interpellation about one of our authorities, the Coast Guard, which has a unique mission but which also has a very broad area of responsibility! It is correct that the Coast Guard has important tasks in several different areas. One of them is the issue of drinking water, which is linked to the monitoring of our waters. For example, it is a question of coping with environmentally hazardous emissions through specially equipped environmental protection vessels that can absorb and manage them. I would like to broaden the perspective a little initially in the debate, so that we do not just land on the Coast Guard. The responsibility for drinking water is divided between many different actors. Not least within the total defence bill that we have submitted to Parliament and that the Riksdag has decided on, drinking water is one of the issues where we point out that we need to be more prepared for the reconstruction of civil defence capabilities. Preparedness is on several levels. Locally there is the municipal level's responsibility for drinking water. Then there is the regional control function and the national support work. Water supply is one of several important social functions that must be maintained even in a crisis situation. Then you have to have good contingency planning. Risk and vulnerability analyses must be carried out. There must be systematic work to prevent these events. Then there is the national water disaster group, which can deal with them if they occur. There is also extra preparedness among different authorities to support in these contexts at national level. It is therefore a broader job than just what is being done at sea. You can have different opinions. We are now looking at the budget bases for the Coast Guard. We have to do that every year. One cannot say that we have absolutely failed to respond to the needs of the Coast Guard. We have contributed SEK 140 million to the Coast Guard since 2018, because the Coast Guard went with large deficits and had major problems. This has now stabilised. However, it is still the case that we need to broaden the scope of new tasks, as has been discussed. Coast Guards have problems that they themselves describe. Above all, they would have major problems in the event of events that are very long-lasting in character. The events that have taken place over the last year have been carried out in a good way, according to their assessment. What they really flag up for is the need for human resources. They have a strained staff position. They have also used coastguard flights more frequently to work in a slightly different way. The rescue operations carried out have been successfully carried out, but they flag what is required if there is a major accident and long-term rescue operations are needed. Of course we have to follow this over time. We will have to come back to the budgetary context in the future. However, in the case of drinking water, it should not only be an actor who needs to be prepared and able to handle this, but there should be several actors at all the different levels of society.
i-a5905ed4527799f8-450	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for the developed response. I am well aware that it is not just one operator who is responsible for the supply of drinking water. But the mystery of this is that the mission on drinking water does not mention anything about Coast Guard and its environmental monitoring. I think it's weird and sad. Earlier this week I participated in a seminar on the situation in the Coast Guard, arranged by Tull-Kust. It described the situation as more critical than ever. It is therefore not just a question of long-term work, but of day-to-day work. It tells of staff who constant patches and laws to make the business go together. We were also told that the KBV 201 vessel will be required for border assistance missions under Frontex, so the staffing situation in terms of number and competence does not allow for the coverage to be maintained. But even before it was decided that it would leave, it has been difficult to maintain preparedness. I think it is a good thing to participate in Frontex, but that, of course, makes it more difficult to put this together at home. It makes it a little harder to plan. To minimize the effects so that you can have a chance at all to ensure an environmental rescue effort, a huge puzzle is required, as I understand it. It takes a huge effort from all the coastal guards who stand up. I really appreciate the fact that the Coast Guard is redistributing devices by all means to create human capacity. But in the end, you can't actually do magic with your knees. Finally, the nail you were going to cook soup is over. The Minister said in his initial reply: I wonder what that really means. Madam President, I would like Would it not be better to have a clearer mission about what they should prioritise away – or to ensure that they have sufficient resources to do their job? How long will the Minister, instead of securing funding, rely on us having skilled and committed coastal guards who are passionate and take on countless extras to stand up for their colleagues and take responsibility for their mission? How long does the minister think they'll last? With increased harmonisation of fisheries controls within the EU and an increasing number of fisheries controls since 2018, the Coast Guard has gained even more to do. Coast Guards therefore carry out fisheries surveillance, and effective monitoring and control requires a high presence at sea and in the air. This leads to compliance with the rules and contributes to the de minimisity of illegal fishing. What happens to fishing if the Coast Guard is not given the opportunity to carry out its mission? Another task is maritime safety. Ports control the transport of dangerous goods and cargo securing in cargo carriers. We discussed this earlier in this House. This is done to minimise the risks associated with the transport of dangerous goods and other goods. Sometimes these checks are carried out in cooperation with customs and police. It is not uncommon to find stolen goods that are about to be taken out of our country. These are important missions. What happens to maritime safety if the Coast Guard is not given the opportunity to carry out its mission? I could go on and highlight every mission the Coast Guard has, but I don't. I just really want to know how the Minister intends to ensure that the Coast Guard can carry out its mission.
i-a5905ed4527799f8-459	Madam President, I would like I think that in recent years we have shown that we are prepared to give the Coast Guard increased funding due to a strained situation. That must be tested over time and in every budget, just as it is for all the other authorities. Many authorities in Sweden have both staffing needs and important assignments. This must always be assessed together in a budget proposal. When you listen to the interpellant you can imagine that what the Moderates have proposed in their budget motion would solve all the knots. I do not know whether the 10 million that are described in the interpellation is what would be required and would resolve all the priority discussions within the agency in the future. I believe that it will continue to be important to have a very close dialogue with the Authority and that the Authority itself has responsibility for prioritising what is most important and urgent. From my perspective – and also the Coast Guard's, I think – it is also important for us to be able to take on our common European responsibility for Frontex work, which is referred to a little by the interpeller as something that might cause it in the operation, because it requires more planning. I understand that question. However, when we make common resources available in the common European work, we are strengthening the EU's external border, which is very important. I believe that Frontex work is a key issue for European cooperation and that Sweden has a lot to contribute. My experience is that the Swedish efforts receive a lot of praise. My picture is also that the staff who have been away have learned a lot and that they feel a great pride in having participated in the European work. I do not think it was criticism, but it was described a little as more work when you go on European missions. Yes, it will be, and you have to puzzle with the resources you have. I understand that. But I also see that those who have been away get some kind of development in their leadership role, which can be good for the Coast Guard in the long term and not least lead the supply. Then you get a lot of praise for our Swedish competence within the framework of the Coast Guard, which I feel proud of. I think that the issue of Coast Guard is important, and I think we have shown that we have been prepared to provide resources. What the budget looks like in the future, we will have to come back to when the whole budget is presented. The issue of drinking water is important from a coastguard perspective; it plays an important role. We also have a major development work currently under way in the framework of civil defence, where we are raising the level of ambition to secure the drinking water issue in the event of crises and ultimately in the event of increased preparedness and war.
i-a5905ed4527799f8-464	Madam President and the Minister. I guess I slipped my finger when I wrote the interpellation. It was not an extra 10 million, but an extra 30 million that we Moderates invested in our draft budget. It was also the amount that the Coast Guard then wanted and has then increased. The previously strained economic situation, if I have understood correctly, was perhaps more about investment than about human resources – correct me if I am wrong. It is good to ensure that this is done, but it is also important that we have people who can man boats and hovercrafts, who can be out there controlling fishing and so on. There was absolutely no criticism from me about the Frontex mission; I agree with the Minister, and I think we very much agree that it is a good thing. We appreciate it, it's instructive and so on. But of course there will be more work. There are also other things that affect the mission. Things happen in people's lives. You get pregnant and do not want to be on a boat because there is too much noise or shaking, and you may need to be on child's leave. There are a lot of things happening, just like in all the other agencies and companies, that involve a personal change among those who work there. Then you need to be able to take altitude for it. Turning back to the issue of drinking water supplies, I have asked how the Minister intends to act to ensure that we have reliable monitoring and preparedness in the three largest sources of drinking water. But I'm not actually getting a real answer. The Minister refers to others responsible for drinking water. But just as regards monitoring of Lake Vänern, Lake Vättern and Lake Mälaren, I wonder how the Minister ensures that we have good supervision.
i-a5905ed4527799f8-469	Madam President, I would like I think it is important to say that the Coast Guard is unique both as an authority and as a resource in Swedish society. Because they have resources that few other authorities or actors have, they also become multi-disciplinary. They have to help a great many other authorities with their mission in order to make them a reality. This is both a blessing and a curse because there is therefore a breadth in the mission that I think many who work in the Coast Guard appreciate. You have a wide range of skills, and you feel that you are engaged in very important situations. But it also leads to a priority discussion. What on the mission do we have to prioritise? I have great confidence that the management of the Coast Guard can handle this priority discussion. At regular intervals, we too must have the courage to give financial priority, as we have done. I understand that it was primarily investment costs that we were thinking about, because there was an unsustainable situation of forgone investments that had to be carried out and that drew on the agency costs. However, a budget for the Coast Guard includes both investments and operating costs, i.e. both personnel and investments. It's connected. If we do not make investments, we will have problems, and if we do not have enough staff, we will have problems. It goes without saying that the government must, over time, test the appropriations of the Coast Guard. I have a certain pride in the fact that we made the big investment. But we will have to continue to follow the Coast Guard in the future, because it is an important authority that I perceive many feel a great pride in working in.
i-a5905ed4527799f8-474	Madam President, I would like Mikael Oscarsson has asked me how I see the initiative to transform forestry machines, so-called forwarders, into off-road fire engines and thereby strengthen crisis preparedness with relatively small means. Furthermore, he has asked me whether the government is prepared to take steps to ensure that the necessary resources are available to the coordinating authority, MSB, and what other actions or measures I see are possible to strengthen emergency preparedness and better seize the power of rural and its organisations. It is of great importance that Sweden has a good ability to carry out effective rescue operations in the event of large-scale fires, such as forest fires. A good civil protection capability requires a well-established interaction between civil protection actors and that the overall resources of society, both public and private, can be used as efficiently as possible. It is the municipalities that are responsible for planning and organising civil protection so that rescue operations can start within an acceptable time and be implemented effectively in their geographical areas. The state should be able to support municipalities in various ways during extensive rescue operations. For example, the Civil Protection and Preparedness Authority shall have the ability to provide reinforcement resources. The Authority continuously analyses, in close collaboration with the municipalities and other stakeholders, the need for and availability of reinforcement resources for fire extinguishing from the ground and air. Within this framework, MSB has well-established contacts with actors active in the field, such as the forestry industry and the Farmers' Association. In order to strengthen the state's supporting capacity for large-scale rescue operations, grants 2:4, Crisis preparedness, SEK 65 million were added in 2019 and SEK 15 million annually from 2020. MSB has therefore been able to improve its ability to assist, for example, forest fire-extinguishing equipment and helicopters and scraping fire-extinguishing planes. In October 2020, the Swedish Parliament has decided on the bill A more efficient municipal civil protection. The basic aim of the amendments is for municipalities to be able to carry out rapid and effective rescue operations throughout the country. Among other things, it is required that all municipalities have a permanent function for overall management of civil protection activities and that in some cases MSB may prioritise and allocate available reinforcement resources in emergency response operations. The legislative changes are expected to have a particular impact on the protection against accidents outside the major cities. The legislative amendments entered into force on 1 January 2021, but a municipality does not have to comply with the requirements for overall management until 1 January 2022. The Government has thus taken several measures following the forest fires in 2018 to strengthen the state's ability to support municipalities in large-scale rescue operations. Assessing which collaborative resources or types of civil protection resources are needed for, for example, fire-extinguishing from the ground or air remains a responsibility for municipalities and responsible government authorities. The Government will continue to closely monitor the development of rural and other Sweden's overall civil protection capability in the event of large-scale fires, such as forest fires, and will, if necessary, make changes in this area.
i-a5905ed4527799f8-482	Madam President, I would like Sweden is a large country, and very much of the area we have is forest. In fact, Sweden is the country in Europe that has the most forest. In 2014 we had large fires, and unfortunately it returned in 2018. There was a terrible fire. About 25 000 hectares, i.e. well over 40 000 football fields, went up in smoke. Nevertheless, as a result of the forest fires, many amazing rescue operations — 7 000 off-road rescue operations — were carried out. But one thing that emerged was that between 70 and 75 percent of the total area that burned up in the summer of 2018 was reportedly adjacent to land where it had been extinguished but where it flared up again. That prompted me, Madam President, to think about what we can do. The resources that have come now are good. I believe that the Government and I had debates on this before the reinforcements came about in terms of air operations. However, I still think that the Swedish Armed Forces could be dimensioned to help, but this is another debate. What we are talking about today is what resources there are. I think many of those who listen to the debate remember what it was like at the beginning of the summer in Mora. It helped with the resources I have described. It was local farmers who had manure barrels and in this way could be an important part of the extinguishing work. As I describe in my interpellation, there is an invention that turns a forwarder like this into an off-road fire truck that, in addition to a water tank with an engine sprayer, can also drive hoses and other extinguishing equipment. What I mean is that municipal emergency services can never take a coordinating responsibility and arrange national emergency services as we wish. That's where the government's responsibility comes in. What I have pointed out is that you need to have a simpler training in safety, tactics and staffing methodology. You need to make purchases and outplace these ramps – there should be about one per county, and in some very large counties there may be two. The Ramps can be stored by one of the emergency services in each county, or alternatively the rural resources, the private contractors, can store and maintain order on the ramps. These ramps can quickly and easily be moved across the country if, for some reason, more are needed in a particular location. It must be the emergency services or MSB that prioritises where the ramp can be used best. It all boils down to the fact that it is good that the Government says it wants to follow this, but here it is a question of being able to come a bit on the road with very little means. We have the great fires in mind, and reinforcements have taken place from the air, but we also need to improve the possibility of extinguishing from the ground. Here we have a concrete proposal. What does the Minister say: Is this something you can consider?
i-ThJriQ2aX7z5UVn1LYQidn	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mikael Oscarsson, for an interpellation on an important subject! Forest fires have plagued Sweden several times, not least in 2018. Notable, however, is that v i had a very hot summer this year. Many of us who like the sun thought it was quite nice now we were at the hemester here at home in Sweden. It worked very well: we didn't get so many really big fires. It would have been reported in a completely different way if we had. The success factors here are part of what we learned in 2014 and 2018 when it comes to management skills. Several municipal emergency services have actually linked themselves together. No local community emergency services can handle these large fires alone, and then you have to work together. Now we have gone so far as to force the municipalities into cooperation, into management. You have to go into a management system 24:7. That is the first lesson from these great fires. The second was that it matters very much what initial resources you put in. This summer, the flying resources have been used more often early than before. The helicopters or the four flying aircraft have been called in at different times, and this has had a very good effect. There is still fire in the summer, but it has not been these large fires that are very difficult to control and which also require a lot of extinguishing efforts for a long time afterwards. I just want to say that we sometimes discuss all the problems we have, but here we may also stop and say that the enhanced resource we have had at national level has helped the municipal rescue services to deal better with forest fires this summer. On the other hand, we know that new summers are coming, and it may be worse winds that cause it to spread worse in the future. So we should not say that our preparedness is enough, but the preparedness we had worked well despite a very hot and hot summer this year. I will be honest and say that I am probably not prepared to say here today in Parliament exactly what innovations we are going to use and what we are going to spend the money on in the development work ahead. I think that's going too far. However, I can say that I know that MSB has sat down with the LRF to look at these very concepts. Could this be something that can develop not least the local ability around Sweden linked to more after-extinguishing but also to create fire streets that prevent the fire from spreading? We know that farmers and forest owners already play a very important role in these stages. They are helping rescue services today and have an interest in doing so because it is often their own forest that can risk burning. So they are already making a huge effort today. To both organise this local cooperation so that you know which local actors have the resources that can be used for this in the area and can thus be mobilised if necessary and also, if possible, to rebuild or innovate in order for this to be even more effective – I find that interesting to look at. But I am not prepared to say here today in Parliament that it is precisely this type of forwarder with a lasstramp that is to be used. I think it is the emergency services that know best what its needs are and need to think about it. A discussion is then needed on what in this is a local resource and what is appropriate to have as national supporting resources. We have made a government investment in supporting resources, so I have nothing against it in principle. However, I would like to say that it is important that state reinforcement resources should not assume the responsibility of municipalities for having a good staffed and robust municipal civil protection service. We are assuming this debate so that it is the state that will do so that our collective readiness will be destroyed. It is therefore important that municipalities take real responsibility for their municipal rescue services so that they are prepared to deal with accidents and major fires in their local area.
i-a5905ed4527799f8-500	Madam President, I would like It is important to see that it is absolutely the municipal emergency services that have the main responsibility, and we see that these initiatives have played a role this summer. There were several elements in different media about how Mora made fire streets and stopped the fire from moving on. I don't think you should look down on this. We talk quite practically here in Parliament about the matter of shoveling water, and I don't think you should look down on it. The Government points out that 65 million have been spent on flying resources and the purchase of equipment. Here we are talking about maybe 3 – 4 million who could play a very big role in the manure tunnels that can be converted and both use a s of the farmers themselves and go up on this forwarder. It's something we remember when we think back to this big fire. We know, Madam President, that it will burn again. Thankfully, for various reasons, it was not so much this summer, but it will burn again. What I am saying is that in the same way as there is a flying resource, which is good, for the whole country there should be a resource, even if it is placed regionally, in relation to this type of activity. The trained drivers of the manure tunnels must be available regionally when they are expected to be deployed at short notice. It has to be organized. You can hope for ideality and that it will work, but I think it's just as good to acknowledge and enhance this power. This is important. It was not capital areas, thankfully, that burned in 2018 and 2014, but it was quite far out in the country. But it is precisely there that this type of off-road vehicle is of such great importance and that surfaces corresponding to thousands of football fields do not burn up. I believe that the issue of town and country is important and that we see that we also need to provide resources for rural areas. There are agricultural contractors who have said that they are willing to register rural resources throughout the country, but who obviously need a small compensation for it. Of course, those keeping records of rural resources should also undertake to keep up-to-date throughout the forest fire season. With rural resources all over the country, there is the possibility of support with this manure can within a few hours no matter where it starts to burn. In the case of really large or long-term operations, combinations and drivers can be moved over long distances across the country at short notice. I come back to these questions: Does the Government see how much benefit this resource could have for the municipal rescue services? Flying extinguishing resources, as I see it, need to be complemented by ground-borne extinguishing resources. Does the Government think that the big difference in government resources spent on the other two is a good priority? I believe that rural resources are a valuable resource for Sweden, which must come to its full advantage in a safe and predictable way. That is precisely what my interpellation is about, that is to get that response from the government and the Government. In short, how does the Minister view this?
i-a5905ed4527799f8-508	Madam President, I would like I certainly do not look down on activities that are about helping each other, putting out fires and things like that. It must never be misinterpreted. In the case of the larger fires, we have rather seen that there is an enormous will and knowledge to help. Already today we see that farmers and forest owners play a major role in the large fires. How to develop this cooperation is a very important issue to work with. I know that several emergency services around Sweden are working on it and that MSB has met, for example, the LRF to discuss those pilot projects, or whatever they say. I think that's good. However, I have not received any evidence or proposals from the Swedish Civil Protection Agency that it is precisely the kind of national reinforcement resources that we are going to invest in right now. This does not mean that we do not end up in a situation where they will propose it when the methods have been evaluated, looked at the possibilities or considered what should be local, regional and national. I am open to such discussions, but we have not received such a basis now. What has been done at state level following the experiences of 2014 and 2018 is to identify which resources did not work in the major fires and what further efforts needed to be made. It called in the flying resources, which we have already talked about, in other words helicopters. We were going to test airplanes, too. Now we have an agreement on at least ten helicopters that are frequently used to extinguish fires. And at the moment, we have four flying planes, which are also helping. It is also partly EU resources. In fact, we have not had to pay for all the resources ourselves. Some are at the disposal of the EU. Sweden has become a hub for flying resources in northern Europe. I think it is an excellent solution to the preparedness problem in Sweden, but it is also excellent that we can help. For example, two of the aircraft were down in Greece this summer. We have also strengthened management support from the national level. Perhaps there will be less need now when we force in with overall leadership. We had problems with the Rachel systems not having enough coverage around Sweden. Now we have nine new base stations with Rakel that we can deploy so that the communication equipment works. In addition, in more places in Sweden we have reinforced forest fire depots with equipment, so that we have better preparedness over the country. That is what we were told from the investigations that we should prioritise at national level. What we should prioritise in one or two years from now, I can come back to. It would be very exciting if more cooperation could be developed between not least farmers and forest owners and their large resources, which are already being used in forest fire-extinguishing. I think it's interesting. I think it is in the interest of both civil protection to find better collaborations as well as the interest of the forest industry, the interest of entrepreneurs and the interest of insurance companies to think about how to work with the after-extinguishing work in the best possible way. It is an exciting and interesting discussion that I am happy to continue in the future.
i-a5905ed4527799f8-514	Madam President, I would like In conclusion, Sweden is a large country. It is the country in Europe that has the most forest. We've had a lot of forest fires. Hugely large values burned up in 2014 and 2018. Finally, we've got air operations in order. We were completely hands-on in 2018, but now it has been corrected. That's good. However, we now have the opportunity to move forward. We have the opportunity to use resources on the ground. It already works in a lot of places with local efforts. But as I said before, the municipal emergency services around the country can never take a coordinating responsibility to arrange national emergency services, as we see before us, is needed. That's why I've put this interpellation. It is good that the Government agrees with the important efforts already being made in rural areas. But if we are to move forward, action is needed. I would like to see it turn into a mission to MSB to obtain the 3 or 4 million, or whatever it is about. In this way, we can ensure that we are better equipped. Unfortunately, what we know for sure is that we have not seen the end of the fires. They'll come again. What has been done is good. But we see the need to use the resources available in rural areas. These innovations also exist. This will make rural areas better equipped. That is the purpose of the interpellation I have provided.
i-a5905ed4527799f8-518	Madam President, I would like Thank you, interpellant, for both an important discussion and the indirect praise, that we are actually better prepared today than 2018! The flying resources have made a big difference. In the new legislation, which Parliament has decided in broad political agreement, we also tighten the requirements for municipalities and municipal rescue services. MSB will have a clearer supervisory responsibility but will now also have the new formal conditions for effectively allocating reinforcement resources across the country. Overall, with the depots and with the Rachel systems, we are more prepared to fight forest fires today than in 2018. That's good. I think we should continue to develop this. We must do this through cooperation with and collaboration between different actors. Farmers and forest owners already play an important role in the local context. As former Minister for Innovation, I find it exciting to look at new ways of working with resources. Can one resource be converted into something else that can also be useful in these contexts? But before I'm ready to make decisions or put entire systems into operation, I need a basis. I need to see that it has been tested, that it has worked and that the responsible authorities say that that is what they want to prioritise with the emergency services around Sweden. We're not quite there yet. But I am absolutely sure that the trials that are now going on will also give us further knowledge of how it can be developed throughout Sweden.
i-a5905ed4527799f8-521	Madam President, I would like Mikael Oscarsson has asked me a number of questions related to the information that has occurred about military transport with the M/S Estonia and the investigation that has been done about this. Furthermore, he has asked whether the government intends to give a specific mission to the National Commission for Accidents or other authorities to conduct a new investigation into military transport on the M/S Estonia. On 30 November 2004 a documentary about alleged military transport on board the M/S Estonia was shown in the TV programme Mission review in September 1994. In a press release dated 2 December 2004, the Finnish Customs Service stated that they had no reason to suspect any abnormal cargo from a customs point of view on the M/S Estonia at the time of the accident. On 3 December 2004, the Government instructed the then President of the Court of Appeal, Johan Hirschfeldt, to clarify whether the Swedish Armed Forces or the Swedish Defence Materiel Administration had transported defence equipment on board the M/S Estonia during the month of September 1994. At the same time, the Swedish Armed Forces, in consultation with FMV, were asked to provide an account of how to use civil transport in the transport of defence equipment. Hirschfeldt reported on its mission on 21 January 2005. He found it clear that, on two previous occasions during the month in question, defence equipment had been transported with the M/S Estonia, but that there was no basis for assuming that the Swedish Armed Forces or FMV had transported defence equipment on board the M/S Estonia when the ship sank. On 5 November 2020, together with Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist, I answered questions about M/S Estonia's sinking in the composite Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence. The investigation authorities in Sweden, Finland and Estonia are now conducting an independent investigation into the previously unknown holes discovered on the ship's wrecks last year and if these give reason to revise the previous accident report of the 1997 Joint Accident Commission for Estonia, Finland and Sweden. In this work, the authorities concerned have to decide for themselves what concrete investigative measures are needed to investigate the sinking.
i-a5905ed4527799f8-524	Madam President, I would like In a couple of weeks, on 28 September, it is 27 years since the Estonia perished. There were 989 people on board, 852 of whom drowned. Of them, about 500 were Swedes. In total, only 137 people survived. I see some of them are in the stands. I see Anders Eriksson up there. I see Rolf Sörman. I see that Åsa Myrberg, who lost her father, is also there. I'm sure there's more that I don't recognize. In my interpellation, I referred to many of the relatives who have constantly come back to the state of military transport and that it needs to be investigated. I also refer to the DN Debate where 89 children to the deaths and survivors demanded an answer. It was precisely military transport that they highlighted. I also refer in the interpellation to Bishop Caroline Krook, who was a member of the Ethical Council. She says that she has not found out anything about the military transports and that they probably had happened during the night of the crash. Is essential information withheld in the Ethical Council? This is a question she has raised. What I find is that we need a new investigation into the military transports of the Estonia. Firstly, from the outset, serious criticism was made of the investigation carried out in 2004 concerning the Estonia transport of the Estonia. The information in the investigation was spectacularly scarce. It did not reveal who had been heard in the investigation. The investigator claimed to have destroyed his own investigation material. Let me sum up: we do not know anything about the Estonia transport of the Estonia today, nor can we, Madam President, control anything. Secondly, new data have emerged indicating that a military transport took place on the night of the crash. Experienced journalists claim to have received information about such a transport, which is highlighted in the Estonian documentary. Sara Hedrenius, who survived the wreck, says she saw military vehicles rolling aboard the Estonia just before departure. That's what she told the media, and I've talked to her myself. It goes without saying that the data on military cargo on the night of the crash must be investigated. Thirdly, we have a duty to respond to the wishes of relatives and survivors to investigate military transport. Time and again they express a desire to understand why the Estonia, which was a passenger ferry, was used to transport sensitive military equipment. In addition, it is stated in Hirschfeldt's seven-page investigation that the agreement between Customs and the Swedish Armed Forces is still valid. We need to know if the Swedish Armed Forces are still transporting equipment that cannot withstand customs controls with passenger traffic. For me, everything comes down to the fact that we have to listen to the relatives and investigate military transport. Today, TV4 also drew attention to the fact that new findings were made. The remains of three bodies have been found outside the Estonia. Survivors now want these bodies to be cared for and identified to see who they are. It's likely to be done with dental records. I would therefore like to insert a question: Does the Government intend to listen to the survivors' demands to seize these bodies and take them home and then perhaps be able to identify them? One could at least identify these three people and thus bring a little more clarity.
i-a5905ed4527799f8-533	Madam President, I would like The Estonia disaster is one of the greatest events of our time, and it has affected a great many people not only in our country but also in several of our neighbouring countries. There are still deep wounds in those who have lost relatives, friends and loved ones. It is out of respect for them that the government and then the Riksdag have decided to make a change to the grave peace law to enable a new investigation of what caused the sinking. We had new information about new holes. When investigating a sinking, the international regulatory framework requires independent commissions to do so. There must be no risk of political forces, governments or others influencing such investigations. They must be independent. At the moment, it is not the Swedish Commission for Accidents that leads the work, but it is the Estonian Commission for Accidents that does. But this is done in cooperation with both Finland and Sweden. Our three countries have agreed to provide support and support to the accident commission, but they will have to do their work independently. The whole starting point is to clarify whether the new data in any way alters the previous report's conclusions as to why the Estonia sank. My only starting point in this is that the accident commission should do a proper job, find out why the Estonia sank and as far as possible clarify how the sinking happened. That is the mission of an independent accident commission. If they need information from the Swedish Government Office or our authorities, our books are open. There are no secrets here. Without everything they need in their investigation work, they are free to use. But it is they themselves who should be responsible for the investigation under international conventions. Above all, they must ensure that it is not called into question how and in what way they do their work. I also had a question about the law of grave peace and whether or not it should still apply. Throughout the journey there have been some different views, including among relatives. Already in connection with the establishment of the grave peace act in 1995, a unanimous parliament decided that we should consider the area around the M/S Estonia as a final resting place and thereby protect it with grave peace both with an international agreement and through Swedish law. I have no proposals to fundamentally change this legislation. When I submitted a proposal to the Riksdag and to the parties of the Riksdag to adjust the law of grave peace to enable the investigations so that we can get more clarity about the process, I understood that there was a clear majority in parliament that we should not abolish the law of grave peace or fundamentally change it. My message today is that I do not have any new information to give on this issue.
i-a5905ed4527799f8-538	Madam President, I would like First, with regard to the three bodies, the government could change the law of burial and make an exception to enable investigations. It was during the dives that it was discovered that three bodies are outside. One of the people who saw this is a person who is now sitting up in the gallery. My view is that now that there are remains of three bodies that are open, we cannot, of course, leave them there. I'd like to hear the government's response to that. The answer refers to a meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence on 5 November. It was the Christian Democrats who initiated the meeting. At that time, Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist promised increased transparency about Estonia's military transport. He said a year ago that nothing is kept secret and that the government has no interest in keeping anything secret. What have we seen from the promised transparency? Nothing. Despite promises of openness, our collective knowledge of Estonia's military transport is as scarce as before. Why wasn't the government informed about the military transports after the wreck? We don't know. Why was the Ethical Council not informed about military transport? We have no idea. What we know, Madam President, is that there is more information. In the National Archives there is a document with Hirschfeldt's previous investigation of Estonia's military transport. This document is confidential. Down in the basement of the police station Kronoberg there are 15 000 pages of documents with information about Estonia's cargo during the night of the sinking. These documents are classified and are located inside bars. The Government refers here to an investigation in which the Swedish Armed Forces and FMV have previously been commissioned to report on the use of means of transport in the transport of defence equipment. The mission was given at the same time as the mission to Hirschfeldt. This is where the government will help me. Has this investigation been presented? I asked the Library of Parliament to get it out, but they got bit. They couldn't find it anywhere. I am sure that the Government is aware of this, and then perhaps we can straighten out the question as to whether it exists so that we can read it or whether it is somehow not available and, if so, what it depends. What I keep coming back to is that we need the transparency and transparency that was promised. What measures does the government intend to take to ensure greater transparency about the classified documents and investigations that exist about Estonia's military transport? I return to what we talked about at first: the three bodies outside the Estonia. I am thinking of respect for them, their relatives and survivors. Maybe it's comrades lying there. Is this really reasonable when they are easily accessible and can be picked up? Is it even possible for them to remain in bed? Then there are the other questions that I had about transparency and, specifically, the mission from FMV and the Swedish Armed Forces.
i-a5905ed4527799f8-546	Madam President, I would like I think it is important that the investigation work is carried out by the independent accident commission – as I have said before. The three countries also agree that it is important for this Commission to be able to do its job completely independently and freely. They will therefore find out why and how the M/S Estonia sank. We have been incredibly clear on the part of the Swedish Government regarding all the studies they need to do in order to find out information and access data. They have access to everything. There are no secrets they need to worry about linked to this. With regard to the issue of grave peace, I am a little surprised. It can't be a completely unlikely event that you encounter the deceased when making investigations of the M/S Estonia. But the whole point of grave peace was that it would be one last resting place. That is what Parliament has taken a position on. That's what the government has to act from. That is the legislation that Sweden has. It is the legislation we have just adjusted in this House to enable the investigations, which I believe were very important to a large part of the House. If there were ideas of completely abolishing the law of grave peace and of not considering this as a last resting place, there were all the conditions to pursue that question. I do not understand that there is a majority in parliament for that. I understand that there may be strong feelings about this issue in relatives. But there may also be strong feelings among other relatives who do not want to tear up that question. That's a very difficult question. It's a delicate question. This question was ultimately examined in 1995 when a unanimous parliament decided that we should introduce a grave peace law, which has since been confirmed not only in Swedish law but also in an international agreement, together with other states. Finally, I will raise the last point. After all, I have to call and check data, because I have questions about the responsibilities of other departments, in particular the responsibilities of the Minister for Defence. But now I have a question about the Swedish Armed Forces and FMV's report. The information I've been collecting since I heard this information is: It's not secret. It's in our central archive. It is only a matter of asking it out and reading the conclusions of that report. It is not a report that I myself have read, but I have not received any signals from my officials that it in any way upsets our assessment. It's not secret. It's in the central archive to request.
i-a5905ed4527799f8-552	Madam President, I would like It is good if that is the case, because the Parliamentary Library could not find it at all. It was carried around in different ways. It's great if we can have it. But, as I said, there are other parts here, such as the notes that are likely to be Hirschfeldts. That's 70 years of confidentiality after it was finished. I do not think that is reasonable, Madam President. It has now been 27 years. There is every reason to ensure that documents that are available really get full transparency. This needs to be investigated unconditionally. This is exactly what will happen. If you do not do this on the part of the state, it will be like what happened the other day, when there was a private press conference. Then conspiracy theories will live on. That is precisely why transparency and transparency are important. I'm thinking of Sara Hedrenius. She was not given the opportunity to tell this during the JAIC investigation. But now she's told me about what she saw, about the military transports that came on board last time. She was told that the Commission will not investigate this. It is absurd that we have it that way. That is why we need to set up a new investigation into Estonia's military transport and minimise secrecy and listen to the survivors and relatives. Then there is the point of nothing being kept secret. Then it can't be that I find documents that with defence secrecy are supposed to be secret for 70 years. The question is also: is it reasonable that secret defence equipment may continue to be transported by passenger traffic? Is that the case today?
i-a5905ed4527799f8-557	Madam President, I would like I take this issue very seriously. That is also why the government has gone to Parliament and has talked to two other countries about the fact that we are making an adjustment to the grave peace law to give our accident commissions an opportunity to really investigate why the M/S Estonia sank. The new tasks are therefore taken seriously. They are currently conducting independent investigation work under Estonia's leadership. I think this is incredibly important. It also shows that, not least, we take the views of relatives very seriously. I am not going to politicise or direct the Commission of Accidents in any way in their work. Their mission is to find out why and how the M/S Estonia sank. It is their job to do this. When it comes to conspiracy theories, one must also consider, as a Member of Parliament, one's own role, on one's own responsibility, on what questions you travel and on what facts you have when you insinuate or claim different things. Hirschfeldt is not just any person. He was President of the Court of Appeal at the time. I have not understood that anyone has questioned his credibility or his interest in getting to the bottom of the investigation he did. I was not in the government that led Sweden when the M/S Estonia sank. But Alf Svensson and Carl Bildt did. Are we serious that these people have hidden something, that they have an interest in not telling what their authorities did at the time? I believe that there is a responsibility to be objective in this discussion, to take this seriously and to give the Commission a full mandate. I think it is good that the accident commission has listened to the relatives this time, but it must be the accident commission that determines what information and knowledge they need to get to the bottom of this and sort out everything we know about M/S Estonia's sinking. I take that mission very seriously. I hope Mikael Oscarsson does, too.
i-a5905ed4527799f8-563	Madam President, I would like Thomas Morell has asked me whether I and the government intend to strengthen control activities on the way to curb illegal cabotage operations and what measures the government intends to take to curb the cheating of driving and rest times and reduce the number of drug-affected drivers in heavy-duty vehicles. The interpellant raises important questions. A number of measures have been taken in this area. On 16 June, the Government Office referred a proposal to increase penalties in the event of unauthorised cabotage operations. The proposal proposes to increase the fine from SEK 40 000 to SEK 60 000. The proposal also provides for a more appropriate definition of cabotage transport and reinforces the customer responsibility to include transport operations which are not completed but ongoing under control. These are strong proposals to reduce illegal transport on our roads. The government has also taken steps to curb the cheating of driving and rest periods and decided during the spring on new penalties, for example when a driver is forced to spend his normal weekly rest in the vehicle. Since 24 May 2021, a police officer or a car inspector may also decide that a foreign carrier should pay an advance for fines for infringements of the rules on driving and rest periods. The Government also considers that there is reason to identify and analyse the current control activities in the field of professional transport and has therefore allowed an investigator to make proposals to this effect. The investigation into more effective checks on commercial road traffic has handed over its report to the government. The investigator proposes, inter alia, that the existing control structure be maintained but that it be developed through clearer governance by the various authorities. The report has been referred and the matter will then be prepared within the Government Office. Another proposal in the study on more effective checks on professional traffic is the proposal for a law that allows screening tests for drugs in traffic, i.e. a routine test without suspicion of crime. Today, screening tests can only be used to determine whether a driver is under the influence of alcohol. The proposal is important not least in view of the growing problem of drugs on the road. The report of the investigation has been referred to the relevant authorities and stakeholder organisations. Another investigator has, in the Ministry memorandum, strengthened criminal law protection against repeated traffic crime, etc. Among other things, it has proposed that the maximum sentence for serious illegal driving and driving under the influence of a drink be raised from six months' imprisonment to one year's imprisonment. In addition to more severe penalties, the proposal means that the person driving without a driving licence or under the influence of alcohol or drugs can, if necessary, be detained already in connection with a police intervention. The investigator has also proposed that the maximum sentence for serious drunken driving be raised from two years' imprisonment to three years' imprisonment. The proposal is prepared within the Government Office. It is also important to have an available police officer to improve the situation on the roads. Here the building of the Police Authority is a central part, and the government is carrying out a historic effort on the agency. The goal is to increase the number of police employees by 10,000 from the beginning of 2016 to the end of 2024, and has so far come more than half way. According to the Police Department, it's possible to reach the target. The Agency has also made an effort to improve controls on heavy commercial traffic, including cabotage. The number of days of checks has increased and the number of people involved in the control of professional traffic has increased. But let me be clear. Despite the additional resources and several ongoing initiatives, the Government's ambitions for the situation on the roads go further. V i has an ambitious interim target of halving the number of road fatalities by 2030, and work on fairer competition and good working conditions in the haulage industry is constantly evolving.
i-a5905ed4527799f8-572	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. We have discussed these issues a number of times. Let us now talk seriously because the situation on the roads is worrying. Criminal networks are taking an increasing share of transport. In an interpellation debate a little later today, I will highlight this issue clearly. It is great that the proposals that have been made about the legislation mean a tightening up of the penalties. But there must be someone out there doing the job. What we are talking about are small marginal adjustments in terms of the number of control officers. It is not a horde of people who have come to the rescue to work on the roads; they are still only a few. The change in the penalty fee from SEK 40 000 to SEK 60 000 may seem like a substantial increase, but in this context it is coffee money. It shows once again that we do not really have a grasp of what is happening and what is happening. 60 000 will soon be earned for these. If sanctions are to be increased so that they bite properly, we have to get over a few hundred thousand crowns. This sum is miscalculation money in their business. Now the investigation has arrived. It's probably few times that I've been really irritated when I read something, but the investigation made my blood pressure go up properly. What is striking is that the investigator proposes that the existing control structure be maintained. Yet it is found that it does not work. It's amazing. We have a control operation on the way that doesn't work, where you've been beaten to the brunt of the police department. I worked there myself, and I know how the trip has been. I have regular contacts with my old colleagues. And there has been no interest from the top police authorities in these controls, but they are considered to be looking at lights and kicking on deck. But it is a question of curbing crime on the roads because criminal networks use heavy traffic for their transport. The whole of society is engulfed in the ruthless progress of the criminal gangs in society. We need to strangle the food supply. The best way is simply to remove the possibilities of using the road as a transport route for the criminal organisation. But it has been left open, and instead, a number of cameras have been nailed on the roads that are thought to be in charge of road safety. Yes, they photograph the one driving too fast, but everything else has been left completely open. You can't get to that. The only chance to solve these problems is to get control officials on the way. It's supposed to be flesh and blood standing in shoes and stopping vehicles. They're going to do checks and look at what kind of transport it is, who's driving, if there's a permit and what's in the truck. When all these questions are answered, we know whether it is a fair transport or an illegal transport. If it is an illegal transport operation, decisive action must be taken against those who use it.
i-a5905ed4527799f8-579	Madam President, I would like This is an important issue for the government. No other government has done so much to bring order to the roads. No other government has stood up for Sweden's interest in Europe as we have done. There has already been a liberal naivety about how the transport sector has developed in Sweden. That's what we're going to do now. There is so much in the answer that is about changes that have been made and that will be implemented. We will continue to feed in so that the transport sector becomes legal and safe and ensures the conditions for employees. We have had this debate several times. Basically, we feel the same way about the need to develop control activities. I would like to take this opportunity to ask whether Mr Morell has concrete proposals on how he wants the control organisation to function and be organised – for my knowledge and to satisfy my curiosity.
i-a5905ed4527799f8-581	Madam President, I would like I can answer that question very quickly. Oh, yes! I could spend a few days explaining how we're gonna build this organization. Just this morning, I had an email conversation with one of the chiefs of the traffic police. He's retired today. But we have discussed the proposals I have put forward in our motion on how to make this work. Sweden has become a market for those who do not care about laws and regulations. It is foreign operators who take the transports. You drive in Sweden with several driver cards. You use amphetamine so that the drivers can handle the transports. They're going up to Norrland to unload the estate, and then they're going out of the country again. The Swedish Customs Agency in Skåne has sounded the alarm that they take two drivers almost every week who are under the influence of drugs. They put drugs in the cab to drive up in Sweden, loosen and then back. Then they have a number of driver cards so that they can do this. The problem is that when the police take these, they do not have legal consequences. If they are affected by drugs, it pinches, but not if they run multiple driver cards. The prosecutors release suspects if they have an overseas address. This has created a situation where foreign operators deliberately send up drivers in Sweden who will drive on a number of driver cards. A couple of weeks ago there was an accident outside Jönköping that could have had dramatic consequences. It was a transport that drove off the road. It was loaded with 26 tons of steel beams. Total weight of the combination was 45 tonnes. The recorder showed that the vehicle was up to 132 kilometers per hour just before it broke through the central barrier, fell down the slope, and ended up in the north lane. This was bad enough, but what came up then, when the police conducted a further investigation? Well, the driver was under the influence of drugs, as was the driver who was in the car, and there were several driver's cards. It is refined people who deal with this, for it has been freed up. Nobody gets to this, because we don't have enough resources to stop it. I read the article before, and now, Madam President, I apologise for the language. Chamber Attorney Klas Hellgren says it's a bitch and expects to prosecute the man and his girlfriend this week. Then he also says that they will likely escape the punishment. The woman's been released, but the man's still here. You will not get to the woman because the punishment is too low; it will only be two months. If she stays out of Sweden, she will not be prosecuted here. There have been various tasks, but it is said that it was she who was behind the wheel just when this happened – then it was also illegal driving. Those claims have not been substantiated, but so it is said. This shows how bad the situation is with these transports entering the country. People don't even have a driver's license, they're affected by drugs, they run on multiple driver's cards and they have manipulated tachographs, so the speed regulator doesn't hit. This is everyday life, and it's going on here and now, right now. And the authority, the police, who are in control, doesn't have the resources to face it. It is time to act now!
i-a5905ed4527799f8-589	Madam President, I would like I'm not going to read about my entire interpellation response, where everything that's being done has been messed up. Only half of what is being done; the answer did not say anything about what we have already done. So a great deal is happening in this area. The most important thing now, to be specific on the drugs issue, is that we have a study that has proposed that we use screening tests for drugs. This is what becomes the game-changer in the whole issue of drugs – to give the police the opportunity to make checks on people, just as they can make people blow for alcohol. In terms of legislation, we now have a proposal out there. I think it is interesting and should be implemented. My absolute personal opinion is that it is obvious that we should have order on the roads. This will not only affect professional traffic. We have problems with drugs in society at large. People are being taken today for drug use also in ordinary cars. The problem is that the police find it difficult to prove it because we don't have the screening tests. The police have already initiated a study aimed at developing an effective instrument for routine control of drug traffic. This is the game changer we're now working on to make sure we get to the drugs. We fully agree that the police have done too little control of commercial traffic. We have discussed this several times before. Then we can also say that it is now positive that the agency has increased controls in recent years. There are more types of controls: control of driving and rest times and flying inspections of commercial vehicles. This must continue to develop over time. We're not going to precede the investigation. I asked you how you view the control operation, whether the police should be deprived of those duties, or whether Morell thinks they should remain in the police department. The government will come back to this issue once we have prepared the investigation's proposal further.
i-a5905ed4527799f8-596	Madam President, I would like I make myself available 24 hours a day, any day of the year, to explain how the control activities should be designed to work really well. I can have old colleagues with me too, so you don't have to feel the political pressure in this. It is extremely important that we get to this problem on our roads. I stand up for every sentence the government makes to strengthen the legislation and increase the penalties. That's great. But the problem is, there's no one out there who can do the job. If we fly across the country and look at what it looks like, we see that we have some really good police down in Helsingborg. I'd say they're among the sharpest. So there is Västerås – there I have a former colleague who is one of the sharpest car inspectors we have in the country. Then it is Eskilstuna and Sundsvall, and then what? Yes, there are a few more. But they don't have the capacity, and they don't have support from their police management. This has meant that those who are driving in Sweden have maps and driving directions in their vehicles that show where they should not go to not be stopped by the police. All the other roads they can go to avoid control are plotted. If you look at the Control Directive, you can see that it requires checks to be carried out on the main road network every day of the year, every day of the year. We are nowhere near that today, so we do not have the control directive. Now it is time for the government to switch up and ensure that resources are brought into the Police Authority so that you can walk out on the asphalt and put an end to the madness that is going on on the road.
i-a5905ed4527799f8-602	Madam President, I would like This is an important area, where the government does a great deal because we have had a very lax and problematic regulatory framework around this in Sweden. We have also had too few policemen who have worked on these issues, and it is therefore good that controls are now increasing and that the police also have the ambition to expand this type of activity as they grow and become 10 000 more police workers. So we have a common ambition there. Apart from the fact that controls have increased and are now at a higher level than before so that we pass the applicable directives, it is important to continue to develop our activities. One thing we have talked too little about is how to streamline and use new technology in the work. In the whole area of road safety, the issue of a mobile order has been a game changer for the ordinary police officers. You look at documentation of flying inspections. Now they work hard with ANPR, automatic plate reading, which can also provide much more knowledge over time, which increases efficiency and strengthens legal certainty. We have the whole discussion on both the technical possibilities of the Politiska området and its powers in the border zone, an investigation that will come later this autumn. All these areas together make us in an exciting development. Not least is a new application for the supervision of dangerous goods under development. All this is about developing the effectiveness of the Political Authority on these issues. Not least, I'd like to hit a punch for the drug screening test. It will mean a great deal; if that is what I think I agree with Thomas Morell.
i-a5905ed4527799f8-605	Madam President, I would like Thomas Morell has asked me whether I and the government intend to increase the resources for border controls and roadside checks. The fact that the practice of violence by criminals affects innocent people is despicable and totally unacceptable. The government takes a very serious view of serious crime and is therefore making the biggest ever effort at the Police Authority. By mid 2021, the number of employees had increased by over 7,000 persons. This means that the Police Authority has never had so many employees before, and there have never before been so many police officers in Sweden. The government has also presented the 34-point programme against gang crime. The programme is the most comprehensive in Sweden's history. It is now carried out on a point-by-point basis. Strengthened penalties for serious weapons offences means that we can arrest and prosecute criminals to a greater extent. Secret data readings allow us to listen to their communications. More camera surveillance in streets and squares allows us to interfere with open drug trafficking. The accountability of society has intensified. The work will continue during the autumn. We look forward to a better search for weapons and other objects coming into force, as well as the abolition of the penalty rebate for young adults in the event of serious crime. In October, twelve authorities report their work against economic activity and incorrect censuses linked to organised crime, and in December we will get a new, updated picture of vulnerable areas. With regard to controls in border areas, the Council has set up an investigation to consider, inter alia, whether legislative changes should be made to improve the effectiveness of law enforcement in border areas. These may include changes in the possibility of camera surveillance and the right to use coercive measures such as body search and vehicle search for crime prevention purposes. The report will be presented in November. The Government has also commissioned an investigator to review the rules governing the Customs Authority's powers to carry out checks and work law enforcement. The assignment includes, among other things, considering whether the Customs Agency should have the right to assist the Police Authority in more cases than is possible today. The investigation will be reported in spring. As regards the situation on the roads, the Council considers that there is a need to identify and analyse the current control activities in the field of professional transport. The government has therefore allowed an investigator to produce proposals, and a report has recently been submitted. The investigator proposes, inter alia, that the existing control structure be maintained but that it be developed through clearer governance by the various authorities. The government is doing a lot of work – and it is a long-term commitment. Crimes must be combated, but it is equally important to address the causes of crime, because long-term and structured crime prevention work involving the whole of society is needed. All actors who have influence over the development need to increase their efforts to repress gang crime and make Sweden more secure.
i-a5905ed4527799f8-614	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. This goes exactly hand in hand with what we discussed earlier about illegal transport on our roads. I have been working on these issues for over ten years and have felt that society does not understand the connection between the illegal transport that takes place on our roads and other criminal activities. But they have come in and nestled in our logistics systems. They have an iron check on how the flows are, they have an eye on what transports they can use to get weapons and drugs. Young women are used in the form of prostitution, and young men are used in the construction industry or in the restaurant industry. This established good detectives at the police in Västra Götaland, County War, as early as 2012. I've worked very closely with them. We started a project in the haulage industry. You could call a special number if you saw something suspicious. After all, truck drivers are out all hours of the day, every day of the year, and if they could help the police get to this illegal activity, that was a great advantage. It was an interesting project that also led to the police being able to make some strikes. However, it was noted in this connection that illegal traffic is closely linked to other criminal activities in our society and that financial resources are being created for other criminal activities, such as the taking of drugs, weapons and so on. We are suffering from this in society today. It's shot and blown up pretty much daily. The worst of all is that innocent people are affected. In 2015, a four-year-old girl was blown to death in Torslanda, and in 2018 an eight-year-old boy died when a hand grenade was thrown into the room where he was sleeping – it was a family arrangement. In August 2019 a young mother was shot to death when she had her infant in her arms, and in Norsborg in 2020 a 12-year-old girl was killed in a shooting. Completely innocent people who have nothing to do with it are murdered in the open street. Some time after the murder of the police officer in Bishopsgården, two small children were shot at a shooting in Flemingsberg. It was just a good thing that the shots got in the legs of the kids. As for the hit, perhaps 20 centimetres of difference would have been sufficient for it to have had another exit. This must be curbed, and the best way to curb and stop criminal activity is to cut off the flow of food to criminals. The best way to strangle the flow of nutrients is simply to remove them from their activities. Get more policemen on the roads who can make checks, and strengthen customs operations so that we can constantly disrupt and slow down the criminal activity! If we don't, we won't get to the other one either. It's like communicating vessels. We must have effective control activities on the road and at our borders in order to stop the flow of food to criminals.
i-a5905ed4527799f8-623	Madam President, I would like It feels good that Thomas Morell and I are basically in agreement. We are expanding the Police Department with 10,000 more employees so that we have more police officers present to intervene. We are also expanding control activities in professional and heavy traffic, which is absolutely essential, as we said in our previous discussion. We're going to focus on what's about limit now. We are now looking at how to strengthen police powers in border areas, which I think is important. We should also be able to use modern technology, because many of the criminal gangs can be blown up through intelligence activities, that is, the more control we have on what is rolling on our roads and into our country, the more opportunities we have to take them in Sweden but also to break the whole chain back in Europe. Most of the weapons and drugs do not come from EU countries from the beginning. It enters via ports or is smuggled onto other roads in Europe. This means that international cooperation between Europol and Eurojust is absolutely crucial for hitting these food chains or the infrastructure described by Thomas Morell. So it is not just a Swedish question but an international issue that we can work on together with our neighbours. In addition, most of the things that roll into Sweden have passed Denmark, which means that the interest in cooperation with other countries is central because it is illegal activity we are talking about. As far as customs is concerned, we have increased the appropriations over the last few years by one third. Thus, appropriations for customs increased by 30 per cent. Staff has increased a lot. I think it is up to now 265 years of work, but it will be another 100 this year. But it's not just about staff, it's also about portable scanning equipment and other things that streamline the work and make it easier. There is a balance between intelligence, technical capabilities and boots on the ground, or what Morell said in our last interpellation debate. I share the view that there are a number of strands and infrastructures which must be opposed. I find it exciting that the European police, in collaboration with the Swedish police, have followed the smuggling routes through Europe and allowed the smugglers to deliver in several places, also in Sweden, so that they not only take the transport themselves but let the entire infrastructure become visible with conversion sites, suppliers and subcontractors. When you work systematically that way, you can really crack the gang structures. Transport on the road is definitely a very important part. It is important to work smartly so that you not only knock out a transport but also the gang environments and the international connection that almost always exists in these contexts. I look forward to further work at customs, but also to the development work of the Political Authority in this area.
i-a5905ed4527799f8-631	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. Customs has changed its focus a little. A lot of attention is being paid to professional traffic, and it has had an impact. Customs has written in a press release that it was a record arrest of cannabis by 2020. Almost 3.9 tonnes of cannabis were taken, more than three times as much as in 2019 and more than any other year. In addition, the Customs Department has never seized as many firearms as last year. Criminal groupings are adapting and making greater use of trade flows for smuggling. The Trade Flow — What Is It? Yes, it's our road freight. These are the people used by criminals, who have also been identified by customs. Charlotte Svensson says: Our transition has produced results. Never before have we seized as much cannabis as last year. Despite reduced travel, we also stopped more alcohol than in the previous year, not least thanks to large seizures in heavy traffic. Here we have the link to the illegal professional traffic that has spread out in Sweden and which is used to smuggle in alcohol, drugs, weapons, explosives and people. In the opposite direction, stolen goods are spent in the round tossing 2 billion a year in insured value. That's what goes out across borders. It is we as policyholders who pay for it. Catalyst thefts have increased by about 4,000 percent. It is something that affects car owners very hard. If you look at the shootings that have been, you can see that the number is increasing. It's troubling. This reflects the fact that there is a fight between the various criminal actors. The police have created confusion in the system, as a lot of leading figures have been removed. Then others pop up to take over and breast-feed themselves to show that they are now in charge. But if we're gonna get to this and stop it, we're gonna have to strangle the nutrient flow. I'm back there. I've discussed this so many times with so many people. The connection between these flows that are out in our society and the supply of nutrients to criminals must be seen. If we are to tackle these shootings which are extremely worrying and which create such insecurity for all people in our society, we must also invest in resources on the way. Now we are back by the boots – flesh and blood standing in boots and stopping vehicles along the way. When I was once trained by the traffic police, I had an instructor and tutor. I think he was the best bloodhound in the Polis Authority. He could find vehicles that were interesting two kilometers away. This experience he had accumulated during his professional years as a police officer and as a traffic police officer. Just by looking at a vehicle, he could say that you should bring it in because there was something wrong. And in nine out of ten, he was right. It is this knowledge with good officials who make checks along the way that we must take advantage of. They can basically smell if something isn't right. This experience is of course built up for a long time when working in the field in a strong position. That is why we must now get people out, regardless of what it will look like in the future.
i-a5905ed4527799f8-640	Madam President, I would like I think it is very important that we strengthen the police organization and get more experienced and knowledgeable police officers who have boots on and can control professional traffic more. I also think it is important that the police continue to develop their technical capabilities, not least on the camera side with the ability to store and see patterns and linked to that intelligence image. Many of the large seizures that Customs has made in these contexts have also been linked to intelligence work, international cooperation or cooperation with the Police Authority. It is in this way that you can actually increase seizures over time, know what this structure looks like and how to access it. I also think it is important to get to grips with what we have not talked about today, i.e. the usual and basic requirements that make it more difficult for these international players who are on our roads and who do not comply with our rules. Only the simple requirement for winter tyres causes a number of these transports. It's not really a crime issue. But it is clear that if this requirement makes it more difficult or at least more difficult for these rogue actors to exist in Sweden, we can also strangle some illegal activities along the way, which I think is good. Then we'll increase road safety. It is again a question of screening drugs, which means that we can make it much easier for an ordinary police officer to do his job and thereby strangle strange activities. As far as customs controls on professional traffic are concerned, it is quite right for them to see that this is going to a greater extent in the flow of goods. That's good. Then they have also gained increased technical ability to detect this but also more staff. What's interesting is that it's about multi-criminals. Sometimes it is not just the smuggling of weapons and drugs. It can also be smuggling cigarettes or food or dealing with VAT fraud. It is therefore incredibly important for customs to look at the economic part of this, because much of the money comes in through financial crime which is not often also linked to freight traffic. I think what Morell points out at the end is incredibly important, that what we now see is that the shootings remain at a very high level. It is slightly lower than last year, but it may vary over time. With regard to the explosions, to which reference was made before, the police have now gathered in a bomb computer centre together with other authorities. This seems to be quite successful. Last year the blasts decreased, and at the beginning of this year the number of blasts is smaller than last year. We have now had maybe two years in a row with declining levels of blasts. Not everyone can handle explosives, which is a good thing. And if you take out some of the workshops that make these bombs, it will have a greater effect. I think this systematic work, not only investigating crimes but seeing the context and leading it backwards, is a very smart way for the police and other authorities to work. I also took note of what Mr Morell mentioned about accountability. We see that when the police have about 1 000 more prisoners today compared to two years ago and that we have come further up the food chain in the criminal gangs – that more leaders in the criminal gangs are locked up or awaiting trial – it is a weakening of this structure. It won't go away, but it's a weakening of the structure. This makes it easier for the police to strike at the individuals who are still in these criminal networks. I therefore believe that, although we have major problems with violence, we are in an offensive phase from the Police Authority. And we're just at the beginning of the power collection that's now going on to hire more policemen – ordinary patrol officers, police officers on the way and more investigators – and by tightening the penalties further and giving the police new methods and tools. Then we must not only deal with road transport but also break the recruitment of young people into criminal gangs. This is the only way we can ensure that crime is reduced over time in the long term.
i-a5905ed4527799f8-647	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. That not everyone can handle explosives we saw examples of in Värnamo. It didn't go very well. Once again, it is extremely important that we have a well-functioning control operation with strong legislation to crack these criminal networks. It's based on getting people out on the road. Again, I ask the Government to take the helicopter a bit above the ground and look at how these structures work. I have made a proposal, and we are writing motions on this – how to organise control activities. I'm talking to both old police chiefs and old colleagues about how best to get to this and get to grips with what's going on on the road. It is partly based on technical equipment. But it's really easy to change a license plate. Some of those entering the country have a full battery with license plates and associated registration certificates. They change their identity during the journey in the country. We must not forget that. But to get to this, you have to have awake and good control officials out on the road who, like my old supervisor, can basically smell when it's wrong. Then we will have success in breaking these criminal networks. We need to strangle their nutrition. That's the first thing we have to do. Then, of course, there are many other things that must also be done. But nutrition needs to be strangled. It's based on getting boots out on the road.
i-a5905ed4527799f8-653	Madam President, I would like I thank Thomas Morell for another debate on this subject. But it is important because this is an area that has been neglected and has not been regulated enough and where the police have not done enough control work. Now we are seeing a trend in which controls are increasing. We are not satisfied with the level we are at today. These must continue to develop, and more people are needed to do so. We also need to increase technical capacity in different ways. We also need international cooperation, because many of these trucks have come through another country. We need more international cooperation to fight this international crime, as it is in fact. It's not just a driver somewhere driving a truck, it's part of a pattern of a structure that makes pretty big money. But in my interpellation response, I have also described a great many areas of development that we are now working on. We will continue because we have decided to create order on Swedish roads. It is good for safety, it is good for employees, but it is also good for reducing crime.
i-a5905ed4527799f8-656	Madam President, I would like Alexandra Anstrell has asked the Minister for Infrastructure whether he and the Government intend to strengthen the requirements for electronic systems and charging stations, as well as requirements for sprinklers in parking houses and tunnels such as the Southern Link. Alexandra Anstrell has also asked the Minister for Infrastructure if he will initiate more research in this area and highlight good examples to provide more knowledge to be able to make clear assessments and make recommendations for our fire safety. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. The electrification of the transport sector is fast. Single Traffic Analysis scenarios are expected to be more than 1 million charging vehicles by 2030, compared to about 60 000 charging vehicles by 2020. Access to charging infrastructure shall not be an obstacle to this electrification. An increased supply of charging infrastructure and related security issues is a priority for the government. As regards the installation of charging infrastructure, several areas are concerned, and as a result several authorities are jointly responsible for security. In order to ensure a high level of electrical safety, the charging infrastructure installed shall meet the requirements of electronic equipment. The electrical safety agency is the authority that has the government's mission to work for high electrical safety and that electrical equipment should not disturb each other. Through regulatory work, participation in international, European and national standardisation work and the dissemination of information, the Agency is actively working to change the regulatory framework and implementation requirements in line with changes in use and the introduction of new technologies. Through information measures, the agency also works proactively to inform about the responsibility and obligations of actors in the installation and use of electronic equipment. The construction regulations of the Swedish Housing Agency impose requirements on the technical characteristics of construction works, including safety in the event of fire. Boverket works continuously to update the regulations based on new conditions. It may be added that the Swedish Civil Protection Agency has, among other things, developed a guide for how civil protection should act in connection with fires in lithium-ion batteries. In other words, work is under way on constant adaptation to and measures for a changing reality. Research, innovation and the dissemination of good practice play an important role in the process of change. Sweden will be one of the world's leading research and innovation countries and a leading knowledge nation. In the area of fire safety, the state-owned company Rise, Research Institutes of Sweden AB, conducts fire technology operations that are one of the world's largest of its kind. Rise is aimed at most industries where there is a fire risk, and the institute is actively working to develop new standards for the industry as well as bases for different regulations. The Government decided in the summer of 2018 to commission the Swedish Energy Agency to provide support for the construction of the electromobility lab Swedish Electric Transport Laboratory, Seel, co-owned by Rise and Chalmers. The aid was approved by the European Commission in 2019. In the test bed's three facilities in Gothenburg, Borås and Nykvarn, industry, institutes and academia will test most types of technology and safety aspects that electrified transport requires. The facility in Borås will focus on safety, including charging, short circuit and fire risks. The Seel is expected to be operational in 2023.
i-a5905ed4527799f8-663	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. Electric cars are becoming more common, and more switch from cars with internal combustion engines to various variants of electric hybrids or pure electric cars. I think that this is precisely why there needs to be a clear regulatory framework for dealing with fire safety issues relating to electric cars. This may include, for example, how to charge or whether there should be sufficient fire protection measures, such as sprinklers. This is particularly important in narrow environments, as in large cities where we have parking garages, tunnels and city centres. The increasing presence of electric cars and the risks associated with incorrect handling of, for example, charging make it particularly important to have a clear, uniform and also multidisciplinary regulatory framework. Madam President, I would like I agree with the Minister that the electrification of the transport sector is fast, and therefore society must also be rigged with the necessary efforts. We're not quite there today. The Minister talks in his response about Boverket's regulations and that they continuously update the regulations based on new conditions. I do not know – I am aware that Boverket's regulations on fire loads dating from 1986, and today the average car emits twice as much energy. The question therefore has to be asked how often the regulatory framework is actually updated on the basis of reality. The Minister then mentions the task of the Swedish Electrical Safety Agency to provide information on the installation and use of electronic equipment. There I think it is important to find out if it is followed up and in what dialogue with Sweden's emergency services is being conducted. I have received the information that many of Sweden's rescue services, for example, are trying to say that they do not want to see charging in garages, for safety reasons. How is it included in a process? Madam President, I would like In Germany, for example, a number of cities have even reasoned that parking electric cars in the city centre is too dangerous because of the risk of fire. Stavanger and Paris are also mentioned as examples in the debate. There garages have collapsed from the heat and energy of electric car fires. Not far from our beautiful Parliament House we have the Southern Link. A suspension of the Southern Link here in Stockholm often occurs when there are stagnant queues, and it is entirely a safety issue because there are no sprinklers in the tunnel to be able to handle fires. It must be ensured that there are not too many vehicles in the tunnel at the same time. Of course, it causes a lot of problems when the city's traffic and entrances are shut down because the tunnel is full. It leads to chaos. For example, if you need to get from Nacka into town one morning when the Southern Link is off, it is almost impossible to get to your meetings on time. And what if the accident is just there? Given the large parking garage around here, if it is true that Boverket's regulations in this area were updated in 1986, I am frankly concerned, Madam President. The world looks a little different today than it did 35 years ago, and hence my question: Does the Minister and the Government intend to strengthen the requirements for the electronic systems and charging stations, as well as the requirements for sprinklers in parking houses and also tunnels – for example the Southern Link?
i-a5905ed4527799f8-671	Madam President, I would like I entered this debate because in an earlier debate today we have also talked about electric cars and their safety. This goes hand in hand with the previous debate and also with the one I had earlier this summer. Things are moving a little too fast today, without really thinking about the consequences. Electric cars are great, and it will be expanded when it comes to charging poles and the possibility for people to have them – but it must go hand in hand with solving the safety of this as well. Anyone who has seen the videos available on Youtube knows how these batteries burn once it lights up. It's also really hard to turn off the lights. It may take up to 24 hours to extinguish a car fire in the case of an electric car, and it can be consumed up to 11,000 litres of water to cope with it. If you're in a crowded space-- it could be a garage, or it could be a tunnel-- how do you deal with it? Here it feels a bit like not everyone is on the track and understand how quickly a situation can arise or how to handle it. I can't say I've driven so much in Stockholm tunnels, but there are probably some here that are a couple of three kilometers long. Then you can play with the idea that there is an accident somewhere in the middle. Where are people going to go when there's a fire in an electric car after a collision that leads to a power rush in the battery? The gases are toxic. Has it been solved? Do you have a plan for dealing with that situation? Once upon a time, when I was driving on Gothenburg trams, gas buses were introduced. Then the tanks were on the roof. The routes where these buses were used were not allowed to go through the Tingstad tunnel, for the reason that disaster is a fact in the event of an accident. Now more and more heavy-duty vehicles are coming out electric, and they have a considerably larger battery capacity than a passenger car has. If there's a fire in a battery pack on a truck, I can say I don't want to be around. It has not prepared itself here for things that can happen at charging stations, in building structures or in tunnel systems. We deal with an enormous amount of energy on a small surface. A concrete structure begins to break at about 300 degrees Fahrenheit. Then the concrete structure begins to give way, and at 500 degrees C, the concrete cracks. An electric car fire is about 1,000 degrees Fahrenheit. Then you understand how fast it will be once something happens. It is important to be prepared, because it is better to occur than to be present. Since we will have a significant proportion of electric vehicles, both on the heavy side and on the light side, one must be prepared to deal with a situation when it occurs.
i-a5905ed4527799f8-678	Madam President, I would like It is interesting to discuss Thomas Morell's Youtube habits and sprinklers in tunnel systems, but the work in the government is so organized that anyone who wants to discuss this can put an interpellation to the responsible minister. This is precisely the discussion that Mr Anstrell had earlier today with the minister responsible, Mikael Damberg, in this very Chamber and in the speaker's chair. I can see that according to the research available so far, the risk of fire is about half as high in an electric car as in a fossil-powered car. Everyone who has seen car fires on Youtube knows that they can cause serious confusion. I would also like to provide you with factual information. Laws and regulations that regulate the function and electrical safety of charging stations and charging points are last updated in the Electrical Safety Act(2016:732) and Electrical Safety Regulation(2017:218).
i-a5905ed4527799f8-680	Madam President, I would like For information – so that everyone in here knows what we're talking about – one of my questions was whether it was possible to strengthen the requirements of, among other things, parking houses and tunnels and sprinklers in the Southern Link. Then there was the research thing too. I have asked whether the Minister will initiate more research in this area and highlight good examples in order to provide more knowledge and to be able to make clear assessments and make recommendations for our fire safety. Here the Minister highlights a number of projects, which is a good thing. It will be exciting to see them when they arrive at us. But even today, there has to be a lot of experience from other countries – at least I have taken note of several. I wonder to what extent we in Sweden use their good advice and research in this area. After all, we already have the problem today – not in several years' time. I am curious to hear how it is discussed about Germany's way of acting in certain cities where electric cars are not even allowed to park inside the city. I am just as curious to hear how the government discusses the issue of liability with electric cars and possible fires in them when they end up in parking garages or, for that matter, in tunnels here in Stockholm. Should we not already have assessments and recommendations in place? So I mean today – not in a few years' time, when the research has gone further. We need to get it on a continuous basis. We are getting more and more electric cars out on our roads. Then it is important to have both good knowledge and good preparedness. This brings me on alert. I must take this opportunity to raise the issue of preparedness in this House when it became Minister Ygeman who answered my interpellation instead of Minister Eneroth, to whom I had put the interpellation. The overall need for electricity in Stockholm is increasing significantly. This is not just about electric cars, but perhaps mainly about increasing demand for electricity as the city grows and new homes need to be connected to the electricity grid. I wonder a little about the readiness to actually be able to drive an electric car even in the event of crises and increased preparedness. What does it really look like? What is the government's strategy for this? Or do you just have to ride a bike? At present, when electricity's network capacity is not very robust at all, can we trust that the cars that the government is basically forcing everyone to buy through increased petrol and diesel prices and other sanctions are possible to get to their old sick grandmother with even if there is a crisis or war? Madam President, I would like I am asking these questions because I am concerned that there may actually be terrible accidents for those of us who live here and that our emergency services or bluelight personnel are exposed to dangerous gases or other things and that they are not equipped enough for this. It is not enough to say that we have not seen this coming or that we have been too naive. It won't hold. The government has a goal of electrifying most things, which will lead to a dramatic increase in the number of electric cars. It must then be ensured that the country is equipped for the consequences of this. Are we there today? Actually, I don't think so. When there is a fire in a garage where there are electric vehicles, the risks are quite different between fires in petrol cars and diesel cars. Particular attention has been paid to the fact that there is a so-called thermal rush in the batteries that can cause very toxic gases to form and that a lot of water is required. Shouldn't we have had the right planning sooner rather than later?
i-a5905ed4527799f8-692	Madam President, I would like It is about the safety of our citizens – for those who use this type of vehicle or who live in properties where there may be electric vehicles standing on charging. One cannot have a casual attitude to the problems and security risks that exist. Electric cars burn less than fossil - powered cars do. It is true; it shows the research, at least at present. However, this does not mean that we can sit back, but when a fire occurs, we need to be prepared for how to handle it. We must also have prepared so that all risks of fires are minimised as far as ever possible. A fire in a battery usually occurs for something for two reasons. One is that the battery is subjected to mechanical influence, i.e. that the car is running against something that damages the battery pack. Then you can get a power rush in the battery. The second is that there is an error during the charge and that you thereby get a current rush. Both situations have dramatic consequences because there is a fire with highly toxic gases and an extremely high combustion temperature. Then you cannot shrug your shoulders and be casual in the Parliament's pulpit. Then we must take it very seriously and ensure that society is prepared in all possible parts, so that we avoid accidents where people can be injured or even killed.
i-a5905ed4527799f8-696	Madam President, I would like Thomas Morell insinuates that I would not take this seriously or that I would be casual. On the contrary – as I expressed in my interpellation response, which Thomas Morell certainly listened to, it is after all three years since we initiated a special research centre for this. We did this precisely in order to be able to monitor developments and to prevent them. We have a number of authorities that have responsibilities and that make relevant efforts in this area: Boverket, the Swedish Civil Protection Agency and the Swedish Energy Agency. I also expressed this in my interpellation response. After all, it is not the case that the government finds that electric cars are starting to burn because Thomas Morell has been watching movies on Youtube, but this is a work that is constantly going on at our authorities. Mr Anstrell asked me whether we are going to ban electric cars in city centres, as has been done in one or two German cities. The answer to that question is no. We will see that a much larger part of our mobility is electric. This will bring some new challenges, but it will also provide some new opportunities. This is what happens when society develops. I have full confidence that the initiatives taken by the government and the work done by the authorities in this area are to the full.
i-a5905ed4527799f8-701	Madam President, I would like Sometimes it happens that even I see on Youtube. At least I got a film shown to me by a fireman who works with electric car fires. The film showed how it can look when a Tesla burns. There was a Tesla who crashed this spring against a tree in Houston and caught fire. Two men died, lamentably, and the rescue services had to use about 120,000 liters of water to extinguish the electric car fire. It went on for very many hours because the battery was constantly refuelling. There are about 7,000 small batteries in a Tesla, I've been taught. They're about the size of a shotgun cartridge, and they were shot off everywhere. It looked like a really terrible job, and it took a heroic effort by the rescue services to put it out. For this reason, I have chosen to highlight these issues here in the Swedish Parliament. I'm worried this could happen here. So, what's our emergency? Are we prepared to take care of this? Are there any plans? Does the Minister and the Government intend to strengthen requirements here in Sweden on charging systems, charging stations and electronic systems and on sprinklers in tunnels? It takes huge amounts of water to cool down burning batteries. Madam President, I would like In fact, I do not feel that I am getting any answers from the Minister. The Minister has more interest in ralliing over the contributions of other Members than answering the questions. In conclusion, however, I will try to find an answer to my question. Does the Minister and the Government intend to strengthen the requirements for systems, charging stations and sprinklers?
i-a5905ed4527799f8-705	Madam President, I would like Yes, to the extent that the relevant authorities believe that there is such a need, the government will strengthen the rules, requirements and instructions needed to ensure that it is safe to drive an electric car regardless of the environment in which you drive or charge it.
i-a5905ed4527799f8-706	Madam President, I would like Mikael Oscarsson has asked me if the government will work to ensure that the country's fourth largest city, Uppsala, ensures sufficient reserve capacity by working in the ownership dialogue to ensure that Vattenfall will continue to provide local combined heat and power production. The Riksdag has decided that Vattenfall AB will conduct energy operations in a commercial manner so that the company is one of the companies that leads the development towards environmentally sustainable energy production. The companies with state ownership are subject to the Swedish Companies Act (2005:551), and it is the Board of Directors who is responsible for how the company is organized and managed according to the company's best interests. It is the company that decides which production facilities the company will operate. Regarding the development of the national core network, Swedish power networks generally work with various measures that will gradually improve transmission capacity where necessary. A concrete example in this context is that in autumn 2020 Swedish power grids have identified solutions that will be able to provide Uppsala with the desired capacity from the regional network companies in the area already in 2024, which is said to be six years earlier than planned. That is, of course, very pleasing in this context.
i-a5905ed4527799f8-709	Madam President, I would like As the Government says, it is positive that the Swedish power grid has now identified trim measures to address the acute situation in Uppsala until 2024. This will hopefully avoid electricity rationing during cold winters with existing electricity consumption. What the Government misses, however, is that the current lack of impact has already partially slowed down the development of Uppsala County. We see how some business start-ups are at risk of missing and how climate change is delayed. There is uncertainty about how to build new districts according to plan. This is due to the current lack of impact. Does it solve everything to 2024, as the Government answers? The simple answer to that question is no. With the addition in 2024, the situation is no longer considered urgent to cope with the current situation, but the Government misses out on development, with the climate change, business start-ups and housing construction. If Uppsala County is to be able to switch the transport sector with its heavy transport, capacity will not be sufficient. Add to this, Madam President, the 33 000 new homes under the four-track agreement between the government and the county's municipalities, as well as business start-ups and climate change demands for electrification. Then you can see that the government equation doesn't add up. Uppsala County's municipalities – and the region – have high ambitions to reconfigure their operations in order to, among other things, live up to the Paris Agreement. For example, Region Uppsala has aimed to be completely climate neutral in transport and public transport by 2020. This was not achieved due to the lack of efficacy. The intention has been to introduce 60 climate neutral electric buses in Uppsala. Now the power has been achieved for 12, provided that the electricity is rationed and promises to only charge the buses at night. If you happen to charge a bus during the day, you risk paying a penalty. The reason is that basic infrastructure does not work. I would like a comment from the Government on this matter. In fact, developments on this issue have slowed down under the rule of this government. We see local cogeneration being phased out as a consequence of government policy. In reality, therefore, the situation is worse. The fact that the state, through Vattenfall and the government, does not see the need to ensure local cogeneration production in the country's fourth largest city from a crisis preparedness perspective is remarkable, I think. In addition, the security situation in our neighbourhood has deteriorated in recent years, and unfortunately this is what it looks like in the future. To allow Vattenfall to phase out combined heat and power production in Sweden's fourth largest city on purely commercial grounds is, in my opinion, a short-term and unwise policy that, on the one hand, exacerbates the impact problems for the county. In view of the fact that we are about to rebuild civil defence and our emergency preparedness and the deteriorating security situation, I think this is problematic. I would like to hear the comments of the Government on these issues.
i-a5905ed4527799f8-715	Madam President, I would like It was a little unclear which were Mikael Oscarsson's questions, but I will try to answer those I perceived, and we will see. First of all, Uppsala will receive the electricity that Uppsala requires. Uppsala should be able to expand. Capacity will be expanded as new applications are received if they are real. As Mikael Oscarsson probably knows, there are companies applying for electricity in all the regions of the country but only use electricity in one of them. It is therefore not possible to simply add applications, but it must be a real picture. But of course Swedish power networks will then expand the capacity based on the needs that exist. This is the core task for the Swedish power grid and for the regional network owner, Vattenfall. Secondly, which tariffs you choose to sign for public transport in Uppsala will probably have to be discussed with Vattenfall. I don't have any more detailed knowledge, nor should I interfere with the price models you choose. I can only say that, in that case, it is a tariff and a price model for buses that you have chosen yourself. Thirdly, Mikael Oscarsson believes that the government should require Vattenfall to do this or that. In that case, Mikael Oscarsson must amend the Swedish Companies Act. Some such initiatives have been taken by Mikael Oscarsson as far as I know.
i-a5905ed4527799f8-719	Madam President, I would like As shown by my interpellation, it is not only I who wonder if the government will work to ensure sufficient reserve capacity for Uppsala by working in the ownership dialogue to ensure that Vattenfall will continue to provide local combined heat and power production. The Government, as the Government will be aware, has repeatedly been courted by representatives of Uppsala County: the County Governor, the Chairman of the Municipal Executive Board, the Regional Council and the Chamber of Commerce. In fact, this interpellation contains more or less exactly the same question that these representatives raised in a letter to the Government and the Government a year ago last autumn. It was a letter in which central actors from Uppsala, which is the country's fourth largest city, call on the government to take action in view of the lack of emergency preparedness, delays in climate change, delays in housing plans and the absence of business start-ups due to power shortages with electric rationing as a result. For example, I spoke to the Chamber of Commerce yesterday. There was still no response from the Government. Then I wonder: What is the reason for not having received an answer? Is it because the government and the government have no answer, or is it because it has been lost in all the papers? At least it was a question that was there. They wondered why the government has not responded. If it is due to an oversight, it would be interesting to hear it, and if it is because you do not see the problem, it would also be interesting to hear it. The important thing is that if we are to cope with climate change and Sweden is to continue to be a welfare country, we need to ensure a basic infrastructure in a robust and secure way. That's what I'm putting forward. I give the Government the opportunity to respond to this.
i-a5905ed4527799f8-723	Madam President, I would like There's Mikael Oscarsson and I are in complete agreement. That's what I said in my first answer, and that's what I said in my second answer. Uppsala must have the effect necessary for Uppsala to develop. That is why we have doubled investment in the core network compared to the time when the Christian Democrats were in government. That is why we are now tripling investment in the core network compared to the time when the Christian Democrats were in government. Of course, it would have been beneficial if we could have dealt with this in the past, but now we are. A result of the dialogue we have had with Uppsala's business community, County Governor, municipality and others, we can now see. It is that we are speeding up investment by six years prematurely. Mikael Oscarsson should be pleased about that. Mikael Oscarsson doesn't. Instead, he says: There will be several new ones who want help. That's great, I say. I think that Mikael Oscarsson, like me, is happy if Uppsala is expanding, if more companies want to establish themselves in Uppsala, if more jobs can be created in Uppsala and if Uppsala County continues to take the lead in the climate transition. However, Mikael Oscarsson has been involved in the vote on the Companies Act in this House, which prevents me from taking the very action that Mikael Oscarsson proposes in the interpellation. But the other measures necessary for Uppsala residents to have good and secure access to electricity at competitive prices will be taken by the government, and we will be happy to cooperate with the Christian Democrats on these measures. We had such organized cooperation, which the Christian Democrats chose to leave.
i-a5905ed4527799f8-728	Madam President, I would like It sounds good that the Government has the attitude that this should be arranged. But what the representatives have written letters about is a real problem and real reality. This is due to the 120 megawatt power turbine that is being decommissioned this year and next year and which has been a very important part since 1973. The decision was taken with the increase in taxation that came but then changed again. Yet, the decision caused enough damage when it was taken. What I suggest is that there is the possibility of having an ownership dialogue with Vattenfall in order to find ways to provide local combined heat and power production. That's a question. I also had a specific question. Does the Government know why there has been no answer to the letter? It may be something for the Government to look at when he goes back to his department – what it is because this letter and the letter have not been answered. Maybe there's a natural explanation for that. But we would like an answer, and I think it is important that active action is required. The positive pledges are good; I welcome them. However, an answer to Uppsala is important when it comes to urban settlements, electrification and localisation. Otherwise there is uncertainty, and that is what is a concern when you want to get established. I ́m sorry to say, but the question marks still exist despite the fine words of Minister Anders Ygeman.
i-a5905ed4527799f8-733	Madam President, I would like I will first say something about the letter, because I missed answering that question in my previous speech. Of course, those who write letters to the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Minister for Energy will receive answers to their letters. If it is the case that the Chamber of Commerce in Uppsala has written and has not received an answer, I cannot answer why, because I have no knowledge of that. But I promise that if there are any who have not received answers, they will receive answers. I can only agree that it would be unfortunate if there were uncertainty. Such uncertainty is political uncertainty. That's why it was so good for Sweden, for the entrepreneurs in Uppsala and for Swedish industry that we had an energy agreement where we agreed across block borders and could create security. It gave an incredible amount of investment in Swedish energy production – the largest in many, many years. Unfortunately, the Christian Democrats chose to leave this deal and create more uncertainty about Swedish energy policy. This created uncertainty about the conditions for investing in new electricity generation. I regret this, and I hope that the Christian Democrats are prepared to reconsider and put the party-tactical considerations a little aside and put the country first. This will enable Sweden to take an even stronger role in the transition and climate work in the future.
i-a5905ed4527799f8-737	Madam President, I would like Michael Rubbestad has asked me what concrete measures I intend to take to increase the proportion of male staff in the Swedish preschool world. Preschool plays an important role in children's comprehensive development, and it helps to create a level playing field for school start-up. Preschool education should be fun, safe and educational for all children. According to the Education Act, preschool teachers are responsible for preschool education. The skills and specific responsibilities of early schoolchildren are very important in order to guarantee an equivalent high-quality preschool. It is important that the pre-schooler's profession, the child care profession and the preschool as a workplace are accessible to all persons regardless of gender, not least because part of the preschool's mission is to counteract gender patterns that limit children's development and choices. How children are met and what demands and expectations are placed upon them help to shape their perceptions of what is female and male. It is therefore essential that children in preschool experience that men and women, boys and girls, can work in all occupational categories. The gender balance among the staff working in preschool, as Michael Rubbestad highlights, is uneven. The proportion of men working in preschool has increased slightly over time, but from low levels. In 2006, the share of men was 2.4 per cent in municipal preschools and 4.5 per cent in independent preschools. In 2020, the share of men was 4 per cent in municipal preschools and 5.7 per cent in independent preschools. Of the students who were admitted to the pre-collar programmes during the period between academic years 2011/ 12 and 2019/ 20, between 6 and 8 per cent were men. For men and women who work in preschool but have not reached a pre-schooler's degree, it is possible to complete their previous studies and obtain a degree through further training of teachers, VAL. The proportion of male pupils who graduated from upper secondary general school children's and leisure programmes, where child care is provided, has increased from 24 per cent in 2010 to 36 per cent in 2020. The aim of the government's work is for all children and pupils to meet knowledgeable and competent teachers and preschool teachers no matter where they live in the country. That is how we lay the foundations for an equal school of knowledge and a strong society. Measures to increase the proportion of men in preschool are about long-term work that needs to be done at different levels of society. The government has invested in preschool, made efforts to strengthen pedagogical leadership and started work on establishing a professional programme for preschool teachers, teachers and principals. The programme aims to create a national structure for skills development with the aim of developing school professors in order to promote school development, strengthen the attractiveness of professions and create the conditions for higher knowledge outcomes and achievement of goals. As Minister of Education, I will continue to work to ensure that the pre-college profession and the child-career profession are occupations of both men and women.
i-a5905ed4527799f8-745	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Education, for your answer. The statistics and the facts speak clearly. There are 4 per cent men in the municipal preschools and just under 6 per cent in the independent preschools, and only 130 men annually take a pre-school teacher's degree. The Minister for Education returns in his response to the active work on increasing the attractiveness of the profession, educational leadership, further training and professional programmes. That's good. We are in broad agreement, and I therefore believe that this part of the discussion can therefore be sidelined. What I have not got an answer to, however, is what my interpellation is actually about. My interpellation consists of eight pieces of text. In the first paragraph, I mention exactly the same percentages and the same facts that the Minister raises in his reply. In the other seven paragraphs, I highlight the current situation with men's fear of working in preschool due to the so-called paedophile debate. But that is not mentioned in the Minister's reply at all, although that is what my interpellation is really about. Madam President, I would like I therefore intend to repeat parts of the text I wrote in my original interpellation: To Minister for Education Anna Ekström. Several men interviewed by different researchers and reporters describe the backsides of being a man in preschool. The hardest thing men point out is to relate to being regarded as a presumptive paedophile and having to deal with the fear, anger and risk that it brings. In the mid-1990s, a wave of police reports swept in against employed men in preschool. The tone was so high that it was even questioned whether men should be allowed to work in preschool at all. As a result, the proportion of men in pre-school education fell from 3.1 per cent in the early 1990s to at least 1.9 per cent in 1998. Since then, the proportion of men has again reached the same level as before, i.e. around 4 per cent. However, the fear of paedophilia in preschool has always been there and has occasionally flared up in the debate. The men in the Swedish National Board of Education's studies say that they try not to be influenced by the paedophile debate about the relationship with children in their workplaces, but several of the men explain that the worry is in the back of the head. The reports tell how many of the men build up a safety thinking about how to act against children, parents and colleagues in order to avoid suspicion. Some men avoid having children on their laps, taking part in child massages, or lying next to some child at rest. They want doors open when they're going to help a child in the bathroom or change diapers. Some men refuse in periods of time to perform various tasks if they believe that it can be misinterpreted. If a report is made in the media, it creates further fear. Some men express concern that a parent's report, which may be unfounded, risks breaking up their entire professional and private life in a flash. Because even if the notifications are closed, it is difficult to clear the suspicions. The closed notifications rarely give rise to media interest. On the other hand, hatred often lives its own life when reported men have their identity revealed on open forums on the internet. That's where the text ends in my interpellation. It was for this reason that I put the question to the Minister for Education, and it is a bit difficult for me to understand how one could miss out that it was the real question of the interpellation. Madam President, I would like My revised question to the Minister for Education will be: what concrete measures does the Minister intend to take to ensure that specific men should dare to work in preschool without having to worry about being seen as prospective paedophiles?
i-a5905ed4527799f8-756	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the reading from the interpellation, Michael Rubbestad! A good advice to the honourable Member is that if you want specific questions to be answered, it is wise to write the questions in this way already in the interpellation. I was very interested in listening to the reading. I may be wrong, but I would think that many of the figures are from an investigation that I did when Lena Hallengren was actually pre-school minister. I also felt that I recognized a lot from the school work report that was probably also produced during my time as head of the National Agency for Education. These are issues that I have been working on for a very long time, and I am fully aware of the considerable problems that paedophile practice poses for men working in preschool. I am also very aware of how important it is for us in society to stand up behind male preschool teachers and men working in preschool. The fact that they are exposed to suspicion only because of their gender is not acceptable. At the same time, we know that it is important that many men work in and feel welcome in preschool. I can put forward a large number of arguments for why this is so. One, Michael Rubbestad himself has contributed: The more men who work in preschool, the less men who work there become vulnerable and almost seen as exotic elements in the business. In fact, Madam President, one of the experiences of active work to promote more men in preschool is that it is important to ensure that men are not left alone, so to speak, that one man is not served out per preschool. In fact, it is an experience that the men in preschool share with the women's movement to which I confess: It is wise to make sure at workplaces to have a context where you work and are not left entirely alone and as a different being. In my many conversations with male preschool teachers and male nannys, they constantly highlight one thing: They do not want to be seen as different. They do not want to be seen as special, exotic people who are there as representatives of the male sex. They want to be seen, Madam President, as professional professionals doing a job. That is why I think my answer is actually still working. The measures we can take to ensure that men go to preschool are measures aimed at highlighting men as professional professionals and not as representatives of a male family. I would like to thank Michael Rubbestad for raising these important issues. But I insist that what is said in my answer is relevant. We need to ensure that men in preschool are seen as professional professionals and not just men.
i-a5905ed4527799f8-763	Madam President, I would like Apart from the fact that I may not agree that the measures highlighted are sufficient, this was still three minutes that Anna Ekström spent highlighting her view on it – and we are in complete agreement. I am very pleased that we are looking at this situation in exactly the same way. We have exactly the same view that men should not be seen as something exotic and on the importance of men in preschool. I should like to make it clear that I am pleased that we are in exactly the same position here. Recently, the Parliament debated the report that came to be called Some efforts to increase honorary skills. That report proposed that extracts from the load register should be presented in the future only in connection with an interview rather than being submitted and archived. A concrete and clear background in the archive is replaced by a check box stating that what has been seen was blameless. In contrast, family homes often need to submit annual extracts from the load register in unopened envelopes in order to ensure that there has been no manipulation. Consider some hypothetical examples. A person is in an interview, and the recipient looks at the record statement as quickly as possible and makes a check in the box but has not carefully checked and perhaps misses something that was there. As the file is not archived, there is no possibility of looking more closely afterwards and of doing a later check. It is human to err — such things can happen. Another example is the small municipality where everyone knows everyone and the person looking for a job says he has forgotten his excerpt. The recipient, who by chance knows this person since before, puts a check in the box after all, because he is familiar and reliable. Of course, this will not happen to any great extent, but of all the thousands of interviews that are done, it is enough for one person to slip through this system. Of course, if a single child suffers from a lack of control, it is a child too much. I am convinced that we agree on that. If one or more children are affected, it will crush their lives. But it will also have the consequence of reviving the paedophile debate and the debate on men in preschool, and it will affect all men, who will once again be seen as prospective paedophiles. Questions will be asked, and one can no longer answer that a blameless extract is archived, but there is only one cross in a record from an official who may not even be employed in the municipality anymore when the question comes up. In fact, the issue has already begun to be raised. On open forums on the internet, men working in preschool have already testified that questions and comments have come, for example: Yes, Anders, lucky that you were hired before these new rules that you don't have to leave extracts come into place – we have you anyway! The comment was followed by an uncomfortable laugh. Madam President, I would like How do we think Anders really feels when he gets that question? And how do we think his future colleague will feel when he is hired in a few years' time and does not have to make excerpts and comments from the guardians begin to come? What security measures should he have to take to ensure that no one should suspect him? The Swedish Democrats, like the Swedish National Agency for Education, believe that a filed record statement is of great importance for the school's safety work and that the child perspective weighs most heavily on this issue. No one can ignore the human factor and the fact that it opens up to cheating and personal judgment on an issue that can have a decisive impact on the welfare and woe of the individual. There must, of course, be a well-documented history of follow-up in the event of any irregularity and in order to minimise the suspicion that already exists against the male staff. Unfortunately, the motion won the approval of Parliament, and I am afraid that this may lead to the proportion of male staff in preschool falling from 4% to perhaps 0%.
i-a5905ed4527799f8-775	Madam President, I would like The law passed by the Riksdag and referred to by Michael Rubbestad meant that we increased the requirement to present records for employment. We made sure that those requirements also apply to upper secondary school and upper secondary school. These are demands that have not existed before. We also made sure that it became a uniform and administratively simple way of managing it. I find it very difficult to see that the big, crucial difference in being able to detect things that should not occur in men's background before a job in a preschool would be if the document in question were presented and examined or displayed and archived. That difference does not have the decisive significance that Michael Rubbestad here claims. Madam President, I would like I can see that the only person who speaks in Parliament here is saying that this system would be more likely for us to hire people with paedophile backgrounds in our preschools is Michael Rubbestad himself.
i-a5905ed4527799f8-778	Madam President, I would like I note that I and the Government do not really agree on this issue. I would also like to mention that my colleague, Jörgen Grubb, highlighted exactly the same argument. He was the one who debated that particular report. I do not think that controls are being increased. I can, however, agree to them being broadened. But you don't increase them. You'd rather go the other way. We've been into it; children need both male and female role models in their lives. We, as legislators and the country's highest decision-making body, therefore need to do what we can to both make it possible and make it easier for more men to enter the pre-school world, without having to be afraid. The measures that I have noted from the government are aimed at increasing the proportion of people who apply to preschool in general, but I completely lack the gender perspective in the work of the government. Although the distribution is 4% men and 96% women, little is being done to actively increase the proportion of men. I cannot help but ask the somewhat hypothetical question whether this so-called feminist government and the Minister for Education would have considered the problem to be greater if there had been 96% men and 4% women in preschool. The government gets tough on it and talks about quotas as soon as the proportion of men is higher in many other areas. Where are they now when the gender balance is significantly worse in preschool than in health care or company boards? The statistics, the National Board of Education and the men themselves are very clear. This is about the so-called paedophile debate. I hope, of course, that this is the last time that the issue even needs to be debated in this House and that the government and the Minister for Education take this issue seriously and will work actively to increase the proportion of men in preschool, that is to say, curb the so-called paedophile debate in such a way that male staff in preschool should be absolutely self-evident.
i-a5905ed4527799f8-784	Madam President, I would like I am the first person to want to curb the debate about men being portrayed as paedophiles, and I hope to avoid seeing statements on the Swedish Democrats' Facebook page of the type: Pedophiles should not be allowed to work with children. It is a statement made in connection with the legislative work that we have just discussed. Madam President, I would like I would also like to remind you that the Swedish Democrats are actively pushing for the closure of the Equality Agency. It is an authority that is of great importance for us in our operations and legislation to ensure that we have a work that is permeated by real gender equality and a gender perspective. In this case, it would bring great benefits in ensuring that we have more men working in preschool. Madam President, I would like Improved gender equality in schools and preschools would probably mean that girls would have more opportunities to make a career in the future. But it would also mean that men and boys would have more opportunity to choose their own profession freely according to their own interests and not according to pre-determined gender roles. With a classic gender perspective, we thus increase the conditions for increasing the proportion of men in preschool and other activities. Madam President, I would like The way forward is, as we have obviously agreed here in the two seats of Parliament, to see men working in preschool as professional professionals who deserve the respect of society.
i-a5905ed4527799f8-788	Madam President, I would like Roger Haddad has asked me whether the government intends to present a proposal to tighten up the requirements for educational care and, if so, when. Roger Haddad has also asked me what tools can be expected that I and the government give the municipalities in order to prevent preschools and educational care being run by people associated with extremism. Roger Haddad has also asked me how I and the government should act in order to completely prevent both preschools and educational care from being newly established with a confessional focus. All children in educational care and preschools should be offered safe and good activities free from radicalisation and extremism. As mentioned by Roger Haddad, a special investigator is tasked with making proposals to strengthen the quality of educational care. The investigation was set up in the light, inter alia, of the need to strengthen the supervision of individual principals. The investigation reported on its mission on 11 June 2020. In the report "Strengthening the quality and equivalence of leisure and educational care" (SOU 2020:34), the report proposes, among other things, increased requirements regarding the suitability of those who are principals of educational care and that municipalities should have supervision of compliance with the requirements. The report has been referred and the proposals are currently being prepared within the Government Office. It is important to prevent rogue and inappropriate actors from carrying out activities in the field of educational care. The proposals put forward in this area therefore need to provide the right conditions for municipalities to act decisively if, for example, it is noted that the operator is unfit or if children are at risk of harm for other reasons. In 2018, the Government appointed an investigation that has been tasked with analysing, among other things, the regulations for secular elements in the school system. The investigation reported on its mission on 8 January 2020. In addition to the closure of primary and secondary schools with a confessional focus, the investigation included proposals covering pre-school and strengthened ownership and management testing against specific democracy conditions. The report has been referred and the proposals are currently being prepared within the Government Office.
i-a5905ed4527799f8-792	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Education, for the answer to my interpellation! In fact, I tabled it three months ago, but due to the political situation the debate has had to wait. Liberals have for many years been paying attention to the problem of radicalisation, extremism and domestic extremism in both vulnerable areas and neighbourhoods. This is particularly true of how it has affected the educational activities. We can mention the situation in Örebro, the situation in Gävle and not least the very worrying situation in the Gothenburg area. There, there have been cases where inappropriate people have been associated with radicalisation in both schools and preschools. Every paragraph and every rule has been used to move forward and continue in different ways. We believe that this is completely contrary to the School Act, Swedish values, democracy, gender equality and everyone's equal value. That is why we are keen to stop not just those schools and preschools. We have also discovered that day care workers or educational care have gone a little under the radar when it comes to tightening up the regulatory framework, Madam President. If you have an idea of radicalisation, want to brainwash children and not contribute to integration, but keep the children, boys and girls, in their own little bubble and influence them in their ideological or religious orientation, you are in many cases looking for opportunities to continue running these activities. That is why we have chosen to raise the issue. There was a proposal from an investigation a year ago. However, when you look at the directives on recreational and educational care, Madam President, you can see that it would mainly be about the economy and quality in general, but there was also a great focus on leisure homes and not so much on educational care based on such problems that we have raised. It's been three years since the investigation was set up. A year has passed since the investigator submitted the proposals to the Minister for Education, and soon a year has passed since the consultation round where he could react to the proposals. We in the Liberals believe that they do not respond directly to the problems we raise. However, the government has announced that there will be a bill, and of course we are very keen that there will be a proposal to Parliament that we can then make a decision on. I also note that four months ago the Council of State gave a written reply to another Member who was somewhat like the answer I received today, namely that the question is being prepared. Almost four months have passed, and it is still said that it is being prepared. We are of course interested if something has happened at the Ministry of Education on this important issue. Not only are we in Parliament concerned, but the activities, the municipality of Gothenburg and the head of administration there, are also extremely frustrated at not being able to intervene and act sharply and immediately when it is discovered that there are inappropriate people in the important activities, whether it be preschools or day care workers, this debate is mainly about.
i-a5905ed4527799f8-799	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Mr Roger and the Liberals very much for a very important interpellation on an issue that really needs to be raised. There is educational care that is secular and that rather helps to increase the gaps and further shield children from coming into contact with Swedish society, and that is a problem. That's exactly what's being lifted up here. There is educational care that for other reasons does not measure up and does not work at all from the point of view of being pre-school. That, of course, is also a problem. But should educational care with severe deficiencies really lead to all the educational activities that work well also going to the grave? Shouldn't new businesses be allowed to start? That is what is proposed in the investigations. Should all children who may not be comfortable in larger groups in a preschool – nearly 2 per cent of all children aged one to five years – have to iron their feet because individuals who do educational care cannot take care of themselves? I think there are other solutions to get around this. So I just want to jump in here with one question because it has now been a few months and it has been prepared:
i-a5905ed4527799f8-804	Madam President, I would like Pedagogical care has, says Roger Haddad, flown under the radar. Not for me. During my time as head of the Swedish National Agency for Education, I carried out a work where we went through the form of educational care. I did so with my very own experience of growing up in a home where my mother was a day care provider. I know how good a functioning family day care home can be. I also know how important it is that the family day care centre works well. The children who come to a day care provider do not come to a building designed to be used for pre-school or child care, but come to a home. Within the four walls of that home, children must be able to feel safe. The studies that have come from the Swedish National Agency for Education and partly also from the Swedish School Inspectorate show, Madam President, that most children in educational care are offered a good business where they are given the care and security that a child should have. But they also show with appalling clarity that there are activities that do not live up to the demands we should make on how children should grow up in Sweden. I take it very seriously, and that was an important reason why the investigation mentioned by Roger Haddad was set up. The investigation was put on the government table just over a year ago. Roger Haddad will have to believe my word when I say that we have worked very hard during this time. During a period of pandemic, we have had to make very tough priorities at the department, but this particular work has been going on all along. I hope that I will soon be able to give the information requested today. But be so sure, Roger Haddad! I intend to make proposals to prevent rogue and inappropriate actors from engaging in educational care activities. I also intend to make proposals to tighten up the control of confessional preschools.
i-a5905ed4527799f8-808	Madam President, I would like If it is the case that educational care has not gone under the radar, I would have expected the Social Democratic Government to have intervened much earlier and more sharply. Nevertheless, the government has been in office for seven years, and this policy area has been known to the government and has been investigated and discussed for at least three years. Yet here we stand, Madam President, and we note that yet another preschool may continue, even though it is linked to radical violence-promoting Islamist extremism. Now we are talking about educational care, that is, day care workers. These are key basic welfare activities that can continue despite the fact that the problems have been known for a number of years, and that is extremely provocative. It becomes even more provocative when you hear municipal politicians, administrations, preschool managers and educational care managers who go out locally and appeal to the state to give them the tools they need to review those who lead these activities and to review day care workers at all. That is what I was referring to, Madam President, when I argued that educational care, unlike primary schools, secondary schools and even preschools, is regulated in a completely different way in the School Act. It is stated in the study on educational care that pedagogical care is not regulated in the same way. Nor can it be called for in the same way in the case of this important activity. Although it is not so many children in general, it is important for those children who are in educational care. I do not think that we should introduce a general ban on establishment, but I think that we should keep those that work, have good quality and that follow the Swedish National Agency for Education's general recommendations where the preschool curriculum is guiding. But when it comes to the extreme activities where people are only there to either access resources or get resources to fund radicalisation and violent extremism, we cannot just say, month after month, that something is coming, that we are working on it or that it is being prepared. I think it is high time, Madam President, to intervene in order to put an end to these activities. As far as the investigation is concerned, I note that it is a little sharper in the case of municipal day-care services, but in the case of individual ones, secular elements will continue to be permitted. There is still a difference, even in the basis of investigation that has gone to the government. I am keen that the Minister for Education should also give a clear answer to the individual day-care providers, of which the latest is an example. The example that was highlighted in the Gothenburg area in April is of course about an individual day-care facility. We in the Liberals therefore believe that it is not enough to say that the future rules should only meet the municipal day-care centres and educational activities, but must apply to all educational activities. We must take responsibility for the entire educational activity, and we must act in such a way that every child, whether in a municipal or individual activity, is better protected in school legislation.
i-a5905ed4527799f8-814	Madam President, I would like I first note that I did not receive an answer to my question. Perhaps it will now, or it simply means that the government intends to put forward a proposal that all new establishments should be banned. I can also say that the Liberals do not want to see such a ban, and I am pleased about that. The statistics show that under 2 per cent of all children are placed in educational care. It should mean, between the thumb and the index finger, perhaps 10,000 children in about 2,000 practitioners. Wouldn't it be better to both get to the educational care that doesn't work and prevent people associated with extremism, as Roger Haddad calls for in his interpellation, by instead tightening up the controls and allowing the School Inspectorate to take over the responsibility of reviewing all the educational care, regardless of the principal? Perhaps the number of unannounced checks would be increased and the activities that are not deemed to be of sufficient quality immediately closed down and set an example. Reasonably, the aim should be to have a well-functioning educational care that meets the objectives of being educational and school-preparatory and at the same time to ensure that no inappropriate actors are allowed to operate. I assume that it is not the government's objective that it should be mandatory for all children to attend preschool, whether it suits them or not, and that the actors who carry out educational care should ultimately be made unemployed. The starting point should always be the best for the child, and as I said, not all children are ready to meet the outside world at the age of one, for example, in a larger group of children with limited attention. The Swedish Democrats suggest that there should be no confessional orientation when establishing educational care, that the Swedish National Agency for Education should take over all control of educational care and that national guidelines should be developed for educational care to ensure equivalence and that rogue practitioners should be prevented from carrying out activities. This is something that both the Social Democrats and the Liberals voted against when we last tabled that proposal. But it's coming up again, so I'll give you another chance to approve. If you do not wish to support proposals from the Swedish Democrats, please submit your own proposal. Then we'll be behind it.
i-a5905ed4527799f8-823	Madam President, I would like I would just like to remind Roger Haddad, who is asking questions about how we should look at preschools and educational care that is newly established with a confessional focus, that in the additional directive to the Study on Confesional Elements in the School System, the investigation was commissioned, among other things, to submit such constitutional proposals as are needed to put in place a stop to the establishment of independent schools with a confessional focus. As Roger Haddad knows, the supplementary directive was drawn up following an agreement between the government, the Center Party and Roger Haddad's own party, the Liberals. To make proposals for a stop for preschools and educational care with a confessional focus was not part of the investigation's mission. On the other hand, the study makes a number of other proposals covering preschools, such as that an individual applying to be approved as head of preschool should state whether the activity should have a secular orientation. I would very much welcome further talks with, for example, the Center Party and the Liberals in order to find further measures that could prevent rogue and inappropriate actors from conducting preschools and, for that matter, Madam President, educational care. I also note that Roger Haddad is disappointed that the proposals have not yet been put on the table of Parliament. Yes, one can always wish that proposals would be made more quickly. But this is an activity that exists throughout our country and which is of great importance, and we shall have the concern for the legislative process that it deserves. For my part, Madam President, I am proud to belong to the government that is proposing clear and tough rules on how to prevent rogue and inappropriate actors from operating in educational care. Finally, Madam President, I would just like to comment on Michael Rubbestad's closing statement: I have clearly stated in this House that I intend to make proposals to prevent rogue and inappropriate actors. I have not said either bub or bab on the question of how the government will deal with the proposal that the investigation produced on a total halt to new activities. And that I have not said anything about it cannot be interpreted as either one or the other, but there is what I have said – that preparation is in progress in the Government Office. We'll all have to wait for what that preparation ends in.
i-a5905ed4527799f8-829	Madam President, I would like It was good that the Liberals, as long as we had cooperation in spring and previous years, contributed to the fact that the issue of establishing a stoppage for secular schools was part of a government investigation. It was not included in the original S-MP directives. However, as far as that part of the legislative and investigative work is concerned, Madam President, we are talking at least about three, four, five, six years ahead. At the same time, the extremists, the radical Islamists, are trying to enter primary schools, preschools and, most recently, educational care and day care workers. What is next at hand is to tighten up the School Inspectorate's mandate, as we have recommended, in relation to preschool activities and educational care. It is not enough, as is done in this proposal, to say: Yes, municipal educational care should be non-confessional, but in the individual, there may continue to be confessional elements. I think that is a shortcoming in this investigation. Madam President, I would like The second thing I would like to send to the government is that municipalities urgently need mandates, rules, in order to be able to intervene directly when they discover this type of activity. Here, too, I have seen a flaw in the report. It's supposed to take a sort of stairway. Madam President, I would like There is a great deal of focus on economic governance. All the time, reference is made to being able to intervene if someone mishandles the economy. But if you live together with a terrorist and are day care workers, it should obviously be a reason for, for example, a municipality, Gothenburg or someone else, to immediately put an end to the activity. I hope, Madam President, that the government will take it with it.
i-a5905ed4527799f8-834	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by reminding Roger Haddad of one thing that Roger Haddad is well aware of, namely that banning religious free schools is a clear social democratic electoral promise and a clear social democratic policy. Here, under the January agreement, we managed to find a way forward, with which both I and Roger Haddad have been very pleased during the years of the January agreement. Madam President, I would like If I have counted correctly, this was the last time that Roger Haddad, as an educational political spokesperson for the Liberals, asked me questions in the form of the interpellation. I would like to take this opportunity to thank you for your very good cooperation. It has been a real pleasure, Madam President, both to work with Roger Haddad and to be criticised very strongly by Roger Haddad. I have extensive experience of both and can testify that Roger Haddad performs both of these tasks with the same care and skill. Thank you for your cooperation, Roger Haddad!
i-a5905ed4527799f8-836	Madam President, I would like Alexandra Anstrell has asked me if I believe that the Swedish Municipalities and Regions' referrals were important for the forthcoming bill on sports education and whether I intend to take the answer into account in the further process. She has also asked me whether I intend to create dialogue with students who have today or recently attended a nationally approved sport education (NIU) or had sport as an individual choice (LIU) to share their experiences and views for the upcoming bill. Furthermore, she has asked me if I believe that a reduction in the number of places for students who want to bet on their sport and combine it with studies will be beneficial for the students' grades and, if not, how I intend to act to ensure good results among the students. Alexandra Anstrell has also asked the Minister for Culture and Democracy and the Minister for Sport, Amanda Lind, whether she sees a value in young people being able to combine upper secondary education with elite sport and whether she intends to take any action on the basis of her conclusions. She has also asked the Minister if she sees any risks for Sports Sweden in the event of closures of upper secondary sports education and how she will work to minimise the risks. The work within the government is so divided that it is I who should answer that interpellation as well. I would like to begin by thanking Alexandra Anstrell for the opportunity to debate again in the Swedish Parliament the important issue of upper secondary sports education. I see an obvious value in young people being able to combine high school studies with elite sports. The interpellant has chosen to label one interpellation, and that is why I need to make it clear from the outset that this is not the government's point of view. The Ministry of Education's memorandum Sports education in upper secondary and upper secondary schools(U2020/ 04134) proposes to replace the national sports upper secondary schools and the nationally approved sports educations by a type of upper secondary or upper secondary education with special sports and to be national recruitment. In response to a previous question by Alexandra Anstrell(Question 2020/ 21:3252), I stated that an overwhelming majority of the referrals to the memo are broadly in favour of the proposal and that such a regime can improve the conditions for all students who need to combine their elite sports effort with an upper secondary education to do so on the same terms. The proposal is certainly rejected by a disunited Swedish municipality and region. It is always a matter of course for me and the government to consider the views of the referral bodies in the proposals submitted to the Riksdag. Regarding the student perspective, both the Swedish Student Union and the National Association of Students, formerly Sweden's Student Council – Svea, have been given the opportunity to submit comments on the said memorandum. The National Association of Students refrained from responding to the referral, but Sweden's Students' Union supports the proposal to replace current sports education with a type of upper secondary sport education with special sports and states that it is important that the curricula for sport and health are reviewed at the same time so that students who do not make an elite sport initiative can continue to have more sport linked to their education than is normally given in a upper secondary education. The suggestions in the memo are consistent with the pupils' views. The Ministry of Education further proposes in the memorandum that SEK 75 million be added to the Swedish Sports Federation, in addition to the SEK 43 million currently allocated to national sports gymnasies. The proposals mean that state grants must be given to all principals for special sports education. Today, no state grants are made for nationally approved sports education. In addition, it is proposed that school leaders be able to organise local alternatives to special sport courses, where pupils are given the opportunity to combine their upper secondary studies with sport. This corresponds in principle to what the interpellier refers to as LIU, but compared to LIU, the proposal provides improved opportunities for the student to invest in his or her sport. The proposals, which aim at better opportunities for students to develop both sports and knowledge, are currently being prepared in the Government Office.
i-a5905ed4527799f8-843	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for Education for his answer. I have written two interpellations on this important issue of young people being able to combine their upper secondary school studies with their elite sports. One was angled from a school perspective, which was also addressed to the Minister for Education – which stands here today. The second was biased from a sports perspective, and it was, of course, addressed to the responsible Minister for Sport. It is sad that the Minister for Sport is not willing to take this debate because I think it is important for the whole of Sports Sweden that you can combine your upper secondary school studies with elite sports. That is most regrettable. But I am pleased that the Minister for Education is here today, and I appreciate that the Minister for Education appreciates the debate – as she said at the outset. Today, therefore, many students have the opportunity to combine the pursuit of their elite sport with upper secondary education. It is about everything from individual sports to team sports. It can for example be wrestling, sailing, horseback riding or football. In an investigation appointed by the Government, a proposal has been put forward that Sweden's upper secondary sports education should be reduced in scope. But it's still important to call a shovel a shovel. If the proposal were to become a reality, the number of seats would fall from 10 000 to 5 000. This means a major restriction on pupils' ability to choose a sports education. We know that sport provides better learning skills. Many end their education with good grades in both their sport and their studies. There is also value in investing in elite sports because international successes, such as those in the Tokyo Olympics, inspire new generations and contribute to an active population. If the government will close regional opportunities, most young people will probably not continue their sports activities. I think it would be disastrous for both the individual and Sports Sweden. Madam President, I would like The Minister mentioned in his reply that there are no closures. But then I wonder what the minister means. If you're going from about 10,000 places to 5,000 places-- what does the minister call this? Although students should be allowed to combine their sport with upper secondary education in the way described by the Minister, there is quite a difference between elite sport and sport. There is also a big difference between going to NIU or RIG compared to having only special sports linked to your upper secondary school studies. In many NIUs I have visited there are a lot of related things so that the students can perform their elite sports in a good way. The investigation initiated by the government highlights that there are quality problems on some or some NIU today. However, in order to address quality problems, control and quality monitoring and guidelines need to be made clearer. It should not be a question of punishing at least half of the students. It doesn't make any sense. It is for this reason that I have asked a few of my questions, to which I have not received any real answer but which I would like to ask again: Does the Minister think that a reduction in the number of places for students who want to bet on their sport and combine it with studies will be beneficial for students' grades? If not, how does she intend to act to ensure good results among the students?
i-a5905ed4527799f8-852	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by recalling that the whole purpose – almost the first sentence of Alexandra Anstrell's speech – of the order in which it exists is that it should be possible to combine upper secondary education with an elite effort. That's what it's all about. It is in the light of the fact that there have been a lot of problems with the order that exists, not least the comments of the National Sports Federation, that we have until now discussed the investigation that Alexandra Anstrell is now discussing. The idea is not that regulated sports education should be general, but the idea has always been that it should be for elite young people. It needs to be made clearer what the courses are intended for. That is why the proposal has been put forward that a new sport education should be developed with more clear and uniform rules. I would also like to remind you that more state funding is being proposed for the new education than is being proposed for the national sports gymnasiums today. This means that the number of training courses that receive state subsidies could increase with the proposal that has been out for consultation. As we know, no state subsidies are being made today for what we call NIU. The number of places in a new education is not fixed. According to the proposal, this is a matter for the National Board of Education with the help of the National Sports Federation and the Special Sports Associations to decide. As I also mentioned, the government, with the directives given to the departmental inquiry that was carried out at the same time, also wants to protect all young people interested in sport. That is why the proposal has come to strengthen their opportunities for sport in the context of ordinary upper secondary education. Madam President, I would like I have done my best to answer the questions that Alexandra Anstrell thought she did not receive in my interpellation answer. With this, I would also like to say that anyone who goes through the entire investigation, who has been out for a referral, and also takes note of the referee, clearly sees that there is strong support for the proposals put forward in the investigation and who somewhat contrasts with the dark and black image given by Alexandra Anstrell of the investigation's proposals.
i-a5905ed4527799f8-857	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for Education for the developed response. The initial reply of the Minister revealed that it was about combining upper secondary education with sport. Now the minister says that sport is equal to elite sport. Then she says that we should protect all young people's opportunities for sports. I do not quite understand how the Minister means combining sports, or elite sports, with studies. If you study at upper secondary level and have sport as a special subject, it simply means that you have the opportunity to practise your sport, not that it is some form of elite sport that is supported by the local school. Or what? In fact, I do not know what the Minister means in this case, Madam President. I'm thinking of the total set aside pot. If one is to succeed in raising the level of NIU today, which has been criticised for becoming the quality of the RIG, it means a halving of the number of places. That would be extremely unfortunate. I have today in the morning helped 16-year-old Jasmin with a school assignment. It was about sending government proposals, memos and investigation proposals for referral. Why do you do it, and how long have you been doing it? Have you done anything different before? I tried to explain that at least what I know since 1974 is written in the form of government that government matters must be comprehensively illustrated. This investigation has been for a referral. On the previous occasion, I asked the Minister a written question on the subject and received a reply that the consultation bodies expressed a favourable opinion on the proposal for the closure of national sports gymnasies and approved national sports training. The Minister has also said this in his reply here. But when Sweden's Municipalities and Regions, that is, Sweden's 290 municipalities and all regions, have rejected the proposal, I wonder a little bit if the Minister is taking it lightly. Even if they disagree, there is, of course, a majority in favour of the proposal. They say that SPR rejects the proposal as a consequence of the above that the problems with today's system are not so extensive that it justifies major changes compared to today. The Swedish Fäktförbundet is also critical in its referral. They just point out that it is highly uncertain whether the young people who are going to have to leave home, change the trainer and the training environment and perhaps lose their social intercourse will have serious elite ambitions as adults. The Swedish Ski Federation also raises a similar concern. I wonder whether these referrals do not mean anything to the Minister for Education and the Government. I have also asked the Minister whether she intends to create dialogue with students who have been attending a NIU or LIU today or recently to see their experiences and opinions for future proposals. It would be clever to ask those who are doing this, as this is the case. Then I am told that the Minister has received an answer from Svea, but that is not what I asked. But perhaps I should simply interpret the Minister's answer as a no, that the government does not intend to ask them what it actually is about. I think it's boring. Sport leads to better learning skills and, as I said, many end their education with good grades and qualifications in their sport. Then it would be better if more, not fewer, could combine their elite sports with their schooling. It provides both better public health and good school outcomes. The Moderates really want to see clarity in the regulatory framework of sports education. But as the proposal now stands, by halving the number of seats, we say no.
i-a5905ed4527799f8-868	Madam President, I would like I am not quite sure that I followed in the discussion about the difference that Alexandra Anstrell sees between having an opportunity for elite action and an opportunity to develop the subject of sport and health and ensuring that this subject can be a reality for all students who want to engage in it, even without being elite. At the risk that I may have misunderstood Alexandra Anstrell's speech, I really want to point out that for me there is no contradiction in ensuring that there is a wise elite effort that can be combined with high school studies and that allows young people who want to invest in an elite career in their sport to go to high school at the same time. I see absolutely no contradiction between organising and ensuring that there are good opportunities of this kind and, at the same time, ensuring that there are rich opportunities for all young people to exercise sport, even if that sport is not practised at the elite level, Madam President. I also note that Alexandra Anstrell thinks that a referral from the Swedish Municipalities and Regions should weigh very heavily. Yes, that also weighs heavily on me, Madam President. But as the responsible minister, I will of course also take into account other referrals. I am just like Alexandra Anstrell aware that some special sports federations have different opinions than the National Sports Federation, which Alexandra Anstrell raises here. This is certainly also the case in the context of SLR's wide-ranging activities. Alexandra Anstrell also chooses to interpret my answer as saying that I will not talk to young people who attend these sports educations. I can reassure Alexandra Anstrell by telling her that I have already done so during a visit to sports gymnasies, such as the sports gymnasium in the fantastic municipality of Jämtland, which I have now embarrassingly forgotten the name of, which I visited and which by chance is governed by social democrats and center parties. I'll wake up tonight at 3:00 and come up with the name. It wasn't in Åre. I think it was in Järpen. Could it have been? I will come back to that, and I apologise very much for this debacle in the speaker's chair. At least at that high school I had an interesting conversation with both teachers and students. There, just as often when I'm out in schools, I had to face different opinions between the students. There were those who thought the proposal was good and those who thought it was bad. I'll keep asking questions to both teachers and students when I'm out meeting them. But, Madam President, I will also pay great attention to the responses that come in the form of referrals from the organisations organising our high school youth, and that is, above all, Sweden's student corps. Of course, they also have members of these schools.
i-a5905ed4527799f8-874	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for the developed answer! I agree that it would be good if more people could have more sports in connection with their studies, in fact, no matter how old they are. The fact that more people need to move more and that we need better public health is clear. The figures show that we are moving in a completely different direction. If one of the reasons why the government wants to halve the number of sports fields in high school in Sweden is that the quality does not last, it is not reasonable to have fewer places. I maintain that it must be better to steer regulation and supervision and make demands instead of making such a change. I believe very much in the clarity of the regulations and what is expected. It should be easy to understand and see what the difference is between going to an upper secondary school with an elite bet compared to just studying special sports. If we get fewer places for students who can combine their elite sports with upper secondary school studies, it means greater selection and higher stress among young people of quite early age. Looking for sports talent must take its time. Everyone develops at a slightly different pace, some early, some later. Not everyone may be able to shine at an early age, but it may take a little longer or be a little later. Does the Minister really want to increase that stress and selection for young people today? I thought you were in favour of increased public health, not against.
i-a5905ed4527799f8-878	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Alexandra Anstrell, for an interesting debate! The Government's ambition is to ensure that we have a high school that is for everyone. In the upper secondary school there should also be good opportunities for students who want to be elite in a sport to combine the elite initiative with upper secondary school studies. We have identified problems with today's order. We have ensured that these problems have been properly investigated. We've sent the investigation out for a referral. Work is now under way in the Government Office to see how we are going to proceed with the proposals that have been out for a referral. I would like to thank Alexandra Anstrell for the questions and the interpellation debate with the assurance that the government is taking this issue very seriously and will work towards combining an elite initiative in sport with upper secondary education. But the Government's ambition is also that not only elite young people but all young people should have access to sports activities combined with their upper secondary education in a way that is appropriate and accessible to all. Thank you, Alexandra Anstrell, for an urgent debate! And I'm sorry, the Republic of Jämtland, for forgetting the name of the council!
i-a5905ed4527799f8-883	Madam President, I would like Jan Ericson has asked me three questions concerning the protection of the rolling cultural heritage. Marléne Lund Kopparklint has asked me two questions on the same subject. I will answer the questions on the basis of my responsibility as Minister of Culture. For the government, it is important that we have a living cultural heritage and cultural life throughout the country. The moving cultural heritage is close to the heart of many, both for its importance in the emergence of modern society and for its aesthetics and nostalgia. I would like to stress the importance of preserving, using and developing the mobile cultural heritage. Madam President, I would like The popular movement that has developed around the mobile cultural heritage gathers people all over the country and contributes to important and active leisure time. The use and development of mobile cultural heritage requires not only good opportunities for physical preservation, but also that historical means of transport can continue to be provided. This is at the same time as maintaining older technologies as far as possible, which in turn requires specific knowledge on how to adapt the technology to modern conditions and an understanding of the values of this cultural heritage by the relevant authorities. In order to promote the preservation of the mobile cultural heritage, the Government commissioned the National Antiquarie Office to work in 2020 and 2021, in collaboration with, among other things, the State's maritime and transport historical museums and civil society organisations, to promote increased knowledge and dissemination of historical transport. In addition, the Government decided that the National Heritage Office can contribute a maximum of SEK 1 million per year in 2020 and 2021 to efforts aimed at strengthening the preservation of historical transport. The government continues to view the issue of preserving the mobile cultural heritage as a matter of urgency, not least in the light of the widespread involvement of civil society in this part of our common cultural heritage.
i-a5905ed4527799f8-890	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. What we call the rolling heritage, that is, old motor vehicles, but also older ships, trains and aircraft, is a hobby and an interest that employs hundreds of thousands of people in our country. Some put thousands of hours in their garages, while others just drive around in their vehicles or show them at hits and exhibitions. Some live professionally by renovating and serving older vehicles. Still others are not active enthusiasts themselves but are happy to visit car meetings or take a trip with a museum train or an old steamboat for nostalgic reasons. Many young people around our elongated country have renovations of vehicles as an interest. It can be anything from building epatractors to renovating large Americans. Young people who spend their free time in the garage don't drag around town and cause problems. On the contrary, the interest in cars and motor vehicles provides social interaction and develops a great deal of knowledge that can lead to an important profession. And society has everything to gain by giving young people meaningful leisure time, as the Minister for Culture also mentions in his answer. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Parliament's vehicle history network has for many years received reports of problems for the rolling cultural heritage, problems that usually arise as a result of laws and rules for ordinary vehicles not applying to veteran vehicles. The lack of commitment and knowledge of veteran vehicles makes it even more difficult for the country's enthusiasts. The latest example in the line concerns the highlighted case of imports of veteran vehicles from abroad, where the responsible authorities seized imported vintage cars to be renovated in Sweden. Those who imported the vehicles have been told that these valuable cars should be classified as hazardous waste and must be destroyed. In addition, the Authority considers that importers should be penalised for importing environmental waste without authorisation. I myself visited one of the affected entrepreneurs a few weeks later and took note of the facts on the matter. The government decision is under judicial review, but clearly something has gone very wrong. The vehicles in question are made out of the United States with all the necessary and extensive legal documents, the transport documents are clear that they relate to cars, there are clear commercial certificates regarding the vehicles and the cars are brought into Sweden as veteran vehicles. Under current EU rules, veteran vehicles are exempted from standard rules for vehicle imports. In Sweden, the limit for vintage vehicles is 30 years, and the cars in question are from the 1950s. There simply seems to be no reasonable support for a Swedish authority to suddenly classify someone's vehicle as waste. Despite this, the county administrative board is pushing the issue legally against small individual traders. As a result of the fact that it is an authority that is a counterparty, business insurance for entrepreneurs does not cover the costs of the legal process either. Thus, the small businesses in question have bought vehicles for large sums of money in the United States. They have paid a lot for transport and legal documents and are now also forced to pay the cost of storage at customs and the legal process against Swedish authorities. Entrepreneurs feel completely turned out and have got their personal finances driven to the bottom. This should not be allowed to happen in a society of justice. Madam President, I would like Nevertheless, I am pleased that the Minister for Culture has so clearly expressed his view of the value of the rolling cultural heritage and that the government continues to see conservation as a matter of urgency. That is a good starting point for this debate. But this statement by the Minister for Culture also obliges. It must not just stop at words. I would therefore like to conclude this first round with two questions for the Minister for Culture: does the Minister share the problem picture of the associations, that is to say that the current regulations cause problems for those who import, export, renovate or use veteran vehicles in Sweden? If yes, is the Minister willing to meet the interest groups and take the initiative of setting up a working group of representatives of the relevant authorities and representatives of the peoples' movement behind the historic vehicles – a working group that can identify the problems that exist and together try to find possible solutions?
i-a5905ed4527799f8-902	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. For many years Sweden has been a significant vehicle nation. This is important if you are to have the opportunity to develop it, as the Minister says in his reply. The rolling cultural heritage in the form of enthusiast vehicles from different eras, which engages tens of thousands of Swedes, is a popular movement that contributes positively in our country. The movement enriches people's lives and strengthens the tourism industry, which contributes to more jobs and increased economic growth. Rules, fees and applications shall not impose requirements that make the preservation of the rolling cultural heritage difficult or impossible. The motor hobby is a joy to people and future generations and should be encouraged rather than threatened. It is therefore tragic when you get to know how the County Administrative Board in Västra Götaland decided during the summer to consider a number of historic imported vehicles as environmentally hazardous waste. Reference is made to the Environmental Protection Agency's guidance, which is based on an EU directive. The Association of Motor History has already criticised the lack of protection for vehicles of historical value before the EU directive became law in 2007. Madam President, I would like As both a consultation body and according to the guidance's certification of the historical value of vehicles, the views of this organisation should have been taken more into account when drawing up the proposal for this law. Madam President, I would like Yesterday I was in Värmland Kil at a big car hit at Café Freja. Can the President guess what the big topic of conversation was? Well, it was the news of banning diesel and petrol in just a few years' time, which in turn is an enormous threat to the rolling cultural heritage. What do you expect all veteran car owners to do? I would like an answer to what you think in the government, if you have planned to open a huge car cemetery in connection with such a ban or how you have planned. I mean, Madam President, with these proposals and all kinds of sticks in the way, one might ask how ordinary people can afford to travel in rural areas in the future. Madam President, I would like Should we return to ox carts, horse and wagon, or what do you think people in the countryside who own the cultural-historical veteran vehicles should do? We who live in the countryside do not have access to a subway around the corner or a large selection of cultural events every day of the week. We don't have those privileges. We travel miles for pleasure, to meet like-minded people and enjoy veteran cars. Madam President, I would like The government says it wants to encourage the rolling cultural heritage, but we see evidence of politics that says the opposite. I hope that today I can get promises from the Minister for Culture, as in her reply, that instead of making things more difficult, the movement will be helped now and in the future. I would also like answers on how.
i-a5905ed4527799f8-914	Madam President, I would like I have entered this debate because I have a great interest in motor history. I have relatives who spend thousands of hours renovating old vehicles. What has now happened and which we have discussed is an individual matter, and I understand very well that the Government cannot discuss it. But we have a system failure. It is discretion that determines whether a car is an environmentally hazardous waste or a vehicle. The Swedish Transport Agency, which is our authority dealing with vehicles, says intently that a vehicle is a vehicle until it is scrapped. And a vehicle that is scrapped cannot be brought into Sweden and then registered. The cars in question in this case are not scrapped. They have certificates. They will require great value when renovated. These are classic cars that there are very few of today. It would be devastating if an authority of discretion – that is what we are talking about – simply decides that it is environmentally hazardous waste. A car that is still a vehicle and is not scrapped can never fall under the concept of environmentally hazardous waste. Here we have a system error, where the County Administrative Board has its own opinion on the matter. The answer given by the Government to the questions raised by the interpellants states that it is of great importance that the mobile cultural heritage is preserved, used and developed. The popular movement that has developed around the mobile cultural heritage gathers people all over the country and contributes to important and active leisure time. ..................................................... But the government's own authority does exactly the opposite. That's what gets so weird. You can look at how many people are involved in the engine lobby and spend thousands of hours in the garage to renovate old valuable cars. It trains young people to become sheet metal workers, car painters, and car electricians. They can renovate engines. They become saddlemakers and sew new clothes for these cars. It is an incredibly important school for young people to be able to develop a craft, a craft that otherwise risks going to waste. I talk a lot to those who are involved in the engine lobby, and they are desperate when the situation is as it is. It is a discretion when sitting and making a decision by looking at a photograph. You haven't even looked at the car. There is no knowledge of what the value of this car actually is. For those who are uninvited, it may look like a rust heap standing there. But for those who know what this is all about, it is a valuable vehicle that is worth preserving. I have a brother-in-law who is renovating a 1965 veteran car. It was picked up in boxes. I don't think it was possible to see what it was, except on the body. After three years of work in the garage, the car is as good as new. It has made new seat fittings and painted the whole vehicle. There are still new parts to buy from the United States. So did they. The engine, on the other hand, was beyond rescue. That's why you had to look for a new one. Today, however, no human can believe that the car in front of you has been a wreck that was picked up in boxes. There you can see what good people with commitment and drive can accomplish. Don't destroy it! It is devastating for the whole engine hobby in Sweden.
i-a5905ed4527799f8-926	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your speeches and questions. I would like to start by saying that I am pleased that these issues are being highlighted in this House, not least because both the Members of Parliament and I can also emphasise that this is indeed a phenomenon and a cultural heritage that very much lives, engages very many people and is of great importance. When I myself was chair of the Culture Committee in Härnösand was one of the things that I was privileged to do to put myself in just such a car model older and take a cruising round around in Härnösand. It was Calle Lundkvist who took me on it. He is also the founder of Härnösands Bilmuseum, which is Sweden's largest car museum and has since 2015 attracted huge amounts of audiences and interested in the city. That culture is very much alive. This, I think, also demonstrates the commitment to this type of vehicle. This is not a museum business. This is about people who love their vehicles and who have renovated them. There is a popular movement behind, to take the example of the museum up in Härnösand. I remember myself when I took my own father to this museum and how his eyes began to sparkle and how the memories were stimulated. And I know that this is something that engages both young and old around Sweden. Madam President, I would like When the government produced the cultural heritage bill, it was something that we took forward after it had been put through in Parliament – to look specifically at issues related to the moving cultural heritage. Are there things that we can do to ensure this in different ways, because we know that there are many different types of legislation and that there are many different authorities involved and that are not only under the Ministry of Culture but, above all, authorities under other ministries? The National Heritage Office then looked at the issue from the point of view of legislation and concluded that it can be difficult when it comes to the Cultural Environment Act to find consideration rules that have an actual effect when it comes to other authorities' applications of regulations and the like. It will be a bit technical, but I would like to describe that this is something that the Ministry of Culture has really looked at. What they landed in then – it was before my time – was that they need to work with the promotion, dissemination of knowledge and cooperation between different authorities and also with civil society. In the regulation letter for 2020, the government therefore gave a commission to the National Board of Antiquities to work for increased knowledge and dissemination. I mentioned it in my answer. I think this is extremely important. It is partly aimed at what the interpellants here point out, that is, how we can gain a greater knowledge of this phenomenon and also about details that make it difficult to carry out activities. I know that it is traders and private individuals who invest both a lot of money and time on these issues. The National Board of Antiquities will report its efforts and its results to the Government, to me, on 30 November. I am very much looking forward to this report. It may also be able to give input to future and further efforts. I would also like to emphasise once again the support that we decided for 2020 and 2021 in order to provide it to various actors dedicated to the mobile cultural heritage in order to strengthen the preservation of historical transport modes. As far as the individual case is concerned, it is just as you say that I cannot go into it. But I would like to say that I think it is a good thing that it is being tried, and I think it is important that these issues are highlighted. There's an exception for veteran vehicles. There is a purpose to this, and it is, of course, to be able to safeguard this activity.
i-a5905ed4527799f8-936	Madam President, I would like We could have had clear legal provisions protecting the mobile cultural heritage. On 31 May 2017, a majority in the Riksdag voted for an announcement to the Government, as mentioned by the Minister for Culture, that legislation should be drawn up as a matter of urgency to protect the mobile cultural heritage. In the Government's regulation letter for 2018, the Board of Governors was given this assignment. And in the autumn of 2018, the National Heritage Office proposed that a rule of consideration should be introduced in the Cultural Environment Act with the aim that authorities should take into account the interest in preserving and using historical means of transport. In fact, the report goes into the depths of the complex situation surrounding these means of transport – the possibility of preserving and using them – in relation to modern legal requirements that are reasonable in the field of environment and road safety and other matters. The National Antiquities Office proposed that the Act should enter into force on 1 January 2020. However, in the autumn 2020 budget proposal, the government returns on this issue and states that it believes that the legislative proposal would not provide adequate protection for the mobile cultural heritage – but that it did not intend to take further steps to develop legislation to protect the mobile cultural heritage. In fact, the government clearly states that it does not intend to meet with Parliament, even though at the same time it writes that it continues to see the issue of preserving the mobile cultural heritage as urgent. The only concrete measure on the part of the government was to give the National Antiquarie Office the task of promoting greater knowledge and dissemination of historical means of transport, and so added a little extra money. It is only to be noted that the government's handling of the matter was disappointing for these organisations and for those who engage in this hobby – and that the government actually, if we are going to stick to it a little, defied the Riksdag's very clear mission. No legislation was developed to protect the special situation of mobile cultural heritage. Clearly, the increased dissemination of knowledge has not had the intended effect either, in view of the issues that have led to today's debate. It really seems that the government has no knowledge of the specific situation of these vehicles. As I said, I think it is time to move from fine words on the value of rolling cultural heritage to concrete action. In order for it to succeed, there are really only two things we need to agree on: one is that we share the problem picture, and the other is that we should try to identify which problems are specific to these vehicles but not to the large fleet in general. That is precisely why I wanted to raise the proposal for the Minister for Culture to meet all these interests. They want to have a working group with the authorities where they can sit down in peace and quiet, identify the problems that exist and try to find solutions that suit these specific vehicles and that can be accommodated within the exceptions that the law and EU rules allow. It is very difficult to get to this if these organisations themselves are to take the initiative to meet all the authorities and others you need to meet in order to move forward. That is also precisely why I appeal to the Minister for Culture: there must be an initiative from above, and I think that the Minister for Culture is quite the right person to call for some kind of start-up in order for these stakeholders to meet and try to solve these problems. As Thomas Morell mentioned, it cannot be up to each individual case officer to slightly more arbitrarily take decisions on various issues, but there must be clear rules on making exceptions and special assessments of these historic vehicles.
i-a5905ed4527799f8-944	Madam President, I would like The Minister for Culture himself said that it is good that what has happened is being tested and that there is an exception for these vehicles. I would like to be assured that this is indeed the case, because, if that is the case, what has happened should not have happened. The popular movement with the rolling cultural heritage has in recent years encountered increasing problems, and I have highlighted some of them – among other things what happened at the County Administrative Board in Västra Götaland County in August. It then stopped the import of several cars on the grounds that several of them under an EU regulation should be classified as environmentally hazardous waste, i.e. scrap. The aim of the regulation is to prevent countries from dumping environmentally dangerous and old cars in poor parts of the world, which is reasonable and something that we Moderates have supported. However, the cars in question, which belong to this cultural heritage, are not waste of environmental waste; they are historic cars which, through working hours, are to be restored and revived. Madam President, I would like The government should take active action to put an end to this absurdity. The rolling cultural heritage contributes positively to our country – not least for our young people, as my parliamentary colleagues have pointed out earlier. It is about young people who have a genuine motor interest and have this as a hobby. However, the movement bears witness to continuing problems, not only linked to what I have mentioned, but also linked to administrative rules for the licensing of vehicles at events organised for the general public and the use of land. There are also complicated rules for registration plates, where the original form is not allowed. This means that the splendor and the original feeling are not maintained because the sign has to be operated to fit. Madam President, I would like Here you need to initiate a work where you review the overall picture linked to these different conditions, to facilitate and simplify for different engine events and for this whole hobby to survive. Then I would like to go into the climate threat. It's serious. Sweden's fleet and industry will be converted to fossil-free, and new fossil-free technologies will be developed at a rapid pace. However, there shall be exceptions to this with regard to the rolling cultural heritage. In some Swedish municipalities steam locomotives are driven on a narrow-track railway during the summer months, and the people's movement with enthusiast vehicles is similar activity stuck on the road. These historic vehicles are not fossil-free and should not have to meet future fossil-free requirements – simply because they are only driven for demonstration purposes for short periods. Their impact on the climate is completely negligible, and this should be taken into account by the government in future rules for fossil freedom within the Swedish vehicle fleet. This is exactly what I've been talking about. I would like to conclude by asking a question. It comes from a Facebook group called Stop the threat to the veteran cars and has nearly 16,000 members. I suppose the Minister for Culture knows this group. I have a question from a member of that group, and I will ask it the next time I stand in the chair.
i-a5905ed4527799f8-952	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. The car museum in Härnösand is a gold mine and fantastic fun; I have been there several times and looked at the cars. You have to travel back in time. It's just as amazing to go into motor clubs and into such circles and watch older men my age – I actually consider myself older today – teach young guys and girls how to weld and knock plates and how to renovate engines. It brings together generations to create something with their hands – to renovate something that was built 50-60 years ago, that has lived a life and been worn out and that will then be restored to the condition it was in before. Some of these people are so nerdy that they don't accept a screw with the wrong alloy. They go and look at the car and say, "That's the wrong screw, and that relay shouldn't be there, and so on." It is an experience to be among these people and see their knowledge, which they gladly convey. However, this is about to be completely overturned because authorities take arbitrary decisions. And I'm saying it's arbitrary decisions, because I've read the email conversation. You don't follow the administrative law for two cents. I have had contact with the Swedish Motor History Association today, and they write: MHRF's view is that the County Administrative Board in Västra Götaland County is the single biggest threat ever to vehicles, our movement and our business. So it's about veteran vehicles. This is based on the fact that an individual official does not have an eye on the situation. This is where the government has to go in and make sure that the system malfunction disappears. I am not saying that you should look at the individual case, the Minister for Culture, but the system error must be removed.
i-a5905ed4527799f8-957	Nevertheless, I must remind you that we in Parliament's seats must not debate in such a way as to enable individual officials or individual cases to be identified. Although I have listened to the involvement of the debate, that is what the rules in this House look like.
i-a5905ed4527799f8-958	Madam President, I would like I can begin by commenting on Thomas Morell's speech. Apart from the fact that there is a judicial review in this particular case, I have already said that this is the time we have when there is this kind of disagreement in a case. It is good that this is being tested. I would like to recall that it was also up to the interpellation about the Environmental Protection Agency's guidance, because this has been an important part of finding systems and a clear guide to the issue of definition. I also know that there has been a discussion related to the Motor History Federation and the association's opportunity to make input for the guidance. However, since it is not my authority, I would like to leave comments on this to the Environment Minister, Per Bolund. I know that he has answered parliamentary questions about this, and I know that he is also aware of this situation. I would also like to comment on this with the growing generation and the joy of standing in a garage and learning how to handle this type of vehicle. I have seen it with my own eyes; I have had motorized youths in my own family and have seen what a huge source of knowledge it is. Things you didn't think a teenage guy would do actually happen with this commitment around a veteran car, an epatractor or whatever it is. This, of course, is of great value, not least when we now see how craftsmanship is something that we will need. We know that, because it is also about sustainability for the future. I would also like to comment on Jan Ericson's questions to me, which I did not have time to address in the previous speech. One question was whether I share the view that this is a problem. It is clear that this particular case has raised a great deal of concern and uncertainty. That is why I come back to the fact that it is a good thing that it is being tried and that it is a good thing that there is a dialogue with the responsible minister for the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency. On the question of whether or not I intend to take the initiative in a job, it is a bit of a problem as we are talking about authorities that are not in my field. Nevertheless, I would like to return to what the government did after the work and the assignment that the National Antiquarie Office was given and to how we took the matter forward. It is as I said in my previous speech, and as Jan Ericson pointed out: after we took note of the report by the National Heritage Office, we chose not to proceed with that legislation. The National Antiquities Office itself highlighted a number of problems with the proposed provision. These were problems that meant that such a provision would not have any concrete effect even if we were to establish it. That is why this was dismissed – with the support of Parliament, I would like to emphasise. However, the question is not dead. I think this is a very important task that the National Heritage Office has received. I look forward to the follow-up – including the follow-up to the specific funds that we have spent over two years. I am definitely open to considering whether there are further efforts we may need to make to promote the mobile cultural heritage. It can, of course, be legislation, if one finds that there is a need to consider it, but it is not least about promotion issues, dialogue and knowledge raising and about trying to identify where there are different kinds of challenges. I look forward to this follow-up later this autumn.
i-a5905ed4527799f8-968	Madam President, I would like I know that there are quite a few people around the country who follow our debate through Parliament's website. This has attracted a great deal of interest, and I think that anyone looking at this should take it to heart that the Minister is actually very clear that she sees the value of this business. I very much hope that this also stands for the whole government. At the same time, it is impossible to escape the fact that the problems exist, and I do not really agree with the Minister for Culture that it is promotion and things that are the most important. In fact, I think the most important thing at this point is to identify the problems that exist, that everyone who works with these issues in different authorities realizes that veteran vehicles are a special activity that does not fit into the usual regulations and that everyone together tries to identify which of these problems is the worst and how to handle them. I therefore insist a little on the fact that I think it would be very good if we could gather the actors together with the authorities to get these things out in peace and quiet. The way forward is often through conversation and by increasing understanding. It may be that people who have vintage vehicles find it difficult to understand what regulations the authorities have to comply with and, conversely, that those who sit on the authorities do not understand the activities and reality of those who renovate and import vehicles. I think greater understanding would mean a lot. The question of fuel, raised by Marléne Kopparklint, is also of great concern to many people. No matter how we deal with fuels for modern vehicles, the old historic vehicles must be able to have access to fuels that enable them to function as well. This is also an important political issue. Nevertheless, I have some hope that the Minister for Culture may be able to take further action on this issue. So will we Moderates. Thank you for the debate.
i-a5905ed4527799f8-973	Madam President, I would like I would like to start with the question from a member of the Facebook Group Stop the threat to veteran cars. I think this issue is extremely relevant. It is about how important the Minister for Culture sees that the vehicle lobby is for the country outside the metropolitan regions from both a political and social perspective and as a possible way to strengthen the integration of young people in exclusion. This is an important issue for Sweden and, not least, the countryside. The fact that this is not the Minister's authorities does not prevent the Minister from initiating a meeting with interest groups in order to preserve the cultural interest that exists and contribute to further development. We have several interest groups, and I am happy to contribute to providing information about them, if you do not already know them. This is extremely important. The Minister has now been in favour of preserving and developing the rolling cultural heritage. Now it's up to you to prove it. Now it is important to answer these questions, initiate meetings with interest groups and participate in car meetings that are around the country to form an idea of what it looks like. I'm happy to invite the Minister of Culture to Värmland and Kil for the next date. I hope that, together, we will be able to contribute to ensuring that policies that are perhaps based on ignorance or what they are about do not put a stop to, but actually contribute to the preservation of the rolling cultural heritage.
i-a5905ed4527799f8-977	Madam President, I would like I can begin by addressing directly the questioner from the Facebook Group mentioned by Marléne Lund Kopparklint and really underlining that I see this as an important part of our cultural heritage – both the purely physical and the intangible. It is about the knowledge of health care and history and about the commitment this arouses, not least with a lot of children and young people and with organisations. I myself have a political foundation in Härnösand, which is a municipality with a very vibrant car culture and cruising culture. There is a car hit a supporting part that also attracts people from all over the region. There is also a car museum that makes this visible to a wider public and spreads the knowledge. Madam President, I would like I am absolutely open to continued dialogue, and I think it would be very nice to visit Värmland on occasion, among other things for this purpose. But it is above all about continuing the work and following up on the mission that we have given to the National Heritage Office. It is also about the specific funds we have given to civil society to develop the mobile cultural heritage and to evaluate and see if anything else needs to be done. Madam President, I would like I am very keen that this part of our cultural heritage should not feel neglected in any way. I realise that this is part of our common cultural heritage, which many feel a strong interest in and which also has a bearing on everything from the tourism industry to our young people's commitment and knowledge for the future. With this, I would like to thank you for a fruitful discussion. Of course I will take this debate with me in my future work.
