i-027bc6aff6ea60ad-17	Madam President, I would like Lars Beckman has asked the Minister for Culture and Democracy and the Minister for Finance what measures the ministers intend to take to ensure the import of American cars used for, among other things, cruising around Sweden. Lars Beckman has also asked the Minister for Culture and Democracy if the Minister considers that American car culture is an important part of our cultural heritage and if the Minister intends to take any initiatives in order for the hobby to continue to be practiced in Sweden. Thomas Morell has asked the Minister for Finance whether the Minister and the Government intend to take some general measures to ensure legal certainty and proper handling of the import and export of second-hand vehicles. Finally, Jan Ericson has asked the Minister for Finance whether any measures will be taken to ensure that the rolling cultural heritage is not adversely affected and that individual traders do not cause significant economic damage. The work within the government is so divided that it is I who will respond to the interpellations, and I answer the questions collected based on my responsibility as Minister for Environment and Climate Change. I would like to start by saying that it is important for the government that we have a living cultural life throughout the country. The moving cultural heritage is dear to many for its importance both in the emergence of modern society and in its aesthetics and nostalgia. The popular movement that has developed around the mobile cultural heritage gathers people all over the country and contributes to important and active leisure time. Several initiatives are under way to promote the preservation of mobile cultural heritage. I cannot, of course, comment on the individual cases referred to by the interpellants. Overall, however, I can say that the import and export of second-hand cars which are not roadworthy and in good condition or which require more than minor repairs in order to become roadworthy may fall under waste legislation and thus be subject to rules for cross-border shipments of waste. However, vehicles deemed to be vintage vehicles are exempted from EU rules on cross-border shipments of waste. When assessing whether a vehicle is a veteran vehicle, the condition and age of the vehicle are taken into account. If, on the other hand, the vehicle is not considered to be a veteran vehicle, and therefore to be classified as waste, EU rules on cross-border shipments of waste apply. Cross-border shipments of waste are regulated by the EU Waste Shipment Regulation which also implements the Basel Convention – a global Convention on the Control of Transnational Movements and Management of Waste – and the OECD Waste Shipment Agreement. The main aim of the rules is to protect people and the environment from incorrect or inadequate waste management. What should be classified as waste is regulated at EU level. The Environmental Protection Agency is responsible for guiding how EU waste legislation should be interpreted. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency recently published a guide aimed at clarifying what is required of the organiser or undertakes a cross-border transport of veteran vehicles in order for the vehicle not to be classified as waste. Work is currently under way to revise the guidance after comments have been made that it is unclear in some respects.
i-027bc6aff6ea60ad-23	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I would like to begin by welcoming some of those affected by this issue and sitting in the gallery. It feels good that you are here to take part in the debate. Feel warmly welcome! Madam President, I would like I am deeply concerned that there are certain parties that basically have a car hatred. You hate mobility, you hate vehicles and you hate cars. This car hatred has now spread deep into some authorities. It is worrying, and it has severe consequences. Today we will discuss the Swedish cultural heritage in the form of American cars imported into Sweden. It is part of the Swedish cultural heritage, a very important part, and also an important hobby. We who have been to Classic Car Week in Rättvik and seen the fantastic enthusiasm that is there – 10 000 cars and over 30 000 guest nights during a week – understand that it is a popular movement. We also understand that there are few environmentalists there. So we are in a situation where there are authorities who believe that imported American veteran cars should be classified as waste. One would think that the government would act forcefully as soon as it became aware of this. The government has not done so, and that is worrying. This is about those who have this as a recreational interest. I have six friends from Gävleborg who went to Kissimmee and participated in the annual car auction held there at the beginning of the year. That's where many people from all over the world travel to be there. You buy a vehicle there — perhaps a bodywork or chassis that can cost hundreds of thousands of dollars. A little simplistically, you can say that you take the vehicle out of the American car register and transport it across the lake by ship. Then you've transported a car, and you're importing a car. At all stages a vehicle has been imported and transported. But then it happens completely unreasonable: Customs asks the county administrative board if this is a vehicle or waste, and the authority says it is waste. It is a legal uncertainty that is astounding. In addition, there are exceptions in EU legislation. The Minister refers to the waste regulation and other things, but there are clear exceptions for veteran vehicles in EU legislation. So this situation should not have happened, Madam President. I and a number of Moderates have met various people who have suffered from this government activism. We've seen pictures of the vehicles. I am surprised that the Government is not clearer in its response. It cannot be said, Madam President, that the Swedish cultural heritage and the Swedish cruising movement are protected if they do not act. I believe that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency updated its guidelines on Saturday. It can then be noted that the County Administrative Board in Västra Götaland now stands against the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency. Two authorities have therefore interpreted the same legislation differently. That is precisely why, Madam President, the government and the Minister must act and move from words to action.
i-027bc6aff6ea60ad-32	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. I asked Magdalena Andersson a question, but I did not get an answer in what the Minister here explained. I read the question again: does the Minister and the Government intend to take some general measures to ensure legal certainty and proper handling of the import and export of veteran vehicles? We should not discuss individual cases – I am fully aware of that. There are several cases, so we don't have to point to anything in private. It is arbitrariness that characterises this whole process. I myself am involved, literally, in the automotive industry and also have an interest in veteran vehicles. I was at a truck show on Saturday and looked at nice renovated trucks. They have been involved in building our country, what we feel as a welfare state. The cars were from the 40s, 50s, 60s and 70s. Thousands of hours in garages have been spent restoring the vehicles to their working condition. What we're talking about is an engine interest that's unique, I'd say. Sweden is the world leader in the motor hobby. There's nothing more wonderful than going into a garage and watching an old man my age try to teach a young guy or girl how to weld or troubleshoot in automotive electronics or how to clean up a bad decor or saddlemaking or something like that. There is a commitment across generational boundaries, between young and older boys and girls. There's a common denominator, and that's the motor hobby. Out of this come good professionals. It may even be that they train themselves to something else, such as economists, for there are many. But they still develop a knowledge in sheet metal casting, car painting, saddle making, electric drawing and so on. Then you get a little bit like that when you hear the answer from the government. He says in the introduction: I would like to start by saying that it is important for the government that we have a living cultural life throughout the country. The moving cultural heritage is dear to many for its importance both in the emergence of modern society and in its aesthetics and nostalgia. The popular movement that has developed around the mobile cultural heritage gathers people all over the country and contributes to important and active leisure time. Several initiatives are under way to promote the preservation of mobile cultural heritage. Yet one of the government's authorities is exercising discretion in this matter. In my next post, I'm going to go into some parts about it. You don't follow the law. That's what's so amazing. You think one thing, and that's the way it should be. What would it look like if we were to do that kind of thing? We think one thing, and that's the way it should be. We do not care about legislation or anything else. It does not stand, especially in the exercise of authority. And so says the Government: But overall, the import and export of second-hand cars that are not roadworthy and in good condition or that require more than minor repairs to become roadworthy can fall under waste legislation. They can never do that. They can never fall under that legislation. There is no such possibility. You don't have legal support for that.
i-027bc6aff6ea60ad-41	Madam President, I would like What we call the rolling cultural heritage, that is, old vehicles, employs hundreds of thousands of people in our country. For many years, the Swedish Parliament's vehicle history network has received reports of problems arising from the fact that laws and rules for ordinary vehicles often do not apply to veteran vehicles. Government's lack of understanding and knowledge of veteran vehicles does not make things any better. As I said, there are several ongoing legal processes in this area. The latest example in the line concerns the highlighted case of imports of veteran vehicles from abroad, where the responsible authority seized imported veteran cars to be renovated in Sweden. Those who have imported the vehicles have been told that these valuable cars should be classified as hazardous waste and must be destroyed. In addition, the Authority considers that importers should be penalised for importing environmental waste without authorisation. The government decision is under judicial review, but clearly something has gone very wrong. The vehicles in question are made out of the United States with all the necessary and comprehensive car documents. The transport documents are clear that they relate to cars. There are clear commercial certificates regarding the vehicles, and the cars are brought into Sweden as veteran vehicles. Under current EU rules, veteran vehicles are exempted from standard rules for vehicle imports. In Sweden, the limit for veteran vehicles is 30 years. The cars in question are from the 1950s. There simply seems to be no reasonable support for a Swedish authority to suddenly classify these vehicles as waste. Despite this, the county administrative board is pushing the issue legally against small individual traders. And as a result of the fact that it is an authority that is a counterparty, the insurance of entrepreneurs does not cover the costs of the legal process. The small businesses in question have thus bought vehicles for large sums of money in the United States and paid for transport and legal documents. They are now also forced to pay storage costs at customs and the legal process against Swedish authorities. This should not be allowed to happen in a legal society. Madam President, I would like It is worrying that the Minister for the Environment and the various authorities do not seem to be in agreement in their assessment of the rules in force. If the country's authorities and ministers do not agree on the interpretation of what is a veteran vehicle, how can an ordinary private individual or small businessman anticipate this? It is gratifying that both the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and the National Antiquities Office have stated in another current legal process that veteran vehicles are generally not to be regarded as waste and that they thus follow the same line as the Environmental Court and directly against the county administrative board's extreme interpretation. Hopefully this can form a new practice, which may also help others who have been affected. At the same time, however, it is the government's responsibility to ensure that laws and rules work. What is the point of the government's extended arm, the country's county boards, fighting individual citizens and small businesses for no reason? And why is the judiciary burdened with these issues? No one imports veteran vehicles to Sweden for big money just to dump them in the woods. This should even be understood by the county administrative board. It would have been better if the agency had acted forcefully against high-profile illegal landfills and burning landfill sites, which are a real environmental problem. Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, it is not only with regard to rules on the import and export of historic vehicles that it is a problem. There are also problems with many other legal rules and regulations. I would therefore like to put two specific questions to the Minister for the Environment: Does the Minister share the view that the current regulations present problems for those who import, export, renovate or usually use veteran vehicles in Sweden? Is the Minister, if the answer is yes, willing to meet the interest groups and perhaps, together with the Minister for Culture, take the initiative of setting up a working group of representatives of the relevant authorities and of the peoples' movement behind the historic vehicles? It would then be a working group that could identify the problems that exist, and together it would try to develop possible solutions that will ensure the protection of both cultural heritage and the environment – all to avoid unnecessary legal processes and incomprehensible interpretations of the rules of the various authorities.
i-027bc6aff6ea60ad-50	Madam President, I would like It is remarkable that this process can take place in a state governed by the rule of law such as Sweden, i.e. that government officials go in and steal vehicles that have been bought by private individuals and car enthusiasts that renovate old vehicles and make them real jewels. I urge Minister Bolund to go to the American Car Show, one of the biggest and finest events we have in Norrtälje every summer. It's so nice there, and I urge the Government to come visit. The Green Party talks a lot about recycling and waffles. So does Norrtälje at home. They even build recycling stations with municipal funds to compete with others who run such things privately, such as Pentecostals. When I'm out golfing in the summer, the car enthusiasts are renovating their cars. They are doing an amazing job on this, and the interest is enormous. It should be appreciated, not punished. The handling of this is certainly not legal. I would also like to ask the Government: why this car hatred? This is reflected in questions of fuel, taxes and everything. It's not just about these historic vehicles. Madam President, I would like This is pure government activism, and it is actually remarkable that the government does not go in and deal with its authorities. What's the next step? Are you going to find out who owns these cars and go out to people, open up the garage, take away the cars and say this is junk? Is that the next step?
i-027bc6aff6ea60ad-54	Madam President, I would like The rolling cultural heritage, i.e. old motor vehicles but also older ships, trains and aircraft, is a hobby and an interest that employs over half a million people in Sweden. It's a wide range of enthusiast cars. It is not just about Americans like Cadillac, Chevrolet and Mustang, it is also about Fiat 500, Volkswagen's bubble and Land Rover. It is a broad interest that appeals to many people. For many years motor associations have had reports of problems with the rolling cultural heritage, problems that usually arise as a result of the fact that laws and rules for ordinary vehicles do not apply to vintage vehicles. The lack of government involvement in and knowledge of veteran vehicles makes it difficult for the country's car enthusiasts. Madam President, I would like The latest example in the line is the high-profile cases of US-imported veteran vehicles, where the responsible authorities seized veteran cars to be renovated in our country. Those who have imported the vehicles have been told that their cars should be classified as environmentally hazardous waste and must be scrapped. In addition, it is considered that importers should be penalised for importing environmental waste without authorisation. I am quite convinced that they do not agree, and I believe that they are also in this House and are listening today. In addition, the Green Party recently announced that in just a few years' time they would be demanding a ban on petrol and diesel. It is a threat to the whole movement, and I mean not only veteran cars but enthusiast vehicles. This was also the biggest topic of conversation when I was at a car hit in Kil last summer. At Café Freja in Kils municipality in Värmland, where several hundred people gather, the ban on petrol and diesel was the big topic of conversation. Will the hits be able to continue? Is the Green Party out of your mind? Madam President, I would like Some spend thousands of hours in their garages, while others just drive around in their vehicles and show them at meetings and exhibitions. Others live professionally by renovating objects. You may not be an active car enthusiast yourself, but you are happy to visit a car hit, just as I do myself. You might take a trip with a museum train or an old steamboat for nostalgic reasons. Hundreds of thousands of young and old love vintage cars and motor events. Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, I did not receive an answer from Minister of Culture Amanda Lind when we debated the question a few weeks ago, whether, in connection with the ban on fuel, we are going to open a huge car cemetery. I also asked how ordinary people with all these suggestions for sticks in the wheels will be able to afford to travel in rural areas in the future. Should we who live in the countryside, with the policy of the Green Party, go back to ox carts, horse and wagon? Madam President, I would like Those of us living in rural areas are now demanding answers, and I hope that I will receive them from Minister Bolund.
i-027bc6aff6ea60ad-62	I would just like to emphasise that the Minister for the Environment and Climate Action represents the government in the interpellation debate. I have noted that the interpellants in their own interpellations have also noted that the Minister cannot answer or enter into individual government matters. The same applies, of course, to legal proceedings, only as a reminder.
i-027bc6aff6ea60ad-63	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the Minister's reply, although it is quite obvious and there are a lot of errors in that answer. I think perhaps we will sort out and explain some of them during this interpellation debate. It is clear that mistakes have been made by our authorities and our works, but this is not just the responsibility of the authorities and our works. In fact, the great responsibility lies with the Minister who governs these. There has been a passivity on the part of the government and the Minister in resolving this issue on time, otherwise we would not have had to have this interpellation debate today. Nor would we have had to have cars that are threatened with destruction if the government, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and the County Administrative Board for which the Minister is responsible had carried out their mission and done what should be done in time. Interest in vintage cars is great in Sweden. Hundreds of thousands of people are interested in this. You spend money, time and a lot of work on restoring and preserving our old vehicles. We shall appreciate this. It is a legacy for the future to be able to see and enjoy the cars that have existed. These are people who spend their own money and time. There is no cultural support for these people, but it is people who, by their own will, enable us to preserve this. Madam President, I would like It's a bit remarkable. I asked the Minister a question and received an answer on 1 September 2021. In the reply, the Minister argued that there is a regulatory framework in place that allows imports of veteran cars. This change in the regulations came on 19 August from the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency. It was supposed to be after 2013. But on 19 August 2021 the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and the Minister will get off to work on the issue to review the regulations. If it had been done in time, we would not be standing here today, but we would have had a working system without these concerns. It is serious when people are importing cars and car parts and the government's policies and authorities classify this as waste and also threaten to destroy the cars. So you want to destroy someone else's property because you haven't done what you're supposed to do from the government. The authorities get free hands to interpret without the government steering it up properly. This is a serious shortcoming, and I hope that the Minister and the whole government will take this on board in their work. This is nothing unique but something that is going on in many processes. There is Cementa and the nuclear issue that has not yet been resolved. Everything is too late, and the Minister and the Government are not acting at the pace they should have done. Mantrat from the government is: we didn't see this coming either, but we waited – and then it was too late. The Swedish Government has made three four serious mistakes. The directive has been translated, probably incorrectly – and as a result there have been incorrect interpretations. Each country has the opportunity to do its own interpretation and implementation. This opportunity has not been fully exploited by the government and the Minister. If other countries have managed to import cars, Sweden should have done the same.
i-027bc6aff6ea60ad-73	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank all the interpelliers and other participants for the debate. It's important. It is gratifying that we share a common passion. I also think that veteran cars are amazing, often incredibly beautiful, and all enthusiasts who build the cars possess an amazing skill. It is impressive what you can achieve with something that in other people's eyes is just a pile of rusty metal, but it can be turned into the most amazing vehicle that gilds our roads. I shall begin by stating that I agree with much of what has been said by the interpellants from the speaker's seat. It is to be welcomed that we can hopefully agree to find a way forward in order to make it possible in every way to practise this fantastic hobby and safeguard the cultural heritage of vehicles. Let me point out a few errors. There were some claims about my party that I hope the interpellants can withdraw because they are not right at all. There are many car enthusiasts even in the Green Party, not just me. The legislation does not make imports of vintage cars into Sweden impossible either. In fact, it is imported between 5 000 and 6 000 veteran cars into Sweden every year. There are obviously problems, which I am grateful for the attention of the interpellants. There are a few cases where legislation creates difficulties for people who are trying to do something that is, in my view, good, that is to say, take care of cars that would otherwise rust and perish. Instead, they are transformed into something beautiful and useful. Since there is often confusion on the subject, it is important to point out that the definition of waste, what is considered as waste, is not regulated at national level. It is not legislation that has been adopted in Parliament. It is European legislation, namely the Waste Directive, which defines what is waste and what is not. It is important to point out that national legislation cannot be amended. If we are to change the legislation that is the basis for what is considered waste or not by the authorities, it must be done at European level. On the other hand, it is possible to apply the legislation. If undesirable difficulties have arisen, the rules will have to be reviewed. That is exactly what is happening right now. We seem to agree in this House that the guidance has not worked. Since the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has also seen the problem and apparently believes that today's guidance is not sufficient, the work can produce a new guide. The hope I obviously share with the interpellants is that we can thus avoid these problems in the future and that all car enthusiasts, not only the 5 000 - 6 000 importing vintage cars, will be able to practise their hobby without difficulty. At EU level, there is also the ELV Directive, End-of-Life Vehicles, which opens up some opportunities. It is good if it is possible to use those rules. I also received other questions, for example from Marléne Lund Kopparklint, about fuels. There I can reassure Marléne Lund Kopparklint that there will be fuel for veteran cars even in the future. The study that has produced proposals says that there will be fossil fuels left after 2040 for example for veteran cars that cannot be refuelled with renewable fuels.
i-027bc6aff6ea60ad-82	Madam President, I would like Words matter. The way a government and a minister act and express themselves is important. When one of the government parties has been engaged in a crusade against motorism for seven years, it is clear that it has an impact on how our authorities act. There is formal governance, and there is informal governance. There are obviously Swedish authorities who are acting, possibly contrary to what the Government says here and now. But it is the government that holds the whole power, and it is the government that can make proposals to the parliament to make law. It is the government that can write regulatory letters, and it is the government that can instruct its authorities. If the Government is serious about its commitment to veteran cars, the Government must also act. Otherwise, there will only be empty words in the Chamber. In Sweden, freedom of trade prevails. It also means freedom of trade. This means that there are good entrepreneurs, big and small, who have as their life's work to import American cars. You go over to car auctions in Kissimmee, Florida, find an item, buy the item, take it out of the American car register, transport it across the lake like a car, come to customs in Sweden, import it like a car, and all of a sudden it is classified as waste. Madam President, I would like This is an absurd situation. In addition, it puts away the bones of the small businessmen who have this as a life interest, a life's work and income. Just as my colleagues in the interpellation debate have said; not only is income stopped, but it also requires payment for storage. There are a number of such cases in Sweden. I agree with Madam President that individual cases or jurisdiction should not be discussed here, but this is a matter of principle. My question to the Minister will be like the one I have written in my interpellation, namely what initiatives the Minister intends to take in order for this hobby to continue to be practiced in Sweden. If he is serious about not representing a party that hates cars, mobility and motorism, he must act. It is not good enough to say fine words in the interpellation debate, but the government must, with all its power and authority, act and govern its authorities. It would be interesting to know how the Government has called for representatives of the authority acting in this way, not against a case but against a number of cases. What has the government done? Do you sit on your hands and passively follow developments, or do you act proactively? I believe that everyone who is sitting in the gallery following the debate in the SVT Forum is interested in what the government is doing. How does the government act proactively? How do you ensure freedom of trade in Sweden? How to ensure the rolling Swedish cultural heritage, the fantastic cruising movement that exists in Sweden. Those of you who have been to Rättvik and heard the rumble understand the power of the Swedish popular movement that cruising means. Apart from the fine words in this House, I would like to know what the Minister is doing concretely to save the Swedish cultural heritage and to act on it.
i-027bc6aff6ea60ad-89	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. I didn't get the answer to my question, so I guess I'll just have to ask it again. Does the Minister and the Government intend to take any general measures to ensure legal certainty and proper handling of the import and export of veteran vehicles? So what we are dealing with, what we are discussing, is the hopeless struggle of individuals against authorities who have not understood to read before in the legislation. You can also enjoy reading what another authority writes. The Swedish Transport Agency, another government authority that is an expert on transport and vehicles, writes as follows on 9 July this year:
i-027bc6aff6ea60ad-92	Since waste is not available as a type of vehicle, a vehicle cannot change its classification from, for example, passenger car to waste. ..................................................... It is therefore not possible to judge a vehicle as waste. The only time you can get waste out of a vehicle is when it is scrapped and there is a scrap certificate, and when a vehicle is scrapped there is usually an 8, 10, 12, 13 pile of various materials that are then recycled or sold on the used market as spare parts. But it is not possible to define a vehicle as waste. This is what the Swedish Transport Agency says on 9 July. Oops! Then you have to wonder if the County Administrative Board can not call the Transport Agency and ask the question. I can also see that it may be difficult for an individual official to determine the extent to which a veteran vehicle that is being brought in can be renovated. But there is expertise in this area, so why don't you ask? There are cars that come into the garage where it is basically possible to stand on the floor. So there is no floor left in the car, but you stand on the workshop floor. Then they rebuild a vehicle that looks like new made when it comes out of the workshop after many thousands of hours of work by enthusiasts. As was said before, you take money out of your own pocket to renovate something that the rest of us have the opportunity to enjoy and see how it used to be. I think this is shameful treatment. I know that at least one sitting in the gallery here is triggered by the fact that the worse the car is, the more fun it is to take on a renovation. This is often the case in these circles– one is triggered by the difficulty of restoring the vehicle to its original condition, and it is high-level detective work to find parts. Sometimes it doesn't succeed, and then maybe you get to make new things. But you have it as a hobby and sport, you might say, to find all the parts needed to restore the car to its original condition. This is about to be destroyed by arbitrariness. I sincerely hope that the Minister will take this seriously after this debate and ensure that there is order and order so that those who import veteran vehicles can feel confident that the authorities handle it properly and comply with the legislation.
i-027bc6aff6ea60ad-98	Madam President, I would like I was pleased that the Minister for the Environment was talking about a common passion. But it also obliges. The fact that the Minister for the Environment says that it is good if we can agree on a way forward is also positive. At the same time, I think it is the government that is responsible for its authorities and should actually take the initiative for this way forward. That brings me back to my earlier proposal, which I will come back to. I also have to question a little when the Minister talks about waste rules being decided in the EU. Yes, that is indeed the case, but it has nothing to do with this issue at all, because the EU makes exceptions for vintage vehicles and this exception is regulated by national law and not by EU rules. It is therefore each country itself that decides where the limit is for veteran vehicles. That is why this waste issue is really of no interest. However, Madam President, I note that the Minister for the Environment does not really seem to know what the legal framework is. It's no wonder, because no one else really knows. The new opinions of the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and the National Antiquarie Office here have put matters a little on the edge. The question is whether the Minister's fine words about the common passion for rolling cultural heritage will have any political significance. If you are to solve practical problems, you need to gather all stakeholders together and go through all the problems and obstacles that exist – not just imports and exports, but everything else too. There are many problems for those who renovate and use older vehicles, not least if you are going to use them in different ways and let other people ride along, and there must be more important things for Swedish authorities and courts to devote their time to than just this. Unfortunately, however, the current issue of the problems of the rolling cultural heritage in general and the import of veteran vehicles in particular is only the tip of an iceberg. The two main ministers on this issue are therefore the Minister for Culture and the Minister for the Environment. They also belong to the same party, the Green Party, and as a government party, the Green Party has a great responsibility for these issues and a great influence over them. I am concerned that I feel that the Green Party is taking steps after steps towards a more totalitarian society where people's lives are being increasingly circumscribed. Many of the Green Party's proposals terrify. Only in the party leader debate last Sunday, Per Bolund, as the only party leader, answered yes to the question of whether he and his party were prepared to restrict people's right to drive to combat climate change. Only Per Bolund answered yes to such a specific question, and it is at hand to believe that pleasure driving of veteran vehicles is one of the things at risk of being banned if the Green Party is allowed to decide. The Green Party also proposes a total ban on fossil fuels in 2025. This makes it practically impossible to drive veteran vehicles in such a situation. The Minister says that there will be such fuels, but the question is how to get them if all the petrol stations have been closed down. What kind of driving is it the Green Party wants to ban? Can the Minister of the Environment guarantee that the Green Party will not propose a ban on pleasure driving with veteran vehicles? If yes, what other type of driving is it the Green Party wants to limit people's rights to? I believe that the Swedish people and all the hundreds of thousands of Swedes who engage in this interest would like to know about this – a clear message. Finally, can the Minister for the Environment guarantee that in future there will not only be traditional fuels available but that they will also be available? Will there be some form of fossil fuel distribution out in the countryside so that anyone who has a veteran vehicle in upper Norrland will also be able to obtain fuel for this vehicle?
i-027bc6aff6ea60ad-107	Madam President, I would like These are relevant questions that my colleagues are asking. Where are you going to get gas and diesel when the ban comes? Madam President, I would like Minister Bolund's colleague thought it was good that there had been a case of the seized cars. I don't think it's good, because I don't think it would have gone that far. There's no sense in it being the way it is. I would also like to raise another question in this debate: what will happen to all the other motor enthusiasts around the country? Then I'm not just talking about veteran cars, but there are a number of other vehicles that people have. It's about a genuine motor interest – you screw, you meek, you like speed and to show off your cars. What's going to happen to all those cars? There are many questions in this debate that need to be answered, and it is not enough for Minister Bolund to tell me that it is reassuring and that there will be no problem having vintage cars in a few years' time. It's up to you to prove it. Minister Bolund must show what measures and what exceptions the government will make in this area. I want it black and white, preferably yesterday. These are important issues that affect a great many people. As I said, over half a million people are affected by this interest, not least in the countryside where you have these cars and drive miles to meet and socialize with each other because you have a veteran car or maybe just want to look at veteran cars. There are many questions that need to be answered.
i-027bc6aff6ea60ad-112	Madam President, I would like It is obvious that the Minister realises that this issue is really embarrassing. It becomes embarrassing given that it is in fact the Minister and the Government who are responsible for this part that has failed so badly. Implicity and inaction from the government have put us in this situation. This has led to a passivity of the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency from 2013 until now when it came up with this regulation. This has enabled individual officials on the county administrative board to interpret the regulations themselves. This is serious, and it has resulted in this embarrassing situation. We also have a majority here in Parliament who have clearly said that we want to reinstate civil servants' responsibilities. The government has also stalled, stalled and stalled. If we had grasped that part, perhaps individual officials would have been more careful before they began to interpret laws and rules and actually tuned up on what applies before moving forward in the exercise of their authority. Not only has this cost a lot to individual traders, individuals and importers, but it has also cost society a lot of money. Now we are working out in legal bodies in Sweden what is a veteran car. It is absolutely unbelievable that we should have to sit and do it in the courts. The Swedish Transport Agency has developed guidelines for what a veteran car is. It says clearly, so just read on that line what it means. It can't be hard. I'm sure the Minister and the government would have been able to take it right to heart if you'd looked through that part. We also have a clear majority in the Committee on Transport and Tourism, which wants to make it easier for veteran cars and the entire management of them. I think it would be good if the Minister took this on board, and I take the invitation seriously that the Minister still wants to do something. Let's do it! And now no more spoils, but learn from these mistakes and make sure to solve problems in time.
i-027bc6aff6ea60ad-116	Madam President, I would like As we have seen, this is a great hobby and a great business with a large number of fantastic creative and crafty people doing something that in my view is immensely impressive. It is worth noting that many vintage cars are imported into Sweden. As I said, it is between 5,000 and 6,000 cars a year. Then it is clear, as the interpellants have pointed out, that there are cases where things have not gone as they would like. A case where a person with good intentions has been in trouble, I think, is a case too much, and then you have to take care of it if it is something that has not worked. As far as these specific individual cases are concerned, I cannot, of course, go into them, because it would be ministerial government, and that would be strange to me. There are also appeals, and if the judicial review concludes that there has been a mistake in these cases, we will have a new practice that will guide our authorities and that they will work on. It would be a very good development if we could look at these questions in other ways in the future if that is what the Court of Justice will come up with. I want to be very clear about Sten Bergheden when it comes to the fact that of course I do not interfere in legal proceedings. After all, the courts are free from politics, and so I hope that not only the government sees it, but also the opposition. It is important to see that it has not stood still; it has acted. As we have seen, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency provided guidance as late as August. After that, although little time has passed, it has been decided to revise the guide because it is clearly felt that there have been ambiguities. There is a desire to make further adjustments. It is also important to note that there are people who are doing an amazing job of rearming cars, which others might judge as scrap, to become amazing creations. Their opportunities to work will be protected. But there are also problems at the other end of the scale. There is waste crime and people who are totally unscrupulous and use holes in legislation to finance sometimes organised criminal activities. We have had some major problems with waste crime in Sweden. Unfortunately, as Thomas Morell said, it is not the case that a car cannot be waste. It exports cars in an international arena in a way that circumvents waste legislation and dumps cars that can be both an environmental and a health hazard. In many cases, cars are also filled with other waste, such as electronics, because they want to get rid of that scrap. We must be aware of this. We should not, because we want to safeguard the opportunities of car enthusiasts, create openings for criminal actors who want to use holes in waste legislation to make money in a criminal way. I believe and hope that we can agree that we will try to achieve one without opening up to the other. What is positive is that there is now a revision of these legislations or rules at European level. With regard to this, there has been a question of commitment and activity, and if it turns out that these problems continue and remain, I will check in the revision of the EU acquis that there are no restrictions for people who want to be able to import veteran vehicles in order to rearrange them and realise their hobby. It concerns both the waste transport framework and the ELV directive, i.e. end-of-life vehicles directive. My ambition, then, is none other than that expressed by the interpellants in the speaker's seat.
i-027bc6aff6ea60ad-126	Madam President, I would like Let me be clear first. Unlike the Minister, I do not consider car-cathosts to be criminals. I think they are doing an amazing job, and I think they should be proud of the craft work they are doing. I think there are very few people who import cars from the United States and are criminals. I think that is an unfortunate statement. Madam President, I would like This debate has been clear. The Minister and the Government have not acted on this matter. The Minister himself refers to the fact that it is the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency that has carried out a review, that is, the government has done nothing. The informal government administration that has taken place in Sweden for the last seven years and which has expressed that one should despise motorists and feel car hatred I think is very unhappy, and I think it has influenced how the authorities act. It has worked with American car imports for many years. That is why we have a cruising movement in Sweden, Madam President. We have Classic Car Week in Rättvik and many engine hits in Gävleborg because it has worked all year. But something has happened within the Swedish authorities in the last few years. It is assumed that American car imports would be scrap and waste. This does not come in a vacuum, Madam President. This comes in a context. And it has to stop. We'll be proud of our cruising movement. We should be proud of our traders who are doing an amazing job of preserving the Swedish rolling cultural heritage. I would like to extend my warm thanks to all the enthusiasts in Sweden who preserve the Swedish cultural heritage with American cruising.
i-027bc6aff6ea60ad-131	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. There is no one who seriously believes that anyone imports cars for hundreds of thousands of dollars to put them in the forest. The cars are imported to be renovated and restored to original condition and then be able to be displayed at car exhibitions or whatever it may be. Then I don't really understand the thing about having a judicial review of this. Wouldn't it be easier for the government to go in and clearly tell us what is going on? It's easy to just read what's in the legislation. The Swedish Transport Agency is clear in this case. In other words, vehicles are a car until measures under Section 26 have been taken. Section 26 is therefore about scrapping and scrapping certificates with all that it entails. Then it becomes, so to speak, waste of the car. These are the cars to which the Government referred and which are exported to Africa or whatever it may be. That's a whole different thing. That is not what we are talking about now, but what we are talking about is enthusiast vehicles. People spend a lot of money, maybe their savings, every penny you have left, to renovate a vehicle. You spend thousands of hours in a garage with your friends to recreate something from the past. I just don't understand that an authority can just roll it all over with discretion. It does not stand, but an authority must relate to the legislation, just like all of us. The legislation is clear, and the Swedish Transport Agency has given clear directives. Then you have to ask yourself: How hard can it be? One more thing: I never got the answers to the questions I asked twice. I hope I get it now so that we can feel confident that there will be a review that will work, so that the veteran car hobbies will have peace and quiet and can protect what is worth preserving.
i-027bc6aff6ea60ad-137	Madam President, I would like I also need to reconnect with this with waste crime. Who imports cars for expensive money to dump them in the woods? I asked that question before. This has nothing at all to do with waste exports from Sweden to Africa, especially in most of these cases which actually concern imports into Sweden. It is not a question of exporting waste to Africa. That is a completely different question. Madam President, I would like We have very long processing times in our courts. Yet, time, energy, and money are being spent on courting individuals who simply want to practice their hobby in peace. The Minister for the Environment mentions that it is 5 000 – 6 000 cars that are imported into Sweden every year. But then one might wonder why the specific cases have occurred. In fact, it is not ministerial government to see problems and to act. The Minister also did not answer my question about the type of driving that the Green Party wants to restrict. This is an issue that I think is extremely important. If it's not the veteran cars, is it the motor sport that the Green Party wants to go after? Is it the car holiday, maybe the car ride to the mountains or what is it for other unnecessary driving that the Green Party wants to limit according to the answer Per Bolund himself gave in the debate on television on Sunday? Madam President, I would like I note again that both the Minister for Culture and the Minister for the Environment are part of the government, and the problem for importers and owners of historic vehicles has been known for a number of years. If you wanted to, you could have acted and taken the initiative in this matter, but you have not done so. Instead, they have sat passively and only seen how the county administrative board has made it difficult for individuals to import veteran vehicles without caring about how it affects individuals. I think this is an example of an empathetic policy. If we sacrifice everything that is fun, interesting and rewarding and oppose our cultural heritage, what do we have left?
i-027bc6aff6ea60ad-144	Madam President, I would like Sometimes these interpellation debates are quite rewarding, but sometimes they have an almost absurd development. I was really clear that there are car enthusiasts who are fantastic professionals, who are doing an incredibly important job of renovating old cars to become like new and who are part of a cultural heritage. But there are also other people, Lars Beckman, who actually engage in waste crime. In order for Lars Beckman to really understand, I really want to point out that it is not the same group but that it is about two different groups, which perhaps even Lars Beckman has understood this time. Authorities, of course, relate to the law. And just as I have answered a number of times the question, there is a review going on. There is a review of the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's guidance to make it as clear as it can only be what is a veteran car, so that there will be no problem with it being classified as waste. That work is ongoing. There is also a review of EU legislation, EU regulations, in this area. We must also ensure that there are no problems or, if there are problems, that they can be clarified in that process. The work requested by Thomas Morell is ongoing. The reason I didn't answer the question about driving was because it's so absurd. There is no one who has proposed that we ban driving. On the contrary, the government is working extremely intensively to enable us to drive far into the future. We would like it to be on electricity, biodiesel or biogasine, which is a very exciting development area. It is now developing petrol that can be driven in ordinary cars but which is bio-based, which is a step forward. Sometimes one gets a little concerned that it seems that there is a greater will to misunderstand than actually to find a common way forward. That is my ambition, and I hope that we can continue working together to create good opportunities for veteran car enthusiasts.
i-027bc6aff6ea60ad-149	Madam President, I would like Kjell Jansson has asked me whether I and the government intend to work for a reform of the Coast Guard Act or not. He has also asked – if my answer is that there is no need to reform the protection of the shore – what reasons I and the government have for our position. Finally, he has asked whether I believe that the legislation in force is reasonable in relation to ownership and, if not, what measures I intend to take. The study on the revision of beach protection submitted its report to the government last December. The report has since been consulted, and the work on the investigation's proposals is currently ongoing. I cannot precede this work. The bill list submitted to Parliament on 14 September this year shows that the Government intends to submit a bill on beach protection to the Riksdag in December.
i-027bc6aff6ea60ad-150	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister Bolund, for your answer. Or thank you for the non-answer, because that is no answer at all. My interpellation I wrote after reading the investigation and the January agreement. That's why I'm asking these questions. The investigation's proposals are reliefs in Norrland but reinforced beach protection in the Stockholm region. Then you can ask why. Should there be different legislation in Sweden or should the principle of equality apply? And who will be the judge of this law? The Strandskyddslagen came 1952, after investigations for many years, and it was reactionary when it came. It basically meant annexing and ruining the land of many people. Then came the Coast Guard Act in 1975, and it made it even worse. And why should you have a beach protection team when you already have species protection and all other laws that limit construction close to the beach? This is going to be team-on-team. It's like a pile of wood. The Act covers 42,000 km of beaches along the coasts and lakes of Sweden. Ten times the circumference of the earth is covered by beach protection. You might ask yourself if it makes sense. Why should the state have power over private property on this scale? Beach protection should be at municipal level only. The state should not have anything to do with this, because it is very arbitrary. It is the same here as in the previous debate, that the County Administrative Board goes in and makes interpretations and not the local building committee that has knowledge of land and what conditions look like. Their words are inferior to individual administrators on the county administrative board. The municipalities could easily lay down their master plans and say: This area is safe for us. We really don't want to build here. They would include the area in the master plan and provide compensation to the landowners in the area by not allowing them to use it and it would in principle be for the public or a dead hand. It would be reasonable for compensation to be paid, much as in the case of intrusions when building roads on private land. Beach protection is now generally 100 metres, but large areas are covered by 300 metres. There are islands in the archipelago that are beach protected ten times their size; it is cross-breeding everywhere. But the islands are not enough. It's out in the water too; to the bottom it's beach shelter. Water is moving up and down, but right now it is a country moving up. In the Stockholm region we have land elevation by six millimeters annually. Germany has a differentiated beach protection that is more adapted to reality. Sometimes it is 12 meters, sometimes 17 meters and sometimes 42 meters. Madam President, I would like The county administrative boards today have the power to review municipal decisions, and some appeals are similar to government activism. Individual administrators often make arbitrary assessments of their own and tear up the building committee's decisions. It's an extreme violation of property rights, I'd say. The question is what is the basic purpose of the Coast Guard Act? Is it removing land for people, or is it saving a beach? Since we have 42,000 miles of beaches, there should be room for both.
i-027bc6aff6ea60ad-161	Madam President, I would like I thank Kjell Jansson for an important interpellation on the protection of the beach and note that the Minister does not even try to answer Kjell Jansson's relevant questions. Madam President, I would like I am a strong supporter of democracy, and I have genuine confidence in all the elected representatives in Sweden's municipalities. In addition to their jobs, they may sit in a building committee or community building committee – these committees are called different around Sweden – and are knowledgeable, well-read, engaged, live in the municipality and want to develop it. It's amazing. It is the soul of Swedish democracy, and our entire democratic system is based on all these thousands of elected representatives and their knowledge and commitment – plus the municipal officials who work with them. Madam President, I would like Therefore, I am concerned that the government does not share this enthusiasm for our Swedish democracy and our Swedish elected representatives, but that the government says when it comes to wind power, for example: There are so many municipalities that have rejected wind power, so we want to reduce the municipal veto. This view can also be seen of our elected representatives. Or when it comes to the beach protection issue: No, we doubt the municipal elected councillors – just as Kjell Jansson said – so these decisions are being reviewed by the state. Madam President, I would like We have a number of such examples in Gävleborg. In Hudiksvall, for example, the local government in the form of the Moderates, the Environmental Party and the Social Democrats wanted to develop the municipality and grant construction, but the state went in and annulled the decision. So it is the opposite of democracy. In Bollnäs there had been no new construction in many years. But then they found a good place by Ljusnan, and there was an entrepreneur who wanted to build small houses. The municipality wanted to develop its municipality and granted building permits, the municipality wanted to move in and the municipality wanted to give families with children the opportunity to live beautifully near the water. But the County Administrative Board annulled the decision. At that time the municipality appealed to the government in which Per Bolund is sitting, and the government rejected Bollnäs municipality's request. The government therefore actively opposes the local politicians and elected representatives in Bollnäs who want to develop their municipality. Madam President, I would like You can also have that view of democracy. I don't share it. There are leading politicians in the European Parliament who want to abolish general elections, and there are other elected representatives who talk about the importance of climate dictatorship. For my part, I believe in local democracy. I believe in our local elected representatives, I believe in their commitment and I believe in their ability to decide what is important for the municipality in which they operate. Madam President, I would like That's why it's so important that the beach shelter changes. It's about moving power from the state down to the next level. Maybe I don't want to go as far as Kjell Jansson and give all the power to the property owner, because I think the public should have some point of view sometimes. But I'm willing to go very far. What does Minister Per Bolund think about democracy in Sweden? Is Per Bolund prepared to give power to our local elected representatives so that they can develop their municipalities?
i-027bc6aff6ea60ad-170	Madam President, I would like I cannot stay away from this debate either. I speak from the experience of my own municipality of residence, the municipality of Mark in Västergötland and our neighbouring municipalities in the constituency. Here we see more and more examples of how the county administrative board, traffic services and regulations prevent development. This is not just about the protection of the beach, although this debate is about it. It is also about the Trafikverket refusing the possibility of making exits into public roads, about problems to build where it is ancient remains, about the threats of lifted veto against wind power that means that large areas cannot be built and, as I said, the beach protection rules. If we stack all the obstacles that laws, regulations and authorities set up for our municipalities, it is very difficult for a small rural municipality to be able to develop. Often, it is the attractive living environment that allows rural and rural communities to compete with the big cities to attract new populations, and most people do not want to live in the middle of the forest but in beautiful places. Just as Lars Beckman and Kjell Jansson point out, it is the politicians in the municipalities who meet the voters in the store and who know what the municipality looks like and can feel the moods in the municipality when it comes to where it is and is not reasonable to build housing. If you have a lake in the vicinity of a larger town, you surely want to protect it for example for recreation and drinking water, and then it is reasonable to have beach protection rules. But if you have a small lake out in the wilderness that nobody uses, which is difficult to get to and that maybe only some local hunter visits at the annual moose hunt, the situation is quite different. With more roads out into the nature to newly built properties in the vicinity of watercourses, the accessibility of these areas is increased. That is why I find it difficult to understand the general reluctance to build near lakes and watercourses. In Gothenburg, Stockholm, Malmö and other cities it is okay to build houses not only on beaches but in the water. There's no problem with beach shelters. But for the small municipalities in the countryside, it is hopeless to get anywhere at all. I think this is a big and important issue, and I know that it is on the table of the government and should be negotiated. I hope that the wise voices that are struggling to loosen up beach protection and make it a more municipal matter will win in these negotiations.
i-027bc6aff6ea60ad-178	Madam President, I would like I thank the interpellant and other debate-gathered and interested. As I said clearly, the government is working on this issue. We have already submitted a bill to Parliament, and in it we are clear that we intend to submit a bill on beach protection to Parliament in December. As this work is in full swing at the moment, it would be wrong for me to precede this and, here and now, to give answers to exactly what balances are to be made. This is exactly how we work to develop policy. The Government produces proposals through investigations that we then continue to work with in the Government Office, which we then negotiate politically and which we then put forward in the form of proposals at Parliament's table. Then it is the role of the Riksdag to take a position on the proposals and decide whether or not to support them. This will be done at a later stage. I certainly do not agree that the beach shelter is not needed. On the contrary, I think that the protection of the beach is important. It is important for us to have access to nature, to be able to exercise the right of public access and to have access to outdoor activities. It also aims to ensure access for many people to attractive areas where many people like to be. I think that is commendable. Beach protection also aims to ensure good living conditions for animals and plants, both on land and in water. There too, we know that there are major challenges that we need to face. Whether you are committed to animals and plants being exterminated or not, we have legislation that the Swedish Parliament has supported, with 16 different environmental objectives, some of which are about rich animal and plant life and that we should have living water. We have also signed international agreements on biodiversity. I hope and believe that even the Moderates think that when we have agreed on something international, we should also fulfill it at home. Thus, for several reasons, a beach shelter is needed. As has been mentioned in this debate, Sweden does not look in a single way around the whole of our country, but there are quite large differences between different parts of Sweden. Differentiated beach protection is what the government is working on, and that was also what was included in the January agreement. Despite the fall of the January Agreement, we are continuing to work on this issue. It is a bit difficult to understand Kjell Jansson, who partly goes to storms and does not want us to have different rules in different parts of the country, and partly lifts up Germany as an example precisely because they have different rules in different parts of the country, because Germany also looks different in different parts of Germany. I find it difficult to keep up, so Kjell Jansson might be able to clarify what he means. It is quite easy to see that in a municipality like Jokkmokk, 1.4 percent of the beach line is built. In a municipality like Danderyd you are heading up to 70 percent of the beach line that is built. It is clear that this provides a little different conditions and thus also the conditions for having more generous rules for building in rural areas where the pressure is not so strong, but I think there may be grounds for strengthening the beach protection in those areas where it is really exposed. It is already the case that 28 percent, almost a third, of the total coastline in Sweden is affected by settlements. This was already the case in 2019. I think it is important that there is access to the shoreline for all Swedes and not just for those who can afford to buy a beach plot. As I said, we will come back to Parliament with a bill on beach protection in December.
i-027bc6aff6ea60ad-189	Madam President and Mr Bolund. What I said was that I want the municipalities to take over the handling, and if they then choose 5 or 27 meters of beach protection is up to them. It's the government's handling that's going away. The state is working against the municipalities and wants to limit human freedom, even in this matter and not only in the historical cars. I can take a few examples. In Norrtälje Municipality's master plan, we have decided that the countryside and the archipelago will grow with more permanent housing in order for us to get people to live there. Only 3,000 people live in the Stockholm archipelago. There's room for many more if you let this go. I have an example from my municipality. On an island lives an entrepreneur who drives a taxi boat for people who don't have their own boat, often older people who can't handle it anymore. He wants to rebuild his bridge, which has been there for 150 years. The County Administrative Board then went in and overtested the municipality's decision to approve it and made an addition to the decision: that the bridge, located on his private plot, must be accessible to the right of public access. That's remarkable. I have to raise this in order for the Government to understand how badly it works. When applying for jetties on islands, the municipality almost always says yes, unless it is completely crazy, but then the county administrative board goes in and says that you do not need to build a jetty where there is a Vaxholm boat. But the tour list can vary. If you live in the middle archipelago there can be several boats per day, but if you live in the northern archipelago there may be one boat a day, and sometimes only on the weekend – Friday, Saturday and Sunday. And then you can't have a bridge. This is limiting human privacy. It is also very difficult for small businesses operating in the marine sector to develop their activities, perhaps with larger docks, perhaps with sequestration ramps, etc., in order to get boats and tonnage to be renovated. How does the Minister for the Environment feel about this? Madam President, I would like The purpose of this debate is for me to promote a living archipelago and also to strengthen ownership. The current proposal – to tighten up beach protection in Stockholm County and make it easier in the rest of the country – is completely undemocratic. That you should make it easier in the rest of the country I think is great. There is no reason to have beach shelter by rivers, ditches and everything possible as it is right now, but why be so limiting to the Stockholm archipelago, which is located near the big city? There is a great opportunity for more people to live nice and for children to grow up in a nice archipelago environment, as I myself have had the privilege to do, which is unique. When it comes to the establishment of wind power, the government wants other rules. Then even the municipal veto will no longer apply, there are suggestions, which is also remarkable. Wind power with its wind spinners coming here from China is really what destroys nature and the archipelago environment the most. Does the Government consider it reasonable that properties that have already been built for perhaps 60-70 years should be tested for beach protection when rebuilding a house, building a house, building a porch or building a boathouse at a dock that has been there for 70 years? Does the Government consider this reasonable?
i-027bc6aff6ea60ad-197	Madam President, I would like I do not understand why the Minister for the Environment and Climate, who is also Deputy Prime Minister, distrusts all the tens of thousands of elected politicians who are around Sweden. I don't understand how you can have that view of your fellow human beings. Why, for example, would Hudiksvall's municipal councillor, or if she is a group leader, environmental partyist Andréa Bromhed, want to harm Hudiksvall? Why would she want to make decisions to harm Hudiksvall municipality, for example when granting a development area near water in Hudiksvall? Reasonably, it should be that those who are locally elected, along with the officials you have hired and work with, know what is best. I shall be drastic, Madam President. I understand that Danderyd is the height of evil on earth for environmentalists and others, but if it is the case that Danderyd also wants to develop an area and the politicians there decide by common accord that they must be allowed to do so. I do not understand why one as a government has the centralist view that one knows better than the elected representatives in municipalities. I do not understand this, Madam President. On the contrary, I think that we should bring power to the municipalities on the issue of beach protection. There are plenty of areas where good housing can be developed, for example, or other things close to water. Of course you're allowed to do it. For the same reason, I am fundamentally opposed to the deterioration of the municipal veto in the area of wind power expansion. I have the view of democracy that I believe that the thousands of elected representatives around the country are doing good things for their municipality.
i-027bc6aff6ea60ad-200	Madam President, I would like I would just like to add something that has not been in the debate, and that is biodiversity, as the Minister for the Environment mentioned, and the protection of animals and nature. We know that in rural areas there is often a large clearing area around lakes and wetlands because it is areas that no one cares about otherwise, but that are production forests. If there are homes near watercourses, I am convinced that those who live there will also care much more about the local environment. It is therefore not only accessibility that is increasing, but perhaps also concern for the natural environment closest to watercourses, that one will care more about it if the beach protection is loosened up a little bit. I would also like to link this with wind power. Now we have noted that wind power today has priority to almost everything. Now it is even the case that we, as electricity consumers, are being forced to subsidise the pipelines out to offshore wind power. Wind power can do just what it wants, while the individual little man is not even allowed to build a house on his own land in the countryside just because there is a stream nearby. This is an unreasonable priority. The government must reasonably steer its authorities. I mentioned a number of examples before. The authorities are supposed to be a support and help for rural development. They're not supposed to slow down progress. In fact, the authorities have become a brake block for development, where the municipalities often push themselves bloody. The municipalities have a lot of nice plans for new residential areas and for the development of the municipalities, but unfortunately different government authorities and agencies say stop. Finally, I have a question for the Minister. He says that the work is going on in the government with regard to beach protection. Then I would like to know what line the Green Party is taking on this issue. Do you want to relax the rules, or do you want to tighten the rules?
i-027bc6aff6ea60ad-205	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by answering the last question, although I shall not anticipate what will be the outcome of the bill that will be put on Parliament's table in December. If everything goes as planned, the position of the Green Party is quite clear, and I am happy to inform you of that. We do not want to do one or the other, but we want to do both. We believe that there are more opportunities to build and live in rural areas, including lakeside ones, in areas where there is not a great pressure for exploitation. But we also believe that we need to look seriously at the development that is taking place in other parts of the country where there is a very high pressure on exploitation and where the beaches disappear at a fairly high rate even with today's existing rules. After all, a large number of exemptions are given in the beach protection rules. There we must ensure that we have beaches with accessibility for all people, so that, for example, outdoor life can actually be enjoyed even in coastal areas. We also have a development where the Swedish tourism industry has a great development potential. There are many who want to experience the Swedish nature, both foreign tourists who come here and Swedes who want to hemestra, as it is usually called nowadays. Then it is important that there is also access to the attractive areas that form the basis of the growing industry and also provide jobs throughout our country. Of course, I can't go into individual cases. Kjell Jansson wants me to take a stand on docks no matter how old they are. It is not my job as a minister to go in and judge on this type of case, but that is precisely why we have general legislation that the authorities then make assessments from outside. Since wind power has been mentioned a number of times, I would like to correct some kind of misunderstanding that has arisen, consciously or unconsciously. It is not that the government intends to remove the regulation of wind power. However, we see that the municipal veto has caused a lot of problems, both for those who want to build and in many cases for those who do not want a wind farm nearby, where you have the whole process and it is unclear for everyone right up to the last decision of the council if there is a yes or a no. This type of uncertainty does not think we are good for any party, and that is why we are pushing for a different process to ensure the municipal influence that is more clear and legally secure and where everyone can also be involved during the process. I wasn't planning on giving answers to Lars Beckman. I try in these contexts not to be insulted by some crazy things that are said, but I will admit that sometimes it is very difficult. I myself have a long background as a municipal politician, and I find it rather insulting to be painted like I don't care about municipal democracy and would not think that democracy in our country is important. I would like Lars Beckman, in the next debate, to be able to avoid the kind of silly assertions that have no real basis whatsoever. On the contrary, we believe that municipalities have a hugely important role to play. The municipalities have the plan monopoly and will continue to have it. I have great confidence in local politicians all over our country, not least environmental party politicians of course who do a very good job. Nevertheless, whether we are in Parliament or in the government, we have the difficult task of balancing many areas of concern. One issue is that people should be able to live, live and work throughout the country. This is an incredibly important issue for both me and the government. Another issue is that we should also have a living outdoor life where people have access to natural areas. We are also committed to a living animal and plant life in the future. Then we know that the beaches are important from that point of view too. We will come back to Parliament with this particular balance in December with our bill.
i-027bc6aff6ea60ad-211	Madam President, I would like This investigation proposal that Catharina Håkansson Boman has submitted has now been out for a referral, and the government has received the referrals. Almost all the bodies are negative, except the Nature Conservation Association. In particular, SKR, which represents all of Sweden's 290 municipalities, is extremely critical of the investigation. LRF, Entrepreneurs, Property owners and the Stockholm region are critical of this. It is also said that the beach protection will be tightened in Stockholm County because it is hard exploited. I can possibly agree that it is quite well exploited out to Vaxholm. Outside Vaxholm there is so much room to build on. I can take Bolund out for a sea tour to show you what it looks like out there. I can promise him that there is no crowding there either in terms of archipelago traffic or settlements. There's no crowding when it comes to anything. There's so much room. Then a friend of order may ask: For what reasons should other rules apply in the Stockholm region than in the rest of Sweden? Should we have double legislation? And again, who will interpret it? Or is it the intention to turn the archipelago into a Skansen? Many people perceive it that way today, at least among the archipelagoers. Why should already built-up properties be covered by beach protection? It doesn't make any sense. It wasn't like that before. That should be removed right away. It was already tested when they were built. And they were built before the Beach Act in 1952, they're there. They're great. It should be a matter of course that everyone should have the right to build a jetty or a boathouse on already built properties. Building a bridge in the archipelago is like building a garage in Enskede. And all we need is beach protection, Madam President, and that is NATO.
i-027bc6aff6ea60ad-216	Madam President, I would like I do not know if I have so much to add to the debate, nor do I know if there was so much new in the last speech. I can only say that we also have statistics and not only self-experienced experiences of whether there is much or little room. I spend a lot of time myself in the archipelago and think it's fantastic and enjoy that there is actually the opportunity to get access to beaches. But it is easy to note that many shorelines have been built. According to the statistics produced by our authorities, nearly a third of the coastline is already built. And, as I said, there's still quite a lot of building with today's regulations. However, it is of course important to emphasise that we also need to update the legislation. A lot is happening in our world and around us. Not least, we learn more from the climate and environmental challenges that are constantly changing as we also have a climate that is changing. For example, we have climate effects in the form of rising sea surfaces, which mean that we also have to take into account climate adaptation and the risks involved in building near-shore. But we also have the opportunity, as I see it, to give greater permission to build in the coastal areas of our country where there is not a great exploitation pressure, but where there is simply a lot of shoreline per person. However, I think it is important, not least, that the protection of the shore is designed so that different areas with varying protection needs should also be handled in different ways. It is not least important that beach protection is also predictable and easy to apply. At least we seem to agree there that this may not be the case all the time. But it is something that the government seeks in the bill that, as I said, will be submitted to Parliament in the autumn.
i-027bc6aff6ea60ad-220	Madam President, I would like Marléne Lund Kopparklint has asked me how I intend to work to preserve the vintage cars and make it easier for people who have an engine lobby if and when a ban on petrol and diesel comes into force. Sten Bergheden has also asked me what new initiatives I intend to take to really secure the fuel for our veteran vehicles and how I intend to move forward to facilitate the rolling cultural heritage. Both issues are based on the Phasing-out report SOU 2021:48. The study proposes that the use of fossil fuels in domestic transport and working machines in Sweden should be phased out by 2040. According to the report, the year of phasing out should be a parliamentary milestone. The study justifies its proposal that a phase-out of fossil fuels by 2040 would facilitate the achievement of the climate policy objective of net zero emissions in the economy as a whole by 2045. Furthermore, the study considers that even after the phase-out year, there will have to be a certain possibility for the continued very limited use of fossil fuels. It is probably the case that the use of liquid fuels that remains the longest is also the use where it is most difficult to replace fossil fuels with renewable liquid or gaseous drop-in fuels. It may be about veteran vehicles and older petrol-powered work machines that have difficulty using fuel specifications with even low shares of renewable fuels. I would also like to highlight the positive developments that are taking place. Diesel produced with renewable raw materials is already on the market. Several research projects are also under way to produce biobenzi from forest waste and synthetic petrol from carbon dioxide and water. Biogasine or synthetic petrol can be used in the same way as fossil petrol. Currently the available volumes are very small, but in a few years' time they could be an alternative for veteran vehicles, for example. The Government has sent the report of the investigation for a referral and will continue to work on the investigation's proposals during the autumn.
i-027bc6aff6ea60ad-225	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister Bolund. It is gratifying that the Minister has taken on board the pressure that has nevertheless been put on the veteran cars and their owners – that they have actually listened to how this could affect all of Motorsverige. Unfortunately, however, I do not feel entirely at ease about this, Madam President. Sweden already has Europe's highest diesel price, and from the end of the year it will be even higher. This affects rural areas in general but above all the rolling cultural heritage, which is often carried by people living in rural areas. Madam President, I would like The government must understand the importance of the car for people from a number of aspects: when it comes to getting around, from a cultural value perspective, such as leisure, tourism and social engagement. All this can be linked to the rolling cultural heritage. I would say that the parties of the government are the most anti-rural in Sweden and that they lack respect for the needs of ordinary households to make ends meet. The car plays a crucial role in the success of households. One should also understand that a lot of households cannot afford to buy an electric car, but they may just be able to afford to let their old servants roll on. For those who live at Södermalm in Stockholm, with access to a comfortable public transport system 24 hours a day, maybe the car hate is logical. But it is not for us in the countryside and not for us who live in Värmland, far away from the subway and cultural events every day of the week. We travel several miles for the children's activities or to meet like-minded people, enjoy car hits and other things. It is also in a spirit of car hatred that some authorities have recently equated a number of imported vintage cars with waste and environmentally hazardous scrap, as we have debated in the past. Rules and charges and their applications should not make it impossible to preserve the rolling cultural heritage, nor should they prohibit diesel and petrol. But that is what happens, after all, because petrol prices look like they do in Sweden today. They will also rise even higher in the coming years. The question is, where does it stop? It doesn't matter that Minister Bolund is standing here in the speaker's chair saying that you should make this easier and that veteran cars should be excluded if you still can't afford to drive the cars, meet other people and socialize. I hope that all parties will help not to put a stop to politics based on ignorance, or whatever it is about. Instead, care should be taken to actually preserve the rolling cultural heritage. However, it is worrying when politics dictates what is good or bad culture. Culture should not be defined by politics, but politics should contribute to and promote culture. This should also make an exception to high petrol prices in order to allow the rolling cultural heritage to live on. I would like an answer to the question of how Minister Bolund intends to do it in order to get it done.
i-027bc6aff6ea60ad-233	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. I will go into it a little bit more concrete gradually, but first and foremost I want to talk about what is happening in Sweden at the moment. This government is really chasing the cars, and it really doesn't want to invest in road maintenance. Taxes for having a car are increasing – the petrol tax and the diesel tax are soon the highest in the world – despite the fact that we in Sweden have the really long distances and despite the fact that there is a clear majority in Parliament for us to have a living countryside. In fact, Madam President, not all people can live at Södermalm in Stockholm. Sweden is dependent on the countryside, not least for raw materials and for our food. Yet the government continues to hunt people in the countryside with higher and higher taxes. The gasoline is now over $17 (U.S.) and the diesel is about $15. The travel allowance has not been reviewed for many years. Rural families often need several cars to cope with everyday life, and larger cars are needed to pull trailers, horse carriages and other transports. These people work all year round to manage their farms and create a vibrant countryside – the one that ministers and others find pleasant to visit in the summer. The Swedish Transport Administration's lack of snow clearance and lack of road maintenance means that cars are needed that make their way between drifts and pits in the countryside. It is run-down roads, reduced speeds and a government that does not see the problem. We didn't see it coming, they say. In addition, the Government does not want to give the Finnish Transport Administration the money they are asking to run the roads, Madam President. This government even wants to reduce the money for road maintenance. We already have bad roads today, and if the government continues like this – if the bill put forward by the government goes through – it will even reduce road maintenance in relation to what the Swedish Transport Administration has said is needed to meet the current standards on the roads. It's about 20 billion kroner. Madam President, I would like The government's rural policy is really a mockery of the people who have to work and live in rural areas. Buy electric cars, says the Green Party. At the same time, taxes have been introduced and money taken from rural areas, which makes it difficult even to afford the old cars that people often have today. While society is expanding the metro in Stockholm, road maintenance and railway maintenance are being reduced throughout the country. This is not a good rural policy. This means that Sweden is shared and that we get a discussion about city and country. Madam President, I would like I want to move on with this interpellation. We have already discussed the mistakes made by the government in relation to veteran cars and imports. Now it is important not to make the same mistake again when it comes to being able to keep fuel for our veteran vehicles. In his reply, the Minister said that it is possible that these fuels will remain the longest when it comes to vintage cars and other things. Then the question is, what's the longest? Is it until 2030 or 2040, or is it as long as you intend to keep your vintage cars and maybe drive them? Is it in 50 or 75 years? How does the Minister view the availability and distribution of fuel to our veteran cars in the long term? It's not just about what you're doing right now.
i-027bc6aff6ea60ad-243	Madam President, I would like I thank you for a very important interpellation from Marléne Kopparklint and Sten Bergheden. The phase-out investigation – listen to the concept! So you're going to phase out the fuel for the lawn mower, the lawn mower, the moped, the chainsaw, the passenger car, the light truck and so on. The reality, Madam President, is that the changes made by this government and other governments have made it very long distances already today. In Gävleborg there are people who can travel several miles to be able to refuel their car. There are even people who today can go 50 miles [80 km] of return to refuel their car. Those who live in Järbo, which is located outside Sandviken, were very close to losing their gas station recently, but thanks to many common forces they managed to save the gas station. Madam President, I would like Sweden has constitutions to protect us in the population from abuse by the state. To commit an abuse that makes, for example, my lawn mower or veteran car unusable is a serious infringement of property rights. I think it's serious. I went to a workshop in Bollnäs. After all, it is not allowed to swear in the pulpit, Madam President, so unfortunately I cannot quote exactly what the guy in the workshop said about the government and one of the government parties. To sum it up a little, I can say that he felt that there was no understanding of the consequences of changing fuel today. He took me out on the farm and pointed. I'm not supposed to swear, but he told me to look at what they in the government have done. He had to stand and repair lawn mowers because the fuel smudged together. It's absolutely unbelievable what they in Stockholm have made up, he said. Finally, I had to explain that not all politicians feel the same. It is important, Madam President, that those of us who are elected representatives have respect for the living conditions of different people, for people living in different places in the country and for them to be able to live in rural areas in Sweden as well. It will not do if there are 20 filling stations around the counties for petrol and diesel, but respect for property rights is required. Of course, you have to be able to buy gasoline for your chainsaw or refuel your vintage car from the 50's. On Saturday, Madam President, the Moderates in Ljusdal had a very well attended meeting. There were 20 members who gathered and talked about the election. Lennart, his name, took me out and pointed to his car – a famous Swedish car from Gothenburg. He said he can't refuel the car in Ljusdal. He has to refuel the 98 Oct, and he can't. Now he has to fill up the car when he goes towards Bollnäs or Hudiksvall. This is today's situation, Madam President, because we have changed the fuel structure. He had a 20-year-old car. In the evening press, the Government can read lists of cars that cannot handle the new fuel.
i-027bc6aff6ea60ad-252	Madam President, I would like The Minister for the Environment said in his reply that even after the phase-out year there will have to be a certain possibility of continued very limited use of fossil fuels. My question is close to what Lars Beckman just said: How are people going to get these very limited amounts of fossil fuel? How will they be distributed in the country? Has this even been considered? Most gas stations are supposed to be shut down if they can no longer sell liquid fuels. How, then, can you get these fuels into the countryside, and what will they cost? They will be in such small amounts that they will be more expensive, and the distribution will be very expensive. How are you supposed to prove who's allowed to refuel these fossil fuels? Should someone stand guard at the station and say that someone else has one for a new car and is not allowed to refuel fossil fuels, because the Green Party has decided that we should not have any fossil fuels? Who decides what is a historicly interesting vehicle to be allowed to refuel with fossil fuels? The phase-out investigation, as mentioned by Lars Beckman, involves a huge wasteberg of fully functional and well-functioning products that can no longer be used because of the removal of fuel. I have to ask Per Bolund, who has mentioned in other contexts how important it is to have a life-cycle analysis in different contexts, whether it is really compatible with a life-cycle analysis to scrap out lots of outboard engines, tools, machines, tractors, snow blowers, snowmobiles, mopeds, motorcycles – I can list all kinds of things – just because you can no longer use the fuels used in the past. This is going to be a giant garbage mountain that somehow has to be handled. It is also an enormous loss of capital and not particularly environmentally friendly if a life-cycle analysis is carried out. It is also not very environmentally friendly if you look at emissions, given that emissions in the manufacture of products are very large – especially when it comes to products that are not used very much. This is something that the government must include when looking at the phase-out investigation and how to apply it. I would like to hear the Minister for the Environment develop a little closer on how to think about life cycle analysis. I cannot escape the feeling that this phase-out investigation seeks to combat, above all, private carism. I also note that the Minister does not want to tell us what kind of motorism he and his own party want to restrict politically. Then I draw my own conclusions. I find this very worrying.
i-027bc6aff6ea60ad-261	Madam President, I would like I have entered this debate on the issue of securing fuel for our vehicles. I have read the interpellation answer and also read the questions. It is said that fossil fuels for domestic transport and working machines in Sweden should be phased out by 2040. In Aftonbladet you can read today that the Green Party will act to ensure that they are phased out by 2030. It might be a little interesting to see where we land there. What is important is that people, wherever they live in our country, know what is going on in the future. This has a bearing on people's choices as to where to live. It is also important for industrial investments – do we have access to fuel, and how should we handle our transport? We've seen the sandwich death spread over the last few years. I have my roots up in Västerbotten's inland. There you can go a long time before you see a gas station where you can refuel. The people who live up there have an enormous distance to go to fill their tractors and cars with fuel. What I miss in the answer is also how to ensure access to fuel and how people can access it. Should you go off with the trailer and transport in the cans if there are no gas stations nearby? How does the government intend to ensure the winter properties of the future fuel? I think it's so important. In Västerbotten's inland it happens after all that it becomes both 30 and 40 degrees cold. Then it wants fuel, if it is diesel, not paraffinizing, because then it is not possible to get tractors, excavators, trucks or whatever it is. How does the government ensure that even smaller towns will have access to fuel? Ethanol rarely works in older cars. We've been talking about older vehicles in the form of vintage cars. It is rarely possible to run ethanol in them. It doesn't even have to be about vintage cars, because there are modern cars that can't do it either. The fuel itself is quite aggressive against plastic, rubber and light metal alloys. It's not just tipping this in the fuel and thinking it'll work out. It was mentioned earlier here about someone from the west side of Sweden who could not refuel his car in the place where he lived but had to go somewhere else to refill with 98 Oct. This is a worrying situation. Of course, people living in rural areas need to know what to expect. I think there's a little bit too much dice in this answer– we'll see how it goes, is the message. There's no strategy and no idea how to solve this. I am very curious about the winter characteristics.
i-027bc6aff6ea60ad-268	Madam President, I would like There seems to be a lot of misunderstandings to judge by what is said here in the speaker's chair, and that is sad. I am therefore pleased that I am here to correct the misunderstandings that have obviously arisen. It seems there are those who believe that the phase-out investigation is all about phasing out. Then I can reassure the gentlemen and the lady that the phase-out investigation is also about phasing-in, that is, that we should step by step ensure that we get new fuels that are bio-based, so that you can continue to drive. Today, if I remember correctly, we have 5 million cars rolling on our streets and relying on liquid fuels. Of course they should continue to have fuel to run on. But it is also the case that the Moderates, together with us the other parties except the Swedish Democrats, have supported the climate law that the Swedish Parliament has decided on and which means that in just under 24 years we will have zero net emissions. It would be very interesting to hear from the Moderates, for example from Lars Beckman, how to reach zero net emissions but continue to run on fossil fuels until 2045. Perhaps I am not sufficiently familiar with moderate politics to understand how this is to be done. You're welcome to explain it to me. Our ambition is to be able to drive the vehicles that are rolling today and also the additional vehicles on fuel. But then it will be fuels that we can produce ourselves in factories in our country with Swedish raw materials and that can replace the oil that is now 100% imported from other countries, including Russia and other countries that may not use the money in a way that we would like. I can see many benefits from this, for example that it provides new green jobs in industries in Sweden instead of providing jobs on oil platforms and drilling towers in other countries. It is also important to emphasise how the phase-out investigation intends to arrive at its goal. It has been specified very clearly how to work. The report wants Sweden to work towards an EU-wide zero emission requirement with clear timetables. This means that new passenger cars sold on the market should be zero-emission cars. It is proposed to extend the charging infrastructure throughout the country – not only on Södermalm, as it has been popular to say here in the speaker's chair, but also in the rest of the country. It is suggested from the investigation that the reduction obligation should change, that is, the one that makes us get more and more bio-based and less and less fossil into what we think of the gas stations. The proposal is that we should have the same reduction requirements for diesel and petrol, so that we also increase biobenzensine, and that we should design the reduction obligation as an emissions trading system instead, which is deemed to be more effective. There are simply a number of different measures that will need to be used. But as I said, there will be no fuel to refuel. To the question I was asked, if you are going to be able to refuel in the future, I answer: Yes, there will be opportunities to refuel in the future. My hope is that it can be done with Swedish produced sustainable fuels. Another question was how long there should be fossil fuels. My answer to that is: as long as it is necessary for those vehicles that cannot run on anything else. But I hope that technological developments will move forward. According to the manufacturers, biogas or synthetic petrol must have exactly the same chemical conditions and function as today's fossil petrol. It cannot be that it is a benefit or an advantage to be allowed to run on fossil petrol if there is renewable petrol with the same effect. We simply need to do a lot to reduce the climate impact of traffic. We will have to do this through electrification, but also by replacing fuels with more sustainable ones for those cars that are already rolling today.
i-027bc6aff6ea60ad-276	Madam President, I would like We've been talking about life cycle analysis. It is about the need to do analyses to gain knowledge about the environmental and climate impact of products, so that you can make the right choice. Over the years, these analyses have become powerful tools to provide an overall picture of the environmental impact of a product throughout its lifetime. There has been talk of how the car and its parts have been produced, how much energy has been spent in production and where the energy has come from. It matters very much how the electric car's battery has been manufactured – whether it has been with hydro power or coal power. Madam President, I would like Veteran cars must be the most environmentally friendly cars available. They do not give rise to new production at all, and they drive a few miles a year. In fact, Madam President, perhaps Minister Bolund would give those who own veteran cars free petrol because their cars are so environmentally friendly. Making driving more expensive punishes those who need the car most, namely those who live outside the big cities. By lowering the tax on petrol, we make it easier for people in everyday life during the transition. Today, the price of petrol is sky-high, not least for vintage cars, which I used to deal with. Madam President, I would like I'd like to use a few quotes. Just because you live in the countryside, you can't be stuck in fossil dependence. Until 2030, no car will run on fossil fuel. Those who haven't switched to electric cars and still have functioning petrol or diesel driven cars will then drive on biofuels instead. Any use of fossil fuels such as coal, oil and gas shall cease. I say, "Wow." This was published today in Aftonbladet, Minister Bolund. And today, Madam President, Minister Bolund stood and said quite the opposite: that the veteran cars should be excluded and that it will not affect the veteran cars at all. Madam President, I would like When I buy shoes for my five-year-old son Willfred, it's crucial not the color or the model, but that the shoes should be fast. My advice to Minister Bolund is to put on his quick shoes, run over to the government and solve this equation, because I cannot reconcile what Minister Bolund said today in this House with what Minister Bolund said yesterday to Mrs Aftonbladet. These are questions that need to be answered and to which I think a large part of our population needs answers, not least all the veteran car owners and enthusiast car owners that are around the country. I'll stay there, and the minister can have an opportunity to answer that.
i-027bc6aff6ea60ad-282	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I got some answers, but not enough. The Minister said we will have these fuels as long as necessary. But then the next step was to redo the fuels. Then the problem is what Lars Beckman raised. Some vehicles and some engines can't stand any fuel. Then we're back in the question we had. How do we ensure fuels for vehicles that need these fuels to work? It is about the fact that we do not risk endangering the rolling cultural heritage, but that we can guarantee enthusiasts that petrol and diesel will be available for those models as well. It would be good if that answer came from the Minister. Otherwise, it feels very good that there are elections every four years. This means that we will be able to influence this in a year's time. I do not think that an environmental-partisan government might be the best way to resolve this issue. I think you have a completely different agenda for both petrol and diesel and how it should be for our veteran vehicles and other things. I am pleased that every four years we can change this, change the direction and make sure to take advantage of the valuable cultural heritage we have in Sweden when it comes to veteran vehicles. Madam President, I would like Nor have I been given answers to the questions that I thought were a bit important. We have now discussed the veteran car fiasco with regard to imports. The government, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and the County Administrative Board were all too late and made a number of strange and strange decisions that led to this embarrassing situation. Madam President, I would like Let's not end up there again. Now I think we should sit down with the industry and veteran car enthusiasts and discuss this. How do we solve this beyond the different borders? How do we ensure that we have access to the fuels that are needed, and what exactly is needed? How do we distribute this in a reasonable way so that it can really be out, so we can enjoy the cars and so that our children and grandchildren can also see these cars in the future? Our entire history is not meant to end with the Green Party taking over government power. We have an old fine cultural heritage that we want to preserve even if the Green Party has been in power. Please answer: How do we sit down? Are you going to take any initiative in the talks and resolve this? There is broad knowledge and interest in these issues in the Committee on Transport and Tourism. It would be good if we could agree politically on how we resolve this issue rather than end up running behind when it is wrong decisions. How do we ensure that both access and distribution work? It is important that we take into account the fact that some vehicles do not tolerate certain mixtures. We must ensure this in a good way anyway and ensure that we do not have to scrap cars because of a bad policy. It's enough that these people have to work and work with their cars to keep them stainless and running. We as politicians should not scrap the cars with a fuel that does not work for them. Madam President, I would like Let us sit down and resolve this issue before there is panic, as it was with the veteran cars that were imported.
i-027bc6aff6ea60ad-292	Madam President, I would like It is clear that one can possibly say as Per Bolund says in his post: Bad luck, Lennart i Ljusdal! He has a car, a Volvo V40, and can't refuel it close enough. If you go into the evening press and look, you can see that there are a large number of car models that cannot refuel the petrol that is now being distributed in Sweden. One is referred to the 98 Oct, and it is not everywhere. That's the reality. You might think it's a boring reality, but it's reality. I fully share Sten Bergheden's view that the voters can resolve this in September next year. Vote away the parties that have this view of motorism and cars. Vote them off, and save Sweden's 5 1⁄2 million car owners from the situation that could be that whoever owns a car simply cannot refuel it at a reasonable distance. I have also seen the statement: Buy an electric car! You might like it if you have that vision. The rest of us may find it valuable that Lennart can drive his 20-year-old car in Ljusdal to get to and from work and be able to live his life. The rest of us may think it is good that you can use your chainsaw, lawn mower and moped. There are so many products that go on petrol and diesel. You have to be able to do that in the future. This applies not least to the veteran cars that this interpellation is about. There the engines simply have to have a certain kind of fuel. I think that this government lacks any respect for people's everyday lives and any respect for property protection in our constitutions. A simple advice to voters is: Replace this government while time is up!
i-027bc6aff6ea60ad-298	Madam President, I would like The Minister for the Environment says that we will replace today's fossil fuels with new types of biofuels and biogases. My first question is: where are we going to get all these biofuels? Today we import a very large part of our biofuels from abroad. In addition, the government has unfortunately failed quite a lot in protecting Swedish forestry. If we are not allowed to harvest any forest, the question is: Where are we going to get all these biofuels that will be able to supply 5 million Swedish cars in eight years' time? The question of the equation is that the Minister for the Environment is obliged to answer. How do you intend to make it work? Then I can see the same thing as Marléne Lund Kopparklint. The Minister for the Environment says that fossil fuels will be available in principle as long as the need exists and other fuels cannot be used. As long as fossil fuels are needed, they should exist. But that is not what the Green Party itself says. In an article in Aftonbladet today, Märta Stenevi says straight out: Sweden will reduce its emissions by two thirds by 2030, i.e. eight years from now. Then all fossil fuels should be completely phased out. All fossil fuels shall be completely phased out. At the same time, the Minister for the Environment says that fossil fuels should remain as long as the need exists. You speak with double tongues from the Green Party. Both things can't be true at the same time. What does the Minister for the Environment, who is most responsible in the Swedish Government for this matter, really want? It is difficult to trust what the Minister for the Environment says in this debate, given that his spokesman is giving the opposite message.
i-027bc6aff6ea60ad-304	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. Actually, I didn't get an answer to the questions I asked. This was the case, among other things, with winter characteristics, which are extremely important. Does the fuel work even if it is 10, 20 or 30 degrees cold? We have areas in Sweden that are so cold in winter. Or should you simply go into hibernation just for Christmas and wake up somewhere at Easter? Then there is this involvement. The point must be that we should have a net result, that we should reduce carbon dioxide emissions. Then it does not help if you import a substance and add to the fuel that ultimately emits more than if you had run on clean diesel. Then the effect is just the opposite. Here, too, I have not seen a real solution from the government. Then there is the question of how to secure access. If you live in a city area, it may not be surprising to be able to get your hands on fuel. But it is enough to go to Värmland, Dalarna or Västerbotten, where I have my roots, so it is not entirely clear that there is fuel available. Moreover, if it is a fuel with low demand and high prices, the trader may not even provide the fuel. Should I then connect a trailer to the car and go and bring home drums to be able to drive a vehicle? There's a lot of question marks in this. You think a lot, but you haven't thought about it yet and you don't have a strategy. The Minister for the Environment is happy to present one if it is somewhere.
i-027bc6aff6ea60ad-308	Madam President, I would like I am pleased that there is such a commitment to Sweden's countryside. We share this in the Green Party and also in the government. Therefore, I am also very pleased that what I see in many parts of our country is not the doomsday atmosphere that seems to prevail in this House. On the contrary, much is happening in large parts of our country. For example, we have what is now happening in northern Sweden, in locations such as Skellefteå, Boden, Gällivare and Kiruna, where you feel a new spirit. There will be a new industrialisation. Hundreds of billions are being invested which, of course, will bring fantastic developments for the labour market not only in those places but also in the surrounding area, where people live commuting to these jobs. It is a fantastic development that is now taking place in many ways. It is done because of the Green Party's policy – because we have made climate demands, but also because we have supported investments, both through the Industrial Scene and through the Climate Scene, which makes it possible to expand the sustainable industries in the way that is happening. We have battery factories. We have two different projects to make steel with hydrogen instead of coal. We should be happy about that. It's a chance for large parts of the country, as I see it. I also think it is important that there is access to fuels and services throughout the country. This is why, in the budget that we have put on Parliament's table, the government also has special support for services throughout the country, because there must be, including special investment in ellad infrastructure in those places and places in the country where there is no commercial basis. Where it is not profitable in itself to expand this, the state must step in and ensure that there is access throughout the country if you are to be able to run on electricity not only in parts of the country but actually throughout the country. But it is also important that we reach the climate goals that we have set together and that this Parliament has supported in a very broad consensus. Then we must also ensure that there are sustainable fuels and that we can gradually phase out fossil fuels and phase in sustainable fuels instead. There's a plan, as requested. We want to invest a lot in electrification. Many of the new cars sold are already electric cars, because the Green Party has introduced an electric car bonus and made sure that it is profitable to buy those cars. More electric cars are being sold than petrol cars in Sweden today, but of course it can increase even more. We also need to use efficiency efficiency, for example, to see how we can make the railways so attractive that more people choose to ride trains. It is also a question of using maritime transport and public transport in cities, where these alternatives exist. They do not exist in the countryside, but where they are, it is very good if they can be used. But we must also ensure that the fuels on which up to 5 million cars in Sweden are currently dependent continue to exist in the future. There I cannot understand one thing, but the interpellants and the debaters might enlighten me: Is it very important for the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats that the fuels we think must be fossil fuels imported from the Middle East and Russia? Or can you imagine that we can run on fuels that are actually produced in Sweden, from bioenergy? It's a little hard to understand. It seems that this is the great challenge, the great threat to Sweden. Of course, there are different forms of biofuels, but now biogas is also being developed, for example, which has the same chemical properties as fossil petrol. Isn't that a development to welcome? It enables us to drive cars that are dependent on liquid fuels far into the future, but it can be fuels that are produced in biorefineries in Sweden and that provide jobs in our country, here and now and in the future. That should be a positive development. Is it really necessary to paint this development as a threat to our country? It's more of an opportunity.
i-027bc6aff6ea60ad-315	Madam President, I would like For a while, I almost thought I was at the Green Party's party meeting or something. This debate is about the veteran cars and the fuel for them, nothing else. From being very positive towards the veteran car owners, the Minister goes to what he feels most secure in: Environmental Party policy. I hope that everyone watching this debate heard that he did not respond to one of the questions I asked in my previous speech. How does it go together that yesterday the Green Party went out and said the complete opposite of what is being said today? I advised the Environment Minister to put on his quick shoes and run over to the government and solve that equation, because I still can't get this together. I have some questions that I still have not been answered either. Where will the gas stations be for the vintage cars? How much will this gas cost? What tax incentives will the Minister of the Environment ensure that the rolling cultural heritage can be maintained? It feels very schizophrenic when you listen to the Minister for the Environment, not least the first post and this post. But now they actually heard what the Minister for the Environment is and what is most important to the Minister for the Environment. It is not protecting the rolling cultural heritage; it is protecting the policy of the Green Party.
i-027bc6aff6ea60ad-319	Madam President, I would like To say the obvious first: Yes, we are in favour of the establishment of battery factories in Sweden and that we can proceed with new fuels. But the Minister must be equally interested in what we are raising here. We need to have a fuel that works in these vehicles, and we need to secure it right now so that we can see that we will be able to meet the timeframe, no matter where it will land. That is the weakness we are seeing today. Today we see only taxes on all these things that enable people to work in rural areas. The commitment of the Green Party to rural areas is very great when it comes to increasing the number of wolves. It is very big when it comes to raising petrol and diesel taxes. That is not the commitment that rural areas want. Rural areas are already having a tough time coping with the situation in view of the bad roads and other bad relations that exist. But they will produce food at competitive prices in the world with the highest taxes and the hardest rules. This is not a good policy for rural areas. Then we can't do that part. It is also of little comfort to build battery factories in the north for the children's family in Värmland or Skaraborg who have two cars and will drive their children to leisure activities or to hospitals, jobs, visits and more and will pay 18 - 19 crowns a litre for petrol and diesel. That is the problem. You can't treasure the people who are supposed to be out there. And again, I would like to extend that hand: we sit down now and resolve the issue, before you have pushed so hard that you have forced people to destroy their cars with the wrong fuel and other things. The Minister should be interested that we solve this in time and that it will not be such a long bench as in the case of veteran cars and imports from the United States. Take your chance!
i-027bc6aff6ea60ad-324	Madam President, I would like In 24 years, Sweden will have zero net greenhouse gas emissions. That is what the Moderates, along with the rest of us parties, have supported, and I intend to work towards actually implementing this. I do not take the decisions of the Riksdag lightly, but I take them very seriously. Then we must see what sources of emissions we have and must work hard to reduce. Traffic accounts for about one third of Sweden's emissions, and there we have a common responsibility, as I see it. In any case, I can guarantee that, as Minister for the Environment and Climate Action, I will take that responsibility. We also have investigations that have looked at how this could be implemented. The phase-out study has seen that it is possible to reduce emissions to zero or close to zero and to switch to renewable fuels. This is a path that I welcome and believe could be of great benefit to Sweden and provide many new jobs when we do not need to import fuels for tens of billions but instead can produce them in Sweden. However, I would like to make it very clear that what I am referring to is the phase-out investigation, which says that if fossil fuels are needed because that is the only thing you can do, they will still be there. On behalf of the Green Party, we would very much like to see them replaced by renewable fuels, such as biogas. However, it is on condition that they can be used in the vehicles that depend on them. We will work for this – that there will be sustainable, bio-based, Swedish-produced fuels that can also be used in veteran vehicles and other vehicles in the future. I would also like to point out that the high prices we are now seeing are not due to the increase in taxes; there has been no increase in taxes over the past year. Instead, it is because we are in a fossil dependency, where other countries determine the price of crude oil, which we import, and also of gas, which comes from Russia and affects the electricity and energy market in Sweden. If we want to be less vulnerable and have greater energy security, it is better that we produce the fuels ourselves.
i-027bc6aff6ea60ad-329	Madam President, I would like Alexandra Anstrell has asked me whether I and the government intend to bring together a national security council in the Government Office and what urgent measures I intend to take to put an end to the shootings in Stockholm and Sweden. A Security Policy Council was established in 2014. Since then, the Council has met regularly to obtain a common picture of issues related to the security policy situation and to discuss issues related to Sweden's security. Any information directly concerned by the issues to be addressed may be invited to the Council, including the Police Authority. As far as the second question by Alexandra Anstrell is concerned, I share the view that the shootings must be reduced. The government takes a very serious view of serious crime and is therefore making the biggest ever effort at the Police Authority. By mid 2021, the number of police employees had increased by over 7,000 persons since January 2016. This means that the Police Authority has never had so many employees before, and there have never before been so many police officers in Sweden. In order to reduce the number of shootings, a number of measures have been taken and further measures are under way. Among other things, the government will have the issue of preventive coercive measures investigated. This is done to give the Police Agency even greater opportunities to prevent serious crimes committed by criminal networks, such as shootings. The working method Stop shooting has shown promising results in Malmö and is proposed to receive additional funds in the budget proposal for 2022. The Government has also commissioned the Swedish Crime Prevention Council, the Swedish Police Authority and the Swedish Correctional Service to spread the strategy behind Stop shooting to more locations in Sweden. Recently, the government decided on a bill with proposals to improve the police's ability to search for weapons and other dangerous objects for preventive purposes. The proposals are proposed to enter into force on 1 December 2021. In December, the Police Authority will also provide a new and updated situational picture of vulnerable areas. The work continues with full force in the field of criminal law as well. In August, we received the report of the Gangal Crime Investigation with a large number of criminal-law proposals against crime in criminal networks. The report is now being consulted. I would also like to highlight the government's 34-point programme against gang crime. It is an important part of the government's work to reduce crime, break recruitment and increase security in Sweden. The programme includes stronger penalties and more effective tools for law enforcement authorities, as well as strengthened and developed crime prevention work across the country. If crime is to be reduced, it is not enough to fight crime – the causes of crime must also be combated. This is a responsibility that meets the whole of society. The government's policy is aimed at reducing segregation and unequal growth conditions – both their causes and their consequences. It is about creating good life chances for all people in Sweden.
i-027bc6aff6ea60ad-338	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. This morning when I woke up, sat on my training clothes and brought the dog out on a run, it was time for the news. Several shots had been fired in a residential area in Farsta, southern Stockholm. Witnesses should have seen two perpetrators disappear from the scene by bicycle. An hour earlier there had been an alarm of gunfire in Visertra in Huddinge. While I was preparing here, there was a suspected shooting in Gävle at 1:24 p.m. Last Sunday, I was at dinner. Shortly after 19 o'clock, the cell phone rang – shooting in Jordbro, Haninge again, just a few days after a previous shooting in Jordbro. Madam President, I would like In Jordbro, my son's friend Anton lives, and my heart beat fast. Is Tim at Anton's, or is he home? After a quick call, I got the answer. Tim was home, and even Anton was unharmed. I can tell you that my mother's heart calmed down a lot. But, Madam President, I don't think it was just my heart that pounded extra that night, or any of the other nights when you don't know for sure how our teenagers get between their friends and whether it's safe. Actually, we can't be like this. We need to get Sweden in order, and that now. We must be able to feel safe where we live. Gang crime must be suppressed – now. I have asked Minister Damberg about a National Security Council and been given the answer that yes, they have, and they sometimes meet and discuss things. They discuss things, but the Security Council referred to by Damberg feels rather toothless. You don't seem to have any tools to make decisions. I think Stockholm County and Sweden need more action than that. You need to have a long-term job, with clarity and action. I believe that we have had drainpipes, caution and territory, which may have hindered coordination and decision-making. If the National Security Council had a better capacity for action and leadership, it could also act better in the event of a crisis or war. Now we are not at war, but all these shootings must soon be called domestic terror – a terror that must be curbed and that must disappear from our streets and squares. We shouldn't have to worry about our kids getting shot when they go to their friends. The government needs to act more. Now there is a need for operational leadership, which is actually delivering results. Nevertheless, the government has had quite a few years, and this has only escalated. I and many with me really feel that insecurity is spreading, the shootings are increasing and the government is falling apart. In 2021 alone, there have been over 60 shootings in Stockholm County. This needs to stop, Minister Damberg- now. There can really be no more important task today than stopping gang crime. In August, two young men were shot to death at a residential building in Tensta. I went to coffee in Tensta the other weekend. Parents in the area feel powerless, and a group of mothers have come together out there to raise the issue of finding a solution to deadly violence. In SVT one of the mothers says, "We're worried, our children die every day." .....................................................
i-027bc6aff6ea60ad-348	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank you for this very important interpellation. In this debate, I thought to contribute some perspectives from the Järva field, where I live and work. Madam President, I would like Before I became a member, I worked at a preschool in Husby. I have a short time left as a Member, about a year, and hope to be able to return to pedagogy in some form soon. Husby has the most committed educators and the most wonderful kids. Unfortunately, we are far too few full-time politicians who live in what is called vulnerable areas but which should really be called disadvantaged areas. I do not want to see any of the children I had in preschool grow up to be gang-criminal or, for that matter, victims of gang crime. The summer in Järva has been blood red. Finally, I couldn't count the murders anymore. Some of them were more brutal than others. One day a few months ago, one of my old preschool children – he is now twelve years old – went home from school when a vehicle drove up to Husby Square. He, twelve years old, felt that they were chasing him and running while wondering, ‘ Why are they after me? ' What did I do? The people in the vehicles took out weapons. The tolvården thought at first they were shooting at him. But in fact, they shot a man standing next to him. The gang violence also affects ordinary people. Thanks to the fact that he has the best mother in the world, he's fine today. He has been able to talk to her a lot, and she has been open to his reflections. There are a lot of the world's best mothers on the Järva field. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Minister for Home Affairs for his commitment to gang violence and to those affected. On your initiative, you have met the mothers we heard about earlier in the debate. You've taken meetings with them. It has not always been the easiest meetings. People are frustrated. People just say what they think. But you've taken the time to listen in and respond. I especially remember a meeting and a parent who wanted to see you the next day. In an incredible way, the minister managed to find time to meet the parent, who had to develop how he felt from the outside to have lost his son. The Home Secretary also spent the entire time the mother's demonstration lasted and listened to their speeches and suggestions. In Coins Square, mothers submitted a list of 34 points, as a complement to the government's 34-point program. I would like to take this opportunity to ask the Minister for Home Affairs what he thinks about the 34-point programme of mothers, which focuses mainly on prevention.
i-027bc6aff6ea60ad-354	Madam President, I would like I couldn't help myself, but had to get into the debate. We've discussed this so many times. The criminality of gangs sets a mark on our society and creates concern for our citizens. Sweden, literally, is shooting itself out compared to other countries in Europe when it comes to gang violence. Alexandra Anstrell brought up gunfire in Gävle. I read a little about it now. A wounded person has been abducted. The situation is stable. It could mean almost anything. While I was reading about it, another flash appeared. There are suspected shootings in Örebro as well. We can't be like this. The Government says that the number of police employees has increased by over 7,000 since January 2016. We know it's mostly civilian. This is also what Lena Nitz, chairman of the Police Federation, says. But there is another concern. I often talk to my old colleagues in the police. They say: we would need reinforcement again, but we do not get it because the budget does not allow it. It will be stopped for purely economic reasons, despite the fact that the police area needs new jobs. But there is no money in the budget. It should be a matter of urgency to resolve if one has the ambition to eliminate gang crime. The only way society can crack gang crime is to face the criminals. They have created a parallel society where they dictate the terms. We can only imagine what life is like for the people who live in the areas where it is constantly pushed. They have no idea what will happen next. Do they dare go out? Do they dare let the children out? Most of those living in these areas are ordinary honest citizens. But the conditions for the areas are dictated by the criminals. They have created an alternative administration of justice. So it is not the laws that are passed in the house in which we find ourselves, but there are some individuals who function, as well as the police, prosecutors and judges, and there is the executioner. All the shootings we see are some kind of punishment for taking market shares in drugs or something. The Regional Police Commissioner in Stockholm, Mats Löfving, said yesterday, I think it was, on local television that they have seen a change in the mode. In the past, you could stand at a distance and shoot at someone. It was not certain that you met, but you could at least scare the individual. But now you go closer and with several perpetrators and aim directly at the head. It's intended to kill, not to frighten, but to kill. Then we're on the subject of executions. The interpellant touched on the fact that we are not in a war. No, the Swedish state is not in a war. But there's a war going on in our streets. The government has the ultimate responsibility for breaking it. Then you have to put in more resources. It is quite clear that this is not enough. You can't control the shootings. It goes off almost every half hour, I was about to say. It's not that bad, but the government hasn't taken control of the situation. It is the criminals who dictate the terms. It's troubling.
i-027bc6aff6ea60ad-361	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank you for an important interpellation debate on the gang crime that plagues Sweden. Earlier today, we took part in Brå's National Security Survey. It turns out that fewer people feel that they themselves have been victims of crime but that insecurity increases somewhat in society. I think the insecurity we've seen growing in recent years has to do with gang crime. It is about the shootings and the explosions that take place in public environments, which plague residential areas and which make not least women choose not to go out in the evenings or to, for example, go completely different ways to and from work. This is one of the biggest societal challenges we have. Then I think we must be able to talk about the problems straight and clear. Yesterday I had a press meeting with Mats Löfving, Regional Police Commissioner in Stockholm, where he presented the situation in Stockholm. We found that the Stockholm police are in a powerful offensive against these gangs. A number of gangs have been knocked out and many leadership figures have been detained that were not previously accessed. But violence is still taking place at a very high level in Stockholm. We also noted that Stockholm is now receiving national reinforcement resources to deal with the serious situation. In order to reduce violence and increase security, people work purposefully with which gangs drive the violence and the red conflicts that exist in Stockholm. The task of politics is both to ensure that the police are growing in numbers and to provide the police with new tools. Not least digital evidence, I usually talk a lot about. The police were long behind in this matter. But the gang members now in prison often do so as a result of digital evidence. I think it was a very important priority to focus on it. We also tighten the penalties. The penalties imposed are longer, not least for the serious weapons crimes and for the murders carried out. We also have the Gang Crime Investigation which, inspired by Denmark, has put forward proposals on how to tighten the penalties further for gang-related crime. All of that is important. But it is also important to see that it is not a decision that can reverse this trend. It's much more complex. It is a social development that has been stuck in Sweden for a long time, decades. Exposed areas have had to live a parallel life. In fact, living conditions do not look like the rest of Sweden. There the police have not been present, and the schools are not of the same quality as in the rest of Sweden. There, many children and young people grow up under much poorer conditions than others. What Anders Österberg has included in this debate is important. We don't just need 10,000 more police employees. We also need thousands more mothers and fathers who are committed to their children. Therefore, in the midst of this miserable situation, I feel a certain hope now that mothers are organizing and thinking about what they think is needed, alongside police developments, to reverse developments. It is exciting to read their point program. It focuses on issues quite different from those of the political debate. It's about what the schools look like, whether you can get a summer job and how to get your first home and be able to afford to have a home. It is also about the important defection activity. Some of the children and young people who have been drawn into those environments are terrified of being shot themselves or perhaps caught by the police, which would be a good thing. They will have the opportunity to restart their lives. How we reduce recruitment, break segregation and work prevention is also a crucial part of succeeding in this work. I think you have to be a little humble. You could say that the government should be operational, but I'd rather it's the police that are operational. The government must work strategically, structurally and in the long term to strengthen this. I share the moderate leader's view that this will not go quickly, but I may not have the same long-term perspective. He says it will take at least 20 years to reverse the trend, but I think it can go faster than that.
i-027bc6aff6ea60ad-371	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I certainly agree that it is a complex and not at all easy issue to resolve, but one must not fear it. I also agree with many of the points raised by these mothers. This is something that most teenage parents think is important and that teenagers themselves bring up at home, i.e. how to get their first home, how to afford it and how to get their first summer job. Many of these young people will vote for the first time in less than a year's time. A lot of them wonder why nothing happens, why you should feel insecure and why your mother calls at 19.14 and asks if you are at home or not when there has been a shooting in Jordbro. Is it supposed to be like this? Innocent people fall victim to ruthless attacks that also aim to frighten and control the population. Executions take place in the middle of the day and in the midst of day commuters and families with children. Horror spreads in residential areas and neighborhoods. In Jordbro, many are worried after the last two shootings. The gross gang crime has become Sweden's domestic terror. Fear and anxiety are growing. Terror must therefore be confronted with terrorist legislation. I think the government is making most adjustments to the margin, while we Moderates want to introduce terror laws against the gangs. These terror laws would result in more criminals being expelled, but also in more being sentenced to long prison sentences. Of course, it costs money, much more than the low level of ambition that the government has for the judiciary in the autumn budget. However, we have this in our budget. The problem with the gang shootings has grown, and just as the minister was on it has been going on for a long time. Sweden now has one of the highest levels in Europe. The Moderates want to invest in the police, but of course we also need to invest in the judiciary. We have in our budget reinforcements of the judiciary with more police officers through higher salaries and paid police training. We also propose 300 more prosecutors so that more crimes can be cleared up as well as resources for new prisons so that those sentenced can be locked up. Then there's the penalty discount. Discount, Madam President, you can get when you buy new shoes but not when you have done something criminal. The Moderates will come forward with strong legislation in the Committee on Justice in order to fully abolish the penalty rebate for the adult. In the government's autumn budget, as one of the Members of this Parliament has just mentioned, not a single crown has been earmarked for salaries to the police, despite the demand that the agency must quickly attract several thousand new employees. Around the city we can see posters with recruitment to the police. The promised salary raise to Swedish policemen is in danger of missing. It would be a fatal mistake that would threaten to create a new police crisis. That's what the union claimed in a DN article yesterday. What does the Minister say about this? According to the police management, increased salaries are crucial if the agency is to achieve the goal of employing 5,000 new police officers by the end of the year 2024/ 25. My little brother Kristofer used to be a cop. Even if I'm fucked up, he was a good cop. He got $5,000 more a month when he changed jobs. He quit as a police officer and went on to become a municipal alcohol and tobacco handler – SEK 7 000! The union president, Lena Nitz, also believes that there is a risk that more people will stop. In the DN article, she said that there is an imminent danger that we will again find ourselves in a situation where good colleagues leave the profession and there will be a police shortage.
i-027bc6aff6ea60ad-381	Madam President, I would like A few years ago Alejandro and Robin were out walking a few hundred yards from where I live. Behind or in front of them-- I don't know which-- a person with a gun comes out. He's shooting. Robin falls dead to the ground. Alejandro will survive, but he'll be paralyzed for the rest of his life. The killer has not yet been captured. For me, discharge must not be an option. It is very good that the Minister has made that clear. Those who commit such crimes must be caught. We owe it not least to the relatives. Their mother has chosen to get involved. If she is capable of engaging in such a tragedy, then the rest of us have no excuse, but we also have to fight. She specifically mentioned the "Stop shooting" method, which the Minister also mentioned in his interpellation response. I would like to ask the Minister what distinguishes Malmö, where shootings are reduced, from what is happening in Stockholm.
i-027bc6aff6ea60ad-384	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. This problem is not solved in 15 minutes. It will take considerably longer. Deputy Police Commissioner Robert Karlsson said in some part that it will take 15 years to reverse developments. What you have to do is put the shovel in the ground and get a clear change. It must be pointed out to criminals that it is the state and nobody else who owns the issue. It is the state that is in charge of legislation and the monopoly of violence. It's the state that's in charge of the National Courts and the prisons. And that is where punishment is to be imposed. There should be no room for parallel societies or parallel justice in a democratic society. It just shouldn't be there. To get to these figures, you have to act. Yes, the shootings have decreased in Malmö and increased slightly in Stockholm, but if you look at it in a slightly longer perspective you can see that it turns upside down. The police have also found that they move out to smaller places to be a little more undisturbed. We know that the criminal networks are changing structures and changing places from which they are based. Not infrequently there is an international element in this, i.e. international leagues. Essentially, this is about drug money. You settle it. But when someone comes in and makes a deal in an area where you wouldn't be, it solves a spiral of violence. Society must be equipped to face this. I'm saying the government's not on the ball.
i-027bc6aff6ea60ad-389	Madam President, I would like After all, we interrupted the debate when we were discussing, not least, prevention and the broader discussion of what needs to be done to break segregation and exclusion and create confidence in the future in these areas. This is an area in which I hope that, just as in Parliament between parties, we have a fairly broad consensus on the need for more police officers, more stringent penalties and more tools for the police to access gang criminals, we also manage to create a greater consensus on the prevention efforts. This applies not least to an equivalent school, which, according to the police, is the prerequisite for not getting a breeding ground for further recruitment of young people into crime. We have the whole question of the conditions of social services, which is incredibly important to support parents but also to be able to intervene and, in some cases, take care of children. We also need to change the regulatory framework so that you can work with intermediate coercion. But it is also about the more fundamental issues of further efforts in these areas, so that those who live in particularly vulnerable areas feel that society is investing in schools, in housing and on a level playing field. Here I hope the Moderates may have learned from their previous budget gain. After all, the budgets of the Moderates and Christian Democrats went through. What was started by cutting down was unfortunately what the mothers in Järva want more of, that rental apartments are being built as ordinary people can afford to demand, i.e. they cut off investment support for rental housing. I think that was a huge mistake if you want to give young people a chance in the housing market. The new allocation for Delmos, the authority that will fight segregation in the long term, was cut. It would direct resources precisely to these residential areas to enable them to employ more social secretaries who can work close to school and to make further efforts for schools with more educators and adults who can help children and young people in these areas to actually achieve their goals. We have had a discussion on labour market policy for many occasions, which, unfortunately, with the M-KD budget, was largely slaughtered. There are no areas in Sweden where efforts to be able to get an education or an internship are more important than in the socially vulnerable areas. I hope that some lessons were learned from this budgetary work and that parties can now agree across the block to make large investments linked to increased equivalence and reduced segregation in these neighbourhoods. Anders Österberg asked an important question about Stop shooting, a work that has been going on in Malmö for a number of years with inspiration not least from the USA. A Swedish delegation, led by Morgan Johansson and Brå, visited some of the leading academics in the United States and asked: Is there anything in the United States that you think could really work in a Swedish concept? Then they highlighted Group Violence Intervention, a method that has proved to be very successful in many American cities to bring down the shootings. And that is the system that has been tried in Malmö. For three years the shootings have decreased by 70 percent in Malmö. It is clear that it is very interesting for more cities around Sweden how to put this pressure on the criminals but also offer a way out in the form of a functioning defector business, if it can reduce the shootings in the same way as we have seen in Malmö. I'm very interested in this. The government is now running a work in which we invest in being able to spread this model to more cities that are interested in it. But we are also interested in other research-based data to see what preventive measures can produce results, including in the long term, alongside more police officers, increased penalties and new tools for the police.
i-027bc6aff6ea60ad-398	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. The Minister has spoken in his reply about a number of measures to work against gang crime and shootings. I agree that a great many preventive measures are needed, of course, and as we talked about before the break, there is no quick fix. It takes a lot of things. Even if all these efforts are made, the shootings continue to increase with the same strength. Although there are overall fewer shootings so far this year than during the same period last year, more people have died in shootings. 38 people have been shot to death, half of them in R egion Stockholm. Then I didn't count on the shootings we've heard of today. Mats Löfving, Regional Police Commissioner in Stockholm, to whom the Minister also spoke yesterday, says in Swedish Radio: "Previously they shot to be intimidated. Now we see shootings that take place at close range and that are more execution-like. We cannot have it that way, Madam President. This summer two children were shot in the legs when they played on a playground here in Stockholm. A couple of weeks ago, a hand grenade was thrown into a wrong apartment, where two small children and their mother were sleeping. I've spoken before about the shootings in Jordbro. Sven Gustafsson, opposition council in Haninge, has invited the minister to Jordbro but has not received an answer. I hope we will soon see the minister on site in Jordbro. During the government's almost eight years, insecurity has spread. Shoots and bombs are becoming commonplace. You no longer know whether you want to open the newspaper in the morning or turn on the news, because it is not a question of a question of where it happened last night. Preventive measures are very important. But does the Minister not agree that more urgent efforts are needed to curb this?
i-027bc6aff6ea60ad-407	Madam President, I would like I have said in my written reply but also in this interpellation debate that we need to do more. We need to hire more police officers, as we are doing in the coming years, we need to tighten penalties, as we also have proposals on the table, and we will give the police new tools to get to the criminals. This is all important. That is why I say that more needs to be done in the repressive part. More people have to be in prison longer, simply, when they commit this kind of serious crime. But it gets a little revealing when the Moderates say prevention is important, though. The lesson we need to learn is that we cannot skip prevention. Then it is not good enough to get involved in labour market policy. Then it is not good enough not to stand up for an equal school. Then it is not good enough to draw in segregation money that goes to the municipalities with the greatest challenges. We have to do all this. I think that several parties do not really understand that by not taking this work seriously, you are pouring gasoline on a fire that is already burning in the affected areas. We should have learned that lesson. As far as the statistics on blasts and shootings are concerned, it is still far too high, although the explosions already decreased last year and we see a continued decline this year, although we see that the shootings have decreased this year. We will see how it ends on an annual basis, but it is still below the level last year, when the number of injured persons decreased, which is good. But just as Alexandra Anstrell says: When it came to shooting deaths, we had an enormous bloody summer. Of course, then I suffer especially with the mothers who have lost and had to bury their children. This is not something we should get used to. This is not something we should accept in Swedish society. We must pursue a strong policy to combat crime, but we must also be able to fight the causes of crime.
i-027bc6aff6ea60ad-413	Madam President, I would like Kjell Jansson has asked me what I think needs to be done concretely to improve border protection and Customs' work to curb theft leagues and what I do specifically to clearly prevent the exit of stolen goods from Sweden. Fighting back against theft gangs and fighting all forms of crime has been a high priority for the government, and we have been working purposefully to ensure that law enforcement authorities have the resources and effective tools to do just that. It is the Police Authority that has overall responsibility for law enforcement. The capacity of law enforcement has been strengthened by the fact that the Police Authority has seen significant increases in resources in recent years. The government is also planning to continue to grow the agency in order to reach the target of 10,000 more employees by 2024. The Swedish Customs Agency has also received increased resources, which has enabled the agency to increase its staff. For next year, the Government proposes a further increase of SEK 70 million in funding. The Swedish Police Authority, the Swedish Customs Agency and the Swedish Coast Guard have had a joint government mission to strengthen the fight against international crime networks that commit criminal offences in Sweden. This has led, among other things, to the development of cooperation between authorities and to the Police Authority taking steps to improve its operational work in this area. On 1 August 2021, the Swedish Customs Agency was given increased opportunities to intervene against crimes that are outside the agency's regular activities, such as the export of suspected stolen goods. The Government has also set up an investigation to undertake a comprehensive review of the Customs Authority's powers in the control and law enforcement activities. In addition, the Government has commissioned a special investigator to consider whether the Police Authority has access to sufficiently effective tools in border areas or whether they need to be improved. The assignment shall be presented no later than 19 November 2021. Sweden is also actively working within the EU to access the foreign theft networks. This is done both through Europol and within the framework of the "Empact", which is an EU cooperation platform aimed at specific types of crime threats. There is therefore active work on the part of both the government and the authorities, at home and internationally, to strengthen the fight against international organised crime.
i-027bc6aff6ea60ad-422	Madam President, I would like Thank you for a clear and respectful answer, Minister Damberg! We have major problems with international theft leagues that are continuously in Sweden and do crimes. This has not, as much as much else, decreased during the pandemic, but continued to the same extent. Unfortunately, these leagues often originate from the Baltic countries. This is a crime of home peace, primarily burglary in villas and free-time residences. It is also about theft of boats and above all boat engines, but also of cars and parts of construction machines. In my hometown Roslagen these leagues are ravaging wildly, especially at night. Extremely brazen thefts of boat engines occur annually, both spring and autumn. Most recently in Håtövlahti in Frötuna 20 boat engines were stolen at the end of April. A family has had their boat engine stolen four times, according to a report in Norrtelje Tidning. A good friend got his boat stolen in May at Yxlan. After a few days he found it on an island some distance minutes further out. Then it was completely slaughtered on all equipment, and the engine was removed. Ligarna carefully plans every theft attack to reconnaissance the area for maybe a few weeks before they strike. The engines are souled by cutting the rear mirrors or cutting the bolts that secure the engines in the rear mirror. Then they are lifted into vans that drive to Kapellskär harbour and without control can leave the country. In its reply, the Government referred to the new legislation, but I think it needs to be sharper anyway. Madam President, I would like It is felt that we have swing doors at our borders. What I am calling for is for the government to come up with a proposal that gives customs greater powers to open vans and trucks without calling for police. Perhaps those who work there also need to be armed with a gun or something, because it can be a threatening environment. It is high time to ensure that goods are also exported and, not least, to start checking all the stolen goods that pass out of our ports. Customs has clear instructions from the Government and Parliament to control the import of goods. That's good, but it feels like the government is more concerned about fiscal activity than protecting our residents from theft leagues.
i-027bc6aff6ea60ad-431	Madam President, I would like This is an important interpellation Kjell Jansson has made to the Minister for the Interior. In the last debate we were talking about gang shootings, but now we're talking about another type of organised crime. Theft crime is a serious problem in Sweden, and international theft gangs account for a very large proportion of residential and other serious thefts in Sweden. Today, these leagues are estimated to be responsible for more than half of all residential break-ins in Sweden. They also account for up to 90 percent of other major thefts, such as theft of car parts, boat engines and agricultural machinery. Every year, the Swedish insurance industry pays out between 6 and 8 billion for, for example, robberies, thefts and assaults. In view of the proportion of the thefts committed by foreign theft leagues, we can no doubt conclude that the stolen goods taken out of the country each year have great values. The socio-economic cost of this crime is, of course, even greater. When machinery is stolen from a construction site or a farm company, production stops many times for several days. In addition, companies spend very large sums each year on preventing and preventing theft. Added to this is the violation of privacy and the increased insecurity that theft entails for the individuals affected. Large profits, low detection risk and low penalties are strongly contributing reasons for theft leagues coming to Sweden. We must do something about this. Customs plays a crucial role in the fight against cross-border crime, not least in a situation where the police are hard-pressed by other serious organised crime. The fact that until recently customs officials have been prevented from detaining thieves and stolen goods at the border has been a major flaw. There was therefore great hope for the bill and legislation referred to by the Minister for the Interior. The government product, however, was disappointing to many people. Today, only a few per cent of Customs controls are carried out by the Swedish Customs. In addition, Customs has no right whatsoever to carry out checks in order to search for stolen goods. The new legislation, which came into force earlier this year, gives the Finnish Customs only the right to intervene in connection with other customs controls. In the consultation, the Customs Office noted that the proposal did not change the authority's mandate and did not in itself lead to the Customs Agency increasing its exit controls. The new legislation will therefore only have effect in situations where the Customs Agency encounters suspected stolen goods in its regular inspections. What can we conclude from this? Yes, we can see that despite the fact that the problem of international theft leagues has been widespread and serious for many years, the government came up with a bill which certainly corrects the most outrageous shortcomings in the legislation but which basically does not get to the problem of stolen goods being taken out of the country.
i-027bc6aff6ea60ad-445	Madam President, I would like Now we stand here again, Minister Mikael Damberg. This issue is close to my heart, and we have discussed it several times. In its reply, the Government refers to the measures taken. But it's just a little poking here and there and no strong action to get to this problem. Some time ago, the CEO of Alarmtjänst wrote that Sweden is a smorgasbord for criminals. A detective in Västra Götaland, together with some colleagues, carried out a study of how the organized gangs worked and found that they are closely linked to the illegal traffic in Sweden. This could be followed up quite clearly. One of my former bosses said that after 8:00 p.m. the E6 is completely open and that you can roll out with the goods over the Öresund Bridge. There's no one to stop it. The police have gone home, and the Customs Service does not have the resources and neither does the rights to do so. This creates the conditions for the criminal networks to go in and get what they are supposed to have. It works in such a way that orders are placed on a car, tractor, boat engines or whatever it may be, and the criminals go and get what they want. Already the next day the car, boat engine or tractor reach their client. They are so fast and efficient. It makes use of the heavy illegal traffic controlled by criminal networks. Everyone understands that it can't be a Volvo 240 and a trailer that takes the stuff out, but it's big vehicles that do this. You load them in and hide with other goods, and then you beep out of the country. Very rarely are they stopped by the police or customs. This has created a market for operators to go in and get what they want. It is we as policyholders and citizens who are affected by this. We're the ones on the bill. I cannot understand why there should be such enormous inertia on the part of the government when it comes to genuinely deploying resources. We know about this problem. We've been discussing it for a long time. It is described in an infinite number of reports how they act in Sweden. Yet here we are discussing. There will be a bit of scratching here and scratching there, but there will be no holistic approach or clear focus. I talk to my old colleagues a lot. I did it last weekend because we were at a truck show together. They do not get the resources they need to carry out checks. At the same time cars are rolling full of stolen goods past them out on the road, but they do not have the capacity to take them. What was also seen in the investigation carried out in Västra Götaland was that the goods first enter a van, a public car or something else, and then the whole car is driven up on a trailer. It means that if anyone sees anything, it sends out a description of a crowd wagon, a transporter or whatever it may be, and the police look for it. And then the big trailer puller with the car on board and all the stolen goods goes by. I put the question again to the Government: when will we see strong measures to tackle this type of activity? This isn't good enough.
i-027bc6aff6ea60ad-455	Madam President, I would like I thank Kjell Jansson from Norrtälje, who has raised an important issue in the interpellation. I know that he comes from a coastal town that is affected by boat theft and international theft leagues and which also has its own port that operates in some of the countries that are common in this context. This is an issue that I take very seriously. The discussion is sometimes about the powers of customs. We have extended these and also set up an investigation to review customs' powers in both control and law enforcement activities, so this is in the pipeline. Looking at the question, it is not enough just to look at customs, but to look at it widely. We have really worked systematically on this issue. On the one hand, we have given the authorities that fight this type of crime or are linked to this – both the police, customs and Coast Guard – a joint task to coordinate and work more systematically on this issue. We have worked to ensure that the police and border police will to a greater extent prevent international theft leagues from entering Sweden. If they have committed crimes in Sweden or other countries, we can deny them entry to Sweden, so that they do not even come in here. Then we have tightened the penalties, for we have had too low penalties for this type of crime. From March 1st, we have tightened the penalties. We have introduced it for those systematic thefts that target exactly this type of organised crime. There we also received a new burglary offence and also a new punishment for burglary, which gives an even greater penalty for those who break into, for example, a dwelling or a free-time residence because the privacy breach there is judged to be much greater. Then it should be an extra-tight punishment, because it should be proper punishment for this kind of crime. We're working with more cops. We have talked about this so much, so we can skip it. The big question is: what powers should police officers have in a border zone? That's a big question. Being able to work with technology, follow flows, store data and see when cars or trucks arrive or leave Sweden, in order to be able to work with international collaboration against international theft leagues, becomes a completely new tool, I mean, so that customs and police can be even better at the border. Here we are talking about the powers of the police and when they will be allowed to enter a car or truck in order to be able to check in a border zone. We'll see what the investigation finds out. Customs has provided increased resources, about 30 per cent increase in recent years. Until next year, they get another 70 million. It is the whole request that Customs has had on the operational activities, which is good. Then they had a craving on the technology side, about computers, which we want to go through a little more. Sometimes technology investments are expensive, and as responsible you should go through them. Then we work with international collaborations. The Swedish police say that they are getting a lot out of both Europol and Empact cooperation today to get to grips with this. Sweden has also played a bit of a leading role in the Empact cooperation internationally, and now we have got back the priority of international theft leagues again at European level, which is good. Then there is what we may not talk about very much but which is just as important, namely prevention. The boat clubs that have joined together in neighboring cooperation and boat collaboration really have an effect. I mean, we have to have the whole thing. I think we should do this. We are in an exciting part now where a lot is happening and where the authorities get new tools. And there's more coming, not least connected to the police department. Then we'll see what the Customs Department's investigation gives and if they're going to get additional law enforcement powers, which I'm completely open to. However, we must not forget that customs also has an important role to play in the second discussion we just had about preventing weapons and drugs coming to Sweden. This is still an important task for customs.
i-027bc6aff6ea60ad-466	Madam President, I would like It is absolutely essential to stop the introduction of firearms and narcotics. It threatens society as a whole. The drug is a major threat. People are drawn into crime, both users and sellers, also heavy criminality. We know that, and we fully agree on that. I have picked up some examples from my municipality, where we are severely affected. That's why I'm interpelling. There is frustration at home about this. There are many victims who are so-called ordinary honest people who are never close to crime otherwise. They're hit hard. There's a despair around this. Many have done what the Government says. They've started with neighbourly cooperation. The boat clubs have 24-hour security. You go in shifts two and two and watch. It is laudable, absolutely, and it limits to some extent. But we have a huge number of jetties lying alone in Roslagen. Some areas are more free-time houses than others, and if people don't live there all year round, it opens up for this activity. There's an enormous insolence. I live near Blidösundet at a bay, and in the next bay they have cleared four years in a row. This year they haven't been there yet, but we'll see. It's not winter yet. I also think it is a good thing that we are tightening up the controls. As far as we are concerned, it is desirable that customs should be given greater powers to open vans without suspicion. It's a suggestion that I have to do it. I understand that one must investigate, that the Law Council should look at it etcetera. This is the case if legislation is to be amended. With regard to stricter border controls, this is the same as in the example of the Öresund Bridge, which we heard about here. Maybe it's necessary, too. There has been some control over things that have happened in the last year, but I think it is good to have stronger controls. I understand that this requires more staff and budget reinforcements, but it is still money that I believe is manageable for the state. In the end, it is the policyholders who have to pay everything. The payoffs are going up, and it's going to happen to households. It also affects those who are themselves victims of burglary and theft, and who are allowed to participate in paying. The bill ends up like shit, if I may put it that way, in the lap of ordinary people.
i-027bc6aff6ea60ad-472	Madam President, I would like I have previously pointed out that this is a crime that has become too common in Sweden, and we have been too slow to tackle these serious problems. Sweden has become an arena for these crime networks because of the low risk of detection and because of mild penalties. Sweden has become too attractive a place for these crime networks. It is true that this is perhaps a broad range of measures ranging from international cooperation to strengthening police powers. But we do not get away from the fact that it is often customs that stands there at the border and is present more than others. It is a bit rude to talk about this because, after all, it is the Minister of Finance within the Government who is responsible for the Customs Agency. Nevertheless, we note that it is going very slowly. On 29 April, this study on a broader review was set up. This study will only be presented in May next year, and at best we can expect legislation in two years' time. At the same time, this problem has been well known and well defined for quite a number of years. Similarly, the lack of authority and resources of the Customs Agency have been well defined for many years. Then one might wonder how it might take so long to produce effective legislation. When it comes to more stringent penalties, the new rules on burglary are welcome. It is something that we have been asking for for for a long time, and the same is true of systematic theft. However, something that is missing and that is also needed is more stringent minimum penalties for grand theft in order to get better access to these crime networks.
i-027bc6aff6ea60ad-476	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. This matter of authority is interesting. We can look at what is available on the road, namely car inspectors and police officers assigned to carry out checks on heavy goods vehicles. They'll have access to cars at any time. If they want to get into a car, they can do it. It's part of what's called flying inspection. They do not need to have a prosecutor's decision or anything else, but they can open the doors to see what it looks like. Should they in this situation find stolen goods, they will have to take that question further. However, initially no specific decision is required for a car inspector or police officer assigned to carry out control of heavy-duty vehicles. They'll dispose of the vehicles until they're done. Nobody can do anything about that. There you have a gold position to be able to attack and discover something out there. Then there's the phenomenon of individuals changing their identity. I can take an example from reality. The police had found a gang that was about to act. Thieves had also been found up in the forest and guarded. Then came a trailer, and the thieves drove down quadricycles and other things from the forest and loaded on. Then, of course, the police arrested this gang. Whoever drove the truck in this case comes from a country down in Europe and had been reported for the same thing before and been imprisoned in Sweden. But now he had changed his identity. But with fingerprints being taken, they found him. Then it changes the identity of vehicles. These people have a full battery with registration plates and associated registration certificates. Even if they pass a camera with a registration number in one direction, they can pass the camera with another registration number in the other direction. We must be aware of this. That's how these people act just to create confusion.
i-027bc6aff6ea60ad-480	Madam President, I would like Thank you for a good discussion. There are several parts that must work in order for Sweden not to be an attractive country for these international theft leagues to operate in. I think we have to realise that we have had a situation where the police and customs have not had enough staffing to do enough. Let's be honest and say it. This applies on the roads, but it also applies to border police and customs. That is why customs is now growing and will continue to grow with its operational activities. They have recently been given new powers, and now we are looking at the broad powers. Above all, we must not lose the powers of the police in border areas. For it is still the police that is the big and heavy player in law enforcement. They can see links between different types of crime and can use the border guard, road and logistics chains around Sweden to access this together with customs. I am therefore very much looking forward to updating the powers and technical capabilities of the police in border areas. I'm going to broaden the discussion a little bit. What has led to some of these activities being reduced in Sweden over time? I believe that neighbourly cooperation has had an enormous impact on the fact that house invasions and burglaries in free-time residences around Sweden have decreased over time. Now we have tightened the penalties, and hopefully these crimes can be further reduced. The closures of the borders also had an effect, and we saw that these theft leagues could not operate in the same way. As far as cars are concerned, the number of car thefts has decreased. More recently, however, car thefts have increased. So these theft leagues vary their theft according to what they earn the most money from. Why did the number of car thefts decrease? Yes, they did because car manufacturers developed better locking devices. It is actually a common standard in Europe that has made it harder to steal cars. If I may be a little brazen, the producers of expensive engines should have an interest in labelling and transmitters. This isn't about any cheap stuff. I therefore hope that insurance companies can have some impact on producers so that the same journey can be made there and that all actors take their responsibility to make this more difficult. This is just a wish. I do not think I can control it because it is perhaps more a European decision or an international decision. But there is more to do, and we have seen in other areas that it has had an effect when producers have done more. This applies, for example, to the lock side and to the car side. When it comes to boats and boat parts, thefts have decreased a little over time. But we have also seen some increases that have varied over time. So this is something that we take very seriously. We will continue to work on the issues. And I look forward to the knowledge that exists around Sweden about what actually works against these theft leagues. I also have high hopes for the police's normal staffing. It is clear that if you see thefts in a part of Sweden you don't have to be Einstein to figure out that the stolen things will be transported anywhere. There are some flows, some ports, some bridges and border crossings that are important. How can we get the police to work also nationally to knock out these theft leagues even more than they already do today? There are also specialised prosecutors, whom we have talked about before, who are particularly good at this type of case. We will therefore have to continue working on this issue. I take your comments very seriously. However, I believe that more systematic work is also needed from the political level linked to all these elements. We have not done this before, but I think it is absolutely necessary to deal with this type of crime.
i-027bc6aff6ea60ad-487	Madam President, I would like Yes, there have been some things done, and there absolutely needs to be more done. I think we are basically quite in agreement. I wish for stronger legislation. If the government makes proposals on this, I can say, without prejudging anything, with quite a certainty that the Moderates will support it. Of course, much has been done with neighboring cooperation, as mentioned, to bring down the house invasions. We can see that these crimes have been reduced. Several engine manufacturers today have engine locks on the engines. You need a box to unlock the engine. If you don't, the engine needs to be recoded. Then you have to have contact with Yamaha's agent. Now I mention a mark here, but it may not be possible to do so in this House. But that's what happened. It is essentially a certain mark that is stolen, as I mentioned. And the engines are over 100 horsepower. Other brands, which are certainly as good, are not stolen at all. I don't know why. But I imagine that there is a knowledge of this particular brand in the home countries of those who steal. Many thanks for a good debate! I hope that the Government will be able to take the steps that we wish to take. It was important to highlight this issue.
i-027bc6aff6ea60ad-491	Madam President, I would like I would like to return Kjell Jansson's thanks, because I know that he is very committed to this issue. In his constituency, the issue is also reality and everyday life. This is something we have had as a problem for quite a long time. One of the problems has been that the Police Authority has been suppressed and forced to prioritise quite forcefully. They have then had to give priority to some serious violent crime and other things. As we now ensure that the Police Authority is growing, it is my hope that this will continue to be a very priority. Sweden should not be an attractive country for these international theft leagues. We will stop them from coming in, we will make their work here more difficult and we will make it very difficult for them to get the stuff out of Sweden if they have stolen them. We must therefore continue to work on this issue, but I thank you for the interpellation debate.
i-027bc6aff6ea60ad-494	Madam President, I would like Alexandra Anstrell has asked the Minister of Justice and Migration whether he intends to introduce the same procedure that Denmark uses to deal with returnees, where they are met by a drop-off programme rather than being released into society, and how the Minister intends to ensure that returnees do not increase radicalisation in society. The interpellation has been handed over to me. The issue of accountability and prosecution of individuals who have committed crimes in Syria and Iraq is a priority for the government. The authorities have a well-developed ability to investigate such crime. For genocide, crimes against humanity, war crimes and many cases of terrorist crime, Swedish criminal jurisdiction applies regardless of who has committed such crimes and where they have been committed. Furthermore, since several of the offences are not time-barred, it is also possible to investigate and prosecute them for a long time. The government is working intensively to provide law enforcement authorities with adequate tools to combat serious crimes such as these. One such example is the introduction of the tool secret data reading. On arrival in Sweden, these people meet together, among other things, the Swedish Security Service, the Police Authority and the Social Services, who take adequate measures. Each returnee is assessed individually by the Security Service on the basis of the person's possible intention and ability to commit a terrorist offence or serious violent crime, both on the return itself and afterwards. The Government's national strategy against terrorism is the starting point for Sweden's long-term work in this area. The strategy aims to create a clear structure for the work needed to prevent violent extremism and counter terrorist crime. The broad political agreements on counter-terrorism from 2015 and 2017 are also important cornerstones of this work. The majority of the measures decided have also been implemented. For example, on behalf of the government, authorities have developed support and guidance for various actors, such as staff working in schools, social services or in prisons. The government has also set up CVE, Centre Against Violent Extremism, at the Crime Prevention Council. CVE is developing knowledge-based and cross-sectoral efforts to prevent violent extremism at national, regional and local level, including by providing needs-oriented support to local actors, by being a hub of knowledge and by contributing to a higher degree of efficiency and coordination of prevention efforts. To further develop efforts to individuals who are involved in violent extremism or who are convicted of various crimes, the Police Authority, the Prison Service, the National Board of Health and Welfare and the National Board of Institutional Affairs have been commissioned by the Government to strengthen and develop the work of support for defectors from criminal, violent extremist and honorary environments. The purpose of the assignment is to create long-term sustainable conditions for more individuals to have access to such support. Preventing radicalisation and recruitment to violent extremism and prosecuting individuals who have committed serious crimes in Syria and Iraq are high priorities of the government and our authorities. I have full confidence in the work of the authorities on these issues.
i-027bc6aff6ea60ad-500	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. The Islamic State, IS, is an Islamic, militant terrorist group that has committed genocide and committed brutal violations of human rights – yes, I do not even think we can repeat all the horrors in this House. They have also recruited warriors from all over the world, including from Sweden. Now the caliphate has fallen, but the threat of Islamism is not over yet. The security threat to Sweden is increased and is also expected to increase in the next few years. What we know today is that about 300 Swedes have travelled to join the world's worst terrorist organisation and that Sweden is at the top, as number three counted per capita, when it comes to people who have joined IS. About half of those who have travelled this spring had returned to Sweden. Almost no one has been convicted of anything – I know it is about three people – and the environments where they have been radicalised remain. This is stated by Mr Säpo in the latest annual report. At the same time, the returnees are deemed to have both the ability and experience of committing attacks. The combined terrorist threat to Sweden remains at an elevated level, which means that terrorist attacks can occur in Sweden. The Security Service is currently assessing that the threat of the violent right-wing environment is at the same level as the threat from the violent Islamic extremist environment. The main threat of the attack is estimated to come from lonely people who, in addition to an ideological drive, can have personal reasons for their actions. An attack would probably be carried out by quite simple means. Madam President, I would like I'm worried. The extreme groups pose a long-term threat, and they also engage in support activities such as the financing of terrorist activities, radicalisation and recruitment. Support activities increase the growth and room for manoeuvre of people in violent extremist environments, which in turn affects the threat of the attack. I wrote this interpellation a few weeks ago. It was just when Kurdish self-government expelled three women for life, when the authorities there judged women to be a security threat. According to the Ministry for Foreign Affairs, Sweden has an obligation to receive the Swedish citizens, which we have also done. Kurdish self-government wants Sweden to try women legally because they are suspected of war crimes, among other things. It has now been reported in various media that these women were released after interrogation and are free to move around in society. In one case, we can read that the woman was released with a train ticket and a number for the social services in hand. How, then, has it actually been possible to assess whether they are still radical and can pose a danger to society? Thus, these women have for many years belonged to the convinced radicalized core of the terror cult of an IS. They're the last ones to leave it. They do not leave it voluntarily but are the last strong core. The Swedish Security Service sees that people in violent extremist environments exploit gaps in Swedish legislation in other areas and often commit crimes other than ideologically motivated crimes. This could be organised crime and a systematic abuse of the welfare system. All the crime they commit – theft, hoarding, fraud, subsidy crimes and so on – generates room for manoeuvre for key individuals, networks and groups within the violent extremist environments. This is not the way we can actually have it. If we need to close gaps in the law, we have to do it. The security in Sweden must be increased, and we must put Sweden in order.
i-027bc6aff6ea60ad-509	Madam President, I would like I share very much of Alexandra Anstrell's problem description. Perhaps the worst terrorist cult in modern times has ravaged Syria and Iraq, and they recruited people from around the world – also from Sweden. We now have a responsibility to bring them to justice for the crimes they may have committed. The attitude of the Swedish Government has been clear all along, namely that we primarily believe that accountability should take place in the region. There it is close to evidence, to victims and to those affected by the terrible war that has been going on down there. Now it turns out that Kurdish regional self-government has expelled a number of women and perhaps will expel some more women. The women who are expelled are exactly the women for whom Kurdish self-government has not had evidence of having engaged in terrorism. They're the ones you show. These women are therefore being deported to Sweden, and we will then make an assessment of whether we can lead in proof that they have committed a criminal act. There is a difference between Denmark and Sweden that is interesting. Very many of these people travelled early to the region, and this is where they come back. In fact, it became criminal to travel for terrorist purposes only in 2016, and by then the vast majority had already left. So those who come back now went before tightening up the legislation. I say this because I think it must be understood that Denmark has had legislation on dealing with terrorism since the beginning of the 21st century. It is only now that Sweden has had a joint crime, so here there is a historical debt that means that some of the people who have travelled down can not be judged for that particular type of crime. However, they may be convicted of other crimes. Denmark has it easier. If these women have been involved and travelled, it is likely that Denmark will be able to condemn them for crimes. I think that the Moderates have had a very high tone in this debate – a bit too loud, I think, given how serious this issue is. What is a bit complicated is that the authorities have signaled, waved the flag and said that we need to tighten up the legislation. They have said that we need to have anti-terrorism legislation and that we need to have the classification of related crimes. If we had it when these people went down, we could have judged them now. Now we don't, so now we're gonna have to work the long way instead. Then we will have to use the serious crimes that these people may have committed. It may be that women, for example, have used child soldiers, used slaves, or taken possession of property in war areas. These are serious war crimes for which they can be convicted. We in Sweden are very good on the prosecution side and in the police. We have special units in both prosecutors and police investigating this type of international crime. We are one of the few countries that have been able to convict people of crimes in the context of these conflicts. As I said in my reply, there is no limitation period in many of these parts, and we will continue to investigate this to see if they have committed crimes. Nevertheless, I would like to warn against describing this very carelessly. The Swedish Security Service makes individual assessments of the people who come to Sweden, and it is not everyone who comes back to Sweden who still has their opinion. On the contrary, some are rather disappointed by their existence. However, this does not apply to everyone. Some are radicalized and have come into contact with violence. Then it is important that the Security Service has control of it and can take action if necessary.
i-027bc6aff6ea60ad-519	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. I agree that it would have been good to have relevant legislation in place earlier. On the one hand, the Swedish Security Service spends a lot of resources identifying and assessing people who pose a security threat to Sweden. Some 200 people have been given an expulsion order, but only one third of these decisions have been enforced because of enforcement obstacles. This means that persons assessed by the Swedish Security Service are still in Sweden and can engage in security-threatening activities. Säpo feels that this is a problem – they feel that they cannot just ignore people who pose a security threat because expulsion decisions cannot be enforced. Säpo says that this affects their effectiveness because they need to continue to spend time and resources assessing and targeting threat mitigation measures against these people because they can carry out harmful activities if they remain in Sweden. On the other hand, we also welcome more people – in the case we are talking about at the moment three people who were expelled for life by Kurdish self-government. At home in Sweden, Säpo estimates that extreme groups pose a long-term threat, as they engage in various support activities such as financing terrorist activities, radicalisation and recruitment. Support activities increase the growth and room for manoeuvre of people in violent extremist environments, which in turn affects the threat of the attack. Madam President, I would like I don't know how to rhetorically try to explain this logically, because it doesn't really make sense. These women have lived in the caliphate and supported IS. We don't know how much they've been involved. They have returned to Sweden, and it is almost as if everything were as usual. But I really don't think it's supposed to be that casual. Peder Hyllengren, analyst at the Swedish Defence University, has spoken about Sweden's reception. He says that the management of the returnees can best be summed up as a fiasco. According to him, Sweden is failing both in prosecuting those who travelled to IS and in receiving the returnees. There is no national strategy for the de-radicalisation of former IS travellers, but instead the responsibility of social services lies with the municipalities to which the returnees belong. This will, of course, be a problem. I wonder how social services in Haninge, Flen or Årjäng will receive the support they need to deal with people that another state deems a security threat. Is it the LVM that is their best tool? Shouldn't there be a national plan and someone who's a process owner for this? With the information we have from Mr Säpo and others, I do not feel reassured so far, Madam President. How does the Minister intend to ensure that these returnees do not increase radicalisation in Sweden on our sports grounds, in our schools, in our recreation centres and so on?
i-027bc6aff6ea60ad-529	Madam President, I would like This discussion I think the Moderates should also have with Beatrice Ask. She was Minister of Justice and chose to ignore the government's warning that we did not have legislation that prevented people from going down to the so-called caliphate or to the war zone. It is because we did not have such legislation in place that we cannot now use that kind of legislation. Now we've introduced it. Now, however, no one is traveling, so now they are not condemned for the trips. If, on the other hand, they contribute to the financing of terrorist activities, we can judge them today. If they are involved in terrorist crimes, we can judge them today, because we have tightened up that legislation. In a rule of law, you have to have proof that someone has done something criminal – that's how we want Sweden and the world to work. When Kurdish self-government came to the conclusion that they had no evidence to convict these women, they expelled them. However, it says something that they did not have the evidence themselves – otherwise they would have taken legal action themselves. We're not gonna give up. We may have better cooperation with international actors, such as IIIM and Unitad, with whom Sweden cooperates very closely to collect, for example, battlefield information and to see what information is available. Perhaps this is the most documented conflict in the history of the world. There are many images from mobile phones and digital records that can be used at any time when that evidence becomes clear to convict people of crimes that have been committed. Of course social services have a job here. I believe that all social services have decided to take care of children because they feel that the parents have not taken the responsibility that they need to do in their role. They have travelled there or handled the children in that environment. I think that social services have done this in a commendable way. When it comes to radicalisation, it is much more difficult. It is a broader issue. Many activities, such as schools, have a responsibility to detect radical phenomena and counteract them. We have Islamic terror and radicalisation in Sweden. We have also had right-wing nationalist environments in Sweden. It is not simply to get to grips with this. Evidence of criminal acts must always be found in order to intervene. This is something I know that not least CVE and other authorities work with and take very seriously. However, I really wish that we had had more stringent legislation when these people went, because it would have changed the whole equation of this. That would've been good. I have great confidence in the authorities that are now working together. This is important to say, because we in Sweden did not choose to go down with military transport planes and bring home women and children from these camps but made sure that they paid their own flight tickets when they were expelled. However, we have organised the reception. I would like to say to this House that this was the Security Service's strong recommendation to us – if they are expelled, it should be organised. That is exactly how we have done in these cases, and that is exactly how we will do it in the future if there are more expulsions of women in cases where Kurdish self-government does not have proof that crime has been committed.
i-027bc6aff6ea60ad-538	Madam President, I would like It feels a bit like the Minister just points out that the problem would have been solved if we had had the legislation on travel on the ground. I don't know if that's what the minister means. However, I believe that more efforts are needed. Although social services have taken care of children, which I think is good, these people, which one might still think are quite radicalized, remain out in our society. We have talked about the three women who have now come to Sweden. We can also take similar cases instead of discussing specific people. I think there are differences between people who have voluntarily chosen to come to Sweden and the women who have now been expelled here. SVT's reporter Sanna Klinghoffer said in September that this will be a bigger challenge. These women have been the last hard core that wanted to be in this caliphate with this conviction. Breaking a strong conviction about a particular ideology is extremely difficult, especially if you don't want to. How do the Minister and the Government believe that Sweden's municipalities and social services should deal with this issue? It is about de-radicalising people who have come here, but have not done so by free will, and who are actually radicalized and do not want to change. Madam President, I would like Extreme groups use very advanced recruitment strategies, I have studied. Recruiters are often charismatic people who seek out vulnerable people and offer solutions to what they think they lack in their lives, such as community and sense of belonging. Ideology often comes later. This can be done on social media but also on the football field or similar. I do not feel confident that we can ensure that returnees do not increase radicalisation in Sweden – in our recreation centres, in our schools, in the sports field or just outside.
i-027bc6aff6ea60ad-544	Madam President, I would like I very much regret that the then government did not criminalise both this type of travel and interact with these terrorist organisations. If it had, we would have been able to prosecute anyone who came home. Then they'd be in jail. The Correctional Service could have been working on de-radicalisation programs. Now we have to find new evidence that they have committed criminal acts, so it's harder now. It is more difficult than in Denmark, which had this legislation. It is clear that there is a great deal of responsibility on the part of those who were responsible for government when it went and these people went because it was not criminalised and thus did not become a criminal act to go there. Now I have great confidence that both the prosecutor and the police are working on finding evidence. We have also signed an agreement – and have several agreements in progress – to obtain even better access to evidence in order to convict people who have been in this region and may have committed war crimes and other violence. We will continue to do so. My message is that no one who committed crimes in this region can be safe. There is very rarely a limitation period for this serious type of crime, and then you can never go safe in Sweden. We will continue to work on this. It is not an easy matter to deal with, but I have great confidence that our authorities are taking this very seriously, including social services, which are doing a great deal of work not least to take care of children in a difficult situation.
i-027bc6aff6ea60ad-547	Madam President, I would like Thomas Morell has asked me whether I still conclude that there is a fear in the government that can slow down an effective fight against crime. At the outset, I would like to draw the attention of the interpeller to the fact that, in the article to which the interpeller refers, I am speaking in my capacity as party representative and not in this context in the voice of the government. My statement was about a reflection on the political debate over time and should therefore not in any way be confused with the government or the government's policies. Having said that, I would like to stress that I and the government are working intensively to combat crime throughout the country. An accessible police force, a strong judicial system, good cooperation between stakeholders and effective legislation are important starting points for reducing crime and increasing security in society. The expansion of the Police Authority is a central part of the work, and the government is making a historic effort on the agency. As a result, the Agency's appropriations have increased considerably. The Police Authority has never had more employees than this year, and the achievement of the target of 10,000 more police workers by 2024 continues with full force. In addition, the Government has launched two new police training courses and initiated a new and faster admission process to the programme and is working to increase the attractiveness of the police profession. In this year's autumn change budget, the Swedish Police Authority's funding will also be increased by SEK 500 million in 2021. This is done in order to ensure the continued growth of the Agency and to strengthen the ability of the Police Authority to prevent, investigate and prosecute crimes. At the same time, when the police are given more resources, pressure in the rest of the judiciary increases. In order to strengthen the ability of law enforcement authorities to meet the increased inflow of serious and unsolicited crimes, the government proposes in the budget for 2022 investments in the Swedish Public Prosecutor's Office, the Swedish Financial Crime Agency, the National Board of Forensic Medicine and the Swedish Customs Administration. It is also proposed to strengthen the criminal services and the capacity of the Swedish courts. This will contribute to a legally secure and effective chain of justice. At the same time, the causes of crime must be combated. One way is to prevent children and young people from being drawn into criminal environments. It is important that municipalities carry out effective crime prevention work. The Government is therefore preparing proposals to introduce a statutory responsibility for municipalities to conduct crime prevention work. The initiative mainly covers actions from 2023, but the government also allocates funds to the 2022 budget proposal for certain preparatory actions. Work is also continuing in the field of criminal law. No one has recently proposed that the so-called youth reduction should be abolished for people aged 18 to 20 in the event of serious crime. The proposal means that young adults who commit serious crimes will be sentenced to longer prison sentences. The legislative amendments are proposed to enter into force on 2 January 2022. In August, we also received the report of the Gangal Crime Investigation with a series of criminal law proposals against crime in criminal networks. The report is now being consulted. The government's response to crime is the most comprehensive ever in Sweden, and together with the special measures taken to increase cooperation between the actors involved, crime is being combated from several quarters at the same time. I and the government are determined to continue working against crime, and we have no plans to slow down. There is no fear in the government that can slow down effective action against crime.
i-027bc6aff6ea60ad-555	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. That was a long answer to a short question. But it's interesting that you get such a solid accounting. In fact, I had to say that I was about to choke on the three coffees when I read Aftonbladet's article. How can you be anxious if you want to tighten up the legislation? I couldn't get that thing together. The laws are passed in this house on a democratic basis. Everyone has the right to participate and influence, so that we have legislation that is good and effective. It can never be racist in any way. The book doesn't care where you come from. If you commit a murder, an assault, a rape or whatever it may be, the law book does not consider who you are. The law book determines the punishment for the crime committed. Then the court shall impose the penalty in a judgment. I did not quite understand Mikael Damberg's reasoning. That's why I wrote this interpellation. We have discussed the impact of crime on society and how it affects the security of ordinary citizens on so many occasions. And so it says in a newspaper article that the Government says that you were anxious to be considered a racist – when we're just talking about tightening up the legislation to get to grips with crime. The interpellation response states that the Government does not speak for the government but as a party representative. However, when you read the first paragraph of the article, the impression is that it is a government representative who answers I look forward to an explanation for it. The party wants to make it possible, among other things, to evict criminals in order to clean up segregated residential areas. "There was an anxiety earlier to describe some problems, one did not want to be seen as racist and so on," says Mikael Damberg (S). When I read it, I interpret it as a response from a government representative, not a representative of the Social Democrats. Is it the case that the government has a feeling of anxiety about tightening up the legislation to tackle the serious crime that we have discussed here today in several debates, when people die on our streets, it blows up and there is other serious crime? I am amazed when I read such an article, for I cannot understand anxiety. I'm sorry, but I don't understand it. The law is independent of any such assessment. The judiciary shall act on the basis of the crime committed. I would like clarification on this issue.
i-027bc6aff6ea60ad-560	Madam President, I would like No, the government has no anxiety about tightening up the legislation. We've tightened up 60 sentences, and there's a lot more to come. The Swedish law is equal for everyone. There's no anxiety there. I spoke on a completely different matter. We Social Democrats are about to go to party congress. I was interviewed about the criminal policy section of the program. It was a rather broad discussion that was about everything possible, for example that we want it to be easier to evict criminals who terrorise an entire residential area and conduct criminal activities in their apartment. It's not weird. On the other hand, there has been a discussion which has not least been marked by the rhetoric of the Swedish democrats who have wanted to make the whole of crime policy an immigration issue. There are many Social Democrats who have reacted to it and who have felt that it has been unfair. In the poorest residential areas, 95 - 98% are honest. They get up in the morning and go to work. They're fighting to make ends meet. They are very tired that it is constantly depicted as that because of their origin and identity they would in some way be criminals or have easier to be criminals. That is the debate that I believe has prevented some Social Democrats from being sufficiently clear in the discussion. The reception of refugees has hit some residential areas very hard. We have had a very liberal legislation in Sweden with labour immigration, EBO legislation and a school money system that has allowed our poorest residential areas to work in constant headwinds. My conclusion is that a policy of equality is needed that evens out the conditions. Otherwise, more problems are created with integration. There is a growing segregation that can then, in its extension, also drive crime in a society. I think that's what we've seen in society. I'm not afraid to have that discussion. I'm not worried. I've seen that there are other people who have been anxious. Then they have been anxious to be associated with the rhetoric and ideology of the Swedish Democrats. I can understand that to some extent.
i-027bc6aff6ea60ad-567	I would remind you that the interpellation debate is an examination of the government's actions and sounds and not a general political debate.
i-027bc6aff6ea60ad-568	Madam President, I would like I still have to answer the statement. I've never ever singled out anyone special for committing a crime. I always start from the law book and who has done what. Brå has also noted that there is some over-representation. You can't turn a blind eye to that. That is why it is so unfortunate when it is a statement from a government representative. However, it is in this way that, although it was an interview about the election manifesto of the Social Democrats, the Minister is representative of the government. I interpreted the article as saying that the government was anxious to take tough punishments against anyone who commits crimes. Of course, there are many who are concerned. If there is any hesitation among the country's representatives in the government to take action against serious crime, there is a concern out there. The people who live in these areas are affected by this on a daily basis at this very moment. We don't know what happened outside this house while we've been debating. I have been in the debate quite a few times and talked about the importance of attacking crime because it is a poison in society. I am often told that preventive measures must be taken. This can be done among the young people who live and live in the areas. But what we have also talked about several times and even today are the international criminal networks operating in Sweden. You can never act preventively against them. They grow up in a completely different part of the world, and we don't know where. But they come here and commit serious crimes. Then the legislation will have to face up to that. I do not see why one should be anxious about tightening up the legislation to counter this poison in our social body, because that is what it is all about. It is possible to prevent those individuals on whom you have your hands, that is to say our own citizens. But you can never prevent crime when it comes to those who grow up in another environment outside the control of the Swedish state but who come here and commit crimes. Then the law must also reach it clearly and forcefully. After serving the sentence, the whole hand points out that they will return to their homeland, and with deportation for life. You have to fight hard, or we won't get to it. With anxiety, we will not solve this.
i-027bc6aff6ea60ad-577	Madam President, I would like I have already replied that the entire interview was about what decisions the Social Democrats would make at our Congress. I can't be much clearer in the article than that. I have also said very clearly that the government does not feel any anxiety. Then we wouldn't have sharpened 60 sentences. Then we would not wait for the Gang Crime Investigation, which is proposing to tighten the penalties even further, not least for gang-related crime, inspired by Denmark. Then we would not have tightened the penalties for the systematic thefts we talked about here earlier or burglary. There's no fear in us. On the other hand, there is a major discussion about how not least the Swedish Democrats describe people with foreign backgrounds. It's kind of recurring. I wouldn't say Morell's the worst in the class. But there will be revelations every and every two weeks, and not least today, how there are links between officials of the Swedish Democrats and the white power environment in Sweden. These are terrible revelations. This is not the first revelation. I believe that there is a racist agenda linked to the Swedish Democrats who also people in these areas feel, unfortunately. I wish it wasn't like that. I would like all parties in Sweden to see people as these individuals and that we did not have such a discussion in Sweden. I'm afraid we do. It is the Swedish Democrats who spread that poison in the public debate, and I regret that. That is also why we Social Democrats have said that we do not want to cooperate politically with the Swedish Democrats.
i-027bc6aff6ea60ad-582	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. I have many friends who come from other countries. It is often pointed out from my friends that they feel that what happens in society affects them in a negative way. They work and do well, have families and run businesses. They're decent ordinary citizens. There is no reason whatsoever to point to them and say that they are a concern. It is they who commit crimes that are a concern. Then it is whether it is domestic criminals, that is, those whom we have raised ourselves, or those who come from outside, go in across the country's borders, commit crimes and then go out again. That is what we need to focus on attacking. It doesn't have a sphere to do with where they come from. What this is about is the crime they actually commit. You shoot another person to death. You beat someone up. You rape someone, or whatever it is. Then the state must face up to a clear process with a trial based on laws passed in this house. They must also be powerful. There must be no anxiety about tightening up legislation to tackle this poison in society. Then I resent the claim that I would somehow make a difference to people. I don't. I have many friends who are foreign-born, that is, foreign-born. I've never made a difference to anyone in my life. I'd like an apology for that.
i-027bc6aff6ea60ad-588	Madam President, I would like The law applies equally to everyone in Sweden. That is why we are fighting the crime that exists in Sweden with legal certainty and legislation. Then it doesn't matter what your background is and what your opinions are on different issues. If you've committed a crime, you're going to pay for it, and ultimately you're going to jail. We're already tightening up some sixty sentences. We will continue to tighten the penalties especially for gang crime that characterises Sweden. There is no anxiety in this. On the other hand, there is a poison in the social debate that I believe the Swedish Democrats are contributing to. It is a division into Sweden, a cruder tone in politics. It is always the case that immigrants are the problem for Sweden. I think it's boring. Then the vast majority of people who have a background in another country are invisible. They work and do the right thing and do everything they can to make their children grow up well in our country. I don't like that argument. I think it's wrong. That is what is the poison in the social debate right now and which I, too, am reacting very strongly to.
