i-f217afa7c8b684bb-3	Madam President, I would like Alexandra Anstrell has asked me if I have taken any initiatives to carry out an overall analysis to examine the effects of how the large-scale wind energy noise affects our citizens and how it can be better regulated, and whether I intend to initiate more research to study how people are affected in the long term by wind energy noise. Furthermore, Alexandra Anstrell has asked whether I would like to initiate a parliamentary Commission tasked with carrying out risk analysis and working towards establishing democratic strategies for onshore and offshore wind power. Let me begin with the fact that, on a proposal from the government, Parliament has adopted the target of 100% renewable electricity generation by 2040. Wind power is now expanding sharply, and I expect that further expansion will help to make the climate transition possible. V indk power plants can under certain conditions generate noise with a character that increases the risk of disturbance. There may also be significant low-frequency noise. This is addressed and described in the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's revised guidance on noise emissions from wind turbines published in December 2020. According to guidance a guide value for outdoor noise should be tightened if the sound recurrent and apparent t varies in strength and character, what is called amplitude modulation. The Swedish Public Health Agency has issued general guidelines with guidelines that also include low noise, and the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has clarified that these guidelines should be taken into account when planning one of the new wind farms. The Environmental Protection Agency's guidance also describes the study on sleep disorders referred to by Alexandra Anstrell. The aim of the study was to investigate the effects of wind noise on sleep and was conducted with indoor levels higher than those permitted in Sweden. The results are therefore not directly transferable to Swedish conditions. It cannot be excluded that sleep can be affected by wind energy noise that varies significantly in strength and character, but the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has assessed that the risk for it is small. On the issue of research, I refer once again to the research programme Vindval, which has been going on for many years and covers the impact of wind power on people, nature and the environment. The programme is managed and financed by the Swedish National Agency for Environmental Protection and the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency. Within Vindval, work is now under way to produce a report summarising the impact of wind power on people, including the consequences of noise. The report will be published later this year. In addition to the research within Vindval, there is also a more technically oriented programme called Vind-el. In addition, the Energy Authority is undertaking efforts to build up competence and knowledge of wind power among different actors both locally and regionally. Even if more research on how people are affected in the long term by wind turbines' noise would be welcome, the guidelines we have today are well balanced. In comparison with the negative health effects accepted from other noise sources in society, wind noise has a relatively strict regulation. Therefore, I do not see any reason to review today's regulation or initiate further research into the impact of wind power on people. In response to the question of establishing democratic strategies for wind power, I would like to highlight the recent investigation into the municipal power of wind power deployment. The purpose of the investigation was, among other things, to make the environmental assessment of wind power plants on land more legally secure and predictable, which are important elements of the democratic anchoring of wind power expansion. The report of the inquiry was transmitted on 22 June 2021 and has now been referred. In January this year, the Directors-General of the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and the Swedish Energy Agency presented a common national strategy for sustainable wind power expansion. The aim of the strategy is to create the conditions for the future development of wind power to be sustainable and with a greater degree of consensus and predictability. In the case of offshore wind power, it is estimated to be able to contribute to meeting energy and climate policy objectives as well as future increasing electricity needs and efficient electricity grid development. The Government Office is currently preparing proposals for national sea plans. The purpose of the marine plans is to contribute to long-term sustainable development. The maritime plans will provide guidance to authorities and municipalities in the planning and testing of claims for use of the areas covered by the plans, so that the areas can be used for the purpose or purposes for which they are most suitable, taking into account the nature, location and needs of the areas concerned. The plans shall also promote co-existence between different activities and uses. In marine plans, areas where energy extraction is deemed to be the most appropriate use will be identified. In summary, a number of activities are underway to create the conditions for the future sustainable expansion of wind power, as well as with a greater degree of consensus and predictability. I therefore see no reason to initiate a parliamentary Commission or now take any further action on land- and offshore wind power. Finally, I would like to repeat earlier answers to Alexandra Anstrell: I intend to continue to follow the issue of wind power closely, to promote coexistence between wind power and other interests, and to exploit the potential of wind power produced electricity effectively contributing to Sweden becoming the world's first fossil-free welfare country.
i-f217afa7c8b684bb-17	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister Bolund – it was time for a Friday with Bolund again! In this interpellation, I ask the Minister for the Environment and Climate Action a number of questions about the noise generated by wind turbines. Madam President, I would like I have learned that obviously low-frequency noise is often perceived as more disturbing than any other noise. Common residential facades and windows often have poor sound insulation for low frequencies, and the low frequency sound can also be reinforced indoors – perhaps especially in old wooden houses in the country that were built quite a long time ago. Therefore, it is not uncommon that the experience of low-frequency noise is stronger indoors than outdoors, which of course also applies to wind energy noise. Last summer, I met a man named Torbjörn. His house is so badly placed, it's between two wind farms. Torbjörn told me that he had to camp this summer because his house has become like a resonance box. It is by no means reasonable for Torbjörn or any other person to have to get caught in this way. When I ask Minister Bolund about noise, however, the answer is that the guide values we have today are well balanced. I wonder what the Minister actually says to a person whose house has become a resonance box that can no longer be lived in on the same premise. I don't think that's fair. I do not think that is how we should treat our citizens. Madam President, I would like The most common inconveniences caused by environmental noise are disturbance and sleep disturbances. In Finland, scientific studies have been carried out on possible adverse effects on human health of infrasounds from wind turbines. One study showed that wind turbines changed the sound environment of homes in an urban direction. I think that anyone who has chosen to live in, for example, Kaxås or Borgvattnet probably does not long for an urban sound environment – quite the opposite. What we know is that wind power noise affects people's experience of the recovery effect of sleep and that it also has a significant impact on dream sleep. This is shown by a study from the University of Gothenburg. Those who live less than a kilometer from a wind farm both sleep worse and have shorter dream sleep than others. Sleep is important to our health. It is needed for us to recover, for us to be able to process all the impressions and for us to be able to cope more easily with stress and stress during the day. It also reduces the risk of disease. Maybe it's hard not to sleep for a few nights-- we've probably all tried that for different reasons-- but luckily, it's not dangerous. The problem is whether it will be prolonged and sleeping difficulties will persist so that it will be difficult to deal with them. You work worse in almost every way if you don't get a good sleep. Then it's a little harder to cope with all the stress. The immune system is deteriorating, which makes it easier to get sick. Sleep also affects the brain center for satiety and hunger. You can feel hungry, have a bad blood sugar balance and so on. So there are vital processes in the body when we sleep. If we don't get a good night's sleep, they'll be out of action. But the Minister seems to see no reason to review today's regulation or initiate further research into the impact of wind power on people, even though the Minister wants to see such a huge expansion of wind power in Sweden. It won't sound any less. Madam President, I would like In my world, this doesn't make sense.
i-f217afa7c8b684bb-27	Madam President, I would like It is of course important that different social interests can be met and a reasonable balance can be struck between them. I hope and believe that Alexandra Anstrell and I share that view. This also applies, of course, to wind power. That is why I am pleased that wind power has really been examined with regard to a great many different dimensions, not least when it comes to noise. Our expert authorities, which I would probably judge are larger experts than Alexandra Anstrell and myself, have also made assessments. My question to Alexandra Anstrell is: should we not trust our experts and expert authorities when they set limit values for, for example, wind energy noise? The clear-cut picture, and the answer we get, is that wind power is strictly regulated compared to many other sources of noise. I would like to hear a little about Alexandra Anstrell's view on this. Is wind energy noise particularly important for Alexandra Anstrell? We should be able to agree that noise is a social problem. Many studies have been carried out to show that noise creates challenges in society. It creates health problems and problems for people's well-being. My view is that we should deal with noise in general and do what we can to reduce the problems of noise that interfere with people's lives, no matter where they live in our country. For example, the government has recently made it possible for the police to strike at those who pollute with very high noise in the form of music from cars driving on our streets in cities in Sweden. The police can give them immediate fines. One can then prevent the conflict and prevent people from waking up from sleep, children in families with children from sleeping at night or the elderly in our homes from getting their night sleep. My view is that we have a responsibility to act against noise wherever it comes from and what source it has. However, I do not hear that Alexandra Anstrell is there, but she is, as usual, focused on finding problems and challenges related to wind power all the time, in every interpellation debate. She keeps feeding on problem descriptions. I wonder what the real purpose of Alexandra Anstrell is for this way of working. Is the purpose of questioning wind power development? That's not what you hear from officially from the Moderates... when I've debated with Moderates' environmental spokesperson Jessica Rosencrantz, she's said the Moderates are in favour of wind power. But the only thing Alexandra Anstrell talks about when she is in the speaker's chair are challenges, difficulties and obstacles. She keeps saying that the expansion of wind power is just a problem. I'm worried. I'm talking to industry and business and hearing what they're asking us for. An example of this is an article in Today's Industry that came just a few weeks ago where representatives of some of Sweden's heaviest industries – LKAB, Holmen, Ovako and SCA – ask us to speed up and expand wind power more because it is so essential. Their customers want clean and renewable electricity in the products they supply. Does Alexandra Anstrell think that we should listen to the need that business now has to get more clean electricity and take this into account when we balance social challenges such as noise from wind turbines? Or does Alexandra Anstrell think that we should ignore the needs of industry and only look at anecdotal stories about people affected by noise? There are many anecdotal stories about noise problems all over the country from many different sources.
i-f217afa7c8b684bb-36	Madam President, I would like Now, of course, this debate is precisely about noise linked to wind power; other debates have to be taken as usual. We need to be able to see the problems in order to do something about them. If you sweep them under the carpet, nothing will be done, but it seems to be the government's parade branch. I do not strive for an urban sound environment in the forest. Any use of energy affects our environment. For example, nature, people and animals around the power plants may be affected by the plant and the building. It is therefore important for the power plant owner to protect the surrounding environment. Building power plants and pulling power networks means a pretty strong intervention in the landscape. Building and operating production plants requires raw materials, and many energy sources, for example, generate emissions and waste. This means, of course, that we must always, no matter what, work actively to reduce environmental footprints. Solar, wind and hydro power deliver lower carbon dioxide emissions from a life cycle perspective than electricity produced from fossil energy sources. But from a life-cycle perspective, it is today nuclear power that has the smallest carbon footprint. There are few activities in society that are as important as electricity supply. Without electricity, Sweden stops, not least when we electrify even more. The supply of electricity must therefore be based on a stable basis and have a scientific and technical basis. Security of supply is also important. Not only do we need electricity when the wind blows, but I know that you may have to light a lamp from time to time even when there is still wind. Madam President, I would like I asked the Minister about a parliamentary Commission that could be tasked with carrying out a risk analysis and working on establishing democratic strategies for onshore and offshore wind power. I was given the answer that an investigation proposes to remove the municipal veto. I don't really know what went wrong here. I do not know whether my question was totally misunderstood or whether the Minister seriously thinks that a process can become more democratic if a municipality cannot have a veto on such a big issue as a wind farm. Or is it just that it is not democracy that one is looking for in this case, but only what the Minister and his party think is the right thing for Sweden? Madam President, I would like The government's policy is going in very many directions completely in the wrong direction in terms of environmental policy. Emissions are falling too slowly, and because the measures are only symbolic policies, the credibility of this debate on wind energy does not actually feel very high either. Whatever we do and whatever steps we take, we must be careful that we know that it is the best thing for the future of our children and grandchildren. With the research we have today, I cannot say that this is the case.
i-f217afa7c8b684bb-47	Madam President, I would like I am pleased that Alexandra Anstrell says that noise is a general problem. I look forward to a lot of interpellation debates where Alexandra Anstrell also asks questions about traffic noise, noise from industrial facilities or the conflicts that arise in cities where entertainment facilities want to play high music while local residents may find it difficult and disturbing for night sleep. It would be very exciting to have a debate with Alexandra Anstrell about something that not only affects her resistance to wind power. I have missed such debates, but I look forward to them coming forward. It is clear what is Alexandra Anstrell's underlying motives. What she is asking for is a parliamentary Commission that will only work on one issue, namely the one that Alexandra Anstrell seems to be stuck in, that is, wind power. It is not about working to deal with noise problems in general or to discuss challenges related to our goal of becoming a fossil-free society, but Alexandra Anstrell has, as usual, a one-sided focus on painting huge problems linked to wind power. I also think it is worrying about Alexandra Anstrell's hints that we should direct research and decide what research funding should be used for and which areas that researchers should devote their time and resources to. I think this is a rather dangerous attitude. I have the very obvious opinion, because I myself have been a researcher before, that it is very good if we make sure that there are research funds that can be used to research widely on social issues. There is a research programme, Vindval, which has worked for many years. There we ensure that there are funds set aside and time for researchers to delve into issues related to wind power and all the challenges and goals that exist around wind power, just as there is about all other issues in society. It is absolutely excellent that we have looked at a great many aspects, both noise and other issues related to wind power, and have had very much and clear research results. Something tells me that Alexandra Anstrell will never ever be satisfied, no matter how much research is done and no matter how many studies show that wind power is more heavily regulated than other social functions when it comes to noise, because Alexandra Anstrell has a mission to constantly sow doubts about wind power. There's a very old story about Quijote Quixote fighting windmills. And something tells me that Alexandra Anstrell is the Quijote Quixote of our modern age who is fighting against the windmills we have today, that is, the wind turbines, and who are now helping us so much in the transition to a sustainable society and energy supply. Wind power will overtake nuclear power in the next few years in the production of pure renewable electricity. As I said, our industry says very clearly: What we and our customers are asking for and what gives us competitiveness in the global markets is that Sweden continues to invest in wind power, in renewable electricity. That's what our customers want. It would be desirable for the Moderates, too, to listen to the stakeholders of the heavy industry at some point and to hear what they are asking for. I would really like to point out that the technology is progressing very quickly in terms of wind power. What we are seeing now is that no more wind turbines will be needed than those we have today to increase production, but what is happening is replacing old, inefficient wind turbines with new ones that produce considerably more. The development that I see is that we will have a very strong expansion of wind power at sea. There, too, the conflicts that Alexandra Anstrell so much likes to highlight here in the speaker's chair, such as noise problems for local residents, are greatly reduced. It's something Alexandra Anstrell should appreciate if she wasn't against wind power.
i-f217afa7c8b684bb-56	Madam President, I would like The Minister talks a lot about reasonable balances. I think that is exactly what needs to be done, but is not done today, and is not included in the Minister's speech. The Minister is also talking about more debates on noise. Then I think, Madam President, that we will have to wait until we have replaced this government, and he himself will have to ask the questions about this. The Minister speaks to me in his answers about this with wind power and that Sweden will become the world's first fossil-free welfare country. Fossil-free means that electricity is not produced directly from fossil fuels such as oil, coal and gas. In Sweden, fossil-free electricity comes from nuclear power and renewable energy sources, especially from hydropower. The increase in the number of wind turbines and their altitudes is a huge interference in our nature. This is something that Minister Bolund refuses to answer. The intervention in nature is much greater now than when hydroelectric power was once expanded, and I know how the debate went then. Does the Minister really want all these interventions on our environment to be done without sufficient research, without sufficient support? What does the Minister say to all the people in the countryside who have chosen to settle there, not because they are looking for an urban sound environment but because they are looking for peace, nature and many other positive effects? They feel that wind energy noise would ruin both their lives and their sleep and the whole total. Here we go forward with a lot of decisions without a solid basis. Can Minister Bolund really stand for it in front of his children, grandchildren and other descendants?
i-f217afa7c8b684bb-62	Madam President, I would like These debates sometimes ask for very clear answers, and we sometimes feel that we do not respond clearly enough. Here I would like to give an extremely clear answer to Alexandra Anstrell: yes, I understand that we have sufficient basis for decision-making in order to be able to extend renewable electricity. There has been a lot of research in Sweden and in other countries, and we have very good data and knowledge about different forms of effects of renewable electricity, such as wind power. As I said, my suspicion, which is well confirmed in every interpellation debate I have with Alexandra Anstrell, is that it absolutely doesn't matter how much knowledge and how much research is done on wind power. Alexandra Anstrell will still be against it, which I regret. I think you should listen to the research, and that's what I'm doing. I also think it is very clear that the market has chosen renewables. The market is now investing hundreds of billions in wind power development in Sweden – even solar cells are growing very fast – while it is not being invested in new nuclear power in our country and not without subsidies in any other country. The Moderates were once a market-oriented party who believed in market forces. But when it comes to renewable energy and wind power, they continue to act like Don Quijote. It continues to fight against imaginary windmills instead of affirming the technological developments that are now coming and which the industry is also so clearly asking for. Let us now use the energy sources that exist in our country and are available to us, without having to depend on other countries. This gives us greater energy security and a significant increase in energy production, where electricity can replace fossil fuels when we make steel or build new car batteries. I have to say that I find it very strange that this development cannot be welcomed. Of course, we have to deal with the conflicts that arise in the expansion of operations in Sweden, and I think that we do, and we should be happy about that.
i-f217afa7c8b684bb-69	Madam President, I would like Alexandra Anstrell has asked me what measures I intend to take to ensure that those who make environmental impact assessments their planned wind power establishment have the necessary competence and are not a dick. She has also asked how I intend to ensure that the reindeer industry can be run so that it provides a reasonable number of Sami security of supply in an ecological, economic and culturally sustainable way even around established wind farms. Wind farms are a type of activity that is subject to a permit under the Environmental Code. Depending on the size of a wind farm, the permit issue is examined either by the County Administrative Board's environmental review delegation or by the Land and Environment Court. For the purposes of the review, requirements for the assessment of the impact of an activity on public and private interests apply. They include effects on different environmental aspects and, where appropriate, on renarin genes. In addition, there are requirements for the basis for environmental impact assessment and consultation with stakeholders. Following amendments to the Environmental Code 2018, it follows that those who intend to carry out an activity, such as a wind farm, shall ensure that an environmental impact assessment is produced with the expertise required in terms of the specific conditions and expected environmental impacts of the operation. The environmental impact assessment shall also include information on how the requirement for expertise is met. In the course of the proceedings, the parties have the opportunity to object to the evidence if it is not objective or highlights the consequences sufficiently well. An account of the requirement of expertise shall also be provided. The authority examining a question of authorisation is obliged to assess whether the evidence is sufficient to enable the matter in question to be examined and thus to assess the impact that an activity may have on its environment before deciding whether to grant an authorisation or refuse an authorisation for an activity. Thus, the requirement for expertise and impartiality in the preparation of environmental impact assessments is regulated in existing legislation. What has occurred in an individual trial I cannot comment on. It is of the utmost importance that planning conditions and the latest research findings are taken into account in the planning, location and construction of future wind power parks. As has been shown by my previous answers to interpellations from Alexandra Anstrell, wind turbines will obviously not be built if the test shows that the site is suitable for various reasons. One reason may be, for example, that the place is important for reindeer husbandry. I would also like to reiterate that it is my conviction that we need to continue our efforts to find suitable locations and effective coexistence between wind power and other interests. In this way, wind power produced electricity can effectively contribute to a robust and long-term sustainable electricity supply for Sweden.
i-f217afa7c8b684bb-74	Madam President, I would like I thank Minister Bolund for his reply. In fact, the fact that the words robust and wind power produced electricity are in the same sense can be perceived as a bit bleak by some. Synonyms for robust are strong, powerful and steady. As I said in the previous debate, we do not need electricity only when the wind is blowing. Madam President, I would like I usually listen to the programme Caliber on Swedish Radio from time to time. It is an often informative program on interesting issues. One day I fell into a program of wind power when I was out running. It was about a large wind farm in Härjedalen that according to research from SLU has a negative impact on the reindeer industry. The wind farm has meant that pasture land, assembly area and reserve grazing for poor grazing winters have disappeared. An examination has revealed shortcomings in the evidence on which the authorisation granted by the Court was based. It showed that the wind power company's own study, which concluded that the reindeer industry would not be affected and which was partly the basis for the court's decision, was done by people who had no previous experience of similar studies and who had financial interests in the park, which both the county board and the court missed. I therefore chose to ask the Minister a number of questions about this, because it cannot be that we have such legal uncertainty. I have asked what measures the Minister intends to take to ensure that those who make environmental impact assessments for the planned wind power establishment have the necessary competence and are not fucked up. Here, however, I am told that everything works well and nothing needs to be addressed. Caliber provides a clear example of a case where it has not worked properly at all. Even the Minister must agree with this, even if the Minister does not, of course, speak in a specific case. But if something like this were to appear in more places, would there not be justification for a review and some small measure so that it can be ensured that the processes are legally secure? And even if it says so, you have to follow up on the fact that it really is what you have planned, and I feel that the government is not doing so at the moment.
i-f217afa7c8b684bb-81	Madam President, I would like It is an advantage to listen to each other in interpellation debates. As I said in my reply to Alexandra Anstrell, the legislation has been reviewed quite recently, and it has just strengthened the requirements of knowledge and impartiality, that there are environmental impact assessments that are comprehensive and that you have the skills to make a reasonable assessment of all the consequences that may arise. It is worth noting that the extension project referred to by Alexandra Anstrell, which was also reported on the radio, goes quite far back in time. According to the information given to me, these wind turbines were licensed in 2009, and it was then tested in 2009 and 2010. I would remind you that it was under the moderate-led government. Since then, a red-green government has taken over power and tightened the requirements for wind power establishment, tightened the requirements for environmental impact assessments and had sufficient competence to be able to carry out this type of assessment and tighten the requirements for impartiality. If Alexandra Anstrell's views were that the regulations were too bad in 2009– 2010, Alexandra Anstrell should go to her party leader and his party members and ask the question: Why did we not do enough when it was we who ruled Sweden? But Alexandra Anstrell does not seem to be particularly interested in it, but Alexandra Anstrell continues to be deeply committed in every interpellation to sow doubts and question wind power. I find it regrettable that Members do not read into the status of the issues they wish to raise in an interpellation. Here Alexandra Anstrell enters a wide-open door because we have just made the legislative changes requested by Alexandra Anstrell in her interpellation, and the instrument of interpellation is not as valuable if used for this type of purpose. However, Alexandra Anstrell raises an important issue, because this is a target conflict linked to wind power and the reindeer industry that we need to take very seriously. Here the government is working intensively, and there is a change of view on the importance of reindeer husbandry. For example, the Swedish Energy Agency's website states that the importance of reindeer husbandry in the trials that are being carried out increases with each passing year. It is written that the consideration of reindeer husbandry has increased in recent decisions compared to previous ones – for example, when the decision referred to by Alexandra Anstrell in her question was made under a moderated government and with the rules that that government had in place. However, we want to do more for the reindeer industry and have set up a parliamentary inquiry to review the whole reindeer husbandry law and replace the current reindeer husbandry law. It will work until 2025 because these are major and important issues. The study will also look at the link with other legislation and how the needs of reindeer husbandry and reindeer husbandry are taken into account in other legislation across society. Many different activities, such as tourism, driving vehicles in the environment, energy production and more, affect the reindeer industry. We take these issues very seriously. We have also contributed more money in the budget to the promotion of reindeer farming, SEK 15 million this year and another SEK 12 million next year, so now we are approaching SEK 150 million to this purpose. We must work broadly to create opportunities for the reindeer industry in our country.
i-f217afa7c8b684bb-92	Madam President, I would like I think it is important to see things as they are today and try to solve those problems and not look back. I'm looking forward. Legislation has improved, and that is a good thing. However, it is still important to consider whether things turned out and become what we have planned. It is still the one who intends to carry out an activity, such as a wind farm, that will ensure that the environmental impact assessment is carried out with the necessary expertise. How do we ensure that you have just that? That was a problem in the case I raised. What exactly is the government's follow-up? Madam President, I would like The reindeer industry is an important part of the Sami cultural heritage, and the state has an overall responsibility for the reindeer industry to continue as part of the culture. The reindeer industry should be conducted in such a way that it provides a reasonable number of Sami with a secure supply in an ecological, economic and culturally sustainable way, says the government website. In view of this and the reporting by the Caliber Kalibers programme, I chose to ask the Minister how the Minister intends to ensure that the reindeer industry can be run in such a way that it provides a reasonable number of Sami precisely secure livelihoods in an ecological, economic and culturally sustainable way even around established wind farms. But, Madam President, I do not receive much useful answers. I would have wished for more. Spending money on reindeer is good, but reindeer need food and need to be able to graze. The reindeer is a deer with a special ability to assimilate lichens. It likes to eat reindeer. Renlaven grows slowly, about 10 percent per year. The absence of lichen must be compensated by quite large amounts of other plants. The problem is that cervids have a limited capacity to assimilate fibre-rich plant material compared with cattle and sheep, for example. This means that reindeer cannot graze in the same way as a cow. A too high number of reindeer in relation to grazing material leads to a decrease in the cover, which in turn can lead to a change in landscapes and biotopes so that the soil erodes. The Sami themselves say that the major challenge for reindeer husbandry is to have sufficient pastures and to house the pasture so that biodiversity is maintained. When wind farms are built in land with lichens and mosses, the environment is naturally affected. For example, nature, humans and animals around the power plants may be affected by the plant. When lichens disappear due to the construction of many large wind turbines and the reindeer get too little bait, we need to think a little. What if there is no lava? How do the reindeer get their food? What will they live on? If the Sami cannot do reindeer farming, how does the Minister intend to ensure that reindeer farming can be carried out as the government writes and provide a reasonable number of Sami livelihoods in an ecological, economic and culturally sustainable way? I'm just wondering.
i-f217afa7c8b684bb-103	Madam President, I would like It will be very fun here in the speaker's chair when Alexandra Anstrell says that we should not look back but in its interpellation refers to a wind power test that was made in 2009 – 2010 with the then moderate-led government regulations. It will be a little difficult to have a debate if you go against what you write yourself in your interpellation. However, I think it sounds very good that Alexandra Anstrell can look at what it looks like here and now instead of referring to an old regulation. It is nevertheless clear that we have developed the regulations, and the picture given in the Swedish Radio section shows that there may have been deficiencies in the documentation regarding the reindeer body in the area. It is also clear that this basis would not have been sufficient in a trial today precisely because we have tightened the regulatory framework and because we have given the reindeer industry greater weight in trials in order to reconcile different interests. I get a little perplexed about whether Alexandra Anstrell wants to see the reality as it looks today or whether Alexandra Anstrell wants to continue to fight windmills like Don Quijote. I also refer clearly to several measures taken by the government to further promote the reindeer industry compared to today, such as the large-scale investigation that we have in place and budgetary reinforcements that we are doing. It is clear that reindeer husbandry is protected by law, both in the constitution and in individual laws. This is very important, because reindeer husbandry is important not only for the Sami but for the whole of Sweden. We have a goal for the mountain environment, namely that the environmental condition of the mountains should be good. It is clear that continued reindeer husbandry and other animal husbandry are needed to preserve a vast and pasture-specific mountain duck that offers habitats for many species. For us, this is a matter of course, and it is also what we work after every day. It is clear that not all wind power proposals, all wind power installations and all wind farms should be built, because sometimes the negative aspects for other societal functions are simply too large. I would like to broaden this issue a little. If Alexandra Anstrell really cares about the reindeer industry and not just tries to fight wind power, which Alexandra Anstrell usually engages in in all the interpellation debates that we have, she should ask herself what the great risks to the reindeer industry are in the long term. It is clear from research that the climate change that we are now seeing, which is increasing and which, according to all forecasts, will be much more powerful in the future, is a major threat to the reindeer industry. It is, for example, temperatures that vary greatly and make the soil wet, which then freezes and makes it a crowd that prevents the reindeer from getting to the lichens. That is what we will see much more of in a changing climate. There you would wish, if Alexandra Anstrell had a red thread and really meant what she said all the way, that the Moderates would stop fighting against climate policy and stop being against any proposal that our government puts on the table to reduce emissions in Sweden and really do everything they can to reduce our climate impact so that, for example, the reindeer industry and many other social functions can be maintained and not risked in a changed climate. Unfortunately, Alexandra Anstrell is not there, but, as usual, Alexandra Anstrell has only one focus in her questions and interpellations: to so doubt and problematize around wind power. Again: I think Alexandra Anstrell should listen to what is the backbone of the Swedish economy, namely our heavy industry, which is now making a rapid, powerful climate transition and replacing fossil fuels with renewable electricity. What they are saying is that they want the supply of renewable electricity and that is what their customers want. Why don't you give it to them, Alexandra Anstrell?
i-f217afa7c8b684bb-113	Madam President, I would like If the market is impoverished by a government with an environmental party that shuts down nuclear power without actually having other alternatives, it is clear that you choose what exists. We were in the middle of some fucked-up lawsuits. How can we get away with that? It is clear that the Minister does not want to look into it to see whether the legislation that we have actually works today. What is the follow-up to the results there? Can the Minister say with certainty that we do not have shitty proceedings today? I wonder. The reindeer don't care who made the decision about the wind farm, they actually just want food. That is precisely what is a problem here and now, and that is what needs to be resolved. The Minister has not answered anything about how to solve the problems here and now. Despite the sad answers, it is nevertheless rather nice that we have this debate, because it becomes clear where we stand. A vote on the Green Party is not for those who want reindeer left, nor for those who want more of their nature. If you want major interventions in your nature, you can vote for the Green Party. In fact, the Green Party is not a vote on the environment. The efforts that Minister Bolund stands by his chest make us back into the future. Nor do we get lower emissions. By the way, did you know that there are lichens, such as scallops, which grow so slowly that you can date when a glacier withdrew? By measuring the diameter of the scorpion of stones, one can calculate when the stones melted out of the ice and became possible habitats for the lichens. I wonder what our survivors will say about the scallops, if these will even remain. Or they may grow on the foundations of wind turbines that it has taken many years to build and that have done great damage in our environment.
i-f217afa7c8b684bb-118	Madam President, I would like If you do not have an answer, you can be misleading. Alexandra Anstrell is engaged with cheerful courage in her final speech, which I regret. I think we should stay too good for that in this House. We haven't shut down any nuclear power plants. On the other hand, safety requirements have been set for nuclear power plants, not least after the Fukushima disaster, which requires investment in order to have sufficient safety. There the industry itself made the assessment that there was no profitability in doing that kind of safety updates in some of Sweden's reactors. Again, the Moderates are no longer a party that believes in market forces and thinks that the market itself should decide what to invest in. Obviously, Alexandra Anstrell should be interpreted as meaning that we would not have demanded safe nuclear power without taking down the safety requirements so that the old nuclear reactors could be run on. I really want to make it clear that the government has not taken a decision to shut down nuclear power, as Alexandra Anstrell says openly but which is simply not true. If courts and review bodies suspect a conflict of interest, they have a legal responsibility to do something about it, i.e. to question the process and to demand better evidence. Again, Alexandra Anstrell is standing here pretending to be indignant and trying to break in wide open doors and asking for legislative changes that have already been made. I don't think it's really serious. However, I am always available for debates and would like to continue to debate not least wind power, because I am very proud of the development we are now seeing, where Sweden is moving rapidly towards a 100% renewable electricity generation system. This is precisely what the heavy industry, which is now investing hundreds of billions in our country, is asking for and wants to see. The government listens to those voices. The government wants to give industry the conditions it needs. I wish the Moderates were there too.
i-f217afa7c8b684bb-123	Madam President, I would like Lars Hjälmered has asked me whether the government intends to take a decision on the close-to-date disposal and what analysis I make of the consequences of a decision not being made before 31 August. Finally, Lars Hjälmered has asked me how I am arguing about dividing up the decision on final disposals according to the views of the consultation bodies and after the municipalities concerned have so clearly stated that the decisions must be taken jointly. On 26 August 2021, the Government made two decisions to allow a capacity expansion in Central Intermediate Storage for spent nuclear fuel, Clab, one under the Nuclear Technology Act and one under the Environmental Code. The Government considers that the risk of nuclear reactors being shut down on 1 January 2024 has thus been eliminated. Without this decision, Sweden could have had serious consequences if important electricity generation had ceased. The issue of the interlayer Clab needed to be broken out because the process after a government decision may be delayed. Following a government decision in a case under the Environmental Code, it is handed over to the Land and Environment Court, which will continue its proceedings in order to be able to take a decision on a permit. Such a permit may be appealed in several legal bodies. D some of the underground and final disposal cases contain very complex questions and are likely to be challenged. A final decision on the case may therefore be delayed. The decision of the Council on Clab allows the limited issue of increased intermediate storage to become final as soon as possible. My assessment remains that it is a matter of months before decisions can be taken in the other parts of the case. However, I would like to stress that the management of the case will have repercussions for generations. It is one of the biggest environmental issues in Sweden ever. It needs to be clear that the entire system is safe and lasts for a hundred thousand years. It is extremely important that it should be right. The Government will therefore send a referral to the Radiation Safety Authority and the Nuclear Waste Council in questions relating to the protection of the copper capsule and the planned capsule insert of cast iron. The municipalities of Oskarshamn and Östhammar take a great responsibility and have worked intensively on the issue of final storage. I understand that they would rather have a decision on the whole matter. The government shares their assessment that interim storage in Clab is only a temporary solution. They can be confident that the government is prioritising and working as quickly as possible to prepare the decision on the disposal facility itself.
i-f217afa7c8b684bb-129	Madam President, I would like I thank you for the opportunity to talk about this in custody. Let me start with the energy system, Madam President. I think it is important to stress that the vision for me and the Moderates at least is that we should be able to have a strong economic development in Sweden that we combine with a green transition. Then our entire electricity and energy system – the fossil-free electricity – is the kit and the opportunity that can give industry start-ups and real wage increases but also that Sweden gets a chance to achieve its environmental and climate goals. There are a number of obstacles to this. We pay winter prices during the summer, and localities are told that the electricity system is sometimes not enough for planned business start-ups. One obstacle is also the discussion on the disposal of nuclear waste. And it is not just the Moderates who say this, Madam President. The state's own company Vattenfall has announced what is called a UMM, a market announcement and a warning that nuclear power may have to be shut down in two years 2024 because the government has not resolved the issue of the repository. Madam President, I would like The disposal of nuclear waste is something that it has been working on for decades. Throughout the time that Sweden has had nuclear power, money has been set aside for each kilowatt hour produced to finance this. Research and technology development has been going on for decades. One can look at the test that has been done according to the environmental code and nuclear technology law for a long time. In practice, all parts have been completed. The Radiation Safety Authority has said yes to the entire system as such. The Court of Justice said that it wants additions, which later has happened. Oskarshamn municipality, which has a so-called veto decision as host for this interim warehouse and the intended enclosure facility, has said that they would be happy to do so, but then provided that Per Bolund keeps the promise he and the government have made that they should give a yes even to the final repository. Östhammar municipality where the intended disposal will take place has also said yes. And the Riksdag has decided on an announcement. Sweden has fulfilled the international commitments, which are known as Espoo consultations in the environmental context, not only once, but in fact twice. Most recently it was with additions of a technical nature. The governments of Germany and Poland informed Per Bolund that they had no objection to his and the government moving forward with a decision on the Swedish custody. Madam President, I would like I asked a number of questions before the government took its decision, and this debate would actually have been held over a month ago. I note that the government has split the application. I might think it's on doubtful grounds. For example, legal experts have raised some questions. I think that Oskarshamn municipality feels that Per Bolund has betrayed the promise that they think the government has made to the municipality as host for an intermediate warehouse. But I also find it problematic that this waiting position continues to create uncertainty in the electricity and energy markets. I understand that, as an environmental party, you can be in agony of a decision if you belong to a party that has been formed because of the resistance to nuclear power. I understand that it is a difficult decision for Per Bolund to be the pilot of this in port. I have said this before, but it is now being tested whether Per Bolund and the Green Party have the ability to see a narrow party interest or have the ability to take responsibility for the country. In the future, we have a number of questions to which I would like answers. How will Per Bolund and the government ensure that their application, which is cut out for an extended intermediate warehouse, is legally valid and that we do not get the problems that Vattenfall warns against? Are these additions suggested in the answer, or are there other additions that are needed before a government decision is taken? And finally, Madam President, what is the time promise that Per Bolund can make? Can we expect a government decision to come before Christmas or before the next elections?
i-f217afa7c8b684bb-140	Madam President, I would like We can jointly conclude that Lars Hjälmered was a bit too trigger happy and wanted to throw out an interpellation. Now we know that the answer is already given to what Lars Helmered is asking about, that is, that the government made a decision before 31 August to deal with this issue with the responsibility it requires. I am a little concerned that Lars Hjälmered still suggests that it would have been more responsible to deal with the issue as a whole, to include the final report on the question of admissibility for the intermediate stock. I don't know if Lars Hjälmered didn't listen or if he has his own legal theories that differ from what our best experts say, namely that if we had moved on with both of these issues in a single case, the probability that we would have stood at the turn of the year 2023/ 24 with a full middle layer would have been very great. It is clear that the question of the repository is a large and very complex issue that will be valid for a hundred thousand years, many generations ahead. It is one of the largest environmental matters that Sweden has ever dealt with. I believe that both Lars Hjälmered and I can make the assessment that such a large and complex issue, which also arouses a lot of emotion, will be appealed in each instance in the future. Had we kept this together, we would probably not have had a final decision on the interim stock in time before it was full at the turn of the year 2023/ 24. Our lawyers' assessment is that at best it could have been in force in 2025 and at worst, if it had taken much longer, that there would have been power at some point in the 2030s. Then I would like to ask Lars Helmered: Would it have been responsible for a government to continue with what has been the tracks of the Moderates all the way, not to listen to our legal experts, to continue without taking into account what the world looks like and what risks are being built up and to deal with this matter in the same way as before? Or does Lars Helmered think that perhaps it was even a responsible decision to divide this matter, so that we can now actually handle the time risk that obviously exists and that with this management we can avoid that we actually get a full intermediate layer 2023/ 24? It would be very interesting to hear what Lars Helmered thinks, because in his speech he devotes himself very much to spreading myths and conspiracy theories about the underlying reasons that actually lead the government. I regret that. I really think we should stay a little above that level. The reason we made this decision was precisely because we saw the risks, took them seriously and handled them. We refuse to put Sweden in a situation where a full interlayer could put 30% of electricity generation at risk of disappearing. I am concerned that the Moderates, who claim to have the ambition to be a government-supporting party, were prepared to run into the rock wall and not to listen to the expertise but to better know continue with this process and this trial in a way that would really bring great risks to Sweden and to Swedish electricity generation. I have to say that it worries me very much. Lars Helmered then mentions a large number of measures that the government has taken. I am aware, thank you, because it is the government that has taken these measures. We have done this precisely because the Land and Environment Court said that you cannot give approval to this application if the government does not answer a number of large and rather complex questions. And we have devoted full time and effort with all the priority we can to answering these questions, and that is what we are still working on.
i-f217afa7c8b684bb-148	Madam President, I would like I listened very carefully, but I did not hear a single answer from Per Bolund about how he and the government ensure that the depleted application for an extended intermediate warehouse can be secured in court and that the problem addressed by Vattenfall is avoided in a market communication. I did not hear an answer to the question whether what is written in the interpellation response is of a technical nature or whether the government relates to other measures before taking decisions. Nor did I hear an answer from Per Bolund on a time promise. Can we count on a decision before Christmas? Can we count on decisions before the next election? We would be happy to mention this in this context. Madam President, I would like Per Bolund says that this is clear. Allow me to doubt! I have never said that this is absolutely safe and simple, but I can see that the division the government has made has rendered itself in the fact that the state's own company has published a market communication based on market information and legal expertise. True, there are differences of opinion. My point is that if Per Bolund's opinion had been right, a leading energy company would not have issued such a market announcement. I will also be honest and say that it is a perfectly legitimate measure to divide the application. We've seen it as one of several options. What I see before me is just a process that is not being completed. The government has done something that the host municipalities, such as Oskarshamn, experience as a betrayal based on their hostship and made veto decisions. Energy operators feel that there is continued uncertainty in the Swedish electricity and energy market about what will happen to the future disposal. It is felt that the government does not give consistent information about what is missing in the process and when decisions are to be made. Madam President, I would like One more thing is remarkable. With regard to the information we collect and to base on facts, perhaps we can say to the House and in the debate that it was, among other things, the Moderates who initiated a large parliamentary hearing just before the summer. Per Bolund was one of several present. Legal expertise as well as the municipalities concerned, environmental organisations and others were present. I and my colleagues in the Defence and Industry Committees wanted to deepen us thoroughly. We've taken it very seriously. Madam President, I would like Now, in practice, there is a complete job. The application can be divided into several parts, but the fact remains: money is set aside to complete this. Research and technology have been going on for decades. The competent authority has given its consent. The Land and Environment Court has taken its view. Neighboring countries have had their say. And the host municipalities have thought. The only thing that is really missing is a government decision. Then we will come back to the main questions. What is the government doing in the split application to ensure that this is legally valid, in practice that the warning given by Vattenfall is not fulfilled? I also wonder whether there are technical additions that are missing, as Per Bolund's answer suggests, in order for him and the government to take decisions? Or do other discussions and additions come up? Last of all, I wonder what the temporal promise is. Can Per Bolund say today that we can expect to receive information from the government, for example, before Christmas? Or can he promise that we will have a decision before the next election?
i-f217afa7c8b684bb-156	Madam President, I would like Lars Hjälmered is engaged in something that seems to be a favorite job among the opposition members, that is to say to ask completely different questions in the debate than those that have been put in the interpellation. I am dedicated to answering the questions that Lars Hjälmered has put to me in writing. One of those questions is whether the Minister intends to take a decision on the disposal in response to the responses received by the referral bodies. I've answered that. We have divided it precisely because it was the responsible path. That's what we had to do to avoid getting into time-stricken cases at the turn of the year 2023/ 24, which is just a few years away. If we do not intend to make decisions, Lars Hjälmered wonders what analysis we make of the consequences of not having time for decisions to be made before 31 August. We have responded to that in both words and deeds. We have taken a decision before 31 August. There Lars Helmered has thus received an answer to the question he has asked in the interpellation. He also asks how the Minister argues in favour of dividing up the decision on final disposals after the referrals have made their views known. I've explained that to you, too. I can reassure Lars Helmered that the court, which, following the government's decision, has already given a timetable for its work. It is well in line with the timetable set by the government and will allow decisions to be taken and to enter into force before the end of 2023/ 24. I have also had talks directly with SKB. They say that they will do everything they can to ensure that the trial will go as well as possible. Again – let us not stand and spread myths and create uncertainty unnecessarily! It's unnecessary. Now follows a process that can actually lead to the goal that I think me and Lars Helmered should be able to agree on, i.e. to avoid putting Sweden in a situation where a fairly large part of Swedish electricity production is at risk. It is a responsibility that the government takes on and that the opposition should also take on. I do not agree with Lars Helmered's history when it comes to the Moderates having been open to all paths. I have followed the debate and have participated in many debates. It has been cranked on a lot from the Moderates' side not to divide the application into two parts. That would have been an irresponsible way of dealing with the issue. With the Moderate path, which has been repeated time after time, Sweden was very likely to be in an energy crisis. The government takes a more serious view of its task than putting Sweden in such a situation. It's only to be sorry if the Moderates don't. Lars Helmered continues to spread myths that are not true. The Land and Environment Court did not give their approval. It was said that the government cannot give permission if we do not respond to several very important and major issues, for which it felt there was not enough evidence. One question relates to what happens when the repository is filled and has been closed again. Who, then, will have the long-term responsibility for waste and the system? The government has developed a whole new legislation for this. It has been put on the table of the Riksdag, and the Riksdag has supported it. In this respect, we note that it is the State that ultimately bears that responsibility. But the Land and Environment Court also raises more questions, about precisely the copper capsule and the barriers. Are they really safe enough to move on? We believe that we have a responsibility to answer the Court's questions. I'm a little concerned if Lars Helmered thinks that we shouldn't, that we shouldn't take those issues as seriously as they deserve. That is exactly what the government is doing now. In fact, today we are sending a referral to the Radiation Safety Authority and the Nuclear Waste Council on precisely the copper capsule, but also the sequestration effort in which the nuclear fuel is located. We are doing this precisely in order to obtain the evidence that the Land and Environment Court believes is absolutely necessary for us to be able to take a decision on the disposal. Does Lars Helmered think that we should not do what is necessary to answer the questions? Should we go against the wishes of the court?
i-f217afa7c8b684bb-167	Madam President, I would like We should have had this debate six weeks ago. But Per Bolund did not think he had time to come and discuss the matter. Then we would have had another discussion before the Riksdag's decision. Then some things have happened; for example, the government has divided the application. Then I think it is reasonable to ask questions about the continuation of the process with regard to a repository. When the government talks about additions, is it what Per Bolund mentions in his answer? Or will there be more additions as and when? I think these are fairly reasonable questions. Madam President, I would like Let me be clear. What I have said is that the Land and Environment Court was clear in its opinion on, for example, the method of protection, on national interests and on the site. But I was also clear before and can be again that they asked for additions. What I have said, Per Bolund, is that the government then received supplements from SKB. Among other things, they have been sent for consultation in an Espoo consultation. I'm just saying that part of the process is taken care of. There are still a few questions. What is the government doing now to ensure that it is in court? You shouldn't think about what a court should do or about their schedule. Without what does the government do to keep it going, so that what Vattenfall says will not happen in two years' time? That was the first question to which we have not been given an answer. The second concerns the additions. It is suggested that the government intends to make certain additions. I have full respect for that. My question was whether the government will take other initiatives. Is there anything else that you think is missing and that needs to be supplemented by SKB or someone else? Finally, I am not wondering about the timetable for the interim stock stock, but about the timetable for the forthcoming government decision on a disposal facility. Can we count on the government to take this to court with a decision before Christmas? Can we count on the government to take this to the finish with a decision before the next elections?
i-f217afa7c8b684bb-173	Madam President, I would like I get a little bothered and a little concerned about Lars Helmered's questions. He suggests that we would influence the courts in their review. That's what Lars Helmered is asking questions about. How are we to ensure that the trial in court is progressing? I thought Lars Helmered and I agreed that democracy in Sweden is built in such a way that the government – and neither opposition parties – should interfere in court trials. The Court of Justice will now carry out the judicial review. Lars Helmered should be able to feel confident that they have also set a timetable for the trial. It is in line with the government's timeline and means with great certainty that we can have a decision that will come into force before the end of 2023/ 24. Nevertheless, Lars Helmered wants to stand here and problematize and so doubt, which I regret. My answer is very clear. The government has no influence on court proceedings. It would be against the legislation endorsed by Parliament. Nor do we take a stand on what is the next step. We are now sending out a referral. To make demands on what will be the next step in the trial before we have even received the referral, I think is a bit astounding. Surely we should respect the consultation bodies, take in their views and take a position on them and then consider whether further action is needed or not. It is also linked to the time aspect of the trial. Before we have seen the result of this step in the trial, it is very difficult to set an exact time limit for a decision to be taken. What I can say is that we do not take this issue lightly, as the Moderates seem to do, which I regret. This is a huge case that bridges a hundred thousand years. It is one of the most dangerous substances known to mankind. A government that takes responsibility must ensure that that decision is based on a secure basis, is well prepared and that we have answers to the questions raised by both the Court and others. That's what the government is doing. Rather, the Moderates should help in that work rather than question it.
